The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. Right. So, I guess I should start. Um, so I think last time we were talking about cell structure and cell geometry and I got as far as putting this image here up. Uh, and I talked a little bit about how this works and I was going to go over it again and then write the notes down uh, today. So, we'll start from there. So, we're going to do a little bit more on cell structure today. We're going to talk about some topological laws for cellular materials for polyhedral cells and then we'll start talking about modeling um honeycomb materials and talk about how we look at the mechanical properties of honeycombs. So I think where we left off last time was we started talking about mean intercept length. So the idea is is that with hello hello um if you have a honeycomb it's it's fairly easy to define the cell shape in terms of the ratio of the cell edge lengths H over L and the angle that the inclined cell wall is to the vertical one but for a foam it's a little more difficult and what people do is they measure this mean intercept length. So last time I I talked about it briefly. So the idea is you take an image of the structure you're interested in. you you sort of uh draw out the outline of a planer surface and then you put on that a test circle and you superimpose on a test circle equidistant parallel lines. So say we start off at theta equals 0. We then count how many times the cell walls intercept those lines and we get a um number of cells per unit length and that gives us an intercept length for that orientation. Then we rotate it around a little bit say 5 degrees or something. uh we measure a new intercept length for that orientation and we keep doing it all the way around 180° and then you get um then what you do is you plot those points. If I can find my little pointer, we plot those points and it it'll form an ellipse and the major and minor axes of the ellipse correspond to the principal dimensions of the cells on that plane. And then you can do the same for perpendicular planes and form an ellypoid and you can get the three principal dimensions. You can also get the orientation of the cells by getting the orientation of this ellipse or the ellipsoid in in three dimensions. So let me just write down some notes that kind of summarize all of that. So I'm going to say that for foams we characterize the cell shape and orientation by using these mean intercept mean intercept blanks. So we consider a circular test area on a plain section. So you want to use a circle and not say a square or rectangle because if you had a square then you'd have different total lengths of line depending on what orientation you took it. So you want to use a circular test um section and then you draw equidistant parallel lines. So for example, you might start at theta equals to 0 and then you count the number of intercepts of the cell walls with the lines. So if we say that n c is the number of cells per unit length of line then we can get the intercept length for that orientation say for theta equals to zero it works out to 1.5 over nc. So it's not just one over NC because you may not be cutting the cell, you know, you're cutting the cell, say you've got a threedimensional cell like this, you're cutting it at different places along here. So people have worked out the stereology of that and there's a constant um that's 1.5 that fits into there. So then you just repeat that process uh for different increments of theta. So you increment theta by some amount something like say 5° and then you repeat that whole process and then you plot a polar diagram of the intercept lengths versus theta and you then fit an ellipse to the point points. And if you did it in 3D, you'd have an ellypoid. And then the principal axes of the ellypoid are the principal dimensions of the um cells. And the orientation of the ellipsoid is the orientation of the cells. Hello. And you can write the equation of the ellypoid. So it would be something like a x1 2ar plus b x2 plus c x3 2 + 2d x1 x2 + 2 e x1 x3 + 2 f x2 x3 and that would all equal one. And you can write those coefficients as a matrix. And if you do that, the first three ABC are the diagonals and EF DEF are the off diagonals. And you can also represent this as a tensor. And if you do, it's called the fabric tensor. So the fabric I think they use that term for other types of materials. It says something about the orientation of the material. And if you have this matrix here, if D, E, and F are all zero, then A, B, and C are the principal dimensions of the cell. So if all nondiagonal elements are zero then a, blast and cruise are the principal dimensions. Okay. So, are we good with how this works? So, it's kind of a crank and churn kind of thing, but it gives you a way of characterizing the cell shape and the orientation of the cells in the foams. Oops. Okay. So the next thing I wanted to talk about was the connectivity of the cells. So imagine we have an array of cells. And if we have an array, we have vertices that are connected by edges and edges surround faces. And the faces enclose the cells. And there's something called the edge connectivity, which is usually given the symbol z. and that's the number of edges that meet at a vertex and there's a face connectivity and that's the number of faces that meet at an edge and um it's very common for honeycombs to be three connected so z is three and it's common for foams to be four connected and there's some topological laws that are kind of interesting and so we'll we'll get into those um after this bit on connectivity so for the connectivity we have vertices which are connected by edges which surround faces which enclose cells. So we're going to talk about the vertices, the edges, the faces, and the cells. So the edge connectivity Z E is the number of edges that meet at a vertex. And for a honeycomb, say a hexagonal honeycomb, z is three. So I have a little honeycomb here. If we look at the number of edges, there's three edges connected a vertex. So z is three. And for a foam, z is typically four. So I'll just say typically here and if I go back let's see if I go back if you look at these sketches here of the rhombic docahedra and the tetraky decahedra if you look at the tetraky decahedra you can see the number of edges so here's one edge here's another one here there's another one here and there's another one here so that's the four edges that are meeting at that vertex there so if you look at a arrays of cells, you can convince yourself that Z is typically four for a foam. And then we also have the face connectivity Z F and that's the number of faces that meet at an edge. And that's typically three for foams. So again, if you look at these pictures, you can you can sort of see how the face connectivity is is three. Uh so if you look at this bottom one here, there's faces here and then there's another face. Um, let's see if we can. It's kind of hard to show. If you look at this one here, there's this cell. There's that face there. And then there's another one coming out of the page, I think. Okay. So, that's connectivity. and the next thing are some of these topological laws. So the first one I'm going to talk about is called Oilers's law. Remember Oiler from Buckling? Same guy. Um so Oiler's law relates the number of vertices and faces and cells and edges for a large array of cells. So we can relate the total number of edges. So I'm going to call that E. Um let's see. vertices V faces F oops and cells C that total number is related by Oilers's law for a large aggregate of cells So in 2D oiler's law is that the total number of faces minus the number of edges plus the number of vertices is equal to one. And in 3D you just add a minus the number of cells in front. So minus the number of cells plus the number of faces minus the number of edges plus the number of vertices is equal to one. So there's some interesting things you can uh figure out using Oilers's law. And one of the things I wanted to look at was if we had an irregular honeycomb that was three connected. So, say we have a honeycomb that's not just a regular hexagonal honeycomb or not even one that's got repeating hexagonal cells, but say we had a honeycomb where some of the cells had um five sides to them, some of them had seven, some of them had six. Uh you can ask what's the average number of sides per face? And you can use Oilers's law to figure that out. So, we're going to look at an irregular threeconnected honeycomb. Uh let's see, maybe I can start that up here. So when I say irregular, I mean we've got cells with different numbers of sides. So we have an irregular Whoops. Okay, great. that is three connected. Then what is the average number of sides per face and I'm going to call that nbar. So we're told that it's three connected. So that's saying that the edge connectivity is three. So there's three edges come into each vertex. So imagine that you had just a regular hexagonal honeycomb like this. Here's our vertex here. And there's our kind of three edges that come into it. And each vertex is going to have half of each edge, right? Because the next vertex, each edge is shared between two vertices. So if z is equal to three then the number of edges per vertex is 3 over2 because each edge is shared between two vertices and I'm also going to define something I'm going to call fn and FM FN is going to be the number of faces with N sides. So I could have some number of the cells have six sides, some number have five sides, some number have seven sides. So these are um fn is the number of faces with some particular number of sides n. So if we have fn is the number of faces with n sides then if I sum up n * fn and divide it by two that's the number of edges. So imagine I have all these faces I take n * fn. So say we had four five-sided faces that would be um four of those. There'd be 20 edges associated with that 20 sides. Then I have some number of six-sided some number of sevensided. I add them all up and I have to divide by two to get the number of edges because each um edge separates two faces. Okay. And then I can use Oilers's law. So I can say f minus e plus v is going to equal 1. And here I've got f minus e plus I can put v here. v is going to be 2/3 of e. So I've got that. So that's the same as f minus 1/3 of e is equal to 1. Like that. And then for E, I can substitute this thing here in. So that gives me F minus 1/3 of the sum of N * FN / 2 is equal to 1. And then what I'm going to do is multiply everything by six. So I can get rid of my denominator here. So 6f minus sum of n fn is going to be six. And then I'm going to divide that through by f. So that's 6 minus sum of n fn / f is equal to 6 / f. And then if I let f go to a large number, so say I've got a large aggregate of cell, I've got lots of faces, I'm going to let f become large. So if f becomes large, then 6 over f is going to tend to zero. rubber. F is like the total number of faces, not the total number of faces per cell. F is the total number of faces. And FN is the number of faces with N side. So you've got some number with five sides, some number with six, some number with seven. So we're almost at the end here. Um so 6 / s f goes to zero. And so that says that the sum of n * fn over f is equal to six. And that just is n bar. That is the average number of sides per face. This is your kind of your total number of sides in the whole thing. And you're dividing by the total number of faces. So that's that is the average number of sides per face. So what this is saying is if you have a three connected honeycomb the average number of sides per face is always six. So that if you introduce a cell with five sides somewhere you have to introduce a cell with seven sides so that they compensate and you come back out to six. And I have a little soap bubble picture here that kind of illustrates that. So here we have a soap honeycomb. So, you can make these just by putting two glass sheets close together with a soap um bubble froth in between them. And you can kind of see in this picture here, they've numbered how many sides each cell or each face has. So, here's one with five. Here's one with seven. And I'm not going to add these up al together, but you can kind of see that the fives and the sevens kind of compensate for each other and that the average uh works out to about six. And this is true for a large aggregate of cells. So, if you only have a few, it's not going to work out perfectly. You need to have a large aggregate to have it to work. Yeah. And that like five seven balance doesn't have to be like touching, right? No. Overall. Yeah. Overall, you know, you could have one with four sides and you'd need two sevens or one eight or something, but you need to have that balance out and match up. Um, okay. So, that's the Oiler law. Now there's a couple more of these kinds of things. There's something called the abav weir law. And so the above weir is sort of related to the oiler because it's looking at this idea that if you have a three connected honeycomb, if you introduce a five-sided cell, you have to introduce a a sevensided cell to compensate. And what Abuav noticed was that generally uh cells with more sides than average have neighbors with fewer sides than average. Let's see. So we'll say the introduction of a five sided cell requires the introduction of a sevensided cell and I'll just put this is all for a threeconnected net three connected honeycomb. So that generally cells with more sides than average have neighbors with fewer sides than average. And in 3D that you say the same thing about the faces. The cells that have more faces than average have neighbors with fewer faces than average. So Avo made observations of this and there was Dennis Weir made a proof of it. And the equation that they came up with relates the number the average number of sides in the cells surrounding a candidate cell. Let's see. Am I going to be able to put it in here? Maybe. So say you have a candidate cell and say it has n sides. So you look at one particular cell and you say count up it's got n sides around it. And then you count up the number of sides of all the cells surrounding it. It has n neighbors because it has n sides. So then the average number of um sides of the n neighbors is called m bar. has insides. So then the average number of sides of its in neighbors is mbar and mar is equal to 5 + 6 over n for a 2D honeycomb kind cell structure. Okay, so that's the abav weir law. And then there's one more of these things. And the last one's called Lewis's rule. And Lewis looked at biological cells and 2D cell patterns. And he found that the area of the cell varied linear linearly with the number of the sides. and He found just an empirical relationship that looks like this. And I'll say what everything is in a minute. So he found that the area of a cell with n sides, that's a n was linearly rated related to the number of sides. So that's n over here. N's just a constant. And a n bar is the area of the um cell with the average number of sides. So here a n is the area of cells with n sides and a n and bar and then n is just a constant. And he found that for 2D cells um n was equal to two. And if you look at voronoi honeycombs, remember last time we talked about those voronoi honeycombs, uh you can show that this holds for voronoi honeycombs. And then you can write a 3D version of this as well. And in 3D it's the volume and the faces instead of the areas and the number of sides. So you can say that the um volume of the cells with f faces relative to the volumes of the cells with the average number of faces they vary linearly with the number of faces. So there's sort of an exactly analogous expression here. And here this f knot is another constant and in 3D it's it's about equal to three. So these are all just kind of interesting topological rules um that are sort of nice to know about. Okay. Yeah. Basic question in two dimensions. face. What does that So, let me put up my little slides again. Oops. Let's So, say we have some honeycombs like this. Then, um, say we look at this guy. So, that's a vertex there. That's an edge. And this thing in the middle here is the face. So, in 2D, the face in the cell is kind of the same thing, right? And then that's edge. uh it's not quite like if I count up the number of edges I say you know one two three four five I count those up like that but if I say sides of you know a face say that's a face or it's a cell I would say that had six sides right so um you know typically when people say it has a cell or a face has so many sides they count up how many all around it but because each side is or each edge is shared between two faces the number of edges is actually half that right? Because you know there's oops you know there's one edge but if I count up the number of sides for this face and I count up the number of sides for that face I'm counting that twice. Here we go. Okay. So it's a little bit so I try to say edges when I'm talking about adding them all up and I try to say sides when I'm talking about you know here's a face. How many sides does it have? Okay. It's a little bit confusing. Um anybody else the ratio the What is nar? Uh, n bar kn. Did I put an n bar kn? Oh, that's a that's where I didn't I didn't erase this enough. There you go. It's just n knot. Okay. Um, chalk. So, we've been talking about the structure of the honeycombs and the foams. And what we ultimately want to do is be able to model the mechanical behavior or the thermal behavior, some sort of behavior of the cellular material. And for looking at mechanical behavior, there's three main approaches that people take. So you have to model the structure somehow. So there's three main approaches. And the first one is to use a unit cell. So, say for example for the honeycombs, if you have a hexagonal honeycomb, you would just use that unit hexagonal cell. And that's what we're going to do probably starting later on today. So, for the hexagonal honeycomb, it's kind of obvious. You you would use a unit cell. The thing's periodic. You figure out how that unit cell behaves, you're you're all set. uh for a foam there's not so obvious a unit cell to use but the thing uh people have used different things but one of the common ones they use is a tetraky decahedron so the nice thing about the tetraky decahedron is it packs to fill space so it's a repeating single cell packs to fill space but in fact real foams aren't tetraky decahedron so this is a bit of an idealization so we'll just say Foam cells are not tetraky deahedra. Okay, so that's one approach and then a second approach is to use something called dimensional analysis. So in dimensional analysis, what what you want to do here with this technique is model the mechanisms of deformation and failure in the structure, but you don't necessarily represent the cell geometry exactly. And so what you do is you say one thing is proportional to another and there's some constant of proportionality and you just wrap all of those constants of pro proportionality up at the end. So for instance, when people look at foams, the geometry of the foams is kind of complicated. There's cells with different number of faces. There's different sizes of cells. It's kind of a mess. So we could just say the geometry is complex and it's difficult to model. And with dimensional analysis instead what we do is we model the deformation mechanisms and failure mechanisms. And you can get quite a bit out of just modeling those. So when we look at modeling foams, we're going to do this and you'll see how it works. And then the third method is to use finite element analysis. So this is a numerical technique and it's a very standard numerical technique and one of the nice things about this is you can apply it to random structures. So for example, those voronoid structures we saw, if you want to try to see, say you had a certain amount of material and you had a honeycomb that was a regular hexagonal honeycomb, you had the same amount of material and you put it in a voronoid honeycomb and you want to know how does having a random material affect the properties relative to the uniform material, you could figure that out using finite element analysis. So you can apply it to random structures. And another thing you can do with finite element analysis uh and people in the orthopedics end of the world often do this if you're interested in tbacular bone that porous type of bone I showed you the first day uh people can take microcomputed tomography images of tbacular bone and they get a file which basically says every voxil says if it's solid or it's void and you can use those files as input to a finite element analysis and so you can analyze exactly how a piece of tacular bone would deform. So it's nice for that. Um So, one of the things we're going to talk about later is um we'll look at the structure of tbacular bone and the sort of mechanics of tacular bone. And I'll show you some results that a former student of mine did uh where we look at say you have a a sort of intact structure of a certain density and then you reduce the density by thinning the cell walls or you reduce the density by removing cell walls because in osteoporosis sometimes the walls resorb altogether and you can see what residual strength you would have for some given amount of density loss. So it's it's good for looking at that kind of a thing. You can also use it for looking at local effects. So you can look at defects for instance. So if you think of the tracular bone and having missing trabaculi um that would be a defect in the structure. You can look at that. Uh you can look at size effects. So when we were studying some of those metal foams, some of them have very large cells. And if you have a small sample relative to the cell size, you may only have four or five cells across the dimension. When where you've cut the cells, you've got edges that are less constrained than in the bulk of the material because at the at the outer edge, you've cut them. They're not connected to anything else. And so you can look at edge effects that relate to the um size effects um in in foams as well. So these are basically the three approaches that people use for modeling cellular materials. And what we're going to do is we're going to start with looking at honeycombs. And we're going to look at these hexagonal kind of honeycombs like this. And one reason to start with them is that they have this unit cell structure. And if you can analyze how that unit cell deforms and fails, you can say something about the whole structure. And it turns out that the honeycombs, they deform and fail by the same mechanisms as the foams. So if you can understand sort of this simple structure, it gives you a lot of insight into how the foams behave. So if I, you know, if I deform this a little bit, the cell walls bend. And you can show that if you deform this guy a little bit, the cell walls bend. And so you can learn a lot by looking at the honeycombs and then sort of applying that to the foams. So we're going to start off. So that's the end of the section on sort of the structure of the cellular materials. And now we're going to look at modeling the mechanical properties. And we're going to start with the honeycombs and then we're going to do foams. So when we talk about the honeycombs um you know we've got this hexagonal structure here and we're going to call properties in this plane the inplane properties. So if I load it this way on or that way on, those are in plane. And if I load it that way on, those are out of plane. So think of the cells are in the plane and the prismatic direction is the out of plane. And clearly the honeycombs are going to have similar properties this way and that way, but they're going to have very different properties that way. Okay. So we're going to start with the inplane behavior. Okay. So the honeycombs have these prismatic cells and they're widely available in different materials as polymers, metals, ceramics, and they're used in a variety of applications. ations. So, one of the most common is to use them in sandwich panels. So, I brought a couple of sandwich panels with me today. So, here's a couple of sandwich panels that have honeycomb cores. This one's an aircraft flooring panel. It's got carbon fiber faces and a sort of Nomx um core, honeycomb core. And this is an aluminum honeycomb. It's got aluminum honeycomb core and then aluminum faces. And it's kind of amazing how stiff that little panel is. And each, you know, each of the pieces is really not that stiff at all, but the thing put together is quite stiff. And we'll talk more about that when we get to sandwich panels. Okay? So, it's used in sandwich panels. They're used for energy absorption. So, you know, sometimes you'll see there's some natural disaster area and they fly in helicopters and they drop big sort of crates of supplies and they'll have it like a pallet with a big crate thing. often they have a honeycomb, like a metal honeycomb that is kind of oriented this way. So the pallet would be like this and the honeycomb's like that. Um, and the idea is that when they drop it, they don't, you know, they they sort of bring it down as close as they can and then the honeycomb absorbs some of the energy from the impact. And they're also used, I think sometimes in in car bumpers. So they're used for energy absorption and they're used as carriers for catalysts. So the catalytic converter in your car is looks like this. This is kind of the material that's used in the catalytic converter in your car. And the way that works is the cell walls here are actually porous and they're coated in the platinum which is the um the catalyst. And half of the cells are blocked off on this end. So every other cell on this end is blocked off. And then every other cell over here, the the opposite ones are blocked off. And so the gas is forced down a channel, but then through the wall and then out the next channel. And that's um where the reaction actually occurs is in the cell wall. So they're used as carriers there. And some natural materials also have a cellular structure, have a honeycomb structure. So for example, things like woods and cork have a have a honeycomb structure too. So I said the mechanisms of of deformation and failure in the hexagonal honeycombs parallel those in foams. So we can learn a lot about foams by understanding the honeycombs and then similarly the mechanisms of deformation. formation and failure in triangular or triangulated honeycombs parallel those in the lattice materials. So remember I brought those lattice materials in the sort of truss type materials. The triangular honeycombs have a behavior similar to those lattice materials. Okay, so let me scoot over here. Okay. Uh so let me scoot out of this one. Okay. So here's our kind of hexagonal geometry. This is kind of an idealized geometry here. And as we talked about in the section on the structure, we're going to call these vertical walls. We're going to say they have a length h. The inclined walls have a length L. The wall thickness is T. And there's going to be an angle between the horizontal and that inclined wall of theta. And I'm going to define three axes here. An X1 and X2 and an X3 axis. So the X1 X2 plane is the in plane and X3 is out of plane. Okay. So So if we load our honeycomb up, we get stress strain curves that look like this. So the ones on the left here over here, these three are all in compression. And the ones on the right, these three are all in tension. Okay. So let's talk about the compression ones first. And let's start at the top. This is an elastic material. So like one of these rubber honeycombs. This would be a material that yields plastically. So like an aluminum honeycomb. And this would be a honeycomb that yield that fails in a brittle manner like one of those ceramic honeycombs. Okay. So if we go up to the elastoic one up here, if I compress it, I get a linear elastic part first and then at some point I get a stress plateau where the stress is almost constant for strains that are quite large and then finally the stress starts to rise quite sharply at the end here. So the strain here goes from zero to one. So that's a strain of 100%. You've completely flattened the thing there. So that's a large strain. So initially when we're loading it up to smaller strains like this, we got linear elastic behavior and these cell walls bend. And you can relate the modulus here. Oops, my little arrow go. You can relate this Young's modulus here to the bending of those cell walls. And we're going to I don't know if we'll finish that today, but we'll start that today. Um then oops, lost my arrow. Where'd my arrow go? There we are. Um then at the stress plateau here that plateau is related to collapse of the cells. So if I have my little rubber honeycomb and I load it at some point the cell walls buckle. So you see how they've buckled there and that stress plateau I can I can smush that to quite large strains at a roughly constant stress. Okay. So what's happening here is that we're buckling the cells and as we go along here the buckling deformation gets bigger and bigger. And then if I if I smush it and I've I've got it kind of like that, at some point it becomes much harder to press it together again because the cell walls are now touching each other and they're pressing against themselves. And to get a certain amount of strain, it gets much more difficult to do that. And the stress required to do that gets much bigger. And that's what leads to this last piece of the stress strain curve here, which is called densification because you've you've almost eliminated the pores. it's it's hard to eliminate them entirely, but the paracity has gone way down by the time you're up there. So, this type of stress strain curve where you've got linear elasticity and then a stress plateau and then the densification is classic for compressive behavior of cellular materials. So, elastoic ones will have a plateau that's related to elastic buckling. Oops, now I've lost my arrow again. There we go. Um, if we had a metal honeycomb, we'd again have linear elasticity related to cell wall bending. This plateau here would be related to yielding of the cell walls. So say we had an aluminum honeycomb, the aluminum could yield and that would again cause this stress plateau and then we get densification. If I had a brittle honeycomb like the ceramic one, we'd have initial linear elasticity. Then you've got a stress plateau. There's kind of a lot of up and down here. And the serrated nature is in is related to the fracture of individual cell walls. So it goes up and down because when you break a cell wall, the wall the stress drops off and then the other cell walls will try to pick the stress up again. And so each one of those little up and downs corresponds to breaking a cell wall. But if you kind of took an average of that, you could see there's a stress plateau and then there's a densification regime. So in compression, the shape of the curves is very similar and the mechanism of the plateau varies a little bit. So let's see if I can write some of that down. So in compression we can say we have three regimes of behavior. So we've got the linear elastic regime initially and we're going to see that's related to cell wall bending. Hello. Thanks. And then we've got a stress plateau. And for elastoic materials that's caused by buckling of the walls. For metals it would be caused by yielding. And for ceramics it would be caused by a brittle crushing. And then we've got densification. And that's related to the cell walls touching. And if we increase the ratio of the thickness of the cell walls relative to their length, we're going to increase the stiffness. So the Young's modulus of the honeycomb, the stress plateau I'm going to call sigma star. And we decrease the strain at which that densification occurs, which I'm going to call epsilon d. So you see over on the right hand side of these plots here that strain there is the densification strain epsilon d. Okay. So that's in in uh compression and these materials are very often loaded in in compression. In tension, we still get linear elasticity initially and that's going to again be related to bending of the cell walls. But if we look at the stress plateau, if you look at these three curves here on the right, the stress plateau only exists if the material has a yield point and you get some plastic yielding there. If you have an elastimer, if I pull on this, you don't get buckling in tension. So you're not going to get a stress plateau in tension. And for a brittle material like one of those brittle honeycombs, if you pull that in tension, you would just get a crack propagate and the thing would break into two pieces. And so you don't get a a stress plateau there. So the stress plateau in tention only exists if the material yields so you don't get any buckling in tension. And for a brittle honeycomb, you would just get fracture. Okay. Yep. These inclined walls are going to bend. We're going to we're going to see that in more gory detail in one minute if you can wait one minute. Okay. Okay. So, are we good with the stress drain curves? Yeah, this is more like an abstract question, but is it possible to design them so that you get collapse this way when you pull on them, which will give you more of a plateau region? Um, I haven't seen that, but maybe maybe I maybe it's possible. I don't know. I don't I don't think so, but maybe. Anybody else? Okay. Okay. So, here's some um photographs of honeycombs. So, there's these ones are white, but these ones are just the same. So, most of them are just a regular hexagonal honeycomb, and one of them is this funny shaped honeycomb here. These two guys at the top, these two here are unloaded. And then the rest of them have some loading. So, if you look at this one down here, so here I'm taking the honeycomb and I'm loading it. This is the X1 direction that way on. And if you look very carefully, you can see what happens is these vertical walls just move sideways. They just kind of go with the sound effects. And then the um I can't help making the sound effects. And then these guys here bend. Okay. So this guy here, it's maybe a little hard to see it on the image, but it's actually a little bit bent there. So that's loading it this way on. And then similarly, if I take it and I load it that way on, that's the X2 direction. And now these guys here, the vertical guys are just going to compress a little, but these guys here, the inclined guys are still going to bend a little bit. And I've got some schematics that's going to show that a little bit better. And then if I shear it, if I took it like this and I, you know, I can't do it because my hands aren't glued to the rubber, but if I could sort of, you know, shear it this way on, then you would get, oops, this kind of deformation here. And that also involves bending. You can imagine these guys here would bend if I do that to them. And then the buckling deformation looks like this. If I scooch that like that, it should look kind of like that picture there. Okay. So that's kind of what the deformation looks like for these sorts of honeycombs. So these were elastimemer rubbers. Uh these are just some images from an aluminum honeycomb. So here's the top one's the undeformed honeycomb. The middle one's loading it in the one direction from left to right and the bottom one's loading it in the two direction top and bottom like that. Okay. So, you can imagine that you've got a little, you know, you've got little cell walls. If you load it up high enough, those walls are going to yield. And we're going to see that the yielding in the walls uh causes the formation of something called plastic hinges. And the walls can rotate and they give produce these kind of shapes. Okay. So then this is um sort of a schematic stress strain curve here and this is showing what happens if you increase the thickness of the walls relative to the length or you increase the relative density increase the volume fraction of solids and this kind of shows the different regimes. So over here well let's first of all start with the different relative density. So this one here is the lowest relative density. Then this is higher and higher and higher. And not too surprisingly the more you increase the density the more material you've got the stiffer it is. the stronger it's going to be. And the more material you've got, the sooner it's going to densify. If you've got more solid in here, you're going to reach that densification strain at a smaller number. Okay? So, so that the the shape of the curves looks like this. And you can define these three kind of regimes. So, everything in here is linear elastic. Everything in this big sort of envelope here is the plateau region. And everything up here is this densification region. So, this is just kind of a bigger picture kind of plot. Okay. Okay. So, let me scoot through all of that. All right. Okay. Where are we? Chalk. There we go. Okay. So, I think I mentioned this before, but let me just go over it again. So, there's three kind of types of things that affect the properties, the mechanical properties of the honeycombs. And probably the most important thing is the relative density of the honeycomb. So, remember we said this was the same as the volume fraction of solids. And for a hexagonal honeycomb, you can show that's equal to the thickness to length ratio time h + 2 / 2 cos theta * h + sin theta. And if you have regular hexagons, so h over l is equal to one. All the lengths, all the sides are of equal length. and theta is equal to 30°. The relative density is u what is it 2 over3* t over l. So it just goes linearly with t over the thickness to the length ratio of the walls. So it depends on how much solid you've got, depends on the solid properties. So the Young's modulus of the solid, a yield strength if it's a metal, some sort of fracture strength if it's brittle. It also depends on the cell geometry. which we can describe with H over L and theta. Okay. So if we think of a a cell here, that's our edge length H. That's our edge length L. That's our angle theta. There's the cell wall thickness T and then we've got some set of solid properties here. Okay, so that's kind of the setup and we're going to define X1 X2 axes like that. And we're going to make a few assumptions just to make life a little bit simpler. So we're going to assume that T over L is small. So that also means the relative density is small. And what that means is that we're going to be able to neglect axial and shear deformations. So you can imagine if I have a thin wall and I'm applying loads that produce moments and produce bending. If the wall's very thin, um, then the axial and the shear deformations are going to be small. I'm also going to assume the deformations are small. And what that means is that I'm going to neglect any changes in the geometry of the cell during the deformation. And I'm going to assume that the cell wall is linear elastic and isotropic. And we're going to start off with looking at inplane behavior. And we're going to start with the elastic modul. And if we look at the elastic modul, we're going to be talking about Hook's law. And Hook's law and the elastic behavior of the material can be described by a set of elastic constants. And if you recall the number of independent elastic constants, how many constants you need to describe the material depends on its symmetry. And these materials are orthotropic. So the the regular hexagonal um honeycomb is actually transversely isotropic. But imagine that H was not equal to L. Then it would be orthotropic. Remember orthotropic means that you can rotate the structure 180° about three mutually perpendicular axes and the structure looks the same. So if I take this and I do that, it looks the same. And if I do that, it looks the same. If I, you know, no matter how I rotate this about three mutually perpendicular axes, the structure remains unchanged. So it's orthotropic Okay. So I'm going to write down Hook's law for our orthotropic material and then we'll talk about the constants that we're going to work out. Okay, so this is Hook's law for our material. And uh let me just remind you what our notation is here. So epsilon 1 is epsilon 1. epsilon 2 is epsilon 22. epsilon 3 is epsilon 33. Epsilon 4 is gamma 2 3. Epsilon 5 is gamma 13. And epsilon 6 is gamma 1 2. So these are the normal strains here. epsilon 1 2 and three. And these are the shear strains here. Epsilon 4 5 and six. And you remember there's this convention where the subscripts add up to nine. So four + 2 + 3 is 9. 5 + 1 plus 3 is 9. 6 plus 1 plus 2 is 9. And then the stresses are a similar thing. So sigma 1, sigma 2 and sigma 3 are the normal stresses. And then sigma 4, sigma 5 and sigma 6 are the shear stresses. Okay, like that. And for the in plane moduli, so we're talking about the x1 x2 plane, there's four independent elastic constants. So we could think of it as E1 E2 a plus ratio one two and a sheer modulus in the one two plane. Okay. And the compliance matrix is symmetric. So there's the reciprocal relationship between the modul and the posance ratios. Let's see. Oops. And then the notation I'm going to use for posum's ratio. I'm going to say that UI J is minus the ratio of the strain in the J direction divided by the strain in the I direction. Okay. So what we're going to do next is we're going to calculate um some of the elastic moduli. I'm going to show you the derivation for E1 star and U12 star and you can get the other two in a similar way. So I'm not going to do all of them but next time we'll do the derivations for the Young's modulus and the posson's ratio. Okay? And then when we we're going to talk about the out of plane direction later and we'll get the moduli for the out of plane direction as well. Okay. So I think I'm going to stop there for today and then we'll start doing the derivations next time.