Let's determine the moment of inertia of a big wheel. Here we have a big wheel and on the side it's it's attached here at the center and there's a string going around here and uh on that string is a little mass hanging and our disc here has a radius r and um we now want to know in a little experiment um what what the moment of inertia is of this disc. And what we have to do is we have to drop this mass to the ground and uh we need to measure what the height is here and we need to measure how long it takes to to drop. So we need to measure t. So how we're going to go about that? Well, if moment of inertia that probably has something to do with the torque of this wheel. So we have to start doing a torque analysis. So torque about the center of mass equals uh moment of inertia about the center of mass times the angular acceleration. And uh we need to recall that the torque is uh the product of the radius times the perpendicular force. So we're going to have r here and then uh the force that's that's acting on this wheel here is actually this tension force here. So we we're going to have r t here and um now uh we need to look at how how things actually moving with respect to a coordinate system. So if I pull or if I let this mass drop the disc is going to spin clockwise. So we're going to have theta hat going this way. And if theta head is going clockwise, my k head vector is going to go into the board. And if k head's going to go there, well then and and it's rotating clockwise, the angular acceleration is going to uh go in the khat direction. And if that is the case, then our torque is going to follow suit. So torque also goes into the into the board. And so that means here we're going to deal with the khat direction and we're going to have I cm and then alpha z in the khat direction. Okay. So we can solve this for i rt over alpha z. Okay. Well that's uh pretty good. But we have two unknowns in here. The t and the alpha z. And we can use some other concepts to actually get information on those. The T as you can guess already plays a role here in this massless string. So we can do a quick uh free body uh diagram and an F equals MA analysis to get uh to get to that tension force. So we have our little mass m here. Gravity is acting on it. Um, and we have this tension force here, and we're going to put J hat down. So, we're going to get mg minus t equals m a. It's only going to go in the in the y direction. So, we can just leave it here. We can do this. H, we can solve this for t. And then we have um m um g minus a. Okay, good. So, we have that. Now, about the angular acceleration and whenever there's a string going around a disc, then we of course have a constrainted condition um because the linear acceleration of uh this little mass going down is related to the radius of the disc times the angular acceleration. So we can solve this for alpha and then we have a over r. So let's put that in here. r then we have m g minus a over a and then we get another r here. And we can write that a little bit more compact. m r 2 g over a minus one. Good. So now we have one last uh hurdle namely that a here that a uh we can't measure. I said in the beginning we want to make an experiment. Actually we need that experiment because we can't uh we can't otherwise get to this. So what we need is a relation that that uh connects um what we can measure which is the time it falls down this height here to the acceleration of this block and of course that comes from onedimensional kinematics and uh we know that h = 12 a t^2 so we can uh solve that for a uh 2 h over t ^2 and uh now we can stick that in here and we have m r 2 and uh g t^2 over 2h -1 and let's just write this here again and that is our final solution. So now we have only measurable quantities here. The t we can measure. We just need a stopwatch and uh the h we can measure as well. And uh this actually already resembles uh if you know uh the theoretical um this already resembles the theoretical solution which of course is u for a disk 12 m r 2. So that's uh what one expects for a disk. And you see that you know we're very close. So this term here is probably something like 1.5 or should better come out to be 1.5 because if we subtract one we get to that half here and you can use it to in return in return you can also use it to uh predict the time it takes to fall down if you know what the height is or or vice versa.