Okay. All right. Let's get going. Uh [clears throat] today is going to be packed. uh I'm going to spend the first roughly half of the lecture on uh actually building a model a car corass model in collab to solve the heart disease problem we saw earlier and then switch gears halfway and then talk about uh how to solve image classification okay so we're going to do two collabs today uh I've been talking about collab collab right I've been teasing you we'll actually do collabs today all right so summary of baby by the way I've shut off the lights in the top because when I switch to collab it's going be much better for you folks particularly the folks in the back to be able to see it. Okay, but I hope you can see the slide right now. Yes. Okay, great. So this is just a quick recap of what we did last class. U you know broadly speaking training a neural network essentially is no different than training other kinds of models. We have a bunch of parameters i.e weights and biases and we need to use the data to find good values of those weights. And what does good mean? Typically it means that we define some measure of discrepancy between what the model predicts for a given set of weights and what the right answer is what the ground truth answer is and then we try to find weights that minimize this discrepancy that's it and this notion of a discrepancy is called a loss function right so the broadly speaking the overall training flow is that you define some network it has an input it goes through a bunch of layers you come up with some predictions you take the predictions you take the true values and then those two go into the loss function i.e i.e. the discrepancy function and then you come up with the loss score and then you send it to the optimizer which then proceeds to calculate the gradient of this loss function with respect to all the parameters and then it updates all the weights using that gradient and then this process repeats. That's it. So that is the training flow. Okay, quick recap. Now we also talked about the optimization algorithm we're going to use which is called gradient descent. and gradient descent. As you noticed in each iteration, every data point is being used to make predictions and therefore to calculate the loss and then to calculate the gradient. And then we pointed out that gradient descent is actually not as good as something called stochastic gradient descent. Stoastic gradient descent where we instead of choosing taking all the points, we just randomly choose a small number of points. Pretend for a moment as if those are the only points we have. make predictions, calculate loss, calculate gradient and go on. So that was the basic idea behind stochastic gradient descent, right? Two different kinds of things. Now what it means is that when we actually start training the model, as we will in a few minutes, the way because we only take a few points at a time, we have to be a bit careful in what's going on. And I want to make sure you clearly understand what the differences are before we actually get to the collab. Okay. And all right. So there is the notion of an epoch. An epoch essentially just means that we make one pass through the training data. All the training data we make one pass through it. Okay. And so what is one pass is that if you have something like gradient descent, one pass means every data point is sent through the network. We calculate its predictions, calculate the loss, calculate the gradient, right? We run every training sample through it. we calculate the gradient which is just this thing here right I mean I will sometimes say d of loss time dwerative of loss with respect to w sometimes I might use this naba symbol these are all interchangeable okay so we'll calculate the gradient and then we update using some version of this okay but we just do it once at the end of the epoch because if you have 10 billion data points every one of them flows through you get 10 billion outputs and then we calculate the epoch just one at the end of this thing we calculate the gradient and update once one update per epoch. Yes. Now in stoastic gradient descent what we do is that we process the data in batches small numbers of points at a time right and these are called technically speaking they're called mini batches I don't know about you I just get tired of saying mini batches I'm just going to say batches from this point on okay and in fact that is widely done in the literature so we'll so we'll have to process it in batches so we take the training data and then we divide it up into batches batch one, batch two all the way till the final batch. And so what we do is we for each batch we basically do gradient descent for each batch we take batch one and then we run just the training samples in that batch through the network to get predictions. We calculate the gradient we update the parameters and then we go to batch two then we go to batch three and so on and so forth. So pictorially this is how it's going to look like right let's say the first batch is say 32 points we take those 32 points we run it through the network get all the stuff out we calculate the gradient update the weights so when we now get to batch two the weights have changed they have been updated and then we do the same thing for batch two batch three and all the way till we get to the end of the thing and when we are done with this thing this whole thing is called a what an epoch [clears throat] This whole thing is an epoch. Okay. All right. Now, so the question of course is that if you have a bunch of data points and you're going to run stoastic gradient descent on it in in a in a particular epoch, how many batches are going to be there? Okay, how many batches are going to be there? Now, Keras is going to calculate all this stuff. You don't have to worry about it, but you just need to understand exactly what happens. Okay, so my philosophy, by the way, is that you have to know the details of what's going on. If you don't know the details, if you haven't figured out at least once, you will not actually be able to think new and creative thoughts for a new problem. Okay, it's because the concepts are not manipulable in your head yet. Okay, please use the microphone. So when we talk about SG, so and we talking about uh we are only taking some part of it. Is it what we are saying is that we only take some variables or we only taking some part of the data. >> We are taking some rows. Okay. We taking only right. So that data points that means a batch. >> Exactly. So for example, let's say you have a thousand data points, right? Thousand rows of observations, thousand patients in the heart disease example or a thousand images that you're trying to classify. You take let's say 32 of those images, 32 of those patients and that's a batch. Then you go to the next 32. Then the next 32 and so on and so forth till you run out of patients or run out of images. >> And each iterative time you are updating with the weights new weights that you've got. >> And it means you keep connecting it or keep moving towards >> you're basically updating the weights as you >> updating the weights >> and what we calling the epoch is ultimately the equation of loss function that we are trying to do. >> No an epoch. See the the thing to remember is that here this whole thing is called an epoch because we have to do one full pass through the training data. Okay. But within that epoch we update the weights many times. Basically we update the weights as many times as we have batches. All right. Um so to go here let's say for example basically the idea is that you take the training tech you divide it by the batch size and you choose the batch size okay you choose the bat size and we'll talk about well how do you choose that later on you choose the batch size and once you choose size just divide it and round it up so for example as you will see in the collabing set is going to be 194 patients and then we're going to choose a batch size of 32 and we typically tend to choose batch sizes of 32 64 and things like that because it actually aligns very well with the nature of the parallel hardware we're going to use. Okay. And so here 32 and so on. So divide 194 by 32 you get 6 point something. You round it up to seven. Okay. And so what that means is that the first six batches will have 32 samples each. And then the final batch has only two samples left. And that's okay. It can be a nice little small batch at the end. There's nothing that says that every batch has to be the same size. >> That's it. Epoch batches. >> And are you like for each batch you run through the whole network like all the layers or like each layer is one batch? >> No, for a batch you run it through the entire network. So the way I think about it is that you take a batch right just momentarily you assume that's all the data you have just run it through the network because unless you run it through the every layer of the network you can't get a prediction and unless you get a prediction you can't calculate the loss and unless you calculate the loss you can't calculate the gradient unless you calculate the gradient you can't update the weights >> last thing but if you're using like all the data just doing the gradient descent then you just go through the network once right >> okay exactly so in Gradient descent one epoch is one pass and one weight update. In many in stoastic gradient descent the number of updates you make is equal to the number of batches you have which ends up being you know some the training set divided by the batch size rounded up. >> So just to confirm so initially when we introduced like the concept of batches the whole purpose was not to run through all the data and be able to do some prediction from a subset. So now like the advantage is that like after batch one we are using more accurate coefficient to run through batch two and so on. That's really the advantage of it or there's something else to it. >> Perfectly set. That's exactly the advantage. So we take a small amount of data and we say hey we know this is not all the data. It's just a small subset of the data. So therefore it's not going to be super accurate. It's going to be approximate but it's okay. So we'll still tend to move in the in the right direction. So instead of waiting for the whole thing to get done and then updating it, we're just going to update it as we go along. All right. Uh yes, >> building on to her question, is it that uh doing this process for SG will uh render us a more better solution or requires less compute power? >> Both >> both and the reasons for both are in the previous lecture. Yeah. And I'm saying that instead of repeating it just because I'm like very pressed for time today. That's why uh all right cool so that's what we have uh are we good okay so now we come to the last step before we actually fire up the collab which is overfitting and regularization um so if you remember from your machine learning background um when your model gets more and more complex right if you you know using use a simple model then you use a more complex model and so on and so forth what happens to the error on the training data Typically what happens to the error on the training data? So let's say you have a simple regression model, you get some error and then you have a regression model in which you use all kinds of interaction terms. You use logarithms and this and that and make it super complicated. What do you think is going to happen to the error on the training data? >> Right? Basically it's going to go down as the model get more gets more complex. Correct. Now of course comes the punch line which is what what do you think is going to happen to the training data? I showed you the answer. Right? Basically, what's going to happen typically, at least conceptually, is that it's going to get better and better at some point. It's going to bottom out and it's going to start climbing again. And so, we typically refer to this phenomenon here when it starts to climb again as overfitting because the model is essentially fitting to the idiosyncrasies of the training data as opposed to generalizing patterns. And then in this thing we call it underfitting because it can still there's a lot of potential to improve and we really are hoping to find the sweet spot in the middle right that's the basic idea of overfitting underfitting and the way we and to to relate this to neural networks as you see as you as you've learned so far you have to learn smart representations of the input data and to do that we I have argued that you need to have lots of layers in your network the more layers you have the better things get. GPT3 for example has 96 layers if I recall right more layers the better but more layers means more parameters more parameters means more complexity to the model and therefore more chance of overfitting okay so it's really important in neural networks that we think about regularization and regularization you will recall from your machine learning background is the way we handle the risk of overfitting and try to find models that fit just right okay and so several regularization methods have been developed over the years and we are going to use only two of them. The first one is called early stopping. uh and this is this has been famously referred to uh by Jeff Hinton who's one of the pioneers or as he's more colorfully known one of the godfathers of deep learning um who won he also won the touring a few years ago as the own sort of a beautiful free lunch right that's what he calls it so the idea is very simple we take a validation set we take the training data we split into a training and a validation set and then we just keep you know doing gradient descent boop b the training will hopefully keep on getting better and better lower and lower error And then we just keep track of what's going on in the validation set. And then at some point if it starts to flatten out and start to climb, we just say, "Okay, that's when we stop training." Right? And what we're going to do in the collab is actually run it through the whole thing, see where it flattens out, and then we say, "Okay, that's why we should stop." But of course, you don't want to go all the way to the end and then go back and say, "Well, I want to stop at the 10th epoch." And there are ways you can use Keras to be very efficient about this. But the fundamental idea is you take the training data, split it into training and validation and just track what's going on in the validation set to see whether this kind of bottoming out happens. Okay. So this is called early stopping. And the other way we're going to do right this called early stopping. We're looking for this part. The other thing is called dropout. And I'm going to come back to dropout when we do when on Wednesday's lecture because that's the first time we're going to use it. And so I'll come back to draw port and tell you exactly how it works. It's a very very clever strategy. But we will not use it today. We'll use it on Wednesday. Okay. So in summary, uh what do we do? We get the data ready. We design the network, number of hidden layers, number of neurons and so on and so forth. We pick the right output layer. We pick the right loss function. Uh we choose an optimizer. As I mentioned earlier, SGD comes in lots of flavors, lots of variations on the theme. And empirically much like for hidden layer neurons we t tend to use relu as the activation function for optimization we tend to use a flavor of HGD called Adam okay as sort of the default because it's really good so we'll use Adam as you'll see we typically use either uh early stopping or dropout and then you just fire it up and start training in terasen tensorflow all right so that is the training loop now I'm going to switch gears and give you a quick intro to teras and teras TensorFlow. Okay. Keras and Tensor. No, TensorFlow and KAS. Thank you. Um, and then we'll actually fire up the collab. So, first of all, what's a tensor? >> Yeah, I just quick question on the previous thing like if you're looking at the validation set to avoid overfitting, but aren't you actually like over actually overfitting because like you're kind of using the validation set as a training set or not? >> Uh, no, no, no. The validation set is never used to calculate any gradients. It's only used to calculate accuracy and loss. Yeah. Yeah. It's kept aside and only used for evaluation, not for training. That's what keeps you honest. >> Right. >> And this will become clear when we actually go to the collab. So what's a tensor? >> All right. Okay. Tensor is the input data which you're giving to the system. It could be in various formats like it's image it could be like we call it a 4D tensor. If it's a time series data, it's 3D. And typically, if you just send numbers in, it becomes a vector which would go inside which each each it gives the value of the uh uh the variable as well the values of the variables associated to it as well as uh as well as the I mean information you want to get to. >> You're kind of on the right track, but not entirely, right? It's actually a simpler concept than that. So, uh >> it's like a matrix but generalized with higher dimensions. >> Correct? That's also actually correct but incomplete. The reason is because it can be simpler than a matrix. It's not matrix or higher. It's actually could be simpler. In fact, you take a number, it's actually a tensor. All right? The simplest case of a tensor is a number. The next simpler case is a vector which is a list. The next higher case is a table. Okay, so these are all tensors. So tensors basically are a generalization of the notion of both a number, a vector and a table to higher dimensions. Okay, so you can think of a tensor as having what are called every tensor has something called a rank, right? So a number is just a number. It doesn't have a dimensionality to it. So it has got rank zero. Okay. While a vector it's a list of numbers. You can sort of write it down top to bottom and it's one dimension. Right? So that dimension that one dimension is called a rank. So it's called rank one. A table is 2D two-dimensional. So it's called rank two. And you can have a rank three which is just a bunch of tables. A bunch of tables is a rank three tensor. We also think of it as a cube. Okay. So these things are very useful because obviously we are all familiar with vectors. Uh as you will see very shortly later in this class black and white grayscale images are usually represented using tables of numbers like this. Color images are represented using three tables. Okay. Can you get think of what might be representable as you know a tensil of rank four? Meaning every element of a tensor of rank four is actually a color picture. Just shout it out. Video. Exactly. What is a video? A video is basically a stream of black color images. A color video. So each element of that stream, right? What the first dimension of the tensor is which frame it is and then everything else is the actual frame. So the way I u think about these tensors always is tensor you can just think of it as a you can think of a tensor as being this array which has all these axes or dimensions. This is the first one. This is the second one. This is a third swan. Right? This is a tensor of rank four. Okay? 1 2 3 4. And so if you have a vector, right? So you can imagine if it's just a vector, you can imagine the vector actually living like this, just a list of numbers, right? But if it's just if it is just a 2D a rank two tensor right which is just like that right which is just like that so this thing becomes you know like that and that thing becomes like that. So for example if this is a 7a 3 that means that there are seven rows and three columns. So you get the idea. So the way you think about tensor is always as if this open square bracket a bunch of things a closed square bracket and that's really what a tensor object is. So what that means is that anytime you have a tensor right anytime you have a tensor however complicated it is you can always create a more complicated tensor by if you want to take a list of those tensors let's say that you have a list of videos each video is a rank four tensor so which means a list of videos is what rank Exactly. So a a tensor of rank say 10 is just a list of rank nine tensors. So that is this that is the most important thing you need to understand about tensors. So at any point in time if I give you a tensor you can just iterate through the first dimension of it the first aspect of it and as as you go through each one of these values. So for example here um yeah that can do it. So so if you have this tensor here and if you want to create a more complicated tensor no problem. So you add another dimension here. Okay. Now it just becomes this dimension let's say has nine values. one on the nine. So you put zero here and then what do you get? This whole tensor is a rank four tensor. And you put a one here, it's another rank four tensor. You put a two here, another rank four tensor. So every tensor, you take the first element, it's just a list, but it's a list of the next downrank tensor. Okay. Now this tensor concept is actually something Einstein came up with. Um and so u it's simultaneously kind of easy to understand and also slippery. So I would actually encourage you to read the book which has a really good discussion of tensors and the more you practice with it the easier it'll get. Okay. So if you feel you kind of understood but not quite you're not alone. It happens to all of us right? You have to pay the price or go through the crucible. Okay. Okay. All right. So to come back to this that's what we have and we already talked about a rank four tensor it's a video so 2.2 two the text has a lot more detail. You should definitely read it. U so here tensorflow is a library and as you can imagine neural networks tensors come in and go through the network and go out the other end right and since tensors capture everything numbers lists uh tables and so on and so forth it's just tensors flowing from input to output hence it's called tensorflow and it gives you a couple of things which are really really important which is why we use it. The first one is that it'll automatically calculate gradients for you of arbitrarily complicated loss functions. You don't have to calculate the gradient because calculating the gradient is very painful, right? It'll automatically calculate the gradients for you. That's the best part. You don't have to use the chain rule. You don't do anything. The second thing it'll do, it gives you all these optimizers including SGD and all its variations. So you don't have to worry about the optimization itself. It'll just you can just pick and choose what you want. Third, if you have a lot of servers, it'll actually take the computational load and distribute it across all those servers. People here with the CS background know that parallelizing computation is actually a very difficult problem, right? There are things which are called embarrassingly parallel. Many things are not actually quite tricky to figure it out. We don't know how to figure it out. TensorFlow will figure it out. Okay? And then finally, I talked about the fact that there are these things called GPUs, graphics processing units, which are parallel hardware. uh and so it'll even if you have just one computer but it has GPUs there's a particular way in which you have to take your computation and organize it to really exploit the fact that you have a GPU and so TensorFlow will actually do it for you out of the box automatically you don't have to worry about any of that stuff okay so those are all the advantages of this thing by the way TPU is called a tensor processing unit it's something that it's kind of you can think of it as Google's GPU right they came up with their own variation on the theme okay now keras sits on top of TensorFlow, right? TensorFlow, this is the this is the hardware you have. TensorFlow sits on top of the hardware. Keras sits on top of TensorFlow and it basically gives you a whole bunch of convenience features. So, for example, it gives you the notion of a layer, right? We already saw Keras.dense is a dense layer, right? It gives you the notion of a layer. It gives you the notion of activation functions and so on and so forth. It gives you easy ways to pre-process the data, easy ways to train the model, report on metrics, you know, calculate validation loss, validation accuracy, training loss, all the metrics we care about. And then it also gives you a whole library of pre-trained models that you can just use and adapt for your particular problem. So it gives you a whole bunch of conveniences and that's why it's very popular. And by the way, you know, many of you might also be familiar with PyTorch, which is a fantastic framework as well for deep learning. And the reason we chose to go with TensorFlow for this course rather than PyTorch is because we wanted to make the course uh sort of accessible to folks who don't have a ton of programming background before coming to the class. And Pyarch is a bit more demanding from a CS perspective. It requires more knowledge of object-oriented programming. Uh which is why we decided to go with TensorFlow and KAS because I think it's actually as powerful uh in many ways and it's a little easier to get going. Okay, so that's what we have here. And one other thing I will mention is that there are three ways in which you can use kas. There are three kinds of APIs. Sequential, functional, subclassing. And we'll almost exclusively use the functional API. Okay. And in fact, the model we built for heart disease prediction uses the functional API. And so just read 722 of the textbook to understand in detail how the API works. I find in my own work, the functional API is basically all I need. I don't need to do anything more complicated than that. Um and and as you will see as you work on the homeworks uh and on your project that it's is it's sort of a beautifully designed Lego block environment for doing these things and you can create very complicated models very easily. Okay. Uh there's a whole bunch of stuff here on these websites. So check them out. There's lots of collabs or uh uh are available. So now if you go back to the neural model for heart disease prediction, this is what we came up with in the last class, right? uh we had an input layer, one dense layer with 16 neurons, rel neurons, an output layer with the sigmoid and then boom, that was a model. So let's train this model. Uh and so the training checklist is that uh we have already done this hidden layer of 16 neurons uh sigmoid. We need to use an appropriate loss function based on the type of output. What loss function should we use? What is the output here? It's a binary classification problem. So what should the the loss function be? Kind of heard it somewhere. Get shout it out. No, the output is a sigmoid. The loss functionary cross entropy. Okay, remember if if you're predicting a number an arbitrary number, you can use something like mean square error. If you're predicting a probability which has to be compared to a 01 output, which is what binary classification is all about. we use binary cross entropy. Okay, so that's what we do here. So we do binary cross entropy and then we will go with Adam, right? And then we'll use early stopping to make sure we don't over fit. Okay, I know this like okay I promise this is a lot literally the last slide before I go to the collab. I feel like one of those used cars here but wait there is more. So anyway, u so uh don't worry if you don't understand every detail of what I'm going to go through. I'm going to link to the collab as soon as the class is over. But once you get your hands on the collab, make sure you actually go through every line in the collab. What I typically do when I'm trying to learn something new is I'll actually cut and paste, right? I won't do that. I won't actually cut and paste the code and run it myself. I will retype the code. If you retype the code as opposed to cutting and pasting, trust me, you'll learn a lot more. Right? So I strongly encourage you to do it that way. Um and so all the collabs you're going to publish in the class, uh the first thing you should do is you should just make your own copy of the notebook, right? Copy to drive. And then if you're using anything other than today's collab, uh right, anything involving natural language processing or vision, you probably should use a GPU. So just go into go in here, choose the runtime to be a GPU. Um and then you start your notebook and you're done. And the second time onwards, you can just go directly to this step. You don't have to do all this stuff for that particular notebook. And there are numerous tutorials like five minute videos and so on on how to use collab. Just just do that. I'm not going to spend time on it here. All right. Okay. So, uh I just ran it um a few hours ago. I'm not going to run every cell now because it's going to take some time. It's going to get in the way of the class time, but I'm going to just like, you know, go through it slowly and explain what's going on. So, here this is just an introduction to the data set. We already saw this introduction in the last last week. We have whatever 303 patients, hot patients. We have a whole bunch of uh variables here, age, demographics, and a whole bunch of biomarker information. And this is a target variable. Okay? Uh zero or one, heart disease, yes or no. And so, by the way, just some technical prelim preliminaries here. Basically, every time we load these things, we're actually going to load these packages. So you can see here these are the two key things we need to do. We import tensorflow first and then from within tensorflow we import keras. Okay that's what these two lines do here. Okay. And then and folks who have done data science and machine learning a bit before you you'll know this. We will in in sort of we will actually load like the three packages that were just most commonly used right which is numpy pandas and mattplot lib. Uh numpy because it's very easy for manipulating matrices and arrays and tensors. uh pandas because often times you get some data in from somewhere you need to massage it and wrangle it to a point where we can actually feed it into ketas so you need pandas for that and mattplot lib because you just want to plot you know uh these loss curves and accuracy curves to see whether early stopping is needed okay so that's why we use it uh so we import all these things and then I guess the other thing you have to remember is that when we are training these deep learning models uh there is randomness in the process which enters in a few different places so clearly the starting values for the these weights are going to be they're going the weights are going to be randomly initialized. Uh and therefore that that's obviously a source of randomness. Uh now we talked about how you take if when you're doing stoastic gradient descent you take all the data and then you randomly choose batches right from this data till we finish a whole pass through it. Well that immediately raised the question well well what do you mean by randomly choose? So typically what we do in practice is that and kas will take care of all this for you. um you basically take the data and just shuffle it once randomly and then you just go first 32 next 32 next 32 next 32 like that okay but it is a source of randomness and then when we split the data into train validation testing and so on uh particularly if you want to look for early stopping and overfitting uh we need to again split the data randomly and that's another source of randomness and then when we do dropout which we'll talk about on Wednesday again dropout has a little bit of a random element to it and so that's another source of randomness this. So all of it all this means is that if you're working with these models and if you want to build a model and you want to hand it off to someone so that they can reproduce your results well you better make sure that you sort of you know make it easy for them to replicate what you have and the way you do it is by sending a setting a random seat for all these things okay and the way you do it is by having this little handy function here set random seat uh and of course you know I use 42 tool like just like everybody should right so okay so that's that uh by the way just that's just a popculture reference to this book called The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. >> Number 42 and you'll know what I mean. Okay, so by the way, um the question inevitably comes at this point, okay, if we do exactly this, will you actually get the exact same numbers that you have in your version uh of the notebook? And the answer is hopefully most of the time, but it's not guaranteed. So this is called bitwise reproducibility. It's not guaranteed due to certain hardware things and device drivers and stuff like that. So we won't get into all that stuff. uh and which is why as you see here uh I have a bit of a fingers crossed thing. Okay. All right. Cool. So that's what we have. Um so as it turns out uh Frantois Shallet who wrote the book uh the textbook he actually made this data available in a pandanda's data frame. So we read the CSV file into this data frame right there. Uh and then it's uh and it's 303 rows 14 columns right and you can see here we'll take a look at the first few rows. Uh and these are all the rows. age, gender, cholesterol, blah blah blah blah blah. And then this is the target variable right there. U and the one of the first things I always do when I'm working with a binary classification problem is to quickly check whether the positive and negative classes are balanced or not. And so what you can do is you can just quickly check to see what percent of the data points is zero versus one. And you can see here uh 72.6% of the patients don't have heart disease. That's a good thing of course. Uh and then 27.4 have heart disease. So it's not bad. It's not 50/50 or roughly 50/50. It's a little thing. So, by the way, quick question. What is a a b good baseline model for this problem? Suppose you couldn't use anything any complicated thing. What's a good baseline model? >> Yes. Just predict zero. >> Yeah. And why would you do that? >> Uh, it would give you a 72.6% accuracy. Exactly. Because 72.6% 6% is the sort of the higher class higher class with the higher percentage you just predict it you'll be right on those 72.6% of the cases you'll be wrong on the rest which means that your accuracy of this model is going to be 72.6%. Okay. And so any fancy model we build better do you know it's got to do better than this otherwise it's not worth its weight uh in layers. Um so all right so we'll come back to this later. So the first thing we want to do is we want to pre-process it because this data set has both categorical variables and numeric variables. Um and so it's usually convenient to just to group them into two different groups. So I have listed all the categorical variables here and the numeric here. Uh and then we have the pre-processing here. We have to take the categorical variables and we have to one hot encode them. And the reason is that unlike say a decision tree model, a neural network cannot handle uh categorical inputs directly. It can only handle numeric inputs. Which means that we have to numericalize every categorical thing that comes in. And the st there are many ways to do it but the standard way to do it is one hot encoding. Um and for the numeric variables we need to normalize them and I'll come to that in a second. So pandas has this get dummies function here and you can just run this thing and it'll just hot encode the whole thing. So once you do that this is what you have. So you can see here previously um let's say tal was had three values fixed normal reversible or something and then you go to the one hot encoded version u and now we can see here tal fixed tal normal tal reversible that's three columns right that's the one hot encoding in action okay now the other thing to remember is that neural networks work best when the numeric inputs you send them are all in a relatively small range they shouldn't have a wide range of variation Um and so the standard practice is to standardize the numerical variables. By standardize, I mean typically subtract the mean, divide by the standard deviation. Um we should do that. But before we do so, we should split the data into a training set and a test set, right? And why do we want to split into a test set? Because at the very end once we've built the model and done all the things we want to do with it, we finally want to take out the test set and evaluate it once so that we get this true measure of how it's going to perform in the wild after you deploy it. Okay. Uh so you want to divide it 80 80 say 80% training and 20% test set. So the question is why should we do the splitting now before we do the normalization? Why can't we just do the normalization and then do the splitting? Um all right >> because then your uh validation set is also somewhat dependent on your test set results as well as the mean of the test set. >> Correct? Because the test set has now essentially sort of has been influenced by the training set. Right? That is the the the modeling process part of the modeling process the splitting and the splitting also the the the standardization if if the standardization which is part of the process uses information about the test set well the test set not really kept away from anything is it that's why we want to split it lock away the test set somewhere and then proceed with the modeling this again this is like machine learning 101 which is why I'm going through it pretty fast uh okay so we we do this uh sampling function take 20% of the data and make it the test set and the remaining is going to be the training set. And when we do that, you can see the training set is now 242 um rows while the test is 61 rows. Uh and any of these data frames, you'll know that the the shape attribute gives you the dimensions of the number of rows in the columns. That's what we're doing here. And now that we have done that, we have done the split, we can calculate the the the mean and the standard deviation. So I calculate the mean here. I calculate standard deviation. And these are all the means. And once I do that, I just do you know each column minus the mean divide the standard deviation. And then once I do that I get I save them in the train and the test data frames. And you can see here now all the numbers are all very sort of smallalish 0 1 minus one kind of around that range and that's kind of ideal when you're network training. Okay. All right. Right. So at this point the data is entirely numeric and then uh we are ready almost ready to feed it into KAS and the way you do it is you take a numpy array u you you take a pandas data frame and then you convert it into a numpy array and then keras is happy to take it happy to receive it. So the so we use this thing called two numpy which I think is as descriptive as it gets in programming. Um and then you save it as train and test. Now train and test on two numpy arrays with exactly the same information and now we can fit it into kas. All right. Now I guess there's one other thing we need to do which is that um in this data frame train and test our independent variables all the features as well as the target the 01 target. They're all in this right and we need to now take it and just take the the dependent variable the 01 column and split it out and keep the x and the y separately. Right? That's the whole point of it, right? Because you need to feed the X, do the prediction, and then compare it to the actual Y and calculate the loss and so on and so forth. So, uh, so the target column is our Y variable, and it's column number six from the left. If you count it, you can see it. So, we just, you know, uh, we we delete it from the the train and test. Um, and now we have 242 rows and 29 columns, 29 features. You will recall from the network that we made way back, it had 29 inputs, right? 29 nodes in the input layer. And that's where the 29 is coming from. And so now uh we just select the sixth column which is the target and make it the Y variable right train Y and test Y. And that is of course a vector which is 242 long in the training set and 61 long in the thing. So at this point all we have done is to be honest boring pre-processing. Okay, we haven't actually gotten to the action yet. Finally, let's do something. So um and we start with a single hidden layer. Since it's a binary classification problem, we'll use sigmoids as we saw earlier. And this is the model we created in class last last class. This is the model we created. Okay. The only difference between that model and this model is that I've actually given names to these layers. And this name thing is totally optional. Right? If you want to give a name, give a name. It's just a little easier to interpret later on. Okay? It's just cosmetic. Okay? So, uh, but I've just put it here. U and once you build the model u you should immediately run the model dots summary command because it gives you a nice overview of the model right what are for each layer it tells you what the layer is it tells you what's coming into the layer meaning the shape of the tensor that's coming in and what's going out and how many parameters the layer has and it turns out this layer has sorry this network has 497 parameters okay uh and I have told you repeatedly the first few times just hadn't calculated the number of parameters to make sure it verifies. So we should just make sure that it is in fact 497. So let's hand calculate it. And you do basically it's basically what's going on here. 29 inputs time 16, right? All the arrows 29 * 16 arrows, right? And then you have a bias of another 16. That's why you have this expression. And then the next one is 16 * 1 plus one bias for the output sigmoid and you get to 497. Okay? Just make sure you follow this later on when you work with the collab. We we did this in class last week and you can visualize the network graphically as well by using the plot model function. So we do that here. Um and let's say it gives you the same information but in a slightly easier form to consume and when we work with larger networks starting on Wednesday you will see that being able to visualize the topology of the network is actually quite handy. Okay, we finally come to uh actually trying to train this thing and so what loss function should we use? uh we need to we need to use binary cross entropy right there. What optimizer to use? Well, as I mentioned earlier, uh we'll use Adam. Adam. All right, Adam. Uh and then uh and then the the final thing is you can ask Keras to report out whatever metrics you care about. These metrics are not going to be used in any optimization. They just it's just reporting it to you. And the most common thing people report out for binary classification is accuracy. So we'll just go with that metric. Um and so so what we do is we tell Keras take the model we just built and compile it with this choice of optimizer this choice of loss function and these metrics. And this compilation step what it does is it essentially Keras will take this information and take the model you have built and it'll reorganize the model in such a way that the parallel computing uh distribution of computing across many servers and so on. That's that's what's happening in the compile step. Organizing it so that reorganizing the model so that it becomes amendable to parallelization and distribution. That's what's going on. That's why you actually have to do something called the compile step. Okay. And once we do that, we have finally finally ready to train the model. And to do that uh we have to decide what the batch size is that we're going to use. Remember, we're using some flavor of SGD, which means we have to choose what is the bat size. And typically what people do is that uh 32 is a good default for the batch size. Like if you don't if you're not just getting started with something, just use 32. Uh and there's a whole bunch of literature on what the right batch size should be for the number of data points you have, the size of the network and so on and so forth. My philosophy is start with 32. Um and you can always try 32, 64, 128. It's kind of like, you know, oftenimes what people tell me, researchers tell me is that just use the biggest batch size that doesn't make your machine die. Right? If you can fit into memory, it's probably good. Just try the biggest size. We'll just start with 30. It's just a tiny problem. It's not a big deal. And then we also have to decide how many epochs through the data do we want to go through, right? How many epochs? And uh you know, usually 20 to 30 epochs is a good starting point. Um and then because this is a tiny problem just for kicks, I decided to run it for 300 epochs. Uh just to see if anything any overfitting is going to happen. Uh and then whether we want to use a validation set. Of course, we want to use a validation set. Uh right. So we will use 20% of the data points as a validation set so that we can look for overfitting underfitting. All right. So with these decisions made we finally uh we use the model.fit command. Model.fit is what actually trains the neural network. Okay. And you have to tell it what the x tensor is. You have to tell it what the dependent variable y tensor is. We need to tell it how many epochs to do this. What the bat size to use. Verbos equals 1 just means like just you know put a lot of descriptive output as you do this thing and then validation split means you know take 20% of the training data and set it aside as your validation data set. Don't use it for training because I want to measure overfitting using that. So that's it. So you do that thing it it'll run for 300 epochs and this is the reason why you know I decided to just not actually run it in class. Um and so you keep on doing it gives you a lot of output and finally we reach the end. Okay. Now let's take a moment to understand what's being reported. So I'll just take this one line here. So this there is a there is these two there is a pair of lines for each epoch. And then here it's telling you uh you know it it actually uses in the in this 300th epoch it used seven batches seven out of seven batches right so it used seven batches and if you you will recall from the math we did in the class that it's actually seven batches where the first six batches are 32 and the last batch is just a couple of examples but we have seven batches right this is the 193 by 32 rounded up okay so that's why we have seven here and then it tells you how how long it took it for that and then it this is the loss value. This is the binary cross entropy loss value on the training set right on on that particular batch right uh that it calculated this is the accuracy that you asked you to report out 98.4% 4% 98.5% accuracy on that batch and and then at the end of this epoch using whatever weights were available in that network it actually calculate the loss on the validation set which is the 20% of the data we have set aside and then it this is the accuracy on that validation set okay so that's what each of these numbers mean now looking at these wall of numbers is kind of painful so usually you just plot it um so and the way you do that is if you if you notice here Uh okay, I'm not going to go back here. So I said history equals model.fit blah blah blah blah blah. And that history object has a lot of information that we can use for plotting and diagnostics and so on. And that history thing uh history object has another object called history history.htistory which is a dictionary with all these values and that's what we're going to plot. Was there a question here? Yeah. >> Uh so you prompted it to keep the size for validation but didn't we already keep a test set? So that's going to be a secondary validation, right? >> So basically we have a training uh and then a validation and a test. The role of the validation set is to figure out things like early stopping. Should we stop here? Should we go back? And as you will see later on, if we use hyperparameters, you know, we we'll try different values of the hyperparameters and figure out use the validation set to figure out which one is the best one. But once we are done with all that, we will finally have a model. At that point, we open the safe, take out the test set and use it just once with your final final model. Not because you want to improve the model, but because you want to have a realistic idea how it'll do when you actually deploy it out in the real world. >> Uh yeah. >> Uh can we use can we instead of accuracy could we use other metrics uh to evaluate whether to >> absolutely like a confusion matrix let's say? >> Yeah, you can you can do whatever you want. You can use like I said it's not used for training so there is no mathematical implication what you choose right you can choose error rates accuracy f1 fb beta you can do whatever you want and keras as you will see has this dizzying list of possible metrics you can use for reporting the key thing to remember is you're just reporting these metrics you're not actually using them for any training yeah >> uh my question is with respect to validation like uh we've got a training data set so when we take out 20% This is the validation uh data for validation. Are we taking out from the training set or correct from there that level or we go to each batch and take out 20% from the train? >> No, we're taking it out from the training set. >> So it means the batch size the number of batch number of data would be available for calculating the batch size will reduce. >> Correct. And in [snorts] fact once we validate take out the validation set whatever remaining is 193. >> Okay. And then we divide that into batches and then that every info uh that validation and the data gets different added. Now once you take out the validation set at the very beginning you keep it aside and then you only evaluate at the end of each epoch what your loss and accuracy is on that validation set. >> So you don't have cross validation. >> No no we're not doing any of that stuff. We're just taking it out once and we're just evaluating the end of every epoch. >> Okay. So yeah. Okay. So I know we both asked similar questions but >> so I know both have asked similar questions but just to reconfirm. So here my training model is giving me say a loss of 0860. My validation model is giving me 660. That means I've already crossed the U. So when I have to actually test the model that is the midpoint which I take and that will model which will get deployed in production. Correct. And as to okay, what do we do to get that model? Do we actually have to go go back to the beginning and run it for a few epochs or can we do something smarter than that? We'll get to that. >> Yeah. >> Is the validation set different for each APO or is it the same? >> It's the same. So what you do is you have a training set before you do any training. You take out 20% of it, keep it aside. You take whatever is left over that you divide that into mini batches and then start running it through each epoch. But at the end of each epoch, you just evaluate the quality of that resulting model using the validation set. >> What's different between each epoch? Is it just the way >> weights have changed? >> It's the it's the division into the different >> uh no so in the difference in each epoch is the weights have changed. >> So after every mini batch, the weights have changed. At the end of one epoch, you've gone through all the data points you ever had, right, in the training set. And then you come back to the beginning and you do it again. How do you identify the sweet spot? >> It's coming. >> Yeah. All right. So, I'm going to keep going. So, we have this here. And so, you just I mean there's a little bit of mattplot lip code. So, what we do is we just plot the training loss and the validation loss as a function of the number of epochs. Okay? And as you can see here, the training loss is these things here. And it's steadily going down as you would expect. The validation loss goes down here. And then at some point it kind of flattens out and then maybe gently starts to rise. Okay. So do you think there's overfitting? >> Right. There seems to be some level of overfitting here. But the thing you have to always remember is that the binary cross entropy loss is a loss function that is convenient for you because it sort of captures the thing you want to capture the discrepancy but also because it's mathematically convenient but what you may actually care about in practice is something like accuracy right so I always that's why you're reporting out the accuracy when we do these things so you should also plot the accuracy to see what's going on and really you should look at the accuracy and figure out overfitting and underfitting and all stuff. So let's just do that. So I have here uh overfitting. Uh okay. So this is how it looks like for accuracy. Accuracy of course as the model gets you know as you do more and more epochs hopefully it get better and better for training. So you can see here accuracy actually climbs all the way up to the mid 90s uh right there small the low 90s here. the validation gets to this point after like I don't know 50 epochs maybe and then it kind of flattens out and then strangely it climbs up again a bit later right so now the fact that the accuracy actually got better at the very end suggests that maybe we can live with this overfitting >> okay >> right it's not the end of the world right so you can so you can certainly what you can do is you can go back and say you know what no I'm going to be a purist about this around 50 epochs or so. I think that's when it actually flattened out for loss. So you can just go back and just restart the model and run it only for 50 epochs, not 300 and then stop and just use that model for everything from that point on. Or you can say, you know what, it's okay. I can live with this thing. Uh and so that's what we're going to do here. Let me just stop for a second. There was a question. >> Yeah, >> for originally when we were starting out, we were saying 20 to 30 pods, but we were going to do 300. 50 is over 20 to 30. So when it comes to validation of if you run enough epochs, are you doing like derivative calculations? >> Oh, I see. No, that's a great question. So the question is I said start with 20 and 30 epochs as a rule of thumb here, I'm just going with 300. And because I'm going with 300, I can actually see some potential evidence of overfitting. But if I had done only 20 to 30, maybe I wouldn't have even seen that. What happens next? Right? Is that the question? Great question. So what you should do is when you look at these curves if at the end of 30 epochs you find that the validation loss continues to drop then you know maybe there is more room for it to drop. So you you continue from that point on. The thing about keras is that you can actually run the the the fit command at that point and it'll continue where it left off. It won't go to the beginning again. Right? So you can run 10. Okay. The validation is still getting better and better. Okay. Run for another 10. It's getting better and better. Run for another 10. Getting better and better. Run for another 10. Oh, it starts to climb up again. Okay, now I'm going to back off. That's what you do. All right. Now, all this manual stuff I'm going through it just because to build intuition, there are these things called callbacks in KAS, which we'll get to later on in which you can actually tell it, hey, when the validation loss, you know, uh, stops improving, stop everything or when it stops improving, save that model for me somewhere. So, they don't have to go back and rerun everything. It'll just it'll have saved it for you and you can just pick it up and use it. Uh yeah. >> What's the intuition behind um the accuracy continuing to improve when the loss is getting higher? >> Because accuracy and loss are related but they're not the same thing. Uh in particular, so it's a really good question also kind of a profound question because accuracy is a very discrete measure, right? So if a particular point we predicting its probability to be say 049 we're going to say okay that's a zero no heart disease but if it goes to 0.51 we're going to be oh that's heart disease. So when you go from 049 to 0.51 the binary cross entropy loss will change very very slightly but the accuracy will go from 0 to one dramatic jump. So it's very jumpy and discreet and that's why it tends to be a proxy but sort of a crude proxy for loss. That's part of the reason and I can talk more offline. Okay. So yeah, >> you mentioned that if you are a purist, you could stop up 50. In this case, I was want and run it and stop it there. I was wondering if you could see the history of the model, take the weight at EOC 50 and input it your model and it will be roughly the same or it would be certain differences. >> You could try it. Yeah, you should just try it because what happens is that ultimately what we care about is how it performs on the validation set. Right. Here it appears to perform better on the validation set. right? If you stop at 50 but only for the loss for accuracy actually if you wait till the very end it gets better. So my thrust tends to be what is the measure that's closest to the real world deployment. It's accuracy. So I tend to go with accuracy. Binary cross entropy is a beautiful proxy but an imperfect proxy for the thing we actually care about in the real world which is error rate and accuracy. That's why I tend to plot both and if accuracy is telling me one thing I kind of tend to believe that all right so um here that's what we have so once we do all this we have a model and we now we may to evaluate to see okay if you actually deployed how good is going to be so you use this thing called the model evealuate function so you take the modelealate function now we use the test and the the test x and the test y data set which we split at the very very beginning and never used from that point on uh we run it And when I ran it uh last night, it came up with a 83.6% accuracy for the model. And remember our baseline model which just predicts everybody is a zero is going to have a 72.6% accuracy. And this little neural network gives you 83 83.6 which is pretty good right so it's actually uh few it's beating the model the baseline model which is nice. Uh and I guess there is something here about you know the fact that we did a bunch of pre-processing outside Keras and then we send stuff into Keras. You can actually do all this pre-processing inside Karas automatically and there are layers for that and I have linked to a bunch of stuff here. So that's it as far as this model is concerned. I know we went through it really fast but please go through it afterwards and make sure you understand every single line. Change each of these lines, rerun it, see how the output changes. That's how we build some intuition. Okay. All right. computer vision >> as I do >> just one question and for is there a way to build a model just to have less false positive or less false immediate or you don't know that >> oh yeah yeah you can do that um but there are so you can report on all those things very easily but there are more complex loss functions which will take the the asymmetry between the false positive false negative into account u you know yeah so the short it's possible yeah All right. So, first let's just talk about how do you represent an image digitally. Okay. Uh and so these are how gay grayscale images are represented. Black and white images. So the basic basic idea is very simple. Every picture you have it's got a every location in that picture is a pixel and the pixel pixel basically has a light intensity. The amount of light at that location and that light level is measured from zero no light to blinding white light which is 255. And so all the numbers here, if you take this five for example, you can see a lot of no light like all the black regions, those are all zeros. Okay? And then wherever there is white light, there's a number and more the amount of light, the closer it gets to 255. Okay? In fact, if you just step back and squint at this, you can actually see the five. Okay? So that's it. That's how that's how black and white image represented. Very simple. Okay. Now, yeah. microphone >> just when you say amount of light what's the unit that's being measured like what do you mean >> so here basically what we have is uh the the computer takes whatever so when you send an analog you take an analog picture there is an there's a process by which you take that analog picture and read it in and it gets mapped to a scale between 0 and 255 that's it that's all so you can think of it as like a relative scale a normalized scale between 0 and 255 and so um it just roughly maps to amount of light in that location the exact like lumens to the number mapping I don't know how they do it my guess is there are a dis number of variations on that but the for our purposes just think of it as it's a normalized scale which runs from 0 to all right so uh if you look at u so that's what's happening every is a number between 0 to 55 boom boom okay so if you have a color image each pixel of a colored image is represented by three numbers uh And these numbers measure the intensity of red light, blue light and green light because red, blue and green if you mix them in the right proportion you can get whatever you want. Okay. So uh and so each light density is still a number between 0 and 55 and that's what you have. Which means that now you have three tables of numbers instead of one table of numbers. And by the way just some lingo here uh in the deep learning world these uh colors RGB, red, blue, green are sometimes referred to as channels. Okay. All right. So this is what we have here. This is a picture of Kian Cord U and then if you take that little thing here red the red table the green table and the blue table. So for this picture these three tables is a tensor of rank what? Good. All right. Any questions on this? So the key task in computer vision obviously the the important thing is image classification right uh the most basic task if you will uh when you're working with images is you you have an image and you want to take whatever you take the image and figure out okay you have a list of possible objects the image could contain and you're figuring out okay which of these possible objects exists in that image right the doc cat classification is like the the canonical example right that we all know and love uh and that's what we will solve uh later today and on Wednesday but there are many other tasks that you need to to be aware of. So when you actually not just classify an image, but you also localize where in the image is it, right? It's not just enough to say sheep, you want to figure out where is the sheep, right? And that's called localization. And the way you do localization is you put this little box around it. And then you output not just whether it's a, you know, sheep, yes or no, but the coordinates of this box, the top left, uh, and the bottom right, for example, if you put the coordinates, you can actually draw a box around it. So you you output the numbers the coordinates of where this box is in the picture. Okay, this called localization. Now this is object detection where you may have lots of objects going on and you want to pick up every one of them and you want to localize it. Okay, this is object detection. So here we have gone in there and said okay sheep one, sheep two, sheep three and each of these sheep has a little box around it. Okay. >> By the way, u you know, self-driving cars, the the camera vision system is constantly scanning what's coming in through the cameras and doing object detection constantly, many times a second, >> right? >> Pedestrian box, you know, zero crossing box, doggy box, stroller box, and so on and so forth. And then we have this thing called semantic segmentation where we take every pixel in the picture and classify every pixel. We are not classifying the whole picture, we're classifying every pixel. So we are saying okay all these gray pixels road all these pixels are sheep and all these pixels are grass every pixel is being classified. So we are taking a an image instead of giving one classification for every pixel we are solving a multiclass classification problem. Okay, every pixel is classified. And just when you think it can't get more complicated than this, we have something called instance segmentation where not only are we classifying every pixel, we are distinguishing between the different sheep. So every pixel is classified and different instances of the same category need to be identified. Okay. So these are all some of the most sort of uh I would say popular most prevalently and useful most prevalent and useful categories of image processing problems that are aminable to a deep learning system. All right. So let's go to image classification and we're going to work with this application called fashion emnest. Um so the idea here is that you have 70 70,000 images of clothing items across 10 categories. you know like boots and sweaters and t-shirts and you get the idea 10 categories of clothing. Um we we have 70,000 images like this u and then we'll build a network from scratch to classify all these things uh you know with pretty high accuracy. So these classes by the way you know this is a very balanced data set. So 10% of the data is you know sweaters 10% is boots and so on and so forth. So a naive baseline model would give you what accuracy 10%. Exactly. So we need to build something that's better than 10% and I'm glad to report that a simple neural network can actually get you close to 90%. Right? So so this is the simple network that we have. The input in this case is a 28x 28 picture. It's a 28x 28 picture. Uh and so far we have been feeding vectors into our neural network. Now we have a picture which is 28 by 28. It's a tens set of rank two, right? It's a table of numbers. What do we do? How do we feed that in? It's a temp. No, each image is a table of numbers. Let's just take a single image. Like what do we do? How do we what do we do with this table? Convert it into a vector. Exactly. And that's called flattening. So we take this table of numbers and we flatten it into a vector. And so so what we do is uh let me just Okay. So we have um 28 by 28. So what we can do is we can take each row right take this row and then write it like that. We take the second row oops write it like that. third row is here like that. You get the idea. So you take each row just rotate it and stack it all up, right? And string them up. It becomes one long vector. So this called flattening. Okay? So that's how you take this thing and make it into one long vector. So when you do that 28 by 28 is what is it? 7 784. So we get 7. So we get a vector. This is the flattened input and you get 784. Uh it's a vector that's 784 long. Okay. After the flattening, we have not done anything complicated yet. We have literally taken the numbers and just reorganized them in a different way. Okay. And once we do that, now we are back in our familiar neural network territory, right? We know how to work with vectors. So, we just need to pass it through a hidden layer, right? And this hidden layer, we're going to use re neurons. And I tried a few different values. And it turns out that 256 neurons does a really good job. Okay? And so, I'm going to use 256 neurons here. And then we need to now think about what the output layer should be. Now, the now we run into a problem because the output layer before we saw for the heart disease example, it's just zero or one. Right? Here there are 10 possible outputs. It could be a you know boot, a sweater, a shirt and so on so forth. 10 possible categories. So we need some way to handle something with many more than you know one binary output many possible outputs. So the way we do that this is by the way pay attention to this because this is actually how GPD4 works. Okay. So what we do is here's what we have. We know how to output 10 numbers, right? If you want to output 10 numbers, no problem. We just, you know, we have, we can easily output 10 numbers by just using a linear activation. We also know how to output 10 probabilities, right? Each one just needs to be a sigmoid. But here we can't use 10 sigmoids as the output. Why is that? Why can't we use 10 sigmoids? >> Because the probability to one, >> right? So here when the output comes we need to figure out okay is it a boot, a sweater, a shirt and so on and so forth. There's only one right answer. Okay, which means that we need to actually figure out which of these 10 is the right answer which means that we need to produce probabilities but they have to add up to one because only one of them can be true. So that's the key thing. They have to add up to one. That's the wrinkle. If not for that we can just use 10 sigmoids, right? And the way we do that is something using something called the softmax function or the softmax layer. And the idea is actually very simple. We have these 10 outputs in the very final layer which is just linear activations. And then we take each one of these numbers and then run it through the exponential function and then divide by the total. So when you do that two things happen. The first one is when you take these numbers and run it through say you take a1 and do e raised to a1 you now get a positive number and now you have a positive number divide by the sum of a bunch of positive numbers and they're all you can see here you can confirm visually that they will add up to one because you're literally divide taking each number dividing by the total so they will add up to one there's no other option right so this is called the softmax function which means that you can take any set of 10 numbers that's coming out of the network and convert them into probabilities that add up to one and So, by the way, the GPD4 reference when you actually put a prompt in GPD4 and it starts giving you the output. Every word it's emitting, right? It's actually a token, but we'll get to that later. You imagine it's a word. Every word it's emitting u is actually it's doing A-50 52,000 way softmax. Think of it as every word in the language is a possible output. So it's a vector which is 52,000 long but it's actually a softmax and it just picks the most probable word and emits that. So this notion of a softmax is actually very powerful. Okay but we'll come back to that uh later. So, so to summarize, if you have a single number, you can use a s simple output layer, a single probability, a sigmoid, you have lots of numbers, just have a stack of these things. And when you have a lot of numbers that have to add up to one, that have to be probabilities, use softmax, >> right? So uh yeah >> why do we choose probabilities instead of just number one >> sorry >> then we know it's only going to be one >> because you can't force the network to give you ones or zeros it's going to produce what it's going to produce >> you can't force it to be exactly one or zero it'll give you some number you can do is to tame that number so that it comes into a range that you like like between zero and So here very quickly um we have a b when we have a binary classification example like yes or no this is the one hot encoded version one or zero this is what we saw in the heart disease example when you have something like this example fashion mn list where you have all these different possibilities then you can encode it in one of two ways you can encode it just using integers like 0 to 9 right this is called the sparse encoded version or you can do a one hot encoded version of the output right you can have a one hot encoded version of the output and depending on how your data comes in to you comes into your collab right just pay attention to this and depending on what it is you have to pick the right keras loss function so data comes like a one zero thing which is exactly what we had in the how this example we use binary cross entropy if your data comes in this form where it's sparse encoded you use sparse categorical cross entropy and then if it comes in this form form you use categorical cross entropy, right? These are all equalent things. It just depends on the data that you get how it happens to be encoded by the people who sent it to you. If they send it this way, use this loss function. If you send that way, use that loss function. Now, as it turns out in our example here, the data is actually coming in in this form. So, we'll use this thing called the sparse categorical cross entropy. And categorical cross entropy is a generalization of binary cross entropy which I'm not going to get into the mathematical details but the in the the intuition is basically roughly the same. Okay so this is what we have. Um if this is your output layer use mean squared error. If this is your output layer use binary cross entropy and if you still have a stack of these numbers you can still use mean squed error. And if your output is a soft max, use categorical cross entropy or sparse categorical cross entropy. Okay. So let's actually run this in collab. Um right. So this is what we have. Can folks see this? Okay. All right. So this is the data set we saw earlier. Uh down here as usual, right? We have we load tensorflow and kas. We load our usual three packages and then we set the random seed for reproducibility. And it turns out that the fashion mnest data is actually available in keras. You don't have to go find it somewhere and bring it in. It's actually available in kas. It's one of the standard data sets. We luck out. So we just actually load the data right using this load data command. And then you do that and conveniently for us keras has not only made the data available it has already split it into a training and test set. So we don't have to do the splitting. Okay. And the reason they do that, why would they do that? They do that so that different people who are building algorithms for that particular data set can all be evaluated using the same test set. Otherwise, if I split it one way and say, "Hey, look how well I did that like I don't know how did you split it." >> That's the reason. >> Okay. So here and you can see here that uh we have the input data is a tensor of rank three. The first and basically another way to think about a tensor of rank three is just a list of rank two tensors. Right? So here you have 60,000 images. 60,000 images and each image is a 28x 28 square of numbers. Each image is a 28 x 28 table. Uh and then of course the output uh is just what category it is a number between 0 and 9. So you just have 60,000 numbers. It's just a vector of 60,000 numbers. Okay. Uh so there are 60,000 in the training set. Oops. Uh and then there are 10,000 in the test set. Same structure 28 by 28. Uh that's what we have. So if you look at the first 10 rows of the dependent variable Y, you get these numbers 9 0 33 like that. There are numbers from 0 to 9. So if you look at the fashion mnest GitHub site, this is what it refers to. Zero is a t-shirt, one is a trouser, and so on and so forth. And nine is an ankle boot. All right. So, uh, whenever I'm working with multiclass lab classification problems, I always, you know, do a little thing here to help me figure out that nine corresponds to an ankle boot and so on and so forth. It just makes it a little easier to to work with this stuff. So, I create this little list. Um and then uh turns out if you okay what is the very first data point? What is it? What is its y- value? Turns out to be an ankle boot. Um so you can actually look at the raw data for that image which is just a 28x 28 thing and these are the numbers you have. See all these 250 233 lots of zeros and so on and so forth. So you can actually look at the first visualize the first 25 images. I have a little bit of code here which visualizes that just matt plot lip code and you can see these are all the images they're kind of smallalish this my friends is an ankle boot right it's like okay can the network really make any sense out of this thing right it looks very blurry and I don't know this is uh oh this is actually a better ankle boot look at that okay sorry I'm getting distracted so so this is what we have here uh okay we are at 955 I'm going to stop um so you folks are not late for your next class. So we'll continue this journey on Wednesday and then we'll go on to color images the next class as well. Thank you folks. Have a good one.