The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, so it's uh five after we we should probably start. Um, so last time we were talking about honeycombs and I just wanted to quickly kind of review what we had talked about and then today I'm going to start deriving equations for the mechanical properties of the honeycombs. Okay, so this is kind of our honeycomb setup here. These are the hexagonal cells we're going to look at. We talked about the stress strain behavior. The curves on the left hand side are for compression and the ones on the right hand side are for tension. And so what we're going to be doing today is we're going to start out by calculating a Young's modulus. This slope here. We're going to calculate the stress plateaus for failure by elastic buckling in elasttoic honeycombs by failure from plastic yielding and say a metal honeycomb and by failure by a brittle crushing in say a ceramic honeycomb. Uh and if we have time we'll get to the tension stuff. I don't know if we'll get that today or next time. So, we're going to start calculating those properties today. And these were the deformation mechanisms. Remember, we said the linear elastic behavior was related to bending of the cell walls. And then the plateau was related to buckling if it was an elastor and the plateau was related to yielding if it was say a metal that had a yield point. Uh and then this was sort of an overview of the stress strain curve showing those different regions. Okay. So, what I'm going to talk about today to start is the linear elastic behavior. And we're going to be starting with the inplane behavior. So in plane means in the plane of the hexagonal cells. Okay? And then next time we'll do the out of plane behavior this way on. So if I deform my little honeycomb like this, what initially happens is the inclined cell walls bend. So if you can see over here, you can we've kind of exaggerated it on this sketch. So this wall here is bent. This one here just kind of moves along, goes for the ride. Uh and this guy here is bent. So this is for loading in the what we're calling the X1 direction. sigma 1. And the same kind of thing happens when we load in the other direction in the sigma 2 direction. These guys still bend. Now the honeycomb gets wider that way, gets shorter this way, wider that way. And we can calculate the Young's modulus if we can relate the load on the beam and the moments to this deflection here. Right? So the the Young's modulus is going to be related to the stiffness and the stiffness is going to be related to how much deformation you get for a certain amount of load that you put on the beam. So, I'm going to calculate the modulus for the x1 direction, the thing on the left there. Um, and you can do the same thing for the x2 direction on the right, but I won't calculate that because it's exactly the same kind of process. Okay. So, let me start here. Get my chalk. So, I'm going to draw one unit cell here. So, here's my unit cell there, like that. And this member here is of length H. That member there is of length L. That angle there is theta. I'm going to say all the walls have equal thickness. I'm going to call it T. And I'm going to define an X1 and X2 axis like this. So the horizontal is X1 and the vertical axis is X2. And I'm going to say that I apply a sort of global stress to it. sigma one. So there's a stress in the one direction there. Sigma one. Okay. And I'm going to say my honeycomb has a depth B into the page. But the depth B is because the honeycomb's prismatic, the B's are always going to cancel out of all the equations that we're going to get because everything's uniform in that direction. And we can think about a a unit cell here. And in the x1 direction we could say the length of our unit cell is 2 L cos theta. Okay. So in the x1 direction that's our unit cell there and that's 2 L co of theta. And in the X2 direction, you might think that you go from this vertex up here down to that vertex there. But if you did that, then on the next layer of cells, you wouldn't have the same uh same distance. So the unit length in the X2 direction is actually from here to here. And then you can see the next cell, you would get the same thing. You get this bit here from the inclined member. And then you get a bit H down here from the next member. So this bit here is equal to h + l * s of theta. So I can say in the x2 direction the length of the unit cell is h plus l sin theta. Okay. So that's kind of the the setup. And then what we want to look at is that inclined member that bends. We want to look at how this guy bends under the load. And if we can relate the forces on it to the deflection and we need the uh component of the deflection in the one direction, then we're going to be able to get the modulus. So I'm going to draw that inclined member again over here. And it's going to see some loads that I'm going to call P. And that's going to cause this thing to bend. So I've kind of exaggerated it there, but there's the bending. And there's some end deflection there delta. And there's moments at either end of the beam or either end of that member as well. And this member here has a length. That length is L. Okay. Are we good? So it's just kind of the setup. And I'm going to draw the deflection delta bigger over here. So say that's delta. that's same parallel as this guy here. What I'm going to want is the deflection in the x1 direction. And when I come to calculate the pson's ratio, I'm going to want the deflection in the x2 direction. And if this angle here is theta between the horizontal and the inclined member, then this angle up here is also theta. And so this bit here is delta sin theta. And this bit here is delta cos theta. Okay. So the Young's modulus is going to be the stress in the one direction divided by the strain in the one direction. So I need to get the stress and the strain in the one direction. So here the stress in the one direction. If I'm applying my load like this sigma one, the stress in the one direction is going to be this load P. So this load say P on this member here divided by this length here the unit cell length and then divided by B into the board the width into the board. So sigma 1 is going to be P / H + L sin theta * B And epsilon 1 is going to be the strain in the one direction. It's going to be the deformation in the one direction divided by the unit cell length in the one direction. So that's going to be delta sin theta / l cos theta. So here even though I've said this unit cell is 2 l cos theta there' be two of the members here they'd be twice that deflection in the one direction. Okay. So it's for one beam it's delta sin theta over l cos theta. Are we okay so far? So far so good. So so for the hexagons because we're going to figure out the equations more or less exactly. We're going to keep track of all the geometrical factors. When we come to the foams we're not going to keep track of all the geometrical factors. So, one of the things that makes this look a little kind of hairy is just the fact that we're keeping track of all these signs and cosiness and all the dimensions and things. All right. So, I need to be able to relate my load P to my deformation delta to get a stiffness out of this to get a modulus. Okay. So, the way I do that is remember in 3032 we did those bending moment diagrams. We did the deflection of the beams. That's this is where this comes in handy. So, I'm going to draw my beam a little bit differently. Now, I'm going to turn it on its side. So, this is still my length L, but I'm going to turn on my side just so that you can see it the same kind of way we did the bending moment diagrams. So, this is still my length L across here. And there's n moments m and m here. And P sin theta is just the perpendicular component of the load P. So P sine theta is just the component perpendicular to my beam. So I could draw a shear diagram here and I could draw a bending moment diagram here. And if you remember the B the shear diagram, if I have no concentrated load along here and I have no distributed load along here, if this is zero down here, it's just going to go up by P sin theta and then be horizontal and then come down by P sin theta. Okay, so that's the shear diagram. And then the bending moment diagram I'm going to draw down here. So I've got some moment at the end this would tend to bend like that. So this would be a negative moment. Remember um bending moments were negative if there was tension on the top and they were positive if there was tension on the bottom. So over here we'd have tension on the top. So that would give us a negative bending moment. And then if you also remember the moment at a particular point is equal to the integral from say A to B. Well, maybe I should write this another way. M B minus M A is the integral of the shear diagram between the two points. A little sloppy. Okay. So if I know how I have some moment here minus m, if I integrate this uh shear diagram up, then this is just going to be linear here and then I'm going to be at plus m over there. Okay. So if you look at this shear and bending moment diagram, it's really just the same as the shear and bending moment diagram for two cantal levers that are attached to each other. So let me just draw over here uh what the cantal lever looks like. Let's see. So imagine I just had a can lever like this and I have some force F on it like that and I call this distance here capital L and I'm going to call that deflection capital delta like that. Okay, if I drew the shear diagram for that, there'd be a reaction here F. There'd be a moment here Lip. So this would look Oops. It's a bit too long. Shear diagram here would look like this. That would be zero. This would be F L. And the moment diagram would look like this. Oops. Get a little too long again. And that would be minus L and that would be zero. Okay. So do you see how the shear and the bending moment diagram here are really just like two cantal levers. Okay. So I know that the deflection for a cantal lever delta is equal to f capital l cubed over 3 e i. Okay, that's kind of a standard result. And so I can take this and apply that to this beam here. So instead of working everything out from first principles, I'm just going to say that my beam here is like two can levers and instead of f I've got p sin theta and instead of capital L here is the length I've got um L over two because L over2 would be the length of one of the can levers. Okay. So for the for the honeycomb um I've got two cantal levers of length L over2. So delta for the inclined member on the honeycomb is going to be two because I got two can levers. the force instead of having F I'm going to have P sin theta and instead of having capital L I'm going to have L over two all cubed so this is like F capital L cubed over three and here the modulus I want is the modulus of the solid cell wall material so I'm going to call that E S and over the moment of inertia okay so you see how I've done it. Is that okay? So then I can just kind of simplify this thing here. I've got p sin theta l cubed uh 12 cubed is going to be 1/8. So this is going to be 2 that's an eth * 3 is 24. So 2 over 24 is 12. So I've got delta for my honeycomb member is P sin theta L cub E SI. And here I is the moment of inertia of that um inclined member of the oops of the honeycomb. And that's BT cubed over 12. Okay. So B is the depth into the board and T is the thickness. We cube that and then divide by 12. It's a rectangular section. Yeah. What was ES? ES is the Young's modulus of the solid that it's made from. So clearly, you know, if I'm if my honeycomb is made up of these in these members, whatever material the members are made of is going to affect the stiffness of the whole thing. Are we good? Because once we have this part, then we just combine these equations for the stress and the strain in the one direction. And we have this equation relating delta and P. and we're going to be able to get our Young's modulus. Okay, we're happy. Okay. All right. So, I'm going to call the Young's modulus in the one direction E star one. So, everything with a star refers to a cellular solid property and one because it's in the one direction. So that's going to be sigma 1 over epsilon 1. So if I go back up there, I can say sigma 1 is equal to p / h plus l sin theta b and epsilon 1 is equal to delta sin theta in the denominator over l cos theta. And now instead of having delta here, I can substitute this thing here in for delta. And then I'm going to be able to cancel the p's out. So delta was equal to p sin theta l cubed over 12 es. And there was an I, a moment of inertia, and I was equal to BT cubed over 12. And um let's see here. So that's delta. And there's another sin theta here. So I'm just going to square that sin theta there. Okay. No. So now the P's cancel out. The B's are going to cancel out. The 12elves are going to cancel out. And I'm going to rearrange this a little bit. So, I'm going to write the Young's modulus of the solid out in the front. Then, I've got a term here of T cubed and I'm going to multiply that by 1 over L^2 and then everything else. Well, let's see. I can take this L L cubed here. I can take that, put it underneath that. So, that's going to give me T over L cubed. And then I've got an H plus L sin theta here and I've got an L there. So I'm going to take that to be h plus sin theta. So I've got this term with h over l's and the thetas. There's a cos theta from the numerator here. This term here turns into h l plus sin theta. And then I've got my sin^ square thetas down there. And that's my result for the Young's modulus in the one direction. Okay, make sure that seems right. That seems good. Okay, so one of the things to notice here is there's three types of parameters that are important. So one is the solid properties. So the Young's modulus of the solid comes into this. Right? So the stiffness of the whole thing depends on the stiffness of whatever it's made from. There's this factor of TL cubed. That's directly related to the relative density or the volume fraction of solids. So what this is saying is the the relative density goes AST over L. So the Young's modulus depends on the cube of the relative density. So it's very sensitive to the relative density. And then this factor here really is just a factor that depends on the cell geometry. Remember when we talked about the structure of the honeycomb, we said we could define the cell geometry by the ratio of h over l and theta. Okay. Okay. And since we often deal with regular hexagonal honeycombs, I'm just going to write down what this works out to be for regular hexagonal honeycombs. So for a regular hexagonal honeycomb, h is one. All the members have the same length and theta is 30 and the modulus works out to 4 over3 * e s * t cub. Okay, so do you see how we do these things? So all the other properties work in a similar kind of way. You have to say something about what the sort of bulk stress is on the whole thing and relate that to the loads on the members. You have to say something about how the loads are related to deflections. Or when we look at the strengths, we're going to look at moments and how the moments are related to failure moments of one sort or another. But it's all just like a little structural analysis. Okay. Are we good? You good, Jenny? Yeah. I thought you were gonna put your hand up. No, you're okay. Okay. Okay. So the next property we're going to look at is Pon's ratio. And I'm going to look at it for loading in the one direction. So poss ratio one two say we load uni a in the one direction we want to know what the strain is is in two direction it's minus epsilon 2 over epsilon 1 and again if I look at my inclined member and I say that member is going to bend something like that and that's my deflection delta there and say got the same x1 and x2 axes. And again, if I look at delta here, it's the same little sketch I had before. That's delta sin theta and this is delta cos theta. I'm going to need those components to get the two strains in the different directions. So, epsilon 1 is going to be theta over l cos theta. And if I'm compressing it, uh that would get um shorter. We get and epsilon 2 is going to be delta cos theta / h plus l sin theta. And that would get longer. So these two have opposite signs and so the minus sign is going to disappear here. Okay. So then I can get my plus ratio by just taking the ratio of those two guys. So I could I could put a minus sign there to say that's the opposite sign to epsilon 2. Then this would be delta cos theta / h + l sin theta and epsilon would epsilon 1 would be delta sin theta over l cos theta. And the thing that's convenient here is that the two deltas just cancel out. So the posonance ratio is the ratio of two strains. Each one of the strains is going to be proportional to delta. And so the two deltas are just going to cancel out. And so I can rewrite this thing here as cos^2 theta / h plus sin theta time sin theta. And so one of the interesting things to note is that the poson's ratio only depends on the cell geometry. It doesn't depend on what solid the material is made from. It doesn't depend on the relative density. It only depends on the um cell geometry. Oops. Okay. And then we can also work out what the value is for a regular hexagonal cell. And if we plug in H is equal to L and theta is equal to 30, you get that it's equal to one. So one's kind of an unusual number for a pulance ratio. You know, when we think of most materials, it's around.3. So it's kind of unusual that it's that large. The other thing that's interesting is that it can be negative. So if theta is less than zero then you can get a negative value. The cos square is going to be a positive value but you've got aromasin theta down here and that's going to give you a negative value. So you can get negative values. So let me just plug in an example. So say h L is equal to 2 and theta is equal to minus 30° then this turns out to be 3/4. So cos of 30 is 3 /2. So square of that is 3 over 4. H is 2. Sin theta is a half but it's minus a half. So 2 - a half is 1 and a half. And then the sin theta is minus a half. And so it works out to be minus one for that particular combination. And I brought my little honeycomb that has a negative plus ratio in. So this guy here, let's see this. I don't think there's an overhead here. No overhead. I guess not. I'll just pass it around. So if you take it, put your hands on the flat side and load it like this. And don't, you know, don't smush it like that. Just load it a little bit because you only need linear elastic. If you load it just a little bit, you can see that as you push it this way, it contracts in sideways that way. So don't smash it, just load it a little bit and you can kind of see it with your hands. And if you know, if you put it on a piece of lined paper, it's easier to see it. Okay, so that's kind of interesting. So are we good with getting the Young's modulus in the one direction, the posum's ratio for loading in the one direction? Okay, so you can do the same sort of thing to get the Young's modulus in the two direction and the posum's ratio for loading in the two direction and you get slightly different formulas but um it's the same idea and you can also get a shear modulus this way an inplane shear modulus it's a little bit the geometry of it's a little bit more complicated. So all of those things are derived in the book in the cellular solids book. So if you wanted to figure figure those out look at that you could look at the book. So let me just comment on that. All All right. So those are the inplane linear elastic moduli and remember we said that um four of them describe the inplane properties for an anisotropic honeycomb and you can use that reciprocal relationship to relate the two youngs modul and the two pulins ratios. Okay. All right. So the next thing I wanted to talk about was the compressive strength. So let me just back up here a second. So if we go back to here, remember we had for an elastoic honeycomb, this stress plateau was related to elastic buckling. So we're going to look at that buckling stress first. And this plateau here is related to yielding. And then we'll look at the yielding stress next. And then this plateau here is related to a brittle uh sort of crushing. And we'll we'll do that one third. So we're going to go through each of those next. And this is kind of the schematic for the elastic buckling. So when you look at the elastic buckling, one of the things to note is that when you load the honeycomb this way on, if you load it in the one direction, you don't get buckling. It just sort of continues to Oops. If I can keep it in plane, it all just kind of folds up. So you just get larger and larger bending deflections. You don't really get buckling. But when you load it this way on these vertical members here, the ones of length H, they're going to buckle. So see if I do that, my my honeycomb looks like those cells up on the schematic there. Okay? So, oops. So, we're going to look at the compressive stress or strength next. That's sometimes called the plateau stress. So we can get cell collapse by elastic buckling. If for instance the honeycomb's made of a polymer and then the stress string curve looks something like that. And what happens is you get buckling of those vertical struts uh throughout the honeycomb. And you can also So get stress a stress plateau by plastic yielding and what happens when you get plastic yielding is you get localization of the deformation. So one band of cells will begin to yield initially and then as the deformation proceeds that deformation band will propagate and get bigger and bigger and you get a wider and wider band of cells um yielding and failing. So you get localization of yield and then as deformation progresses the deformation band widens throughout the material. So if I go back and look, if I look at this one here, when you look at this um middle picture here, you can see how one band of cells has started to collapse and started to fail. And as you continue to compress that in the one direction this way on, then more and more neighboring cells are going to collapse and the whole thing will get wider until the whole thing has collapsed. And that's kind of characteristic of the plastic failure. And then the third possibility is brittle crushing. And then you get these kind of serrated plateau. And the peaks and valleys correspond to fractures of individual cell walls. Okay. So, we're going to start off with the elastic buckling um failure. And I'm going to call these plateau stresses sigma star for the sort of compressive strength. And e means it's by elastic buckling. And as I mentioned, you don't get it in the one direction. The cells just fold up. You only get it for loading in the two directions. So, it's going to be Signar EL2. Need a different piece of chalk. So you get this elastic buckling for loading in the X2 direction and the cell walls of length H buckle and you don't get it for loading in the one direction. The cells just fold up. So again, let me draw a little kind of unit cell here. And here's our stress sigma 2 like that. And here's our little wall of length h that's going to buckle. So if I load it up, initially it'll be linear elastic. And then eventually at some stress it'll get large enough that this wall here will buckle. And we can relate that plateau stress or that compressive stress to some oiler buckling load. So remember if we have a pinended column so just a single column and pins on either end the oiler buckling load says you get buckling when the critical load is equal to some n constraint factor n^2 so n^2 pi^2 e and here it's e of the solid i over the length of the column and in this case the column length is h so h squ okay so So that's just the oiler formula. And here n is an end constraint factor. And if you remember for a pin pin column, so if the columns pinned at both ends like that and just buckles out like that, then n is equal to one. And if the column's fixed at both ends, something like that, then the column looks like that. And n is equal to two. Okay. So if I know what the end condition is, I know what n is. And I can use my oiler formula here. So the trick to this is that it's not so obvious what n is. Yes. Um, so when you're loading in the X2 direction here, the first thing you're going to get is the incline members deforming, right? And then at some point you hit a P critical that will cause the vertical members to buckle. Exactly. Okay. Okay. That's exactly right. Hello. Um, so the trick here is that we don't really know what this N is initially. They're not really pin pin. They're not fixed fixed. And if you think about the the setup with the honeycomb here, the constraint on that vertical member depends on how stiff the adjacent members are. So you can kind of imagine if I'm looking at one of these vertical members here. If these two adjacent inclined members were big honking thick things, it would be more constrained. And if they were little thin kind of teeny little membranes, it'd be less constrained. And you can think of it in terms of a rotational stiffness that when when the honeycomb buckles, you can kind of see the the member H goes from being horizontal to sort of it it buckles over like this. But that whole end joint, say the end joint at the top here or the end joint at the bottom, that whole joint rotates a little bit. And so there's some rotational stiffness of that joint. And that rotational stiffness depends on how stiff the member H is and how stiff those inclined members are. So there's a thing called the elastic line analysis that um you can use to calculate what n is. And basically what that does is it matches the rotational stiffness of the column h with the rotational stiffness of those inclined members. So we're not going to get into that. I'm just going to tell you what the answer is. But if you want to go through it, it's in an appendix in the book. So you can you can look at it if you want. So here I'm just going to say that the constraint n depends on the stiffness of the adjacent inclined members. There's we can find that by something called the elastic line analysis. And if you have the book, you can look in the appendex and see how that works. But essentially what it does is it it matches the rotational stiffness of the column H with the rotational stiffness of the inclined members. So what you find is that n depends on the ratio of l h over l and I'm just going to give you a table with a few values. So for h over l equal to 1 then n is equal to 0 686. For h= to 1.5 it's equal to 0.76 and for h equal to 2 it's equal to 806. Okay. So now if we have values for n, we can just substitute in to get the critical uh buckling load. And if I take that load and divide it by the area of the unit cell, I'm going to get my buckling stress. So it's it's pretty straightforward from this. So my buckling stress is going to be that critical load divided by my unit cell area. So it's divided by the unit cell length in the X1 direction. 2 L cos theta time the depth B into the page. So it's equal to n^2 p^ 2 e s * i and i is bt cub / the length of the column h 2 and then divided by the area of the unit cell 2l cos theta b and I can rearrange that somewhat to put it in terms of dimensionless groups. So if I pull all the constants out, it's n^2 p ^2 time the modulus of the solid and then t cubed in the numerator / h^ 2 * cos theta in the denominator. Okay. So again you can see that the buckling stress the compressive sort of elastic collapse stress depends on the solid property. So here's the modulus of the cell wall in here depends on the relative density through t cubed and then it depends on the cell geometry through h cos theta and n depends on h as well. Okay. Okay. And then we can do the same thing where we figure out what it is for regular hexagonal cells and it's 0.22 es * t cubed. And then we can also notice that since E in the two direction for a regular hexagonal cell E is the same in the two direction in the one direction it's isotropic. So E2 is also equal to 4 over3 E S * T over L cubed. That's equal to Oops. It's equal to 2.31 S P L cubed. Then we can say that the strain at which that buckling happens is just equal to a constant. And for regular hexagonal honeycombs, it works out to a strain of 10%. Okay, are we good? So, we have a buckling load. We divide by the area. The only complicated thing is finding N. And you can find it by this elastic line analysis thing. So, each of these calculations is like a little structural analysis only on a little teeny weeny scale of the cells. So you see where my background in civil engineering comes in handy. Yep. Okay. So the honeycombs involve the most sort of complicated equations. When we come to do the foams, we're going to use a dimensional analysis and all the equations are going to be much simpler. So this is the most kind of tedious part of the whole thing. Okay. Okay. So the next property I want to look at is the plastic collapse stress. Say we had a a metal honeycomb and we wanted to calculate the stress plateau for a metal honeycomb. So we have this little schematic here and uh say we load it in the one direction again. So we're loading it here. Um and we've got some load P like that. And if we have our honeycomb, we load it this way on initially the cell walls bend and you have linear elasticity and you have some Young's modulus. But if you have a metal, if you continue to deform it and you continue to load it more and more, eventually you're going to hit the yield stress in the cell wall, right? So the stresses in the cell wall are going to hit the yield stress. And initially the stresses are just going to be remember if you have a beam, the stresses are maximum at the top and the bottom of the beam. So, initially you're going to hit the yield stress at the top and the bottom of the beam first, but as you continue to load it, you're going to end up yielding the cross-section through the entire section. So, the entire section is going to be yielded. And once the entire section yields, it forms what's called a plastic hinge. Once the whole thing's yielded, then you know you can add more force and the thing just rotates. And because it rotates, it's called a plastic hinge. You know, if you take a coat hanger and you bend it back and forth and you bend it back and forth, if you bend it enough, you form a plastic hinge because it just can um bend easily. Um so these little schematics here um if you look at the say one of these inclined members, the moments are maximum at the ends. Remember when we had the linear elastic deformation and I I looked at the little bending moment diagram, the moments are maximum at the ends and you're going to form those plastic hinges initially at the ends. And so these little ellipsy things here at the all the ends those kind of show where the plastic hinges are. Okay, so those plastic hinges are forming. So here's for loading in the X1 direction and here's for loading in the X2 direction there. Okay. So the thing we want to calculate is what stress does it take to form those plastic hinges and get this kind of plastic um plateau stress Okay. So we can see we get failure by yielding in the cell walls. And I'm going to say the yield strength of the cell wall is sigma ys. So sigma y for yield and s for the solid. And the plastic hinge forms when the cross-section has fully yielded. So let's look at the stress distribution through the cross-section when it's first linear elastic. So say that's the thickness T of the member. And if the beam was linear elastic, the stress would just vary linearly like that, right? And then this would be the neutral axis here where there is no normal stress. Okay? So that's what happens if it's linear elastic. And I'm hoping you remember something vaguely like that. Sounds good. But as we increase the load on it and we increase the sort of external stress, this uh stress in the member is going to get bigger and bigger and eventually that's going to reach the yield stress. Okay? And once that reaches the yield stress, if we continue to load it, what happens is the yielding propagates down through the thickness of the thing here. So we get yielding through the whole cross-section. So let me scoot over here. Yep. Starts to yield. Does this curve change? Yes. I'm going to draw it for you. Oh, okay. That's the next step. That would be the next thing. Okay. Okay. So once the stress at the outer fiber is the yield strength of the solid Then the yielding begins and it progresses through the section as the load increases. So the stress distribution starts to look something like this once it yields. Okay. So that's sigma y of the solid. Actually, let me let me rub that out because then I can show you something else. So, in 3D, this would be through the thickness of the beam. That would be the thickness of the beam there. Beep beep would look something like that. Okay. And then this is still our neutral axis here. And then eventually as you load it more and more, the whole cross-section is going to yield. Oops. and I'm assuming that the material is elastic perfectly plastic. So the stress drain curve for the solid I'm idealizing as oops that's not quite right I'm idealizing as is that okay so when you get to this point here the entire cross-section has yielded and that means you form the plastic hinge And the idea here is that the section then just rotates like a pin. All right. So we can figure out the the plateau stress that corresponds to this by looking at the moment that's associated with the plastic hinge formation. So there's some internal moment associated with that and then equating that to the applied moment. Okay, from the applied stress. So um let me see maybe back back up here. So there's some if I have this stress distribution here I could say this whole kind of stress block is equivalent to some force acting out like that and some force acting out like that it'd be sigma ys * b * t /2 would be f okay and I can say there's some plastic moment if I think of the force here and the force there they act as a couple and they have some moment and that's called the plastic moment Okay. So that's like an internal moment when the plastic hinge forms. So I'll say the internal moment at the formation of the plastic hinge. I'm going to call that MP for plastic moment. And we can work out MP by looking at that um stress distribution when the entire cross-section has yielded. The force F is going to be sigma Ys * B * T /2, right? It's the stress times that area. And then the moment arm between the two forces is also T /2. And so that plastic moment is just sigma ys bt ^2 over 4. Okay, are we good? Okay, so this is the force. This thing here is the force F. And I have to if I'm getting a moment I'm saying that that force if I the distance between those two forces there is t over2. Okay. So each force acts through the middle of the block. And so the distance between them is t over2. And I'm going to equate that moment to the applied moment from the sort of applied stress. And if I go back to my inclined member, let's see, get a little more inclined. That's my inclined member there of length L. I've got loads P that are applied at the end from sigma 1 and I've got moments that are induced at the ends. And that angle there would be theta. This length here is L like that. And if I just do static equilibrium on that, I can say that I've got 2 * the moments. I've got one at each end. are both the same sign minus P and then the distance between these two PS say I take moments about here I've got M applied plus M applied I've got minus P * L sin theta that's equal to zero so the applied moment there is just PL sin theta / 2 so Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to equate this applied moment with this plastic moment and I'm going to relate P to my applied stress sigma 1 and then I'm going to get a strength in terms of the yield strength of the solid. There's going to be a T over L factor and there's going to be some geometrical factor. So that's just the last step. So we get plastic collapse of the honeycomb to stress I'm going to call sigma star plastic with a one because I'm going to look at the one direction and that happens when that internal plastic moment equals the applied moment. So let's see. I've got that. Um let me also write down over here. I've also got that sigma 1 is equal to p over h + l oops sin theta * b. So here I can write P in terms of sigma 1 and this thing and then write that get the applied moment in terms of that and then equate it to that. So this term on the left hand side corresponds to this expression for the applied moment where I've plugged in for P I've plugged in sigma 1 * H plus L sin theta * B and then that's my plastic moment on the left on the right hand side. So if I just rearrange this, I can then solve for this plastic collapse stress. So it's equal to the yield strength of the solid * t^ 2 and then times another geometrical factor 2 * h + sin theta * sin theta. So the same kind of thing. There's a solid property, a T over L, a relative density term, and then a cell geometry term. And we can calculate what this for regular hexagonal cells. And we can do a similar kind of calculation for loading in the other direction. And you can get a sheer strength if you want to do that too. The other direction only the or the M applied changes, right? Or like that section. Yeah. This this thing here is the same, right? This is there's a different geometry to it because now you're loading it, you know, this way on. Okay. So, we've calculated a an elastic buckling plateau stress and a sort of plastic collapse plateau stress. And if you have thin enough walled, say even aluminum honeycombs, then the elastic buckling could preede the plastic um collapse. And so, I'm just going to work out what the criterion would be for that to happen. So the two stresses can be equated and then that's going to give us some criterion. So the two are equal. I'm just going to write down the equations that we had. So the buckling stress was n^2 p ^2 * e of the solid * t l cubed / h^ 2* cos theta. And the plastic collapse stress for the two direction was sigma ys * t^ 2 / 2 cos^2 theta. So I can write this because this has a t over cub term and that has a t squ term. I can write this in terms of a t over l critical. So if I leave a t over l here and I put everything else on the other side, I've got 12 over n^2 pi^2. Uh then h l^ squ over cos theta * sigma ys over e s. So if t is less than that, I'm going to get elastic buckling first. And if it's more than that, I'm going to get plastic yielding first. And we could work out an exact number for regular hexagonal honeycomb. So I'm going to do that. So if I have a particular geometry, I can figure out what n is. So for regular hexagonal honeycombs, the overall critical just works out to three times the yield strength of the solid over the Young's modulus of the solid. So if we know that ratio of the yield strength to the modulus of the solid, we can get some idea of what that critical T over L would be. So do that next. You said L is less than that critical then you're going to get the yielding first. No, if it's less, you get the buckling first. If it's really skinny, it tends to buckle first. So for example for metals the yield strength over the modulus is roughly 0.002 like the 02% yield strength and so that means that t overall the sort of transition or the critical value is at 0.6%. So most metal honeycombs are denser than that. Okay, that's a pretty low density. But if we look at polymers, you can get polymers with a yield strength relative to the modulus of about 3 to 5%. And then that critical T over L is equal to about 10 to 15%. So low density polymers with yield points may buckle before they yield. Okay. So, we have one more of these compressive um plateau stresses and that's for the brittle honeycomb. Um so, I don't think I'm going to finish this today, but let me let me set it up and then we'll finish it next time. So, the idea here is that if you have a ceramic honeycomb, remember I showed you some of those ceramic honeycombs. that if you compress them they can fail by a brittle crushing mode. So ceramic home honeycombs can fail in a brittle manner. And again, initially there'd be some cell wall bending, but at some point you're going to reach the bending strength of the material. And bending strengths are called modulus of rupture. So you you reach the reach the modulus of rupture of the cell wall. So, um, so I'm not going to write the equations down today because we're not going to get very far. So, I'll I'll do that next time. But, we're going to set this up exactly the same as we did for the last one for the plastic yielding. But instead of getting that sort of blocky fully yielded cross-section stress distribution, we're just going to have the linear elastic stress distribution. And when the maximum stress reaches that modulus of rupture, the thing's going to fail. So, it's the form of the equations is going to be very similar to what we had for the plastic collapse stress, but there's a slightly different geometrical factor. That's all. Okay. So we'll do that next time and then next time we're also going to talk about uh the tensile behavior of honeycombs in plane. We'll work out a fracture toughness and then we'll start talking about the out of plane properties as well. So on Wednesday we'll do the out of plane properties. Okay. So hopefully we'll finish the out oflane properties Wednesday and then next week I was going to talk about some natural materials that have honeycomb like structures. So things like wood and cork. Okay. All right. So this is the kind of most equation-y lecture in the whole course. So