The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, welcome back to 6890. Uh today we start a series of lectures on satisfiability. Uh we saw a little bit about satisfiability in the first lecture. Uh this now we're going to do it right and do it uh more intensely and see a lot of examples. Today we'll just see a few examples of using SAT to prove NP completeness or NP hardness. Uh but over the next lecture or two we will see many more examples. Um and SAT is really the most common problem that everyone uses to prove NP hardness. So this is the moment you've all been waiting for. I suppose uh this is one of the motivations for organizing this whole class is so we can tell you all about SAT. It's many variations so you get to learn them all and then see lots of different ways you can use SAT to represent your problems. So without further ado, let's get started. Um, today I'm going to give you a whole bunch of problems and definitions. Um, and then we will do reductions afterwards. So, there's going to be a lot of problems here. You probably will have trouble remembering them all. There's so many. But in particular, the notes serve as a useful reference. Like, here's all the versions you might care about. Here's which ones are hard, which ones are easy. Um, so with that in mind, get ready for the ride. Um so the original SAT problem is you're given a boolean formula formula uh which is like over the operators and or and not and in case you look at the literature usually and is uh the wedge or is the v and not is the neg I don't know the name of that symbol um and it's over n variables x1 x2 xn. So usually you're not given true or false although you can construct them by saying x1 and not x1 that's never true. So that's false for example then you can negate that get true. Um and the question is can you set the variables to make the formula true. So that's the general problem. This is the very first problem proved to be empty by uh cook and then by leaven. Uh so it's usually called the cook leavenven theorem that satisfiability is nplete. Um and I was looking at the paper the other day. It doesn't actually mention the notion of np in that paper. I think that came later but uh the notion is there. So give you another version uh of the same problem essentially uh called circuit. This is a useful perspective which we will see probably not till next class but uh another way to think about it also makes the MP completeness a little bit more intuitive. Okay, this is kind of the algebraic way of thinking about things. You have variables and you write operators and use parentheses and that sort of thing. Uh but if you're more graphically inclined, you could imagine uh you have your xis as wires. They're connected to gates. This is an ANDgate. Uh this is an orgate. This is a negation. Uh so you can imagine something like this. Um so you can generally copy your data and do various things and then this is sort of the output. And so this is what you might call the formula. It is the and of the negation of the or of x3 and the and of x1 and x2. And then pop off. It's also ended with this thing again. So the the one advantage of circuit set is you can reuse complex computations uh just by copying the signal. Normally in a formula you'd have to copy and paste that chunk of the formula. So you could imagine this lets you write formulas slightly more efficiently. Uh I think it doesn't. Uh you can if you reuse things you can always use you can always write them as a variable over here. But question what about feedback? Um does feedback is forbidden. So this should be a directed as cyclic graph. Yeah, good question. Uh so it's an asyclic circuit. That would be another problem which is harder than NP. So circuit SAT is NP complete when it's as cyclic. Um and you can convert between one and the other. And it's a little bit more intuitive that you can write arbitrary computations as a circuit. Um and then this is a question of whether you can uh the existence of some setting of the AIS is the same thing as saying uh is there some set of guesses that will lead me to a yes answer. So that is intuitively like NP and that's roughly how you prove these problems are NPMPlete. uh you write the computation the checking computation to see whether you your um certificate is a valid certificate as a circuit or as a formula and then uh the existential quantifiers on the xis let you do all the guessing to see whether they're uh and this is biased right it's trying to find a true and that's exactly what np does is trying to find a true path uh that ends up answering yes so yes and true are are symmetric So uh that's the extent of the complexity theory we'll do today. Um I'm going to give you more versions of SAT. Next one is CNFSAT. CNF stands for conjunctive normal form. I hope you all know propositional logic because we're going to be doing a bunch today. Uh so uh ands are also called conjunctions ors are called disjunctions. This is old terminology. Uh so conjunctive normal form means that your formula is an and of clauses. What's a clause? clause is going to be an or of literals. What's a literal? Literal is going to be xi or not x i. So these are variables. So variables are possible literals and negations of variables literal and that's it. Uh and that is CNF set. So it's a special case of SAT where your formula formula happens to have this uh picture and in general you can convert arbitrary formulas into conjunctive normal form. It's a normal form meaning it's essentially unique uh in a minimal CNF formula is unique. Uh so there's a known transformation to do that polinomial time. That's how you prove this is hard. Um another view in this picture we'll use we'll use CNFSAT a lot uh usually in even more specialized form but already uh one useful view which we saw uh a little bit in lecture one we'll see it again today is you can view such an input as a bipartite graph. You have uh let's say variables on the one side and clauses on the other side. And then you have two types of connections. A clause in general clause is going to have degree three and I don't know let's say the dashed edges are negated and the solid edges are not negated. So this is a clause that involves x1 or x2 or not x3 and in general each of these clauses is going to involve uh some number of variables over here. I said three but I haven't actually gotten to three yet. That is three setat. So the most common form of CNFSAT we use is called threesat where it's CNFSAT in the special case where the clause is an or of three literals and you can assume it's exactly three or at most three. Um so that's like saying the degree of each of the clause nodes here is exactly three. And that's the problem that we used in for proving Super Mario Brothers was hard in the first lecture. Um, so in my notes I have things nicely indented. So we have CNFSAT which is a special case of SAT and then threes which is a special case of CNFSAT. A special case of threes that's also hard is called threeat-5. I don't know that this is super standard but I found at least one paper that gives it this this name. uh this says that each variable uh occurs in less than equal to five uh clauses either in its positive or negated form. So this this is sometimes called max five occurrence three set um and I think you can even make them exactly five occurrences if you want uh but at most five occurrences is usually what you want. question is that tight is like three set four inde four I don't know uh I would guess it's tight but because there are a lot of people that mention five but I haven't seen a mention that four is polinomial all right so we should figure that out other questions it's probably the same one all right here's another special case of three set monitor tone three set. Uh this is where each clause is all positive or all negative. So, of course, if every clause is all positive, then you could set all the variables to true and you'll satisfy. If all the clauses are negative, you set all the variables to false and you satisfy. But if some of half the clauses are all positive, half the clauses are all negative, then that's hard. That's called monotone threes. I've actually not seen this used, but I imagine is helpful in a few situations. Um, this is definitely the most common. Almost every proof starts with threesat, but it's really good to know all the extra things you can assume about your threes problem and still be hard. Uh, I have more hard versions, but before we get there, I'm going to tell you about some easy versions and question. Is monotone 3AT 5? Another good question. Monotone 3AT 5 is that infy complete? I don't know. Um, partly these were done at at different times. Um monotone threesat is mentioning Gary and Johnson is done in 1978 presumably for a particular hardness proof. Uh threes 5 is probably a very old idea probably this idea of reducing occurrences goes to some logic thing but the earliest reference I found was 1998 and most people have forgotten about monotone 3 by then so it probably just hasn't been considered but it might be easy. Yeah, it limited to five variables. The construction to limit to five variables should I believe work with the monitor construction as well. Okay. Conjecture. Yes, it's hard. That's okay. Uh so but stay tuned for certain answer. Um so let me tell you some polomial time versions of SAT. uh the three is tight if you have the clause being an ore of two literals but otherwise you're just like threesat or just like cnfat I guess uh then this is polomial time um and let me give you a rough sketch y um so if you have an or of two literals that's something like x or y and uh the little bit of propositional logic you should know is the meaning of uh let's say a implies b uh saying that this should hold is and a and b are either true or false uh this is the same as saying not a or b okay because if a is false then the implication tells you nothing if a is true then it better be the case that b is true so either a is false in which case there's you don't have to worry about something or a is true and then b better be true as well so these are the maybe write triple equals for these are equivalent logical statements. Uh so we can apply that here and say x or y is the same thing as not x implies y or not y implies x. It's symmetric but this is now just a simple implication. If we ever set x to be false then y must be true. And every clause can be converted into such an implication. You can build a graph of all such implications. And then uh turns out to solve you can just pick your favorite variable x i set it to true follow all implications see whether you get a contradiction if you don't then the claim is there is a satisfying assignment where x i equals true. So you can try that with x i true x i false. Uh one of if there's any hope then one of them should say no contradiction and then just run with that and you can prove by induction that won't get stuck. Uh it won't make any uh impossible assignments unless there was no assignment to begin with. Uh so that's why twoat is easy and one of the situations you should be careful about. On the other hand, uh, max twoat is hard. So, max two setat is you're given a two set formula. You're given a 2 CNF formula. And normally we ask for an uh an assignment to the variables that satisfies all the clauses. But if you just want to satisfy K of them, uh, so satisfy K of the clauses. So usually you want to maximize K but let's say for a decision problem I'll give you K and I want to know can you satisfy K of the clauses that problem is NP hard so that can be useful if you can only represent two set clauses but you can somehow get a maximization thing in then uh you're golden again but two set alone is not enough uh there are some other easy to solve versions this is essentially general Generalization of TUSAT is hornsat. It's maybe a little bit more surprising first time you see it. Again, it's a special case of CNF set, which you can tell by my indentation. Each clause has at most one negative literal. Uh so that means a clause is going to look something like what's one negative sorry uh sorry horn is the other way around we will get that problem is also solvable but the one that's called hornsat is there's at most one positive literal so that means your formula is going to look something like not x or not y or not z or w so there's one positive the rest are all negated um And we can do some more propositional logic. So use Deorgan's theorem. This is the same thing as the negation of the and. Okay. And then we can apply this helpful rule and say this is the same thing as if X and Y and Z are true, then W better be true. And so you can use essentially the same algorithm. Um that you're you I mean slightly harder to check if if all three of these things are true then this one better be true. But it's always a guarantee. You know this thing must happen. Uh just like in TUAT if X happen to be set to false then you know Y must be true. So you can just follow these implication chains. If you get a contradiction you know you're in trouble. Um if you don't get a contradiction again you can improve by induction that all will be well and so you just make sure every time you assign a variable you don't get a contradiction and you can satisfy any horn formula. So that's cool. So I didn't write it on the board but this is polomally solvable. Uh there's a symmetric version which is called dual horn sat. Uh so this is same thing uh but at most one negative literal in each clause and uh this is also solvable in polinomial time because you can just negate all the variables in your formula and then when you get an answer you can negate all the variables again to get the solution to the original problem. So because you can solve horns, you can solve dual horns. Cool. One more bad case I'll mention. Now uh is DNFSAT. You might say well why do we make things ands of ores? What about ores of ands? So DNF is disjunctive normal form meaning the disjunctions are on the outside. So me formula is an and of or sorry by the way or of ands of literals. Use some shorthand not defined clauses here because we don't really use this problem because it's polinomial time. uh y is a polinomial time of the ends. Just evaluate one of the ands. If you it's true if any one of these is possible. So you can just check for obvious contradictions like x i and not x i. If that happens then that clause is impossible throw it away. If any clause has no internal contradictions then just satisfy the clause. Okay. So it's basically uh the answer is yes. whenever there is a clause could be you have the empty formula and no clauses. Uh so writing you can also write any formula into DNF it's like an enumeration of all the true uh possibilities but it takes exponential time to do so. So it's a funny asymmetry between and and or that's life. Yeah. I just want to say um for hornset um even if you don't have hornset or dual hornset you might have a formula where some renaming not necessarily all of the literals but renaming just some of the literals will put it in hornset and that's also that's also oh just negating some of them yeah like for each each time a variable occurs you have to negate all the instances of that variable but these are called renameable horn formulas and that's also do finding the renaming is linear time so okay so some kind of renameable horn And by renaming you just mean negating right? So yeah the the term used in the literature is renameable horn. So there exists a negation of uh let's say some subset of the variables x uh such that uh okay that's a very concise version. So you get to choose some of the variables to negate and make it a horn clause. That's also polomial time. Cool. Thank you. Uh you might be wondering at this point how am I I mean do I have to remember all of these? In some sense the answer is yes. But uh there is actually a dichotomy theorem that will tell you which versions of SAT are polinomial time and which versions are np hard. And we'll cover that in one more page. Um but I'm well all of these are involved in the statement of that dichotomy. So not quite all but most of them. So it's not exactly a shortcut. Uh I would say a lot of the time the problem you're working with does not naturally map on to ands and ors. It sort of involves bits of some sort. There's a zero and a one notion but they may not really correspond to logical notions of true or false and they may not the operations you can do on them may not correspond to and or or anything nice like that. So um the next two versions of SAT are in that spirit. So uh this is usually these days called one and three setat but originally it's called exactly one three set. Uh so this is going to be a little bit weirder to write down. Uh but like CNFSAT the formula is the and of a bunch of clauses. So that part's the same. But now we're going to make a clause to be um a relation on three variables which is that uh exactly one of uh let's say x i, xj and x k is true. So this means it could be uh true false false. X I is true but the other two are false. It could be XJ is true the other two are false. Or it could be that X K is true and the other two are false. But those are the only happy assignments. Question. Is it exactly one of three variables or three literals? Uh good question. Um the original statement is its variables. So that's how I wrote it. This is usually called monotone. These days it's usually called monotone one and three set. I don't know how usually exactly. Sometimes it's called all positive one and three set. Uh so let's say uh literal equal variables. You could of course if you want uh consider a more general version where you can have negations but you don't need to. So why bother? Uh just that fact is usually forgotten in most proofs. So you'll see in the literature a reduction for one and three setat with negations and they have a negation gadget. It's like you know you don't need to have a negation gadget. So why not skip it? Uh but there you go. Now I'll just mention I'm not a fan of the word monotone here because here we have monotone to mean all positive or all negative. Here we mean it mean all positive. uh not ideal reuse of terminology. I think that's why sometimes this is all positive one and three set. Anyway, it's a bit of a mess, but that is the state of the literature. So, you get it all. Um all right, here's another problem. Monotone not exactly 13. I should not add have any suspense here. This is in P. Okay, this is MP complete. This is also NP complete but not exactly one three is polomial. So uh I think you know what it means. Uh a clause specifies that again we take an and of clauses and we want zero two or three of three variables are true. In other words, exactly one of them is false. No, I don't mean that. Exactly one of them being false would be one and three set again just by negating everything which we're allowed to do if we want to. Uh but this is different. This is saying it could be everything's false or it could be one thing is false or it could be zero things are false but uh yeah but not two things are false. Okay, this turns out to be polomial. Um, and do I have a Oh, there's there's one funny thing here which is in if this is if all your clauses look like this, you can set all your variables to false. So, this is sort of a trivial problem, but to make it more interesting, you can say x1 equals true just to get you started. So, there's no trivial solution then. Uh and it turns still turns out this is easy because if you think about this long enough as I did yesterday um this will look something like if you have three variables uh either they're all false then fine um or if one of them is true then you better have another one true. That's a way of saying if there's at least one of them, there better be at least two. That's what we want. This has to be true for all shifts of JK. So for each of JK, if one of them is true, you want to imply the or of the other. And this is the same as not Xi or XJ or X K. Don't need the parenthesis because it's uh associative commutive. Um and that is a dual horn clause. And that's why this is polinomial question. I think I'm confused about the definition. Why can't they just all be true though? Good question. Let's say uh x2 is false. I'm not I should double check. I don't remember that in the statement of the problem. So uh we do not allow negations here. Once you allow negations, this trick won't work. But when if these appear all in positive form, then we can convert into the single negative and get dual horn. Question. Are you allowed to mix the 0, two, and threes or does it have to be all clauses have to be all clauses look like all clauses say 0, two, or three of these three variables must be true? You can't have a clause that says zero of these are true and two of these are true. No, but if you have if you have two of these clauses that give you all those choices, can you make choose one to be zero and then have another one be two or whatever? For each clause, it's an independent choice whether you have 0, two or three of the variables true. Yeah. So this ore is local to the clause. Other questions. So it's still an and of things that it's just we have a weirder relation. Instead of just taking the ore of of a bunch of things, which would be saying at least one of them is true, now we allow zero or two or three of them to be true. Okay, one more version. Then we'll get to one and a half more versions. Then we'll get to the dichotomy theorem. So next one is not all equal three set. I feel like that's about all I need to write down. uh other than the fact that it is empty but just in case what this means is a clause is something like not all equal of three variables again and uh this is what I'm defining is going to be the monotone not all equal three set which is also hard where uh these are variable not just literal. So no negations and monotone not all equal three set. Uh again that the original proof already had monostnicity in there. So there's no work to be done. Uh cool. So not all equal just means that they're not all the same values. So that means not all true and not all false. So not ttt and not fff. I really like this version of thet because it's completely symmetric between true and false. I mean uh not at the clause level. Every clause has to be satisfied. Those are ended together in the logical level. But the x i are treated completely symmetrically between true and false. You could just call them red and blue. There's no reason to think one is true, one is false. You just can't have them all be the same color within a clause. Okay, so you can think of it as a problem on hyperraphs. Three uniform hyperraphs. You have all these triples of things. You just want them to not all be colored the same. So it means two of one, one of the other. Two trs and one false. Two reds and one blue. Two falses, one true. They're all the those are all good cases. And these are the bad cases. Uh cool. So So this is one or two in three set. Uh yeah, you can think of this exactly one or two in three set if you want to phrase it in this style. Okay, so um ideally you should remember all of these, but I'll tell you the most important ones are regular three set, that's at least one of each thing is true. Exactly one three set or one and three set where exactly one of the things is true and adding more things breaks it. Uh and not all equal three set. Those are the three important ones to know from a lower bounds perspective. These others are to like be careful that you don't fall into one of these things that is uh polomial. Um so occasionally max two sat is the one other that would be useful here. But remember these guys they're super handy because what will happen when you're proving hardness is you you fool around and you try to find you build a gadget that has two truth two possible ways to satisfy it. Call one red and one blue or one true and one false. And then you figure you try different ways to combine three of them. And you're trying to get you need some other things, but you're trying to get clause gadgets. Trying to get them to uh that when you combine your wires in in when you combine three wires into a little gadget, you want them to be constrained somehow. That in order to be globally, okay, something must hold locally at those three things. And it might end up being a not all equal constraint. It might end up being exactly one constraint or it might end up being a threesack constraint uh with some negations to make it happy. Uh it should be one of those to be hard. Um if you fall into something like this then that's not good. Question. So let's say since this not all people thing uh let's say you call it red and blue. What if you add green? Uh then would would there be like uh would not all equal three sets to be empty hard or would you need like for set or something? Yeah. So what about turnary truth? Um uh I there might be a problem on that in the pet set. Um but in general you'd have to go through the work to check what which problems I think those are pretty uncommon. Um, so usually what you do is if you have a gadget that can be solved not two ways but like four ways is you call two of them true and two of them false and hope they behave more or less identically. So that's the most common answer practically to what we do. Uh, but certainly it's plausible with three different values. Some of these are going to be hard but I don't know which ones. Uh hopefully all of them but you have to be careful. And definitely the next theorem I'm going to talk about the dichotomy theorem would get more complicated with three colors here. Actually nice question. So let's do Schaefer's dichotomy theorem. This is about which which versions of SAT are polomial and which versions are MPcomplete. With the right setup, they're all every problem you can think of is either polomial or nplete. There's no things in between. These are called NP intermediate problems. So it's always going to be one extreme or the other as I'm about to set it up. Uh and there by this theorem is by Schaefer and in the very same paper he proves not all equal threes and one and three are hard. Those are the original proofs. So it's a great paper. I have looked at it many times. Uh it's from 1978. So long time ago, but still quite readable. So I don't know how many all the last problems we've stated have this property but I'll make it explicit again. That's uh your formula is going to be an and of clauses. And now we're going to allow general kinds of clauses. A clause is just going to be any relation on some number of variables. So there won't be any notion of literal here because you can put that in the relation. I'll call this a general clause. It's a relation on some variables. So relation is something I I give you set of truth values for those variables and it will say yes or no that's valid or it's invalid. You can think of a relation as the set of all assignments the variables that make it true. But you don't have to specify that per se. You just sort of know what it is. Okay. So I mean in particular if this it could be the or of three variables then we get three setat or it could be the not all equal constraint on three variables then it's not all equal three set and so on. Um okay we are going to uh so the I guess sorry the relation should be given to you as a boolean formula. So it could be an or you can write one and three sad as a boolean formula. It's just a little tedious. You could say well it could be this or it could be this or it could be this. In general I'm going to assume uh that they're given to you in CNF form. Sorry that's redundant. CNF has form in it. um uh because any formula can be made into CNF. So now CNF is an and of ors. So this is going to be an and of what we might normally call clauses, but we're already in a clause. So I'm going to call this sub clauses. Starting to sound like legal, but uh that's I made up this word. It's not in the literature. Uh so in general, your formula is an and of clauses. Each one is just some relation which we're going to think of as an end of subasses. Of course, it's really just an end of all the things but this is trying to be general um because we're going to have constraints in the clauses in particular. So then claim is SAT uh on these types of formulas. Uh so here here's the difference I guess um to define the problem you specify what kind of relations that you allow. So in threes we say okay it's or of three things in cnfat it's an ore of k things for any k in uh not all equal three setat it's not all equal of three things uh and so on. So we give that up front and then the decision problem is well uh I have n variables and I can combine them with these clauses however I want right so that's so we need some kind of infinity right if I gave you a specific problem then it's not going to be hard like with these 10 variables that's never going to be interesting u so I give you the notion of what clauses are allowed what relations are permitted and then I'm I want to consider the class of all possible formulas you can build with clauses of that type. So you can think of this as really more of a clause type like not all equal just to be precise here. And then we get a version of SAT and it's going to be polomial if one of four cases happen. at least one any one of these will make it easy. We have seen almost all of these. So first one is setting all variables true satisfies the formula. Uh well not just the formula but all formulas of this type. So or all variables false uh satisfies all clauses. Okay, this is a statement over all formulas with this clause type, right? It's a statement about the clause types and it's one of the issues we were having with not exactly one three set because there the clause type allowed everything to be false and it also allowed everything to be true. So, it's doubly bad. Of course, if if you have clauses uh where this is true for all the you could allow different types of clauses. is you could have not all equal plus one and three set. Uh that will also be hard of course. Uh but if all of your clauses have this property then of course you just globally set the variables and you're done. Okay, that was the first case. Um so next one is that it could be the sub clauses are all horn or all dual horn. Uh so those are two happy cases we saw before. I mean we can think of the overall problem as an and of uh the clauses which are ands of sub clauses. So if everything is a horn or dual horn thing then we are happy. And next case is the relations are all uh 2 CNF. So this would be the two set case. If all the relations you're working with are in 2CNF then when you add them together you still have a 2CNF formula. So you can solve it by two set. And so these are all things we've seen. There's one more case we haven't seen. Is there a question? Yeah. Uh isn't too sad just a subcase of the horn and horn thing because you're always going to have It's true. Too sad is a special case of horn. So I don't think so. You could have one two positives and another two negatives. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Ah, right. Right. Right. So, I see. So, 2 CNF some of the clauses are going to be horn and some of them are dual horn I think. So, you it doesn't fall into this because it's not all one or the other. In general, those combinations are bad. But two set is always okay. Good question. Okay. Last case is some linear algebra. This is one other easy case of SAT which doesn't come up very often. So I didn't write it as a separate one. Yeah. Uh so imagine equations like this. I take some number of variables. I exor them together and I say that should be zero. Or similar thing I set it equal to one. Those are what I would call a linear equation over Z mod 2. Uh because in Z mod 2 the finite field and two elements addition becomes XOR and there's no multiplication here. So because it's a linear system um so we can solve these things because Z2 is a finite field. Uh we can use Gaussian elimination. Even if I have a whole bunch of these equations, I can solve them all using Gaussian elimination. So or determine that they're unsolvable. So that's another easy case for for SAT to be careful about uh and theorem is if you have one of these situations. So you can't mix these. If you have one clause of this type and another clause of this type, your problem will be np hard. Uh so in general we say otherwise SAT is NP hard. I guess it'll actually be MP complete here the way we set it up. Uh well assuming the relations are checkable. So these are the only cases. This is an easy case. This is an easy case. This is an easy case. It could be that multiple of these things are true. Maybe your 2 CNF and your all horn that will also be polomial of course. But if none of these individually hold then your problem is n hard question. Uh so how does this generalize for like non- boolean fields like I'm sure the last one is also still true. Yeah. So we can go back to your question about three colors and the answer is I don't know. As far as I know there's no theorem of that type but there might be one. It's been uh 30 years. So uh it wouldn't be surprising. Certainly you can some of these positive results will generalize. Uh but I think even this one would be a little tricky. Max two set doesn't fall in this right. So in here the goal is always to satisfy all of the clauses. It's always the end of all the clauses. You could imagine a maxat like theorem. My guess is most problems will be hard but uh as far as I know there's no such theorem. Yeah. Is there any way to understand this theorem as making a geometric statement about the relation being like uh convex in the hyper cube or something like is there any sort of convexity property encoded in this? Uh I don't know. I would guess no. Um I know there is a more modern take on this that is more algebraic. Uh so it's more like if you start with these things and you can build up in this way. Anything you can build up in this way are the polomial solvable versions of SAT. Anything you can't build up in this way is uh is empty hard. So if you're interested in that check the Wikipedia page for uh Schaefer's dichotomy theorem. Uh but I don't think there's a geometric interpretation. Uh, this one obviously has a geometric interpretation, but I think the others not would be my guess. Yeah. Um, so does this say something about the complexity of recognizing the clauses if you interpret them as a language? If I give you the formula that specifies the types of clauses, can you determine which of these is whether any of these is the case? Uh, I would guess, but I don't know of such a theorem. It's another good question. Wow, so many so many questions to think about here. Um, it's definitely not explicitly mentioned that I saw in the Schaefer paper, but it's been around for a while. So, people may have thought about that more. Uh, it definitely can be a little tricky to check which things are of this type practically. So, uh, be nice if there's an algorithm. Uh I would say so again practically speaking uh uh there was one hardness proof I was trying to generate gadgets uh computationally. So just enumerate all possible gadgets of a certain size for my problem and then see what formula they were representing and then we would take that formula do a carno map if you've ever done digital logic stuff and then sort of get from that you get a sort of nice minimal form and then we would uh usually we could just look at the map and say oh uh that's just equals or that's not equals or something we're hoping for. We're dreaming for one of these things or threes. We never got the gadget we wanted. U so I think with like a carno map you could do this but that's exponential time. Yeah. Uh yeah. So I don't know for sure I should probably check the algebraic view that might that's a clever approach though. Yeah to do things computationally. It's definitely helpful because of course computationally you can only look at small gadgets but hopefully there is a small gadget and then a nice proof. So why do the hard work of generating them yourself when the computer could do it for you? Doesn't work for all problems. It needs your problems need to be sort of locally isolatable to not worry about the big picture. Other questions? Cool. Um well that's all the versions of SAT you need to know. Um because here we have a universality theorem. Um there maybe will be another one or two that we bump into, but these are the the things you should all know. It's really helpful when doing a proof to not have to worry about which version of threesat you even are going to use and just know that these are all out here so that when you find a gadget that happens to match one of them, you say, "Oh, well, I meant to do a reduction from not all equal threes." Um, that that's why I wanted to tell you all these although I know it's a lot to take in all at once. Um, let's do some reductions finally. NP hardcore time. So, uh, the first one I had actually never seen before, um, but it's in Schaefer's paper, so I thought it would be fun to cover. Here's a problem which is MP hard and we will actually prove this one. MP hard two colorable perfect matching. Let's say you're given a planer three regular graph. Every vertex has degree three. And what you'd like to do is two color the vertices red and blue uh such that every vertex has exactly one neighbor of the same color. Okay. So, uh if you look at a vertex and it has three neighbors, then uh let's say we color this guy red should be exactly one neighbor that's red. And so you can think of this edge as being red. And then the red edges will form a perfect matching in the graph. Every every vertex will be instant to exactly one edge. So that's the two-colorable perfect matching. It's kind of well I'm sorry. The red edges form a perfect matching on the red nodes and the black or the white edges I guess form a perfect matching on the white nodes, black nodes, whatever. Uh so it's like two perfect matchings, one of each uh one in each color class. Uh so that's a nice problem. You can think of it as SAT in a sense. It's again just a local constraint on the nodes. Uh and so you can think of this as being a clause involving those four guys. Um I think if I unless I did something wrong, you can think of it as um to enforce or a special version of two enforce because uh right yeah so um this one if this node let's say red is true. So what we're saying is if this guy is true among these four nodes there should be exactly one other one that is red. On the other hand if this is black there should be exactly one of them that is black and so the other two should be red. So in all cases it's exactly two and four of them are red and it's symmetric between red and black. So that seems good. So this is a special case of two enforce. So in case you're wondering whether to enforce is hard uh here it is. And I have a um the original reduction by Schaefer here. Um do I have any notes? No, that would be too easy. So uh here's a gadget and here's another gadget. And then they're pasted together. So uh and I should mention uh so Schaefer claims that if you have a planer three regular graph, this problem is hard. But he doesn't prove it. He just should proves it for general graphs. So I'm only going to prove it for general graphs. Maybe we can think about the planer three regular case but not right here. So this will not this will just make a graph uh instance to that problem. So this gadget this is a K4 on and we're only distinguishing X Y and Z and it has to form there's going to be one red edge and one black edge. So maybe like this and like this or like this or like this. It's going to be a rotation of one of those assignments. So I believe the claim is X, Y, and Z just looking at those three vertices should be not all equal. Okay, if if two of them are red by symmetry is lots of rotational symmetry here. So maybe two of them are red and one is black, then this guy can be set black and you're happy. It's actually forced for that guy to be black. If two of them are black, then this then these two must be red. And if all three of these are black, you're toast because you should have two of each. Uh and if all three of them are are red, you're in trouble. So this is a not all equal clause gadget for this problem. So we're going to reduce from not all equal threes to two colorable perfect matching. So we're representing a not all equal clause like this. And now what we need is to the ability to copy data. Right? So these are three variables that at the moment yeah they can be red or blue. But what we need is that the same x i can appear in multiple clauses because we have a bipartite graph. If every variable appeared in only one clause problem would be really easy. So uh that's what this gadget does. The claim is this gadget copies a value. And this I think required. So it says these two guys must have the same color. And so what you do is you just have for each clause you have one of these not for each not all equal clause you have one of these not all equal gadgets. And then uh whenever you have two variables that are supposed to be the same thing here it's x and x and our terminology x i and x i. Then you're just going to connect them with this gadget and that will force them to be equal. Or over here we have y and y. So here's the r here is not all equal and our terminology be nae xxy and yzu. This would represent that formula. Uh so the thing to check which I will leave as an exercise because it's seems at least I couldn't find a clean way to do it. It seems a little bit tedious that this forces equality between the two ends with uh not providing any other constraints. So that was a simple proof, one of few simple proofs. Still some cases to check, but yeah. Um you wait, you said it was general graphs. They don't have to right. This is general graphs. Um so you might say what about planer three regular graphs. Uh planer not all equal three set. When this graph is planer uh when the bipartite graph is planer is actually easy to solve polomial. So uh you can't you you can't reduce from plane or not equal 3AT because it's easy. Uh but I would guess that in this situation and we just proved this is a more general problem than not equal 3AT. What we would need at this point is a crossover gadget so that when in this this thing is going to end up with crossings. If there's a gadget that just communicates the information across the crossover without any other constraints then we can just plug that in and get rid of all crossings. Then we have a planer graph and that would prove this part. And then the other part is that we have highderee nodes here. And so I'm guessing Schaefer had in mind a gadget that takes a high degree node and splits it up into lots of little lower degree nodes, degree three nodes that simulates the same effect. But I don't know either gadget. But that would be my guess on how to that's what you that would be the obvious approach of how to proceed to get that theorem. Yeah, the other gadget is just 1B. Split a node into degree three copies connected by uh that gadget. Okay, good. One gadget down. Now we just need a crossover. Um, other questions. All right. Um, I want to talk about two families of problems. Proof hardness for two families of problems. Next one is uh called Pushing Blocks. Um these come up in lots of different video games. Uh one of the first I think is called Sokaban. Uh this goes back to 1984. And this is I believe the original CGA graphics for Socabon. Um and so you may have played Socon. I think it's in Emacs and it's all over the place. Tons of implementations uh on it. You you are a warehouseman. That is what sukaban means literally in Japanese. And you have these boxes. They're all one by one boxes. You are one by one. There are some bricks which cannot be moved. Uh you have some target locations. And your poor job is to move all these boxes into the target locations or rather every target location must be covered by exactly one box. Boxes can overlap each other. You can push a box but you can only push one at a time because you're not that strong. So you could not, for example, push left here. But in general, your inputs are up, down, left, and right. Uh up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right. No. Um, and you can't you can only push one block at a time. So if you push a block into a corner, it's never going to move again. So often you have to hit reset. There's a lot of ways to get stuck, but this is a solvable instance. I think it's level five in the original game. Uh, so this got started a huge family of uh problems. There are tons of other video games that have pushing blocks problems. This is one in Legend of Zelda Minish Cap, which I think is a Game Boy Advance game. Uh, it's been a while since I played this one, but here is a level where you have it's it's uh in perspective a little bit, but these are this is really a 2D problem. Everything is one by one, believe me. Um, you have one by one blocks. You're on ice, so if you ever push a block, it will slide off to infinity unless it hits something else like a block. Um, and your goal is to get a block here. Okay. Anyone see how to do it? Can you walk? This is a lot like ricochet robots. Yeah. Uh, you can walk wherever you want. Uh, that there is no block. So, there's lots of free space in this case. So, you can push this guy down and then push it over and then push it up. It's actually not that hard. At some point I was thinking well maybe I should stack up three here so it ends up but no it's just uh three pushes and you're done. Um so and if you watch the YouTube video that's linked from this you'll see him spend like 30 minutes until he finds the right solution. It's in the game it's frustrating because once you push them off they disappear and you have to leave and come back. Anyway um so out of all these uh games we've defined a bunch of models. Here's one aspect of the model. Uh so we have the fixed blocks which are in red, the movable blocks which are in cyan here and the robot is blue. Everything's one by one. Uh and in one model which we call push, when you push a block, it moves one step. That's the normal model and that's like sooon. Um and I'll talk about the two in a second. Uh in push push, this is like the on ice version. So you're not on ice. you can still kind of move and then kind of counteract physics and just move one step. But the blocks, they'll just fly off until they hit something. So here, this block will fly until it goes there. Um uh in push push push, you're everything is so slippery that if you hit a block and it hits another block that's movable, they will all just keep going until they hit an immovable block. But you don't slip. Uh you still don't slip in any of these models. So there is another version where you slip which has not been considered so much although ricochet robots has been considered and that's in that genre. Yeah. Is there a model where the block you you first pushed stops and transfers its momentum to the other. Oh cool. Yeah. Conservation of momentum. So this one hits and the next one goes. That's probably pushpush. I would guess that's also hard because this ends up being the same proof. Um guessing that works but we would need to check. That's a good Yeah, the push push ricochet push. Uh um Okay, one other thing here is the number two. You'll notice only two blocks are moving. And in general, normally here, two is the strength of the robot, meaning you if they're up to two in a row, you can push two blocks. But once they're three in a row, you can't push at all. Uh the idea here is the same thing happens. So they're just too heavy after you get up to three of them, then they'll stop sliding. Okay? And same with push push push. So succubon is actually p is p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p push one. Suckan is like push one. Uh it's a little bit more complicated as illustrated in this table. So succubon is here and there it's uh you can only push one block at a time. There are fixed blocks and in general the models that have fixed blocks are highlighted in pink here. Um, this this slide thing is trying to capture whether it just moves one step or all the way until it uh can't anymore. That's the max. So, there's only a couple of slide versions. I haven't put push push push here because that would be the only difference is what max means. Uh, but everything else you just move one step. Then the the other issue is what is the goal? I mentioned in so you have to uh cover every uh storage space with a box. Um, that is the only problem with that flavor in this list. Anyway, all the ones that are called push, the goal is just to get the robot to a destination like in Mario or Zelda or something. So, that's the difference between sooon and push one. Well, push one f I suppose is uh pushing one thing at a time with fixed blocks. That's identical to soabon except for this issue of what the goal is. either just to get from S to T the robot or to get all the blocks into a particular configuration. Uh okay, there are some other things here that that's we've talked about push K. Uh push star is when K is infinity. So you can when you push you could your arbitrary strength you can push as many blocks in a row as you want. Uh push push K push push star. Then uh we've talked about F. F is when you have fixed blocks. Push one F push KF. uh and push starf. And then there's one other variation here that's been considered which is the X. This is when the path that the robot takes must not cross itself, must not revisit a square. This is there are a lot of video games where after you leave a square that square disappears like it falls down to into into the abyss and so you're scared. Uh so to represent those games, uh there's another reason we did that. Uh but I'll get to that in a moment. There's push kx and push star x. Okay, now let's talk about complexity. That's this the right two columns here, the reference and the complexity. So um all of these problems are np hard. Okay, but there's this issue of are they innp or are they pspace complete? Question. Sorry, what did you say a fixed block is? Fixed block is a block that cannot be pushed. So it's just like glued to the ground. So this is just whether or not there are some blocks that are fixed, right? this in this these problems. This is a more general version than this game. Here you allow some blocks to be specified as fixed. Here everything is potentially movable. Although if you have more than K in a row, it's like a fixed block. Like if you have a K+1 by K+1 block, that's fixed effectively. But it you have a resolution issue that you can't make tiny fixed blocks in this model. And in this model, there are no fixed blocks whatsoever. But here you can specify some of them are fixed. Okay. Yeah, a lot of versions. So, push star has a boundary. Otherwise, you could just push star does live in a rectangular box. Yeah, that is the one fixed. You could think of that as fixed blocks or not. Yeah, if nothing is fixed, then you can just walk off to infinity. Move all the blocks away and then come back and find your destination. Uh, right. So, they're all empty hard. There's a few that are known to be pspace complete. push push with a fixed strength is pspace complete uh or with fixed blocks I think should also be uh pspace complete that's not written here but uh push push star all we know is np hardness uh push kf where k is at least two is known to be pspace complete but push one f or push two without the f are both open um And the reason we were interested in a non-crossing path is that forces the problem to be an NP because then you know the solution path has polinomial length can visit each square at most once. So uh the hard part here was to prove that it's still np hard even with non-crossing paths. We won't try to prove that today but so those we actually have tight bounds of npmp complete. And so bond there's a relatively old result 1998 that it's pspace complete. Okay let's let's do some reductions. So this first reduction is amazingly cool. Uh this is by Michael Hoffman 2000. Uh this is push star with a rectangular box. Okay. So you're here. The outlined regions are the blank space. Everything else is filled with a block. But every block is movable and you can push arbitrarily strongly. So what this is going to be variables. You're going to make some choices here. These are the connections between variables and clauses. This is a bipartite graph encoded in binary in the obvious way. There's variables here, clauses here. there's a hole exactly when that literal appears in that clause. Okay, there's actually two rows per variable, the true and the false. And then uh there's this gadget here to connect the things. And then these are the clauses where we're going to check that they were all set correctly. So let's go through it. This is the schematic diagram of what I just said. You're going to start here in the variable block. Walk through each of the variables. Here's what the variables look like. You have two rows, the XI row and the XI complement row. That's another way to write not xi. And you're going to count how many times does x i appear in any clauses in positive form, negative form. That's called ni and ni bar. And you're going to measure out these lengths. You can negate variables to make sure that ni is always bigger than ni bar. So do that. So in this case, ni is this big. Ni bar is this big. Measure it out. This is your blank space. And what what you're allowed what we will show you you're allowed to do is either move up here and move all the way over to here and then up or to move here and all the way over and then up. And this star is so that for the one block that's here could fit and then you can go over to this X. In general in these gadgets the X is your target. X marks the spot right for the gadget. And then there's a global X which will be at the end of the clauses. Uh so what does this do? Well, if you think about this connection block, this is the the bipartite graph encoded as a matrix. Um, there's the number of blank spaces over here is exactly ni. So, this is why after you push ni steps or ni bar steps, you'll have to stop because there are no blank spaces to the right of you. Then the only thing you can do is go up because there are no blank spaces below you. So, in general, these gadgets are super tight. As above you, there's nothing. It's all blocks. And below you and left of you, it's all blocks. There's nothing you can do. You put the next variable gadget here so that that remains true immediately to the in your row and in your columns you're completely packed. So there's the only choice you have is to do this or to do this and you will fill the row that you choose. Exactly. Okay. So that's the variable gadget. What prevents you from choosing both? Uh you could choose both or you could do a little bit of one and then do the other. That's true. Uh but as we'll see that only makes your life worse. Okay. Yeah. Good question. All right. So, next we enter the bridge gadget, which is these two pictures, and it looks like this. Uh, this is basically a locking mechanism. So, you start here. I'll just tell you what you're supposed to do. Uh, you walk over through this blank space. Uh, then you push all of these things down to here. Uh, so this basically, uh, prevents you from going back to where you were. So you push all that down and then you go over here and you tunnel down. Uh so I think you're moving these blocks over to here. It's another kind of block and then you're pushing this stuff down to here. And then you get there. So when all is said and done, this will be down here. This will be down here. This will be over here. And so when you're in the clause block again, you have full rows to your left, full columns above you. So there's nothing. You can't go up and you can't go left. That's the purpose of this gadget is to connect this thing to this thing. If there's a teleporter, it' be much easier. You could just leave these all filled. But we want to get up to here. Uh and then but make sure this is all filled at the end. So that's the sole purpose of this gadget. Okay. Now a clause. How do we do a clause again? Um so you have there's three spaces here because this is three setat. You can move down one here and then move over two. These two blocks go here and then you can get to the X or you can go down here and over and get to the X or you can go here down over and this is possible if there's a hole below you. This is possible if there's a hole below you and this is possible if there's a hole below you. These are aligned with these things. So with exact I didn't quite align them but these three columns are these three columns and if one of these is unfilled you'll be able to get from here to here. If they're all filled, you won't because it will be full columns all the way down. Uh so that's a clause gadget. Uh because things were filled when you chose that thing to be uh maybe did I get it backwards? So you're really choosing the the opposite, right? You're choosing you're you're choosing the thing to be not true uh and leaving the other one to be as true as possible by not pushing it. So it leaves the holes so that later you can traverse. So that's why you wouldn't want to choose both, right? If you chose both that would be like making them both of them not true and so you don't get any of the benefits. Okay, that's push star. Cool. Okay. Um let's do push push one in 3D. This is really easy. Uh this is almost like the Super Mario Brothers proof. So, uh, it's just old drawing style. So, um, and we've drawn sort of the dual graph. So, these paths are little width one tunnels that you can walk down. So, you start up here and you can either push this thing this way or this way. Um, and so you're choosing which way you'll be able to traverse. Either you can go the true way or the false way. Uh, the opposite of wherever you push that block. And so, that cuts off one of the things. Then that path is going to be connected to all of the clauses that it satisfies that that literal choice satisfies. Then there's this gadget to prevent you from wrapping around to the other side. Whichever one you come down, you will block off the other path. Uh and then you do that again for next variable, next variable, and so on. At the end of the last variable, you run through all the clauses. So how did the clauses work? Very simple. Um, if any of the literals that satisfy the clause uh were visitable, then you could push this block over. And then later when you visit the clause, at the end when you visit the clause and try to traverse it, if there's nothing here, when you push this block down, it will go all the way to the bottom and you're trapped never to get to the finish line down here. But if at least one of these was in then it will be it will block this guy and you can if that's true for all of the clauses then you can get to the destination. So these are just uh clause checking and uh that's very straightforward threescent proof. In fact the previous proof is based on this one and the next proof is based on this one and the Nintendo proofs are all based on this one. This is sort of the prototype. Yeah, the crossover gadget that. So, this is 3D. So, there's no crossover. Uh, but in 2D, we want to get a crossover. So, here's how we do 2D. And this will work for both push and push one that push and push push. Um, the only place we're using push push was this clause gadget. So, let's first get rid of that that aspect. Um, so here's something called a lock. And you're going to have to believe a little bit here, but uh your goal, let's say, is to get from A to B. And this is what happens if you try to go from A to B uh directly. There isn't much that you can move. Well, uh you can maybe move I down, J left, uh and like this. But uh yes, you can move J down uh I down, J left, uh E down, F left, B down, but not C left because D is in the way. Okay. Uh but so you're you can't get from A to B. But if you visit from U uh and you push this block out of the way. Yeah. Then you come back through A. Then you can do you can do these things. Push them all over. And then you have room to push C over and then A can go all the way down and you're through. So this unlocks the lock and then pre and then allowing A to B traversal later. And going backwards from V to U would lock it again. No, this is not a reversible gadget. Only works once. you can't unlock. Once L's down, it's permanently there. Uh, so now we're going to use this in a clause as follows. So here's the lock and then there's this schematic above it. So we have three possible entries. This is Xi or not XJ or XK. Um, and we're going to use this gadget to say, well, if you come down the true path from here, you're going to have to push this block down, which prevents you from using the other half of the gadget. So, either you move Y or you move X and you can then you can only from then on you can only do west to south traversal or only north to east traversal. So, it blocks the other path. So, this is because I don't want to come down here, unlock the lock, and then go back on a different path because that's not something that's necessarily true. So, as you come down one of these, you force these gadgets to be in a particular state that will only let you come back the way you came. Uh, go back the way you came. And then you can unlock the lock. And then this just connects back. Okay. Then later when we're checking the clauses, when we come through all the clauses to make sure that they're true, we're going to route those from A to B to A to B to A to B for all the locks. And if they're all unlocked, then we'll be able to traverse them. And otherwise, not. That's the idea. Okay. Then we have the issue of a crossover if we want to go into 2D. So we have uh here is a basic crossover in the push one model or push push one. If we're going to go from north to south then we will go okay we can push this down but we won't be able to go to the east then okay and we're not able to go to the west because if we push this block it gets stuck. So we can go north to south. That's fine. We can also go west to east by symmetry essentially. Uh but you can't go from west to north or west to south or any of the other combinations. This works as long as you do one or the other. Uh if you do if once you do west to east, you can't even do north to south. So this is why we call it an x over xor crossover. It's not what we want. But if we combine things in this way, we get a unidirectional crossover. Um this is one where I better check my notes. You can do one of three things. Um, you can do north to south if you want and then you can do west to east. So you could just do west to east or you could do north to south then west to east or you could just do north to south. Those are all possible here. So when we do north to south we prevent this particular thing from being traversed but we unlock this gate which later when we go west east will allow us to do it. Uh so we go here and then uh these are called uh no reverse gadgets. So once you push this block back you can never go then this this gadget becomes untraversible. So you come here you push this push that push that and now you can never use this gadget again. So, it's like a single-use thing. So, you can come here. If you tried to do that, you would get stuck because this is a lock and it hasn't been unlocked yet. So, instead, you've got to go over here, go through this thing, permanently destroy it, and then unlock this gadget, and then you exit. So, that was north to south traversal. We unlocked this gate, and we unlocked this gate. So, if you're coming west to east could be this has been done or not. So going west to east maybe you haven't visited this gadget then you can just go through here block off a later north north to south traversal that's okay then come over here and leave if you try to go here nothing happens okay uh or it could be this has already been done north to south and then when you're coming from the west this has been unlocked and so you can open this gate and come through here uh this has already been used so you can't go that way so instead Instead, you use this one. This has already been unlocked. So, you can get through and then you get out. So, with just a little bit of checking, those are the only things you can do. So, when we have this diagram, I think I have one here, variables and clauses, and you connect all the variables to all the clauses they're involved in. This is a slide from lecture one, uh, but it's the same outline. uh you can you know the order in which these crossings happen because you know I'm gonna ver I'm going to visit variable I before I visit variable J greater than I. So uh I know how to order and these each of these paths is really two paths one and then the other. And so uh I know whether I'm going to do north to south before west to east. If not I transpose the gadget and exchange uh north south with west east. And then I don't need that they're both visited. I don't know which ones are going to be visited, but do one or the other. Or if I do both, I know one will come before the other. So that kind of crossover gadget is enough for the push one and push push one. And exactly, it's exactly mimicking what we did with Super Mario Brothers. We just had a different variable choice and a different clause and a different crossover gadget. But other than that, it was exactly the same. The gadgets were different, but the proof structure was the same. And that's our beginning of threes reductions. We will do many more next class.