down. Hey Hi, last time we started a discussion of the dynamics of feedback systems. Today we're going to extend that discussion and in particular begin to look at the issue of stability of feedback systems. Well, the problem really isn't stability. The problem is lack of stability or instability. And we're going to look at at how that comes about and how we can analyze the stability of a feedback system. In particular, what we have discovered earlier is that we generally like to have a large loop transmission magnitude at least at low frequencies in order to ensure system desensitivity. What we find out unfortunately is that as we when we take a feedback system and begin to increase the loop transmission magnitude, the system invariably becomes unstable. And unfortunately that very frequently happens before the system performs as well as we'd like it to. And so what we want to look at is the trade-off that generally exists between on the one hand large loop transmission magnitude that gives us good desensitivity possibly fast speed of response or equivalently wide bandwidth and the stability of the system. So there's almost invariably a compromise that involves those three quantities. We can get a very non-rigorous though somewhat physically satisfying feeling for why we might have a stability problem with a feedback system by considering what happens in a system that has large loop transmission magnitude. Suppose here is where we'd like the output of a system to be and here's where the output actually is. The system senses that there's a large error between input and output. And if it's a high gain system, a system with large loop transmission magnitude, it begins to drive the output in order to get it into better correspondence with the command, the value that we'd like to have for the output. The difficulty comes about in the with a high gain system that drive may be very pronounced very fast and the system unfortunately has sort of imperfect knowledge of the effect it's having on the actual error because of time delays associated with the dynamics of the elements in the loop even though the output may be changing. We may not sense that immediately because of the lowass nature of some of the elements in the loop and consequently the system may not stop driving soon enough. It may overshoot. it may drive past the point of zero error. In fact, if we have sufficiently high gain coupled with sufficiently long time delays or or the correct incorrect type of lowass behavior, while the error that we cause, the overshoot in the opposite direction may actually exceed our initial error. And when that happens, it's certainly possible for the system to break into to oscillation. And that's what we have to look at. The conventional definition of stability for a feedback system or for any system for that matter usually is made in terms of bounded input resulting in a bounded output. That is if we test our system with any input which is bounded. That's to say if the magnitude of the input integrated over all time is bounded. Then any one of those test inputs should yield a bounded output. In other words, the same measure of the output, the magnitude of the output integrated over all time should be bounded for any input which satisfies the top condition. And that's a mathematical definition of of stability which is adequate for either linear or nonlinear systems. In general, the determination of stability for nonlinear systems is a very difficult one because stability for a nonlinear system can very easily depend on the actual input that we apply. In other words, certain bounded inputs may result in a bounded output whereas other bounded inputs may not for a nonlinear system. The problem is in a sense much simpler for a linear system. In fact, uh the stability of a linear system can be determined with any single bounded test input. If the system's stable for any test input that's bounded, it will be demonstrate stability for any other bounded test input. And furthermore, we can also define the stability for a linear system by looking at the transfer function of the system, the closed loop transfer function in the case of a feedback system. And if all the poles of that transfer function are in the left half of the splane, in other words, if they all have negative real parts, then the system's stable. The reason, of course, is that when we look at the output that results for any particular input, there are terms that correspond really to the homogeneous solution of the system differential equation. Those terms will include only negative decaying terms uh terms with uh that decay with time. If we have all the poles of the system in the left half plane. Conversely, if there are one or more poles in the right half plane, why then we'll get exponentially growing terms from the homogeneous solution of the system equation. Consequently, the system will be unstable. There's a special case which has which occurs when there are poles on the axis in other words an integrator or a syosidal oscillator which has a pair of complex conjugate poles on the imaginary axis and there the stability at least in a bounded input bounded output sense can depend on a test input but that's sort of a pathological case and we really for our purposes we'll consider it unstable if we have any any poles of the system transfer function on the imaginary axis. Let's look at a system and see how we might get into a stability problem. Let's consider a system where all of the dynamics are concentrated in the forward path. We'll see that that doesn't make any difference. The critical thing from a point of view of stability is a loop transmission, not how the loop transmission is distributed between the forward path and the feedback path. Furthermore, we'll take our standard system and actually have a value of f of one. So we have a unit unity feedback system and that says that the negative of the loop transmission is identically equal to the forward path transmission a of s. Last time we looked at what happened to the closed loop transfer function for certain specific cases of loop transmission. In particular in this particular system if we have a forward path transfer function that's first order a K not over to a S + one and A not is much much larger than one in other words at low frequencies there's a large loop transmission magnitude then in fact the closed loop transfer function from last time is first order we'd have a one over Fnot out in front but in our particular system fnot is one so we simply have 1 / to a s / a kn + 1. And the approximation involved here is simply a term a constant term in the denominator which is 1 / a kn. And so to the extent that a kn is large, this is an exact expression. Well, if we examine that expression, provided both toao and a are negative, I'm sorry, both toao and and a are positive, there's no possibility of having a pole in the right half of the s plane. In other words, this is a system that's always stable. We can change the location of the closed loop pole by changing either tow a or a kn but providing they are both positive. In other words, providing we have a system that's negative feedback. Remember in our standard system notation, we indicate the inversion at the summing point. So providing our system is a negative feedback system which results with a positive value for a KN and providing the pole associated with the loop transmission in particular that associated with TOA is located in the left half plane then our system's always stable and in fact it exhibits only exponential responses. There's no syosoidal no oscilly response possible with a first order system. So that's an example of a system that's that's really ultimately stable. We can change the speed of response by modifying either to a or a KN but the stability is is always effectively ideal. If we look at a second order system where a of s is a kn over two real axis poles and again f is equal to one and we put on the constraint that the low frequency loop transmission magnitude is much much larger than one. Now we have the possibility of oscilly behavior and we saw this last time. uh we'd get a closed loop response again that's one over fn but in our case fnot is one and we then get a quadratic in the denominator of the closed loop response and certainly by appropriate choice of tow a tow b and a kn we can end up with a an expression that factors into two complex conjugate closed loop poles and under those conditions we can write our closed loop transfer function in our standard quadratic form and it will exhibit a damping ratio less than one. Well, again we looked at this last time and we saw that lower and lower values for damping ratio correspond to progressively more oscilly step responses or if we look at the frequency response of the system why they correspond to a greater and greater amount of resonant peaking in the frequency response. So when we have a second order system again if we constrain ourselves to the case where to a tow b and a kn are all positive in other words the poles associated with the loop transmission line the left half plane and we have a a negative feedback system signified by a kn being positive why we're able to get a system that has an arbitrarily low damping ratio by appropriate selection if you will of tow a tow b and a not but we're never able to get poles in the right half plane. So again if we start out with a system that has two energy storage elements resulting in two left half plane loop transmission poles why again we can get a system that at least in a mathematical sense in an absolute sense is always stable. The poles can have an arbitrarily small damping ratio but the system by this definition will be stable. The way we get into trouble is to have a third order or higher order negative feedback system. And we can demonstrate that if we look at a system which on a loop transmission basis has three coincident poles. In fact, we could demonstrate it uh with three poles in the left half plane independent of where they were located. But uh the mathematics is rather straightforward for a system that has three coincident real axis poles. So we show that by having an a of s that's a kn over to s + 1 quantity cubed. And if we expand that transfer function or look at the closed loop response that results again assuming that we have unity feedback that we have the topology we indicated earlier. Simply expanding out this term this expression uh calculating a of s as this over 1 plus this we end up with a closed loop transfer function that's a kn over to cub s cubed plus 3 to 2 s^2 plus 3 to s plus 1 + a kn is the final term. Now we could presumably factor that. It's not nearly as clear what the condition is to have all three poles in the left half plane in in this particular case. Certainly the condition for having all the poles in the left half plane for the first order system is obvious. As long as this coefficient is positive, we're all right. Similarly, for the second order system, as long as these two coefficients are positive, again, we're assured that we have both poles of the system in the left half plane. But there's a far more complicated relationship among the coefficients for the third order system. So we can't simply by inspection look at that expression and tell whether the system is stable or not. However, let's consider a special case. In particular, let's consider what happens if we pick an a of 8. In other words, if we choose this term 1 + a kn to be equal to 9 with that choice of a kn we're able to factor the denominator polomial of a of s to find its poles. This expression incidentally we'll use that term uh many times is called the characteristic equation. One minus the loop transmission is the characteristic equation of the system. And so if we factor the characteristic equation, we find the closed loop poles of the system. And for this particular value of a KN for a KN= 8, we find that we have poles a single pole on the negative real axis located at s= minus3 over towo. And we have a complex conjugate pair of poles on the imaginary axis. They have no real part. And in fact that complex conjugate pole pair is purely imaginary. And so the implication is that the homogeneous part of the system response would include a constant amplitude syosoidal term. If we excited this system by initial conditions or excited its its unforced response, its natural response, why we'd find out that that response included a term that was a constant amplitude sinosoid or cosine because of the pair of closed loop poles with no real part, the pair of poles on the imaginary axis. Let's see if we can get some physical significance for why that might occur. Suppose we look at our loop transmission or at a of s when we pick a value of a KN equal to 8. And in particular, let's evaluate a of S at the frequency J radical 3 over to. There's something a little bit peculiar about that frequency. That's the frequency at which the closed loop poles are located for a KN= 8. So let's look and see if we can find out anything unusual about the loop transmission at the frequency s= j radical 3 over tow. In other words, for purely syosoidal steady state exitation at a frequency of radle 3 over to radians/s and with a value of a not equal to 8. Well, a of s at that frequency, which is identically the negative of the loop transmission, is simply 8 a kn over jle 3 + 1 quantity cubed. Notice that when we substitute in s= j rad 3 over to our original expression for a of s, the to cancel out. we end up with simply J radical 3 for the imaginary term associated with with that factor. And so our overall value for a of S is a KN over J radical 3 + 1 cubed. If we look at the magnitude of any of the individual factors in the denominator, the magnitude of J radical 3 + 1 is 1/2 or the magnitude of J radical 3 + 1 is two. So the magnitude of 1 over J radical 3 + 1 is 1/2. The denominator then has a value of 8. The J radical 3 + 1 with a magnitude of 2 cubed. And so the magnitude of this expression is unity at S= J radical 3. And furthermore, the the U angle associated with this transfer function is - 180°. We can see that by noticing that the angle associated with each of these terms is plus 60°. is the imaginary part is radical 3. The real part is one. If we look at the trigonometry involved, the angle associated with either any one of these terms is 60°. Since they're in the denominator, they contribute minus 60° per term to the overall transfer function. We have three of them. And therefore, the complex number has a magnitude of one at an angle of minus 180°. So for purely syosoidal exitation at radical 3 radians/s a of s is equal to minus1 one at an angle of - 180°. Let's look back at our original system and see what what that implies. Suppose we performed an experiment where first of all we took the system and removed the input. So we eliminate VI and then we break the loop like this. And now we perform an experiment where we excite the system with a test generator. So what we'll do is put in a test generator here. Let's call it V subt. and we'll look at the signal returned by the loop. Observe it at this point and we might call that signal V subr. Well, let's choose a V subt as indicated earlier. In particular, let's choose V subt to be a syosoid at radical 3 over towal radians/s. So let's allow v subt to be some amplitude k time sin radle 3 divided by toao or cosine radical 3 / tow doesn't matter and let's allow the transient the startup transient to die out. So we've had this transient this signal applied for a very long period of time. Eventually we find out that v subr is identically equal to our test signal and the reason for that is that remember a of s under s syocardal steady condition steady state conditions with a not equal to 8 and at radical 3 over tow radians/s a of s is minus1. And so the minus1 associated with a of s combines with the minus sign at the summing point to give us a positive loop transmission with a magnitude of one. That means that the signal returned by the loop is identical to our test signal. Well, once we've done that, we can get the system started this way and then we can reconnect the loop and we can eliminate the test generator. And the system doesn't realize that we've taken away the test generator. It's effectively able to supply its own input. And so we find the possibility of maintaining a constant amplitude oscillation with the test generator removed. We found a way of forcing the system to oscillate at radical 3 over towal radians/s. So that's the physical significance associated with a three- pole system. three coincident real axis po axis poles when we have a a DC loop transmission magnitude of eight and when we test the system or look at the system loop transmission at radical 3 over towo radians per second I think it's worth cautioning at this point that this is a fairly simplified view or in fact a very simplified view of stability and the sort of test I described in other words looking for points where the loop transmission magnitude is precisely ly plus one is a little bit dangerous. We'll see how that goes a little bit further on. That's not a general test. The information concerning the loop transmission magnitude at only one frequency does not in fact give us complete stability information. We have to be a little bit careful. In this case, it does give us the correct answer. We found out by factoring the characteristic equation that there are in fact a closed loop pair of poles on the imaginary axis. And that's the result we would have concluded from the experiment I described as well. But as I say, I caution you that this isn't a general test. Well, we at least now see the possibility of having a system that behaves as a self-exited oscillator. In fact, if we examined the characteristic equation further and we chose any a knot that was positive but greater than 8, we'd find out that when we factored the characteristic equation, we'd actually get two poles with positive real parts. we'd find two poles in the right half of the splane. And so if we took this system three coincident negative left half plane real axis poles if we have an A not of anything greater than eight fairly low desensitivity if we choose an A not of only eight a loop transmission magnitude at DC of only eight why we'd find out that that there would in fact be poles in the right half plane. So here's a system where we really can't achieve very much desensitivity if we try to make a not any greater than 8. Why? We find out that the system becomes unstable. Well, how can we evaluate stability for arbitrary systems? And that's really what we're concerned about. Suppose we have systems that are third order where we see that the possibility of instability exists or even higher than third order. How do we determine the stability of those systems? In fact, I think more to the point for a design tool is not so much the issue of stability in a binary sense. Is the system stable as given by our original mathematical expression. Does a bound does a bounded input result in a bounded output? But very rapidly we'll get interested in sort of relative stability. We can usually solve the absolute stability problem. We can usually guarantee that the poles are in the left half plane by sufficient design efforts. Then we get concerned about how stable the system is. In other words, a measure of relative stability might be the damping ratio of the dominant pole pair. If we find that the closed loop transfer function has one pole pair closer to the origin than all other poles, we'll find out that that transfer function by or that pole pair by and large dominates the transient response of the system. We might be interested in the damping ratio associated with that dominant pole pair. So we're looking for analog measures if you will of stability. There are a number of ways we could proceed. One way is is to simply use numerical techniques. We can always write a closed loop transfer function for a linear system. And then we can use numerical methods machine computation to simply factor the polomial the characteristic equation. Factoring higher order polomials is a thing that people don't do very well but computers do exceedingly well and don't get bored by it and we can get the exact closed loophole locations for our system. The problem with that is it's very unsatisfying. Uh what you find out is that you go to the the giant mind and say where are the poles and it tells you there are three in the right half plane and four in the left half plane and now what do you ask for the next question? So you don't get any design insight by that process. And so the the thing we'd like to look at is some analytic method, something that we can do without really resorting to machine computation that maintains insight. I think the use of a machine to find exact pole locations is fine. Once we've got an idea of how the design is going, once we sort of know what we ought to do to make things better, if you will, then we we can go ahead and and use the machine with and and get some very useful information from it. But as a design tool to start a design, it's very very difficult to depend entirely on numerical calculations. There's also the very real possibility of the garbage in garbage out problem where you can easily make a mistake in your simulation. You can easily get the wrong numbers in, get totally meaningless results and not realize it if you don't have some sort of a hand check. So, we're going to look at techniques that hopefully allow us to maintain insight during the design process and also give us the possibility of of preventing being led astray when we go to get exact numerical results. One that I'll mention in passing is a technique known as as the Ralph test. And I discuss this in the text. Uh it's very boring to lecture on and so I won't. But the method is described in the text and in fact the homework problems assign assigned in conjunction with this lecture will force you to carry out a couple of Ralph tests. It's simply a mathematical method that was developed long before people were concerned about feedback systems. And what it does is take an arbitrary polomial and determine the number of roots of that polomial that have positive real parts. And so what we're able to do is apply the Ralph test to the characteristic equation of a feedback system. We can write the characteristic equation of the system, apply the Ralph test to it, which as I say is a rather simple numerical manipulation that doesn't require factoring, simply requires multiplications. And when we do that, we determine the number of roots of the characteristic equation that have positive real parts. Well, the roots of the characteristic equation of course are the closed loop poles of the system. And so we find out the number of system poles that have positive real parts. Except in limited cases, the Ralph method doesn't really give us much design information. It does tell us in an absolute sense, again, an absolute mathematical sense whether a system is stable or not, but it really doesn't give us very much design information. So aside from possibly using it for very quick checks just to see if we're far away from from useful behavior or to check possibly the results of a a detailed computer analysis to verify the number of of poles in the right half plane. We find that the Ralph method is of of limited usefulness as a design tool. We're going to look at two methods uh in considerable detail that allow us to predict something about the relative stability of a feedback system and also to improve the performance of a system. We get insight that that shows us how we might change either the forward path transfer function, the feedback path transfer function, something like that in order to improve the stability of the system. The first of these is called the root locus method. And what we do in root locus is the following. We look at a af product. Remember this is the negative of the loop transmission in our standard form. The loop transmission for our standard form system being minus a of s * f of s. And we'll assume that that quantity can be represented as some DC loop transmission magnitude A not Fnot and then we'll lump all the frequency dependent portion into a term G of S where we assume we normalize G of S or factor out the gain expression combine that a not F not so that G evaluated at S equals zero the DC gain of of the term G or the DC magnitude of the term G is unity. Hence the magnitude of the loop transmission at DC is simply a not f. Using that notation we find that capital a of s the closed loop transfer function is the forward path transmission a of s over 1 + a fog g of s 1 + a of s or equivalently 1 minus the loop transmission. Initially with our root locus manipulations, we'll only be interested in the pole locations, the locations of the closed loop system poles, and we won't initially be concerned about the location of the zeros. If all we're interested in are the pole locations, why we can get that by simply looking at the denominator. Recall that that for a system of this type, the zeros are dependent on how the loop transmission is distributed between A and F. But the poles of the system are dependent only on the afroduct. So we can consider only the characteristic equation 1 + a fnot g of s when we look for the system poles. And in fact uh we recognize that the system poles occur when the characteristic equation is equal to zero. In other words, if we determine the values of S for which the characteristic equation is zero, that those are the values of S for which the denominator of a closed loop transfer function goes to zero. Consequently, there the system poles. Well, let's see how we we might determine that. What one does in a root locus method is to determine how the poles are located as a function of first of all the poles and zeros associated with the loop transmission. In other words, the quantity g of s which includes all the frequency dependent portions of the loop transmission and the quantity a not fod. Certainly the pole locations, the closed loop pole locations given by setting the characteristic equation equal to zero are dependent both on the characteristics of g of s and on a not fnot. When we if we would attempt to factor this equation, we'd find out that that factoring would depend both on a not f and the specific details of g of s. Let's look at how this might go. Let's start out with an a of s f of s product that's a not fnot over two first order poles. In other words, we have a system which has a loop transmission that has two poles on the real axis. We've again looked at this before. The characteristic equation for such a system is simply 1 minus the loop transmission or 1 + af. And so we get 1 + a fnot over to a s+1 * to b s + one. And we set that equal to zero in order to determine the poles of the system. If we multiply through clearer fractions, we end up with this equation. Tao a to b over s^ squ plus to a plus to b s + 1 + a f not equals z. And we can factor that by use of the familiar quadratic formula. Certainly people are perfectly capable of factoring second order equations. And when we do that we get the usual result in the second of the quadratic equation. The uh poles are the two poles are located at minus to a plus to b plus or minus the square root of this quantity divided by 2 to a to b. And I'd like to spend a little bit of time looking at that particular expression. We now have a way of finding the closed loop poles of the system s1 and s_ub_2 as we vary a not fnot because a not fnot appears of course in our expression for the closed loop pole locations. So we've now gotten the basis for our root locus method or what we're trying to accomplish in in our root locus method because what we'd like to do in in the root locus technique is find out where the closed loop poles lie as a function of a not fnot for a specified g of s. So at least for the second order case we're able to solve that exactly. Let me show how this information is normally presented. We normally present information concerning root locus analysis in terms of a a root locus diagram. And this is a diagram in the splane. And we have the usual splane coordinates, the imaginary axis vertically, the real axis horizontally. And we show several things. We show first of all the location of any loop transmission poles and zeros. In other words, all of the frequency dependent portions of the loop transmission are shown in our root locus diagram. So in in our particular second order case, we have two poles one at minus1 over to a the other one at S= minus1 over to B. We then draw some branches in the splane that show where the closed loop poles lie as a function of a not fnot. And in fact what we do is typically include arrows on those lines on those branches that indicate the direction of increasing a not f or a not if we have a system with unity f. uh we can determine how the root locus diagram has to go by looking at our quadratic equation. Let's see if we first start out for a not f equal to zero the what's conventionally done is to plot the loc roots of the characteristic equation as a not fot goes from zero to some very very large positive number. So we can start out looking at the root locus diagram determining the roots of the characteristic equation for a not f equal to zero. Well certainly if we factor the characteristic equation under those conditions we get the original pole locations minus one over to a minus one over to b and that would be the result of simply taking this general expression and setting a fnot equal to zero. As we then allow a not fot to increase the radic gets smaller. It started out as some positive number of course for a not fot being equal to zero in particular to a plus plus plus to b minus 4 to a to b which is a positive number. As we allow a not fnot to get bigger why this term increases in magnitude. Consequently, the radicand gets smaller. And what that says is that the separation between the two closed loop poles is decreasing. They start out for 0 a fnot located at at frequencies minus1 over to a and minus1 over to b and then the separation decreases as the as we increase a not fnot. So as we increase a not fnot the separation between the two closed loop poles decreases. They finally meet on the real axis when the radican goes to zero and therefore they meet at minus quantity to a plus to b over 2 to a to b. That's the expression that results with the radican zero. And if we work with the algebra a bit, we find out that that's the arithmetic average of the locations one over to a and one over to b. In other words, it's the arithmetic average of the openloop pole locations or the pole locations associated with loop transmission minus one/2 one over to a plus one over to B. We can go back and look at our diagram and what we've done is indicate this behavior in the diagram for very small values of a not Fnot. The branches start at the loop transmission pole locations minus one over to a minus one over to B. The branches come together and actually meet at the arithmetic mean at minus one/2 of 1 over to a + 1 over t to b and then branch off the axis. Notice that again if we go back to our original expression we had gotten up to the point where the branches had met. Beyond that as we increase a not fot still further y the radic becomes negative. So we pick up an imaginary component to the pole location. And for further increases in a not fnot we maintain a constant real part given by this value but an increasing imaginary po component because the radican gets progressively larger in magnitude although it's negative in sign. And so now we see the overall behavior of the root locus diagram. Uh again we start for zero a not fnot or very small a not fnot at the loop transmission pole locations for this particular case. The two branches meet at the arithmetic mean and then go north and south in the root locus diagram. And in particular the damping ratio associated with the complex conjugate pole pair once we have a sufficiently large value for a not fnot can get arbitrarily small because if we were interested in the damping ratio uh when the closed loop poles were located here remember that that would be related to this angle in particular would be the cosine of this angle and so uh as we increase a fnot the closed loop poles move out along these lines s the angle that they make with the real axis gets progressively larger. Consequently, the damping ratio gets smaller. This again verifies what we had said earlier where we say if we have a system that had two openloop loop transmission poles uh and is a negative feedback system and furthermore both of the loop transmission poles are located in the left half plane. Why we're then able to get an arbitrarily low damping ratio by appropriate choice of of the combination of the pole locations and the a not fot product and we find out that for any pole locations a larger a not fnot from this kind of an analysis results in a smaller damping ratio. Uh but we can never get the system to have the poles the closed loop poles lie in the right half plane. We always maintain a fixed at least once we have the complex conjugate situation we always maintain a fixed real part and that real part is negative. So we can never get the poles into the right half plane although we can get arbitrarily small damping ratios. Well this is the way one can determine a root locus diagram for a second order system. Certainly a root locus diagram for a first order system is trivially simple. But for a second order system, we can in fact calculate it fairly easily by hand. In fact, there is a formula that allows one to factor third order polomials. Uh presumably we could always do it for a higher order system by machine computation, but I've already badmouththed that. So what we're we we're really searching for is a technique that will allow us to determine rapidly and easily a root locus diagram. without the pain of actually having to factor the characteristic equation. We'll look at that the next time and and see how we can use properties associated with the loop transmission to actually determine the root locus diagram without actually having to factor the characteristic equation. Thank you.