The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. uh we'll be talking about the diode and charge separation inside of a solar cell. So at the end of last class we ended with this little demonstration right here where after much discussion about uh band gaps and light absorption we agreed that uh that little piece of silicon there should be absorbing the light and charges free charges should be uh generated inside of the silicon. uh but without some fixed field some built-in field inside of the silicon material uh it was impossible to measure any current output once we shown light on it and that made sense um there were free charges being generated but uh due to brownie in motion there was no net charge flow uh they were just moving around but no net movement and as a result there was no current now if we attached the batteries uh in series uh the batteries applied a field across this little piece of silicon resulting in current flow uh in more precisely dri drift current uh across that piece of silicon. And uh today we're going to be talking about how uh the uh solar cell device has a built-in electric field. So obviously we don't want an external uh power source. We don't want to have a set of batteries attached. That kind of defeats the purpose of a of an autonomous uh energy generation device. U we'll be talking about how the built-in field inside of a solar cell comes into being. uh we as we've followed in the last few classes we will be discussing uh physics when it is necessary taking a very engineering approach to this uh so as to keep everybody uh from a business background from a mechanical engineering background and from a material science background on the same page uh we will uh have uh in lecture I think n plus2 a very uh physicsy uh lecture we'll be getting into the nitty-gritty of semiconductor physics and how it relates to solar cell devices. So for those of you who are already experts in this material, uh bear with me and again try to relate it to the solar cell device. You may not have had that connection in previous lectures in previous classes. So we'll jump right on in. Uh to remind everybody you're here in the fundamentals. We'll be getting to the technologies and crosscutting themes after we really have a good solid understanding of how a solar cell works. The conversion efficiency is the output energy versus the input. We have our inputs in the solar spectrum, the outputs in charge collection. And we've been steadily making progress down uh toward the outputs. Here we discussed the solar spectrum, then light absorption, then charge exitation, and finally now we're on to charge drift and diffusion. So we have um the uh total solar cell efficiency as a product of all the individual processes and any one of these processes can kill the efficiency of the device. That's why it's important to think about your device like so. And just not to make this introduction so boring, I want to really emphasize this point. So I'm making it over and over again, but I wanted to relate this to other engineering uh devices as well. Uh namely today it's a Toyota Prius. Um these are all the components inside of a Prius that have to work well for the car to function. Right? If uh one of these components, let's say this one, the inverter, uh is broken or not functioning well, uh you're not going to have the car uh in an autonomous mode. So in a similar manner, in a solar cell, we have to have all the different pieces working well together. So the essence of charge separation, we're going to begin our exploration of charge separation using uh the diode analogy. And just to situate everybody, I've uh I brought in a number of uh small discrete components uh small diodes. Uh those are the ones that are uh orang-ish um that have two leads coming out. Uh there are a bunch of transistors in here as well. Those have three little uh leads coming out. You'll be able to distinguish them. But just to situate ourselves, these are dodes. Uh the essence of a diode is that you have a dissimilar uh uh material uh on either side of of of the of the device. Uh that's why I've worn these dissimilar colors today to denote that uh on different sides. And of course, you have this mixed region in the middle. Um we have here an N and a P on either side. Uh and if current is is attempting to flow in one direction, it will be barred, but if it attempts to flow in the other direction, uh it will go through rather easily. That's the essence of what a diode is. Um how is it made? Well, we're manufacturing materials of the same uh uh base element, let's say silicon, but we're doing something special to the material uh to add particular types of charges on either side. We call doping. We'll get to that in a few slides. Why do we care about diodes? Well, this is the essence of charge separation. Uh and this is what drives the voltage inside of a solar cell device. That's why we care. It's uh pretty important for at least understanding the traditional uh semiconductor-based uh solar cells like this one here. So uh for those history folks, I figured I would uh add a a quick uh description. You typically see the diode represented like this in an equivalent circuit diagram, a little triangle and a line orthogonal to the direction of the current path. And uh does anybody know where that comes from? No. All right. So, uh back in the day of of that, um we uh used to have vacuum tube components for a lot of our uh say the the the discrete components within our our circuits. Uh in the in the case of of um a diode, you could envision a very simple one where you have a filament that uh by thermionic emission heats electrons off of the filament and then they're collected by this uh this other uh collector up top. uh if you remember our epidemology in Greek anna is above kata is below katatums right katatonic below. So the anode up above is collecting these electrons and then the electron flow is moving like this which means that our current flow defined as the flow of positive charge is moving in the opposite direction and that's why we have um a similar uh representation right here from our vacuum technology. You could envision also a point uh where the field is concentrated at that tip uh and electrons are are are spreading off. So uh learning objectives today is going to be rather intense, rather dense and so we will be uh trying to hold as much as possible in our RAM so that by the end of class uh we can really truly understand the solar cell it entirety. If you get lost along the way, uh come back to these learning objectives. Uh they're like flagposts along the way, right? So you can find yourself again. Um what we're going to do first is describe how the conductivity of a semiconductor can be modified by the intentional introduction of dopins. Uh what this means is we're going to learn how to create uh the N and the P over here. So uh if we look at a a semiconductor such as silicon, this is a little piece of silicon right here. Here's a silicon based solar cell. Uh it's a fairly easy uh semiconductor to understand. It's what's called a unary semiconductor. means it's comprised of one element silicon right here in the periodic table. This is just an excerpt from the rightmost side of the periodic table. And silicon has uh four veence electrons. So it forms what are called sp3 hybridized orbitals when it's in a crystal structure. It uh it has four bonds with its nearest neighbors all of equivalent type and those are coalent bonds. So you can envision that if you were to introduce an atom and substitute out one silicon atom in that lattice for something else that has five veence electrons such as a phosphorus, right? It's almost of equivalent size. So those material scientists in the room from the humorry rules, you should be able to estimate that the missibility is rather large. In other words, that you could mix in a high concentration of phosphorus into your silicon given the similar uh size and and and similar atomic structure uh electronic structure rather. So you substitute here a group five element meaning silicon is a group four element as is carbon, germanmanium and tin. So we substitute in a group five element say a phosphorus atom in for one of our silicon atoms right here. And this phosphorus atom will have four + one veence electrons. So those four veence electrons will bond to the silicon atoms the nearest neighbors. And that one extra veence electron will be left over. It'll have nobody to bond to. We'll describe mathematically what happens to that electron in a minute. But in principle, just intuitively, you should be able to understand that that electron should be able to be removed rather easily and move around the lattice with relative ease. Likewise, instead of moving one to the right, if we move one to the left into a group three column here, we can dope our material with a boron atom. Let's say substituting one silicon atom for a boron atom. Boron has three veence electrons. Now uh those three will form bonds with three silicon atoms and then you'll have a missing bond uh a missing electron if you will that will be a hole. So with phosphorus or group five elements in silicon we can dope uh the material with electrons and with group three elements in silicon we can dope the material with holes. And this is interesting because now we can arbitrarily change the density of charge carriers in our bands as long as these holes and electrons can become dissociated from the doped atoms and move freely around the lattice. So that's a big question. How easy is it to remove that electron around the phosphorus atom? If you want to think about this electron uh just from a a quantum mechanical sense, you could almost envision that this electron is attracted to the phosphorus atom because the phosphorus has one extra proton than this the silicon one, right? So it has a positive charge here in the in in the nucleus and here's a negative charge and in net they balance out. But if the electron goes too far away, it'll feel that attractive potential back and be drawn back toward the phosphorus atom. So the big question is what is the binding energy of that electron to the phosphorus atom? And a simple way to think about it is through a hydrogenic uh model. If you consider a hydrogen atom uh to have an electron surrounding it uh then uh that uh binding energy is well defined. But in the case of a phosphorus atom within a silicon lice, it's a little trickier, right? Because now we have to worry about um now we have to worry about the electron screening coming from the other elements in our lattice. And we also have to worry about a property of the electron in a crystal uh which changes the uh the the mobility of that electron through the crystal. So uh what we do is we treat this as a uh hydrogen atom uh 13.6 uh eV binding energy but then we do a couple of things. We account for electron screening and we account for that what we call effective mass. We'll get back to this in a few lectures and describe exactly what this is here. We need a little bit more semiconductor physics to understand that in its entirety. But think about an electron moving in a crystal as moving differently than moving in free space in a vacuum. That's what this term here is about. This other term, the epsilon, is rather straightforward. It's the electron screening. It's the fact that you have so many other electrons in your system here that's screening the charge. It's screening the electron from that positive the extra positive charge in the nucleus here. And so it becomes easier for that electron to move away. This is about a factor of of 0.1. the effective mass and that's about a 100th. And so overall we're reducing the binding energy by about a factor of a thousand down to about 10 me in practice. So if we were to run through the calculation for silicon the binding energy of that electron around the phosphorus atom in the silicon lattice would be around 10 me on that order. And that is very very small compared to the thermal energy in your system just uh KT Boltzman's constant times the uh the temperature in Kelvin. We have a thermal energy somewhere in the order of 26 meb and that's enough to dissociate that electron and allow it to move freely throughout the lattice. Question is that electron screening related to the dialectric constant at all? Yes, absolutely. Mhm. Yeah, I just had a conceptual question about um the holes. Yes. Um so I understand that I can imagine an electron you know moving around in the lattice does but I imagine that a whole moving would be break like forming a bond break or I guess breaking and forming bonds over and over. So is that actually happen or are the electrons more free to move? Yeah. So it's an excellent question. Uh the question if I if I may paraphrase relates to the whole and electron mobilities. How easy is it for them to move around the lattice? And typically the whole mobility is about a third of the electron mobility in silicon. So absolutely it it is a little bit more difficult for those holes to move around. Holes as you may recall are quasi particles. Okay. So we have uh an understanding of doping um rough understanding at this point. We understand that if we dope a certain type of material let's say our end type material uh with phosphorus we have an excess of electrons. And if we dope another type of material with an excess of say boron uh we would then uh introduce a large number of holes and the material might have a majority conductivity through our holes. Hence we call it pt type. N and p comes from negative and positive negative being the electron charge and positive being the whole charge. Right? So that's where the n and p type come from. Great. So now pictorially we're going to draw a PN junction or PN uh junction with our fixed and mobile charges. Okay. So let's start out with a simple review of Gaus's law. Um spatially variant fixed charge creates an electric field. What do I mean by that? I mean that if you have uh a high concentration of fixed charge over here and a lower concentration of fixed charge over here, an electric field will develop. And that's the expression right there that relates uh that describes uh this in mathematical terms where we're using kai here as our electric field. We're using kai instead of e. You probably remember your physics textbooks using e as the electric field because we're going to reserve that variable for the electron energy. That that'll come in uh in several slides uh forward. So uh the charge density will be given by that row and the material permitivity by our our our epsilon. And an example is a capacitor. Here all I've done is is uh expanded the dimensionality of of the derivative here. Uh I'm looking at the capacitor. I have fixed charge on either side and I have electric field in between. Now this right here um obviously in in in the case of a capacity you're under high vacuum. Uh just as a very quick aside uh this is I I I can't resist. This is really an interesting uh historical note. This space right here in the diode as we recall uh where you have the thermionic emission of the electrons going off to the other plate. This space right inside of here is called the space charge region. Keep that name in mind. We're going to come back to it in a in in several slides. So a bit of history there. So we have the capacitor um as as our as our prime example. We have fixed charge on either side and electric field in between. And note that the the charge will move parallel to the electric field if there's no electric field. In other words, if we're just exciting charge inside of a bare piece of silicon with no electric field applied, imagine our batteries here are taken out of the circuit, we'll have simple browning motion of those photoexited electrons until they decay back down into their ground state. However, if we apply an electric field, now we have the brownian motion, but superimposed on top of it a certain drift uh of the electrons in response to that electric field. And we can describe this mathematically as well. uh the drift currents for holes and electrons being described by the charge Q. Note that the charge Q is going to be different for the electrons and the holes uh mean the same value but negative or positive. The mobility uh mobility of holes and mobility of electrons, the density of holes or electrons and then finally the electric field right here. And the reason in this equation you typically see uh the Q's being uh the same value here although no minus sign is is is put in front is because under the same electric field you'll have electrons drifting in this direction and holes drifting in the opposite direction. So it's important to keep these signs straight in your mind. Yeah. Question. Absolutely. So P and N denote the concentrations of free electrons or freehole actually free holes or free electrons respectively. So you can almost think of P as being synonymous with the density of boron atoms. If every uh hole is ionized meaning dissociated from the dopant atom and free to move around the crystal then the density of holes and the density of boron atoms is going to be almost identical. Likewise for phosphorus atoms and or the the the donor atoms and the electrons you'll have almost an equal number. So that's uh right here the the the n is related to to the number of electrons that are free to move around the crystal. The p the number or the density of uh holes that are free to move around the crystal and uh these uh are given in units of uh number of particles charge carriers per unit volume. So per centime cubed let's say question. You shine a light on it does I mean you're creating more holes. So is that not on the same order of magnitude as the number of holes introduced by doping? Yeah, absolutely. So um the density of of of holes and electrons here in the dark is dictated by the dopant density. Where are we right here for instance the dopant density if we add light that's a complicating factor we're um to the the the the intrinsic population of of uh of electrons and holes and the dopant concentration of electrons and holes we are adding a photogenerated population as well. Let's leave that for next lecture and try to simplify things. So we just discussed the diode in the dark. Perhaps we turn the light off here just for uh just for effect. So uh we're trying to take this piece by piece so that we can really construct everything and not add too much into the pot at one time. Um I wanted to discuss uh the uh notion of electron drift and I also wanted to review the concept of diffusion which everyone should be familiar with. Uh this is the reason why we're breathing right now and why all the uh air molecules aren't in that uh crowded into that corner of the room. uh it's because of fixed law uh the process of diffusion. If we have a concentration of a particular species in one spatial location, the natural tendency through random motion is for that concentration to distribute itself uh equally throughout. And this is described very nicely by fixed law. If we want to describe a current to it, uh we would then describe the current of holes and the current of electrons uh by again the the charge the diffusivity. Uh this is a quantity uh typically given in units of centimeters squared per second and the gradient in other words the uh concentration gradient uh in this case in one dimension. And that's uh again uh uh should be review for most folks from physics. And so we can see here two different methods of currents uh two different methods of current flow inside of a semiconductor device. We can have uh diffusion or we can have drift. Drift occurs when there's an electric field present and diffusion occurs when uh well in this case we can diffusion can occur in the absence of electric field simply when there is a concentration gradient present. So we can envision just quickly that if we have an electric field confined to a certain region of our solar cell device, the electric field will be dominant in one portion and if the rest of our device we uh don't have a strong electric field uh but the electrons nevertheless can sense the electric field far away because of the concentration gradient diffusion can drive those electrons can drive those electron toward the electric field. So in our solar cell device the uh ratio of drift and diffusion current will change as a function of distance from the PN junction from the built-in field. Okay. So I want everybody to upload into the RAM the checkerboard example that we went through because this will be important uh for understanding the next few slides. So let's imagine these N and Ptype materials are in contact but there's this imaginary barrier right between them right and so we have uh here are are ptype materials here are N type materials and let's parse through this figure let's let's spend let's dwell just a minute so we have this imaginary boundary between ptype material over here and N type material the boundary is right here in the middle the blue dots here are representing mobile holes holes that are free to move around the material and While there's this imaginary barrier here, these holes are just moving in brownie motion. There's no net current. There's no net charge flow. These minus signs that are left behind are the boron atoms. The boron atoms have one less proton in their nucleus than the silicon atoms do. And so the whole plus the uh negative charge that's uh within the boron atom core, if you will, uh that combination is neutral. So we haven't perturbed the net charge of the entire system. But locally, if we draw a little circle around these two, for instance, the boron atom that's fixed, that's not moving. The boron atom is bound to the neighboring silicon atoms. It's not moving around. And the hole, which is free to move around the material, now we have net charge neutrality. But if that hole moves too far away, then you could have a field building up. Right? Okay. On the other side, very similar. Here we have phosphorus atoms embedded within our silicon lattice. The phosphorus atoms have one extra proton in the nucleus than the silicon atoms do. Hence we denote that as a positive uh charge right here. And there's an extra electron associated with the phosphorus atoms. Now as those electrons move around when it's in isolation again there's no net charge flow. There's no current uh and we have uh a situation of uh net charge neutrality. question is what happens if we remove the barrier in between the two? Let me ask you just a basic question. Would the phosphorus atoms diffuse over to the side? Probably not, right? Because the phosphorus atoms are bound to four silicon neighbors. Those bonds are really tough. It's probably not going to break um unless you heat it up to pretty high temperature. But the electrons are free to move around. They're in the conduction band. They're able to move. uh and because the binding energy to the phosphorus atoms is on that order of 10 me on that order uh the thermal energy here at room temperature is enough to dissociate them and to allow those electrons to move away from the phosphorus atom uh thanks to the screening potential of the surrounding lattice and thanks to the fact that the electrons inside of a crystal are more easily uh can more easily move than in vacuum. So when we remove that boundary in between what begins to happen? So we've removed the boundary. We have these two materials in direct contact. The nuclei are not moving. The fixed charge associated with the boron atoms in this side and the phosphorus atoms on that side are not moving. However, the instant you remove this boundary in between there is a high concentration of electrons over here and a very low concentration of electrons over there which means that you will have a diffusion process. Right? So the concentration gradient drives the electrons over to the side. Likewise, holes are being driven from here over to here. Now notice what happens. Holes carry a positive charge. The fixed charge from the phosphorus is also positive. So you have a buildup of net positive charge on this side of the junction. Electrons are negative charge carriers. The boron atoms have a net negative charge here. And so you have a net negative charge building up on this side. And now you have a field beginning to develop, an electric field. And at some point this built-in electric field will counteract the diffusion process. Right? The diffusion current is driving electrons in this direction, but the field will be driving them back the other way. And it's that equilibrium that establishes the P and junction. It's that equilibrium that defines the width of this region here, this transition region, which comes in a variety of names. The transition region is also called the depletion region and it's also called the space charge region. Interesting, huh? How these words and terms come back into use. So that's the essence of the formation of this junction. We have this diffusion process that drives the carriers from this side into this side. And then as we have the electrons moving over here and uh summing to the uh the the boron nuclei that are left behind once the holes likewise have moved over to the other side. We have a buildup of net negative charge on this side, a buildup of net positive charge on that side and the establishment of a built-in electric field. That's cool. It takes a while to really get it. Uh and so the chessboard example was brilliant. I thank Joe for that. Um, and hopefully this as well reinforces several of those concepts. Um, and uh, it might take some time studying it on your own or setting up special office hours with Joe or coming to my office hours on Mondays. Um, but whatever it takes. Um, make sure that you understand this concept well. Uh, the fundamental uh, say the gaining intuition about the concept. Um, we'll be getting into the math soon. And if you don't have a good solid understanding of the the the the intuition of of where charges are moving around, it becomes less easy, let's say, to uh really get the math. Okay. So, we have um a a a buildup of net charge in either side of the junction. We have a buildup of net negative charge on one side of the junction and a buildup of net positive charge in the other side of the junction. And this line right here is meant to represent that uh dividing line uh where the two materials initially came together. So the dashed line is meant to represent the real charge distribution and the boxed colored uh rectangles. The rectal linear boxes are meant to represent an approximation that we'll use for the rest of today's class. Uh we're making successive approximations here because we want uh the mathematics to be manageable. Um you can of course uh discretize this entire uh uh u um uh this entire u material in one dimension for instance and do a finite element solution. We'll show you the equations that you can use to do that later on in today's class. So we have the net charge distribution on either side of the junction shown here. Right? We also have as a result of that next charge a net charge an electric field. And this goes back to uh to Gaus's law or the derivative form thereof. And so we have here a uh a built-in electric field as you can see. Uh and the field reaches a maximum right here in the middle. So that kind of makes sense. If you're too far away from that junction, you're not going to if you're a charge carrier, you're not going to see the field. But if you're right there in the middle of that junction, my boy, that that field is going to be very strong. You'll be swept out of there pretty quickly. That's why the field reaches a maximum right here in the middle. So that intuitively makes a lot of sense. Now if we take one further integral of the electric field here, the electric field arai, if we integrate our arcs, we will get the potential. And this potential right here uh essentially follows this uh this wavelike curve where you have a lower potential on this side and a higher potential on that side. And if we take this potential and translate it into something that we can understand which is electron energy by multiplying that potential by Q and Q in the case of an electron is a negative number. That's why we're flipping this boom. Right? So we're flipping this upside down because we're multiplying this value here by a negative number. Now what we can see is that there's an energy gain for the electron by going from the pside to the n side right that's the uh this is the electron energy obviously um if if you give them an opportunity all the electrons would want to come down to this side but why wouldn't all of them come down over here because of diffusion right so there's that balance of the two effects so there is a net energy gain for the electrons but uh diffusion is what's driving some of the electrons back across the other side of the junction. It's that equilibrium which is establishing the final uh um the final energy band diagram of the P and junction which is really looking something very much like that. So this right here uh describes for you how you go from atoms and charge carriers up at the top to charge distribution, electric field, uh potential and finally electron energy. Yes. Are these four diagrams specifically for electrons? Like would the would the whole ones be the first of that? Sure. So if you wanted to look at in in terms of whole energy uh what uh this equation here would be equally valid, but your charge would be a positive value. And so you'd have a curve that looked very similar to this one right here where there'd be a net energy gain for the holes to go onto the other side. And that's what establishes the uh the separation of charge. So the bottom one is the only one that would change if you looked at it. That's correct. Yep. Everything else identical. So this is important. It's electron energy. And and this jump right here confuses a lot of folks because in in books they don't often describe very clearly what is potential and what is energy. Uh almost using those two terms interchangeably. But it's that that Q the the fact that the electron has a negative charge that uh sets things right. Okay, this is pretty important. This is the foundation the fundamental of of how a P and junction comes into being. Um and uh the summary of our understanding so far is that when light here we go when light creates an electron whole pair a P and junction can separate the positive and negative charges because of the built-in electric field. Let me repeat that one more time. When light creates an electron whole pair, a P and junction potentially can separate the positive and negative charges because of that built-in electric field. For very small light intensities, very small light intensities such that um you can think of that photogenerated carrier as a perturbation to the system. Not fundamentally altering the energy levels yet. It does eventually happen. But if you have say one photon coming into your material exciting electron over here, that electron can move down uh can be swept out of the device because of that built-in electric field. Again, uh assuming that we have a very low very small impact on the uh electrostatics of our system that it's just a small perturbation, maybe one single electron in our system is not going to affect you much because we have 10^ the 23 uh or so uh uh atoms per cubic centimeter. um we have a very small perturbation to our system. Uh that charge carrier will be swept out uh very quickly. The built-in electric field is established at a P and junction because of the balance of electron and whole electron and whole drift and diffusion currents. Let me be more precise about this one point right here because the built-in electric field is established at a P and junction because of the balance of electron drift and diffusion. We talked about that but whole drift and diffusion as well. So if we go back over to here, notice how the electron drift and drift and diffusion are opposed and equal well and equal and opposite to the whole diffusion and drift. So let's think about it from this perspective right back here. This is clear. Our electron diffusion is going in that direction because we have a high concentration of electrons that tend to move toward the low concentration regime. So our electron diffusion current is pointing toward the left. Our whole diffusion current is pointing to the right and the whole drift current because of this built-in field is pointing opposite the whole diffusion. So the whole drift current would be pointing to the left whereas the electron drift current would be pointing to the right. So we have in total four currents here. The way to think about it would be for example let's take the electrons first electron drift or electron diffusion and drift counteract and then you can take the holes whole diffusion and drift counteract right they're all balanced and this is uh resulting in zero net current flow uh when you have no illumination and no external field applied to that device that's pretty nifty so the built-in electric field is established at the P and junction because of the balance of drift and diffusion currents for both electrons and holes. So, we have a small in-class exercise. I'd like you to take out these and I'd like you to work in pairs uh so that if anybody reaches a a small stumbling block, you can help each other uh work through the uh the problems. So, first off, let's focus on this upper uh left hand portion right here uh as shown right there. This is a replica of the sheet that you should have in front of you. So what we're doing is we're dividing we're considering the P and junction under no bias. That means that we're not applying a battery to our P and junction. Right? So we have a P and junction and we don't attach a battery in series. We just have the P and junction under zero bias conditions. So the way we'd represent that um in that equivalent or model circuit diagram right here is notice how we have these little lines uh extending from the P and the N regions and going above. uh those represent the external circuit outside of the actual device. The device would be uh this one right here where we have P and our N. We have our positive and negative charges here representing the uh the uh charges that have built up uh in that space charge region that are creating the built-in electric field. And under no bias conditions, I'll give you the answer. It's pretty straightforward. We would just draw a straight line across right there bridging that external circuit because there is no external bias. There is no battery applied. And so from an energy band diagram, E versus X, our E being the electron energy in this case, uh, and our ptype material being on this side and our ntype material being on that side. Let's draw the energy band diagram. Just like we've done, uh, or we've alluded to so far, uh, sketch out the energy band diagram for this P and junction. And I'll give you a hint. It's going to look something very similar uh, to that right there, except that you'll have to take into account both the conduction and veance bands, right? because they're both affected in a similar manner uh to that. So why don't you go ahead and give it your best um draw the uh energy band diagram uh uh in terms of the electron energy and position. Notice your pt type on one side, n type on on the other. You can assume that the uh point of division is like right here in the middle. And for those who are a little quick, you can go on and draw the relative magnitudes of electron drift and diffusion currents. So, why don't we give that a a quick little shot? Maybe 30 seconds to uh uh think about it and another 30 seconds to draw and chat over it with your uh colleagues. So, we want to draw the band diagram just to make sure everybody's on the same page. So, we're going to be starting out with our veance band and our conduction band over here. And as we move toward our space charge region, as we move toward our depletion region, our transition region here in the middle, um, we're going to see some effect, right? We're going to see some bending of the bands, if you will, right? So your your question is to figure out does do the bands do something like this or do they do something like that, right? Do the bands go up or do they bend down? And that should be uh a relatively easy copy and paste from two slides prior. The correct answer is indeed we have the band bending down like this. Right? So we would have uh the bands higher on one side lower on the other. Uh the electron energy is higher on the ptype side than the ntype side. So if we add one electron to our system for example uh a photogenerated carrier from a one photon coming into our device uh that electron have the natural tendency to go onto this side would be swept down. Um note that the uh net current flow inside of the device in the absence of an external exitation like light or uh a battery pack over here an external bias voltage source the net current flow is zero because electron diffusion is pointed in that direction and electron drift pointed in that direction. Okay. All right. Good. So now that we've done now that we've done one example, uh I wanted to oh one last thing. So whole diffusion. So this is electron diffusion pointing to the left and and electron drift pointing to the right. Whole diffusion is pointing to the right and whole drift pointing to the left as one might expect. Let's try these two right now. Forward bias and reverse bias. And your trick is to figure out if you have a battery for instance. If the battery looks like this, right? This would be positive terminal and negative terminal. If you have a battery, which way would you align the battery to induce a forward bias or reverse bias? This is perhaps it's perhaps a little bit uh beyond uh my expectation of what you would uh get. Let me add that for you. Let me just give that to you right here. The forward bias would look like that. The reverse bias would look like that. Okay. And now the big question is what do the band diagrams look like? How would these how would these look? If we forward bias, if we forward bias our device and we inject electrons into this side right here, what would what would happen to our band? What would you expect would happen? We'll uh we'll prove this out in the in the next few slides, but I I want to get see if how people's intuition are is doing this morning. So as you bias a device, you're you're shifting one level relative to the other. And so the basic question that you have to answer is should it shift up or should it shift down under forward and reverse bias conditions. Spend a minute, talk to your neighbor, discuss it. All right, folks. Why don't we uh why don't we tie it in? we should be able to get band diagrams that look something like that. Saw several of you have already begun uh reaching this this consensus here. um rationale an easy way to think about this is if our battery is aligned with our P and junction in that way and we're injecting electrons into one side we then have a large electron diffusion current right we have the band shifting in this direction now the barrier the energy barrier for the electrons to overcome to go from the region of high concentration to the region of low concentration is smaller and you'll get a larger diffusion current as a result more electrons will be moving over from that ntype silicon into the ptype silicon and uh the drift current will be smaller. Um notice here the the balance of the two if you add them together uh you have a net electron flow in that direction which means you have a net current flow as defined by the flow of positive charges in the other direction. A lot of definitions to keep straight. Whereas in the reverse bias here, you're shifting the bands like so. The drift current because you have the large electric field, the drift current will be uh increased, but only slightly because there's a limited number of of of carriers here that you can pull from from from the the ptype material. And the diffusion current is going to be drastically reduced because now the energy barrier is so large that the electrons have a very hard time getting from the ntype material into the ptype material and the net current flow is in the opposite direction. Does this make intuitive sense to folks? Ashley? Yeah. So when you attach the um battery or whatever that would be. Yeah. Is the minus side injecting electrons in the device and injecting. Okay. So in between these two the the the easiest way to go from battery to electron energy band diagram is to follow the same sequence that we did over here. Right? And if you're thinking battery and you're thinking positive and negative, you're shifting the potential of one side relative to the other. Then take that potential shift and flip it for the electron. Right? I mean I follow okay why that why the diagrams are the way they are. But is it is it I guess conceptually accurate to think of the negative side as putting more electrons into the n side. one could uh the way I prefer to think about it is that you're changing the energy levels the potential one relative to the other and as a consequence you have more electrons flowing from that end side uh to the P pside and that's what's pulling the current uh through the circuit um it's it's it's almost a tail wagging dog wagging tail but I I would take a slight preference toward uh understanding it from the perspective of if you change the potential one relative to the other and allow for a greater diffus fusion current that those that motion of electrons the electron moving from here to here uh will pull current through the entire circuit and that's what you'll be measuring with your external uh essentially all of the electrons in the circuit are are moving through for advice we've proposed field that was set up by exactly we are opposing the field that was set up by the uh balance of the drift and diffusion currents initially yeah under the first bias how come the many electrons in the antiaterial aren't pulled through the entire circuit and reinjected into the ptype side. Yes, certainly. So, um the uh reverse bias condition is such that the uh battery is aligned to prevent that, right? Um that's that's what perhaps one one simple way of thinking about it. You're um yeah, I think that would be the the way I would describe it most accurately. could um and you are uh dragging some of the electrons out through the external circuit. But what is what is driving the current is uh is is mostly the drift current is pulling carriers from uh essentially through your external circuit because carriers are moving from the P pype to the N type and creating that charge imbalance resulting in the drift current. Why don't we continue moving on just a little bit because uh we have some nice demos we'd like to get to. I do know this is really really important and I would welcome you actually urge you encourage you to come uh to some of the office hours and uh our our recitation as well. I'd like to uh continue moving forward for the benefit of several of those uh who may have seen similar material in the past. U but let me before we we move too far ahead on our IV characteristics. We still don't know how to map an IV characteristic of uh of of that device. We don't know how the current voltage I current V voltage. We don't know how the current voltage response is going to look like for that particular device. But we do know that under no bias conditions, we're at bias voltage equals zero. So V is at zero. And we know that we have no net current flow. And so our current is going to be at zero as well. And so we know that we're going to have one point on our IV curve that's going to be situated at 0 0. Likewise, in this case over here, we have electron diffusion driving the circuit and in the other we have electron drift which is in the opposite direction. And so we would expect that the current flow in I under forward bias conditions. Forward bias is positive would be somewhere up here. And likewise under reverse bias that our current would be opposite the sign. So whereas we had positive current over here we would expect negative current over there. Right? So our IV characteristic is going to look something like a combination of that one point right here and some function up in this quadrant and some function down in this quadrant just by glancing at the net current flows and the the the the type of bias that we've applied to our uh diode. We'll come back to this uh at the end of class and confirm it using those small apparatus over there. So current flow in a P and junction. We're going to describe the nature of the drift, diffusion, illumination currents in a diode. You show the direction in magnitude in the dark. Eventually we'll do this under illumination as well, but let's just focus in the dark. In fact, we've already done this. I've already I've already tricked you into doing learning objective number three on your own uh before even describing the math. Uh but I will show you the mathematics as well so that you have the complete picture. We have the diffusion current. This is the essence of diffusion current. We talked about fixed law as well for holes and for electrons. We have our drift current. We spoke about the nature of the drift current as well uh for holes and electrons. And we know that by combining the two we can describe the net current flow across a P and junction. So by combining the two by combining drift and diffusion drift and diffusion for electrons and holes we can describe the current flow across that P and junction. So when the the electric field is large, the drift current term is going to dominate. If you have a large field, that's going to be the dominant current uh uh uh uh source if you will. And when the electric field is small, uh diffusion is going to dominate. So if we have a device like this right here and if I told you that the built-in electric field was located pushed up toward the top 100th of the device. So it's located very close to the surface. You might surmise that the drift current is going to be uh having a large influence or if you're a single electron you'll have a large you'll feel the influence of the electric field near the front surface of the device and deep within the bulk uh the diffusion current is going to be driving the carriers toward that junction. There's a relationship between the mobility and the diffusivity of carriers. It's known as the Einstein relation. uh and that's given to you over there on the right hand side for a band conductor. Uh note that if you have this is an advanced concept but if you have uh dispersive hopping mechanism for instance uh you may need to become a little bit more sophisticated and how you relate the diffusivity of a carrier to your mobility. But let's assume that is valid for nice well- behaved semiconductors. It's just a warning for those who work on organic materials. Um I'm happy to talk to you more about that in a bit. So again we have Gaus's law. Um the question is what is that electric field right what is our kai what is our built-in electric field well we know that the charge density is going to be comprised of the uh free hole density the free electron density the fixed uh density of uh of of our donor atoms you could think of these as the phosphorus the ionized phosphorus atoms and our fixed density of ionized acceptor atoms we can also think of this as our boron atoms in silicon and so that is our fixed or actually not our fixed um these are fixed charges, these are mobile charges, but under equilibrium they've distributed themselves in a certain way that is our charge density, our row, and that will figure into Gaus's law and allow us to calculate our kai. And so in suma, we have here our kai as a function of of of dx. We have an expression that relates the electric field to the density of dopant atoms inside of our material. Note that we made one critical assumption going from here to here where we went from the ionized uh donor and acceptor concentration to the uh total dopant concentration. We're assuming that everything is ionized again because the ionization energy because the binding energy of those free carriers to their uh dopant atoms is so small that under KT under thermal energy uh at room temperature it's enough to dissociate the uh the charge. Okay. So we've gotten to here. We can describe quantitatively using this approximation. Using the box function approximation, we can describe the electric field quantitatively. And now we have to get to the potential and finally electron energy as well. So we do a little bit of accounting. If we want to account for all of the electrons flowing through our system, um we would have to consider as well in any voxil of our material and any unit volume of a material, we have electrons going in, electrons coming out and within it we could have electrons being generated say by light or electrons recombining, meaning they're losing their energy and falling back into a ground state where they're bound. And that's this U term right here. And so the continuity equations are essentially a set of accounting equations that just describe the difference the the the net change going in and out if something changes on either surface is because you either added carriers or took them away. And the way you add is by shining light on your sample and generating more carriers G for instance that's one way of generating carriers by adding light or or recombination. And one way of recombining is for example uh through a defect in our material where the uh electron is moving along it finds a defect and it falls back into a ground state. So continuity equations are nothing more nothing less than housekeeping bookkeeping. But it's very important as you'll see in the next slide right here where we combine five equations that describe current transport and semicondu in in a P and junction. We have drift and diffusion up here. Those are the equations we just saw. We have the equation describing the electric field and we have our accounting equations down here. And if we look at these equations in in unison, we'll notice that oh well, we have our uh our whole current uh appearing twice here. We have our electric field appearing in two cases. Oopsie, sorry, back there. Uh we have our electric field appearing in those three equations right here. And we have a system of nonlinear equations as a result. uh it is not possible to solve these uh analytically in their entirety. We'll have to make a series of assumptions to really uh get to the the full solution. But it's uh possible to solve them numerically uh using computer simulations. Uh this is important because we want to be able to define the current uh coming out of our solar cell device. Right? Without solving these equations, we really don't understand what the current is uh out of a a P and junction out of a solar cell under different bias conditions. That's why these equations right here are important. What I want to do is not to just dwell on the current. I want to emphasize that to calculate the voltage across a semiconductor to sorry a semiconductor device a P and junction uh uh based solar cell to calculate the voltage across a solar cell we have to understand a little bit more. So far we've been assuming that each electron is um is is is a a unique individual that an electron over here is a small perturbation to a larger system and that it will flow down uh based on that electric field. For a voltage we're really talking about an ensemble of electrons all of the electrons in the system. And so we have to define some chemical potential for our system. We have to define some uh um one could think of it as an average energy uh for our system. So let me define chemical potential for you. Um in a semiconductor if we add if we describe the semiconductor if our here's our veance band and our conduction band this is our band gap right here in between the two bands that's described by E subG our conduction band veance band and these little red dots here are representing our coalently bonded electrons in the ground state at zero Kelvin. If we heat this material up just a little bit, there will be some fraction of carriers moving across into the conduction band uh just uh through simple probability and uh we'll get to the precise equation that describes the probability distribution function in a few lectures but for now let's just assume that a certain number uh through thermal processes are able to be excited across the band gap. So these are thermally excited electrons and we call these this the intrinsic carrier concentration. So these carriers up here are free to move around the crystal. They can conduct electricity. They can conduct charge. We could measure a current flowing through if we applied a bias voltage across material like this. Those are are charge carriers. These holes as well. And so this is the intrinsic carrier concentration. To give you an order of magnitude of the intrinsic carrier concentration in silicon, it's around 10^ the 10 carriers per cubic centimeter. That's 1 over 10 the 12 uh uh per atom. So each atom of silicon is generating roughly 1 over 10^ the 12 free carriers due to this process. Very small concentration of free carriers in the material. is around 5 * 10 the 22 atoms per cubic centimeter and only 10^ the 10 free carriers per cubic centimeter due to this thermal process at room temperature. So it's a very small effect uh uh in in in silicon as you shrink your band gap uh the energy necessary to excite across the band gap becomes less and since you have more uh thermal carriers. So the chemical potential is describing the average energy necessary to remove an infantessimally small quantity of electrons to the system. And again infantesimally small quantity meaning it's a mere perturbation. You're not changing the volume. You're not not changing the electrostatics of the system. You're just adding one electron to the system or taking it away and determining how much uh energy was required. And so we describe that chemical potential. We call it by a different name. We call it firmy level but it is the exact same thing. It's the energy necessary to remove that electron from the material. So you can envision that it's going to be the the firmy level on either side of the P and junction that will determine the voltage output of our solar cell device. And that's why we want to be able to calculate this. So let's look first off what happens to our firmy level when we dope our material when we intentionally add in this case uh boron atoms to make it pype or phosphorus atoms to make the material n type what happens well we end up shifting our firmy level toward the veance band or shifting the firmy level toward the conduction band by the addition of holes or electrons an easy way to think about it without getting into complicated semiconductor math is the following if I'm adding adding more electrons to my system by doping at it end type essentially I'm shifting the energy level up right it's an easy way to think about it if I'm removing the electrons from the system by adding holes down here then I'm shifting the fmy level down easy way to think about it we'll get to the the math actually if you're really curious uh I think I included one slide of the the derivation of the precise chemical potential uh so you can walk through that as well so voltage across a P and junction under zero bias conditions this is in the dark and without a battery pack attached to it. So this is an unperturbed P and junction just uh in the dark uh without um uh any external uh bias. We have the firmy level constant throughout both the ptype and the ntype uh flat. Notice the bands are bending. So the distance of the firmmy level from the from the veance band here is smaller than the distance from the fermy level to the veance band in the end type material. That's because in the end type material we have more electrons and we're pushing the firmware level higher right the vacuum level follows these bands just happens to be way up there and so the amount of energy necessary to remove the electron from the system to remove it to the vacuum level changes from from the pt type to the n type but for the purposes of our of our diagram right here we're drawing the firmy level constant throughout now um we have that transition region the depletion region the space charge region all synonymous same thing we that transition region here in the middle. So if we begin quantifying the different uh parameters here, we have a firmy level uh distance from the veance band. So that's this distance right here. We have the distance between the firmy level and the conduction band and the end type material. And then we have our built-in potential. And when we multiply our built-in potential by Q, we get an energy essentially an energy gain across that uh across that P and junction. So that quantity here is equal to the band gap minus these two parameters minus this minus that. And so you can see that the built-in potential across the junction is benefited by higher doping. The higher we dope our material, the more we shift our firmy level toward either band and the greater the separation uh we get, the smaller this quantity is, the smaller that quantity is, and the more our built-in potential approximates the actual band gap of the material. This built-in potential will relate to it won't be identical to be associated with our maximum voltage that we can get out of the device. And so we'll want to engineer our material in such a way so as to maximize that quantity. That's important. The um relation between our built-in potential and the dopant density is shown here. For now, you'll have to take my word for it. I'm sparing you uh a lot of semiconductor physics is written on the next slide right here. If you care to look in some detail, it's also described in, I believe, chapter 2 in Martin Green's textbook. Um, but for now, let's assume that the built-in junction potential is a function of the dopant concentrations. Just by our intuition, if we're adding more electrons to one side, we're going to be shifting the firmy energy up. Okay, so uh the voltage across the P and junction. Um, now let's bias our device. We have under zero bias conditions this expression. Sorry, there we go. Under zero bias conditions, we have uh that expression there. And under biased conditions, now we have an applied bias voltage, our V sub A. We're applying a bias voltage. We've effectively shifted, notice here, we've shifted our bands one relative to the other, right? So we've shifted this side up by a certain V suba. And now if you'll notice um the uh the the quantities here, we have a um a separation of the firmy energy on one side to the other. There is a bias now across this device. There is a driving force for electrons uh to go and complete an external circuit to travel through the external circuit because the electrons that are over here have a higher energy net than the electrons over there. The ensemble on average the transition region likewise will get smaller. Sorry for that animation. But if we keep track here, the transition region becomes smaller under forward bias because we're depleting we're removing uh the uh the amount of charge that was over here. We're squeezing it back. We're reducing that barrier height. And so over here, if we go back to this diagram, you can now draw in what's written in these red circles. You can draw in the actual uh uh uh depletion width, the width of the space charge region on your diagrams. Just like that. I'll give you a just a second to complete that diagram there. Under reverse bias likewise the width of the depletion region will increase and the depletion region is increasing. The built-in charge is increasing. The amount of band bending is increasing and the amount of drift current also increasing. So it all fits together. It's beginning to really come together nicely in one nice picture in our minds. So, um, yes, one question. Yeah. Um, so I understand that for our solar cell, we wouldn't want to actually use a battery to drive current. Let's get to eliminated current next class. For now, um, we'll just focus on the battery. Yeah. So, the I guess so should we not quite yet understand what why why forward bias and reverse bias applies to operating? Let let's leave that for next class. For now, let's assume that the uh illumination current, if you really want to satisfy your curiosity, your illumination current is going to be one additional arrow uh to this. It's going to be in addition to everything else that's going on, but the majority of the field is going to be created by what is doped into the material. Right? So, think of think of the illumination for now as a small perturbation to the system. That's the easiest way to think about it to justify to yourself why we need to understand first the solar cell in the dark and then because of that small perturbation we can treat it as a linear superposition of effects and we'll add the illumination next class but uh bear with me for the in the dark first because if we really don't understand this we're not going to understand fully how the solar cell operates in the light either. So next we'll draw the IV response. we'll we'll want to really get to this last point right here where we can draw the current voltage response. Um, and we want to recognize that minority carrier flux is what's regulating the current. So to do this well, to do this properly, we have to shift our focus from uh from here where we were talking about ensembles and and um uh uh uh and and uh individual particles. Here we're going to be uh discussing in terms of uh carrier densities on either side of the junction uh densities of electrons and holes. And unfortunately I'm going to have to move rather quickly through these slides. This is the essence of uh why a solar cell behaves uh like a diode. And it's really something that is best done by studying on your own. Uh I'm happy to walk you through the most salient points, the most uh important approximations that we have along the way. But this is best understood by going home, looking the up the readings on stellar and walking through the derivation uh yourself. It's not something that very easily I can convey uh a series of equations in in the class. So uh before we we go into uh into detail into current flows, I wanted to touch on this uh width of the space charge region. We can describe the width of the space charge region now by the built-in uh uh bias uh across the junction, the applied bias right here and some fundamental material properties as well. And this little epsilon right here is um essentially the um the dilectric constant and the per the vacuum permitivity a constant. And so you want to take that into account when you're running uh your actual calculations. It's very easy to be off uh on the width of the space charge region by several orders of magnitude uh if you don't uh do the proper accounting for the uh those um fixed variables. And so if you walk through the the equations to describe the width of the space charge region, you'll find that in a typical solar cell device, it's on the order of a micron. And this is related to one of your homework problems. So stash that away somewhere in your brain. It's on the order of a micron. The width of that space charge region typically could be on on that order. So, it's going to be some multiple. Um, and the reason that's interesting is because the entire solar cell device is about 100 to 200 microns. That's for a crystal silicon device. Um, that means that in a crystal and silicon device, the diffusion current is what's driving most of the current flow inside of the solar cell. If our solar cell is much much thinner, say in the order of a micron, then our drift current would be dominating. Um this is a more advanced topic and we'll return to that when we describe the differences between thin film operation and crystal and silicon solar cell operation. Device capacitance for those who are running uh experimental uh uh uh measurements and want to uh determine the RC time constant necessary to have the device settle into a a measurable state that's there. Um and the capacitance uh is described again by uh the various uh properties as well as the built-in potential which is related to the dopen density. Okay. So under zero bias we have a concentration of holes on one side of our junction that's high in the ptype material. The concentration of holes is high and it's approximately equal to the acceptor concentration. On the end type side of our junction, the whole population is drastically reduced and the flip side our our our electron concentration is very high and it drops uh into the ptype side. So we have predominantly holes on this side, predominantly electrons in that side, but a small concentration of uh holes on the ntype side and a small concentration of electrons on the ptype side and we call this the minority carrier and we call that the majority carrier. the majority carrier is in the majority, the minority carrier in the minority. And an interesting thing happens when we bias our device. When we bias our solar cell device, populations of both carriers increase, but because this is on a log scale, uh we're increasing this um this uh uh uh shall we say the minority carrier concentration uh in an absolute sense by a lot. And it's because of this drastic uptick in the minority carrier concentration right at the edge of the space charge region that we have current flow across that junction. And that's described um by a series of equations here. Um let's see the the the the way to walk through the derivation. Uh there's a series of approximations to make. Uh think of it in terms of um of electron and whole uh fluxes on either side of the junction. uh you can make a series of assumptions as to what currents matter and which don't. Uh you can of course make the assumptions as to the charge distribution as well fixed using that box potential and um you can consider uh the cases in which the minority carrier concentration here is is is dominating um to be the regions of interest for uh current generation inside of our device. And so if we walk through again the uh diffusion equation, the diffusion of carriers at the edge of the space charge region and from the previous slides here add our approximations in we will ultimately derive an expression that has an exponential relation between current and our voltage. And if we continue through the uh the series of of of of calculations including the continuity equation for accountability, we wind up with an expression that looks like this right here where the total current flowing through the device will be equal to the electron current at the edge of our space charge region coming from the uh ptype side. the whole concentration coming from the end type side, the addition of the two together and that's effectively this equation right here where we have an exponential relation between current and voltage. So um again this we really need to go home uh and study and if you'd like to do this pictorially I provide you that link right there so you can see it visually. If you're more of a math type, uh, chapters three and four, uh, actually chapter four in Martin Green is is is probably the best place to go. And the important thing to keep in mind is that in the PN junction, the uh, the current flow across that junction is determined by the minority current minority carrier current flow at the edge of the space charge region. And that's why we wind up with the exponential relation between voltage and current. I decided the best way to emphasize this voltage current relation is actually to measure it, to run it, to do it. Um, and we have around 10 minutes left before the end of class. Do you think that it's time for our demo? Cutting it kind of short, huh? Tuesday. Probably wait for Tuesday on the demo. Okay. So, we're going to run the demos on Tuesday, I suppose. Um, because we're running a little bit short on time. I know David is really disappointed because he's been working hard to get these in perfect ship shaped condition, but we'll have uh another couple of days to work out some of the bugs in the software so we don't need to restart it every time we uh take a new IV measurement. Um but by and large what we'll do is we'll measure uh the current voltage relation for a real solar cell device and we'll see that it it definitely does follow uh at least under forward bias conditions this exponential relation. So as V goes forward, as V, this V over here is our uh our applied bias condition. As our V increases, we have that exponential uh current output from our device. As V goes towards a negative number, uh we have pretty much a flatlining of our current. It goes into a slightly negative condition. Um and uh a flatlining of the current. So if we look at this again right here, our I versus V, our I versus V. Now we can plot the same equation or essentially the same curve on all three of these. We'll want to plot the same curve, this one over here. And for now, let's assume that this big lump over here is a constant. Um, and so we just need to plot an exponential function, something similar to this right here. Whoop. And under zero bias conditions, we'll be right there at 0 0. Under forward bias conditions, we'll be further up. And the reverse bias conditions will be uh down there. and one let me let me give you a second just to to draw this down uh and and please do we'll be validating it to ourselves on Tuesday my sincere apologies for not having enough time to really go into the uh the demos as well but suffice to say the following under forward bias conditions when we reduce the barrier height between the n and the ptype side we're now allowing that diffusion current from the n to the p to take over and as we reduce the barrier more and more and more. We have this exponentially increasing density of electrons flowing through uh our system. And that's why we have this exponentially increasing uh uh curve here. As we reverse bias our device, we're uh we're increasing the barrier height for the uh electrons to to pass over. So our diffusion current uh practically vanishes and our drift current stays more or less constant all the way throughout because there's only a finite uh carrier density a finite minority carrier concentration inside of the ptype silicon the thermally excited carriers for instance that are finding their way to the junction and being drifted across and that concentration is is virtually finite. At some point you'll reverse biases so much that um the carriers will begin tunneling across from the uh veilance band into the conduction band over here and you'll have a a catastrophic failure of your device. But that's um more of an advanced uh point. Yeah. So does the X indicate um the coordinate of IV at steady state? So the the the entire line represents the uh IV characteristic under all bias conditions. The x represents the uh the um current and voltage for this particular operating point on the solar cell on on the IV characteristic. So if you're under forward bias condition, in other words, your V is positive, um you will have a a positive current flow through your device, positive current flow, electrons flowing that way. And under reverse bias, notice the sign of the current is flipped because now the electrons used to be going that way. The electrons are predominantly moving the other direction. the net current flow is in the opposite direction and the voltage is also changing sign. You can say okay I'm going to put myself at this voltage and exactly and that's important because we want to be able to describe what our uh what our current voltage characteristic is of a solar cell because the product of the two is the power for efficiency. We want to know what the power out of our solar cell is and it's the product of current and voltage that will give us the power of our solar cell device. Time for a few questions actually. Um about five minutes of of Q&A since we had to forgo the um the demo. Promise me you'll do one thing. Promise me you'll go home and sometime between now and Tuesday you're going to read through these chapters and do the derivations that will uh work through to this ideal diode equation right here because this is pretty important and you have to convince yourself that that's indeed the case. I can wave my hands and phenomenologically describe okay we have an energy barrier. I kind of get it. I should have an exponential probability of passing over an energy barrier from at least from quantum mechanics that kind of makes sense. So I kind of get how if I forward bias my device, I'll have an exponentially increasing uh diffusion current. I get that if I go into reverse bias conditions, there's just a just a finite density of carriers, minority carriers in my ptype material. If I'm if I'm not say shining light on the material, I'm not changing that concentration by much. And I'm uh I'm going to flatline. Uh yes, they'll be drifting across u but they'll be limited more by their ability to reach the junction. And um once you I mean you can handwave all you want but uh this is really oopsie the uh the equations that describe the ideal diode equation those are really where it's at that with that equation you can really understand uh how material properties will impact solar cell performance let's say yes question I have a question about about um in that uh in for for all three the type side are the And if you're just changing where the end type is it both of them are open. Exactly. Yep. Yep. Absolutely. So it's u what the the point was uh here um what we've done for simplicity is shifting one side relative to the other. Uh in um yeah in in energy see energy is a funny thing because you can redefine your zero. Um uh yeah. So depending on where you're you're defining your zero point at um you can move things relative to each other. But let's let's assume that um you're you're changing both sides relative to some universal ground potential uh that's uh off on an external component of your circuit. Sure. So um when you solve silicon before how do you know that it is my guess is that it could be more tissue because the size is pretty different size. That's a great question. So the question was um when you dope your material what are the experimental methods that you can use to really determine whether or not the atoms have have occupied a substitutional position? Um, one of the methods is called Rutherford back scattering uh where we uh or channeling ion channeling where you introduce uh ions down your lattice and if there is an atom here for example an interstitial site it'll scatter some fraction of those introduced ions back at the detector. Um and so the the channeling u channeling is one uh characterization method for determining the uh interstitial to substitutional ratio uh inside of a a semiconducting material. Um another uh way that we have very strong evidence that boron is occupying a substitutional site not an interstitial site is uh we can calculate the uh the binding energy of this hole uh to the boron atom here on the substitutional site. Um in principle if the interstitial was also if it was a charge to defect uh we could calculate the uh the binding energy of of of the charge to that defect and um density functional theory could tell you which is the more likely given your experimental observation that you get about one hole for every one boron atom inside of your sample. Boron has been studied to death in silicon. It's pretty well known that it's substitutional. But if you're working with a new semiconducting material, you never know. You have to run the experiments. Yeah, question under bias in the band diagrams are the uh the P and sides far away from the region region are those bands actually do they actually have a slope to them because of the applied uh field. Yeah. So uh the question was far away from from the um the space charge region here do these bands have a slope? Uh my argument would be that uh if we go back to the way we derive um oopsie there we go the way we derive this band to begin with uh it's predicated upon an electric field which is predicated upon a charge distribution. So the big question the biggest question is what is this real charge distribution look like? Most of the time it's relatively concentrated to to that uh the the the the near space charge region. If you get too far away, okay, yes, this this decays exponentially, but it be it falls below the background intrinsic carrier concentration and effectively doesn't matter. But under applied bias, is there? Yes. Usually they're just drawn like flat, but is it just such a small effect? They just drawn flat anyway. Yeah. So under applied bias, what happens to these charge distributions? Well, if you reverse bias it, you're essentially increasing the amount of of charge on either side of the junction. If you forward bias, you're reducing it. And so under forward bias probably you wouldn't see the effect you're describing. Under reverse bias um the the the width of the space charge region let's say increases from let's call it one micron to three microns right and the thickness of the entire device is 200 microns. So still I think it would be a relatively small effect uh several tens of microns away from the junction. It really depends on the length scale the geometry of your device relative to the length scale of your space charge region. Good. Well, to give you time to reach your next class. Thank you. We'll come back on Tuesday and we'll have a great demo set up for you.