PHIL: One person is going to win, and they can choose to bring along somebody of their choice. [MUSIC PLAYING] NARRATOR: Last time in 5.301, the students just practiced re-crystallization. Now it's time for the real thing. PROFESSOR: You're actually going to take your crystals, and you're going to re-crystallize them, to produce one big crystal. And there's a prize. Whoever gets this first is going to lunch with me at Legal Sea Foods, and you can bring one of your friends, and you can invite the TAs. NARRATOR: The goal is to grow a single, perfect, crystal. But first, the students have to actually make the compound they're going to grow their crystals from, this chromium complex. This is their first real reaction in the lab. ANTHONY: It's a different color and that's usually pretty good in chemistry. NARRATOR: After they filter, wash, and dry their product, the students begin testing solvents, and some start teaming up. PHIL: I actually saw an alliance forming over here. YI-SHIUAN: I saw some of them split up trying different solvents. We actually worked on find the solvents together. JULIE: We decided to use dichloromethane and hexane for our solvents. ANTHONY: We're going to use hexanes and methanol. Shh. We're going to win. NARRATOR: Hansol seems pretty driven. HANSOL: I like competition. I want to win, obviously. NARRATOR: If you win, who will you invite to lunch? HANSOL: I would probably pick Dan. I made a deal with him earlier. NARRATOR: So, Hansol's been working with Dan. What about you, Emily? EMILY: Yeah, I worked with Dan to figure out what solvent system would work well. NARRATOR: Uh, OK. Let's recap. HANSOL: Dan. EMILY: Dan. EMILY: Dan NARRATOR: Dan, what do you have to say for yourself? DAN: It was a loosely formed alliance, we didn't sign any papers. NARRATOR: Ike meanwhile has a different idea. IKE: I'm broke. If I get the ticket I'm going to sell it for money. Because I know, these suckers want it really bad. PHIL: We have some people whose samples look pretty good. They seem to be wanting to try a lot of different solvent systems, a lot of different temperatures. They're asking a lot of questions. They want to make sure that everything is perfect. Because I think everyone wants to get the biggest crystal. They're very determined. They're going for all or nothing. They don't want a bunch of small crystals. LINA: Next week, we're going to win the biggest crystal competition. Because the winners get to take the TAs and Professor Dolhun out to lunch. JULIE: Legal Sea Foods, for free. NARRATOR: So that's it. Everything's set and everyone's excited about the prize. But, who will win? Find out next time on 5.301. JULIE: Yeah, we're done. PHIL: I'm having this re-occurring dream. It's like I'm jogging through a park with a fitness boot camp. And I stop to talk to Kris Jenner. And I always say, no, no, no, Kris, I can't talk to you right now. And she pours Kool-Aid on me. And I wake up drenched in Kool-Aid. That's a dream. If it was Bruce Jenner pouring Kool-Aid on me, that would be a nightmare. [MUSIC PLAYING]