The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. There were a couple questions on estimations. So, one person was as asked for answers to estimations. I try to give you orders of magnitude and give you a sense, but if I've missed some, let if you want to like email me and be like, "Hey, I never I never really got this one, let me know and I can review them." Um, and then also the other thing is I'm never going to give you a like 6.7 answer because I'm rarely asking you an estimation that has that kind of answer. like some of them do, but usually it's not even that important that you get to 6.7. It's important that you get to an order of magnitude of 10. And as long as you're there, I'm happy. And so that's why I'm not getting to the exact answer, which I know is uncomfortable and not what you're used to um educationally, but it's what the estimation is there for. Um, another person mentioned that uh some people seem like they were taking a really long time and getting sort of lost in the estimations. Um so I try to give you the right amount of time for the estimation so that it's reasonable but it is something to practice getting more fasile with I guess. All right so wind energy. So does anyone know why we have wind on the earth? Yeah because we have heat. Yes. From sun. Yes. So, it's kind of funny because wind energy is basically a funky solar energy, which I I find I find pleasing. I don't know why, but I do. Um, there's also some coriololis effect stuff going around on with the the Earth rotating, but the um indirect solar energy component is uh more more easy to think about and I I think I think is the bigger component, though I'm not sure of that. Um so basically you have uneating even heating of the earth. Um hot air rises causes a pressure drop cold air rushes in and that movement is is what we're getting in wind. So that's what's going on there. Um, and then a lot of confusion sometimes happens like a lot of people see these turbines on or not turbines but mills on farms and it's confusing like what's this versus this? Is this just a junky version of this? And so the difference is if it's a mill, it's extracting mechanical power versus a turbine is extracting electrical power. So these mills are um very high torque devices that um move relatively slowly um in terms of their rotation and are used to do things like pump water or grind grain. They've been around forever. They're still really common in the US and in many places for pumping water. So if you drive across the country, you'll see these everywhere. Um, and they're still in use and they're really nice and a whole lot cheaper to build a mill than to build a turbine because you're you're going from mechanical work to mechanical work. So that's very direct and much much cheaper than doing the extra steps to get from um mechanical work to electric power generation. So a wind turbine in contrast is electrical power. They have been around a long time too, but not not you know basically for most of humanity long time. Um and again they're uh they're going to be moving very quickly at um much slower torque. The the solidity thing to think about is that when you want high torque, you want to be getting as much of the air hitting your blades as possible. So that's why there's often many many blades or really thick blades on a windmill. Whereas a wind turbine, you want um low solidity. So you want a low proportion of your blade to be in that swept area. So that's why a turbine is it looks very different. Um so wind turbines I'm going to focus on. Um but I will go back to windmills a little bit at the end. um you have two types, right? The horizontal and the vertical axis. The vertical the horizontal axis is what you're used to seeing around here. Um and what's in the news a lot um because they can go to much higher heights and wind is much better the higher you go basically. Um, and so the horizontal wind axis turbines are um the more common thing at least in in my knowledge before I started doing any research into them. So there's the rotor and the mo the motor are at the top. It has to point into the wind. Um the higher you go the better. Um but you can imagine the higher you go adds costs and difficulty. Um, you often try to change your blade pitch to maximize the efficiency because depending on how fast the wind is, you want a different blade pitch. Um, and they're now really insanely huge. So this is an insanely huge um se seven megawatt turbine which um I think you can sort of see like is there a truck down there or anything? It's it's hard to get scale when it gets this big but it's ridiculous. And some of the challenges you can imagine in building this thing is just getting all the materials to the site because you're probably not going to build your manufacturing plant of how how you build your your uh I'm still a little off the long blade blade. Thank you. You know, you're not going to build your blade right on the site where you're going to want to install your turbine probably. So then you have to get your blade there. So then you're actually limited by like the size of a train railroad car or a large truck or whatever. So there's all these crazy limits when you're getting up to be this enormous. Um so it's uh kind of remarkable and challenging and this is on of a scale that we're not going to be touching of course. Um but it's nice to sort of see the extreme of of what is out there. Um, so this is a 7 megawatt turbine that's actually running now, I believe, and they're currently building a 10 megawatt that'll be in production in a year or running in a year or two. So, um, which is a pretty big jump, 7 to 10. So, um, yeah, it's it's definitely an area that's taking off. Um, so how this is just classic sort of Berni drawing um to remind you how they're spinning in the wind and that the the motion is really dominated by lift not drag. Um, one thing to think about is the need to control the spin rate. Um, so you can imagine on days where there's not much wind, you might want to change the pitch of the blade to make sure you're maximizing um the wind you're capturing. But on hurricane days, you um have to make sure that your your wind turbine doesn't completely uh just spin out of control. And so this is a really nice relatively simple way to do it. So you can do it mechanically or um electrically or you can do it like manually. So like old wind turbines from wind windmills from you know 100 or 200 years ago there was some poor guy whose job it was is to turn the turbine into the wind mill into the wind or not depending on how fast it was. So thankfully that there's been ways to optimize that either mechanically or um electrically. So this is a method where basically the weight of the tail and the turbine allows the tail to um stay connected to the the turbine so that the tail I'm getting lots of cute faces so I'll go slowly. Um so the turbine generally has a tail that's exactly um perpendicular. So this plane and the plane of the tail are perpendicular, right? So that the tail make sure it's always pointing into the wind, which is what you want, except when you're going too fast. Now you need the tail and the front of the turbine to not be perpendicular, but to start to to if hypothetically if you're in gales, you need it to be 100, you know, completely um rotated so that the wind is just passing by the turbine. or if you're in a moderate wind where it's too fast for the turbine but still um usable, you want it to be off a little bit. And so the way this works is that when the wind speed gets high enough, you get some lift in either the tail or the turbine. I forget how how it operates exactly. And so that allows this tail stop to be disengaged. So then the turbine rotates a little bit which you can sort of see from this top view. These are the front views and this is the top view. So then the turbine rotates a little bit and then the weight balances out and so then the top engages again and then it maintains this angle of orientation and then if the wind speed gets even higher it will again the weights will get out of balance, things will lift, the stop will disengage. So it's a really cool system um to keep keep your device safe. Um, and there's a lot of a lot of them out there. Uh, and so I just wanted to show an example of what happens when you don't remember where's my mouse to include that or don't do it right. Um, so watch carefully. So, that was an expensive day and they're really lucky that no one um was under there. Um so, I'll put it back so you can watch it again. Can you see? Were you saying you couldn't see it? Just did you make it work or So, what did the blade just fall off? Like did it just like so it rotated so fast that I believe one of the blades broke off and then once one breaks it's totally out of balance and the whole thing just falls apart and it's moving at such fast speed that really crazy dynamics are going on. Um so yeah, so there's really solid reasons to design these, right? Um especially when you're talking big scale, but even small scale. Um you can imagine in a hurricane it's not going to be a safe thing to be near. Um and the small ones are often near people. Okay. So the typical components of a wind turbine, you have your rotor, you have your blades, you have a brake um because you want the turbine to be turning at a certain speed ideally and so you may need to break provide braking before you're providing rotation out of the wind. That's another you know smaller step you can take. Um, you have a gear box to get the speed to the right speed to power your generator. Um, typically on a fancier wind turbine, there's an anometer that provides the electrical control with these yaw drives and motors to rotate the um, turbine into the wind or out of the wind to maximize uh, the speed of your turbine and then your tower. And then so all the uh electricity is being generated in this part of the body and then the power is just going down the um the tower and you can imagine the challenge of when you need to do maintenance on this and you're talking about something really high up that you have to deal with it. So, the smaller turbine or turbines that we'll be looking at, they're all on guide wires and on a pivot so that you can rotate them down so you don't have to climb up to do maintenance because that requires a much sturdier tower and is a much more dangerous job. Um, some installation considerations that one would think would be obvious but aren't always. So, this is a a wind turbine that's been installed basically on a rooftop um by some trees. So, it's got two types of uh objects that are blocking the wind entirely. So, this, you know, was a many thousand installation that's probably providing zero electricity because it the wind may be sufficient 30 meters up, but right there is never going to be sufficient. Um, so the good 30 meters, 30 feet. Um, a good rule of thumb is you want your turbine to be 30 feet above any obstruction within 300 ft. Um, and so obstructions include like houses and plants and anything else that might be in the way. So, next up is vertical access wind turbines. And you can see there's a huge range of them. Um, and you probably haven't seen most of these in production because again, they're they're not um they don't have the same level of efficiencies and benefits that um horizontal axis wind turbines have, but they're a whole lot cheaper and easier to build. So, for small scale solutions, they're they can be really ideal. There's a bunch of different names of these different types. So, for example, this is called a Darius wind turbine. This is a Savonius wind turbine, which you'll be building on Friday. Um, and this is a cool combo. Savonius, Darius. Um, this the Savonius will start up automatically in wind and the Darius won't, but the Darius gets a little bit better efficiency. So, the combining sort of gets gets you the best of both worlds with some drawbacks of course too. Um, and so these power traffic lights in Taiwan. Um, so there are places where these are installed effectively. Um, and they're kind of cool. Um because as you can see here um you can almost build them out of anything and you will build them out of anything on Friday. Hey Amit, do we have enough plastic bottles? Speaking of which, for Friday. So added to your homework is on Friday you need to bring in a plastic bottle like a Gatorade bottle, a 2 liter bottle, whatever. Um it doesn't it doesn't have to be two liters. It can be one liter or h you know like a 20 oz can uh bottle. But we need plastic bottles. If everyone bring brings one, we'll be in good shape. Is that doable? If you check the recycling bins walking to class, you'll find one. Um, cool. So, the some of the advantages, they're close to the ground, so you don't have any line losses um associ comparative to the horizontal axis wind turbine. Um, you don't need any yaw or pitch control because they're just in the wind. They're intended to be in the wind and that works. Um, so they work for and they work generally for lower wind speeds, which is means lower heights. They're often much less noisy than wind turbines, uh, horizontal axis wind turbines, and they can often start at lower speeds. Um, but some of the advantage disadvantages, they're hard to scale up. So you're never going to get a seven megawatt um, vertical axis wind turbine. that's just not viable. Um they're generally less efficient and they're more prone to fatigue. So they do wear out um more easily because they're capturing so much more of of the wind typically. Um but they um for our purposes they're definitely a possibility to look at um for anything. Just a reminder of the equations we're thinking about. So the force is um that you're receiving is equivalent to uh 12 * row a v ^ 2. So v is obviously the velocity of the wind, the crosssectional area swept and the density of the wind. um the maximum possible power extraction uh is uh def dominated by the velocity cubed. So obviously velocity is going to be you velocity is really going to be what you worry about when you're designing. Um so area is important obviously but the cube velocity velocity is cubed so the wind speed is huge. Um so whenever you're thinking is this a place where the veloc where is a wind turbine appropriate the first question is well what's the wind speed? Um and then there's a coefficient of performance which just um is a reality that um wind turbines are not perfect. Um and so there's a hypothetical limit and you if you Google the bets limit you can find the proof if uh that's appealing. It's kind of cool. um of point almost 6 is your hypothetical maximum efficiency. And then a typical limit in reality is anywhere from a half for a really sweet horizontal axis wind turbine to less than um a tenth for um a a vertical axis wind turbine that um I'll show you later. That's really old school um but does the job when you need it. Um, so the other equation that you want to think about is the capacity factor. So I've seen some websites that say like, you know, wind is so much better than solar because wind is 24/7. Well, not really. Like unless you're getting up way into the atmosphere and even then there's a lot of variation. You're not wind is not 247. There's a tremendous amount of variation. And so it's generally 20 to 40% of the time is how often your turbine is um provide generating power which is sounding starting to sound more like solar actually. Um so that's one thing to definitely keep in mind. Um okay. So a typical C power curve. So at some point at some given speed um is when the turbine starts actually turning because up until then it can't physically turn because the wind forces aren't high enough. And then your output in terms of uh power is very very low. And then you have an average wind speeds generally somewhere around here which is giving you half of the wind power or the power that you'd like. And then you have a maximum wind speed and then you're happy happy happy and then at some point it gets so high that you have to shut the turbine down or else you're in trouble. So, um, that's just a a good general way to think about what's happening over different speeds because you're I'll show you later. We're going to look at data that shows you the different, um, speeds. So, uh, these are, uh, maps from NASA that show wind speed across the entire globe. Um, and you can see if it's um very dark, it's very low wind speed. And if it's very light, it's higher wind speed. Um, so if we could just fill this part of the ocean with wind turbines, that would be pretty sweet. But you can actually see um in Nicaragua, which is right over here, um you're getting pretty decent wind um compared to say if we were working in um these parts of Africa or up up here in Russia or something. we we wouldn't be thinking win turbines at all. Um, and you can see how much variation there is between January and July. And so, of course, there's a lot of seasonal variation no matter what. Um, and you can see like this blue is 7 meters/s, which is getting to be useful. Um, for horizontal axis wind turbine, you need 5 meters/s. Um, for vertical, you can go a little bit lower, but five is a good rule of thumb. Um, and again, why we're looking at velocity over everything else is because velocity is cubed for your power equation. So, great, I've told you wind speeds. I've showed you a NASA map of the entire Earth, but that doesn't tell you much for a given location. So, one way to get a really rough estimate of wind speed is this Bowford scale, which was developed in the 1800s. Um, and it correlates what you can visually see and what kind of damage you're seeing to the speed. Some of the caveats on this are number one, it's pretty rough. Um, and especially if you're talking to people in a community saying like, you know, tell me about wind speed and giving them examples. It's hard to remember exactly what the wind is like. Like, can you tell me what the Bowford scale was today walking here? I can't like I don't remember. I don't really pay attention to the wind that much. Um, if you're working with farmers, they're probably a little bit more aware of it than you and I might be, but still, um, it's challenging. And the other thing is that a lot of these metrics are on the ground and we're probably talking about significantly higher than the ground depending on what kind of turbine you're implementing. And so again, that that only helps you. So, if you're finding out that you're probably at um 4 m an hour, which is 2 m/s and really low, but at the very ground level and you're building a turbine that's 30 m up, maybe uh 30 ft up, maybe you have a shot um of getting enough wind. Yeah. Is there like a uniform um scale from like what the wind speed at the ground level is and then how how it changes vertically? So, or is that a regional thing? What's up? Well, so it's both. So, yes, there are some scales that can help you estimate if you know what the ground is, what it is up above, but it also is really dependent on what's around. And so, I'm about to show you a tool that helps a little bit with that, but it's still very imperfect. Um, ideally you'd have an animometer and you leave it up for five years and you'd have it at, you know, 10 different heights, you know, 10 different anominers, 10 different heights and that would get you actual real data that you'd be psyched for. But that would be a really ridiculously slow expensive project. And so a lot of this is just estimations and doing your best guesses. Um, so this I'm sorry for the web link. As you'll see, this website is like web. It's not even web 1.0. It's like web 0.5, but it has like awesome data um from NASA. So, you go to this website with that awful link and then there's a bunch of different ways to get this data. And this is actually for both useful for solar and wind. So, if you're worrying about solar data, too, this is really useful. So, if you don't know where you want to, you don't know your latitude and longitude, you can click use a map to click. Um, every time you do this, you have to log in. Um, but there's it's very easy to um join because you just type your password twice instead of once once you become a member. Um, and then it's slow, but uh it's it looks so clunky that I was afraid you'd be turned off by it. And it has good enough data that I wanted to go through showing you um it. So, you have this map of the Earth. You click in the part of the Earth that you care about to center it. You click to zoom. Um, we're in the wrong part of the world, but we're getting there. Uh, I'm going to zoom in again. All right. And you can see like this is data for a region, not for a small town. So there's all sorts of limits to this data, but it's useful. And so now you can finally get your data and now you can get crazy information. So parameters for solar cooking, for solar panels, um cloud information, which can be really useful, temperature, which can be really useful. Um and now we're getting to wind. So you can see the variety. So you can get 50 meter and 10 meter but because this is all satellite data or airport data. Um so 50 m is pretty high for anything we're talking about and then 10 m for terrain similar to the airport because they're measuring at the airport because that's the place where they have an animomer. So all of this data you again you have to take with a grain of salt but it's good to you know if you use that in conjunction with your own visual observations and talking to people it's it's better than nothing. um which is the alternative or you know a million-dollar 10-year study which um isn't viable either. So we're gonna just look at wind speed at 50 uh meters for that area of Nicaragua I just selected. And you can see the like a 10-year average and a minimum and maximum variation. So, it's pretty helpful just to get get you into the ballpark of do I have a shot of thinking this might work? And then some of the other things uh that you can select for are like, you know, what how high you are. Um, so Jessica, this is getting to what you were interested in. Um, like an an estimate of where you are and what your ground cover is and then it sort of extrapolates what the what the wind will be. So, it's pretty useful um and powerful. Is it 100% accurate given that it's doing really broadbased readings? Of course not. But it's a start. Um so it's nice it's it's a nice uh resource to know about. Uh so now I want to spend a little time to talk about examples of wind power in developing countries. So, one is the humdinger wing belt, which is totally different from what you're used to seeing and was developed by a student who actually took one of the first DAB classes um when it was back when it was the Haiti class. Um, and we have a wind belt here, but I couldn't find it. So, maybe during break I'll be able to dig it up or if not, maybe we can bring it up by Friday and show it in lab on Friday. Um, so the way the wind belt works is that instead of a rotation, it just uses um the vibration of the belt very similar to I don't know if you if you guys can remember the um the name of the the bridge that um collapsed. Yeah. Does everyone know the Tacoma Bridge? Yeah. So uh well Google it because you can see videos and it's awesome if you haven't. So, um yeah, it is totally scary, especially because um I have a friend who did some research into it and so this bridge um was a super long bridge and uh it just had natural frequencies at the same uh rate as the wind was off and blowing. And so the bridge would just go up and down and up and down crazily. And eventually one day it got so bad that it completely broke apart. And the crazy thing is that people used to hang out on the bridge on the really windy days because it was so fun like you know it's like a roller coaster. So it's extra scary thinking about that. So anyway, but this this was the sort of the inspiration um for the humdinger which just has a really tightly pulled belt in the middle um of a support structure so that the and you put this wind so the wind is going perpendicular to the board. And so that hits the natural frequencies of the belt and causes it to vibrate. And then you just have some magnets next to a coil on the corner that allow you to generate electricity. So for um certain applications, this can be a really lowcost way to provide electricity and you can you this is a pretty relatively fancy way of building it. But you can imagine and they have building it out of like a PVC pipe um which you can get anywhere um and build building it really simply and because there's no very few moving parts and nothing rotating it's much easier to build than even a vertical axis wind turbine. Um and so it's a really neat application and you know hypothetically you could imagine building it into structures like um railings on buildings and stuff um in order to uh power different things. So this is one example and we do have at least a couple at DAB so we'll make sure to show you them later today or tomorrow. Um another example is there sort of the classic um wind turbine in developing countries was designed by Hugh Pigot. Um and these are pictures of work being done at Blue Energy on which is in Blue Fields in Nicaragua and we worked with them last year. Um and they build all these turbines. So you can see there's the the support wires and that you can rotate the uh the turbine down so that you can um do maintenance on it. Um which is a really nice feature. So that's one sort of classic design that's pretty common in developing countries. Um and then a lot of people have heard of William Kamwamba. Oh, there's the wind belt. So let me go back to that. So I'll pass this around but you and the belt is not exactly taught at the moment. Um, but you can see just the belt, the magnet on the belt that goes against the coil, and that's really all there is to it. And then a little bit of circuitry in order to generate power, which is a really simple way to do things. So, what's the idea? The wind goes through the tape there. Yeah. And the tape vibrates because it hits natural frequencies and the vibration allows you to generate electricity. It's movement is all you need. Thanks. Um, so William Kamwamba um was this guy. Where did he live? Did I write it down? in Malawi and he just got really interested in how how he could get electricity at his house and went to the library and read a bunch of books and got inspired and built his own um wind turbine which doesn't look like your traditional wind turbine. Um there are a few design improvements that could be made, especially with better resources. um but worked well enough for him to power a radio at his house and charge cell phones which got people really excited so that then he could they would start paying him so he could start building um more and more um turbines. So it's a really cool story and now he's at Dartmouth um doing in school which he never could have done had he not um built this turbine. So he's a cool guy. Um, we may be able to get him to come down to talk to our class this year. We'll see. I'm trying. Um, but his adviser at Dartmouth is very reluctant to let him travel. I'm sorry. Yeah. So, but because he didn't grow up here, like he's getting very um parented at a different level than um you guys are. So, um by by the professor at Dartmouth. Um so anyway uh so just a cool example of something very low tech that worked really well and u made a remarkable change for this guy and also um his village. Um and then working all the way down to the really simplest wind turbine. So, this is AI don't know if you say it as Panem or Panamone, but one of those um wind turbine, which is incredibly old technology that was this is the like 10,000 BC technology that we're talking about. And it's just sails um that rotate. The sails actually each one rotates 180 degrees. So, they're always moving in the wind. Um and this is this is not a turbine. This is a a mill. So, the act of it spinning pulls this rope pump. Maybe if I turn off the light so it'll be easier to see. So, there's a rope pump here. And the way a rope pump works is incredibly simple. So, you just have a rope inside a tube um that goes down into the water um table so that you're you're filling um you're getting water um through holes in the in the tube. And then you either have knots in the rope or if you can find them, rubber washers like every foot along the tube. And this is obviously not to scale in any way. Um, and so the water gets trapped between the washers and you pull up the water that way. And so this is really simple. Again, we're talking about ridiculously low efficiencies, but if you need to irrigate, this is a way to do it that just uses the wind. Um, it works really well. So, and this was built for $40. So which is ridiculously inexpensive compared to even like a Hugh Pigot wind turbine which is you know in the thousands of dollars. So there are opportunities for a whole range of possibilities. And then yeah there's just so many different types out there. So if you look into it wind is one of the areas where people get really excited and like to build their own stuff. And so you can see a huge v variety of designs in the world. So that's wind in a very fast nutshell. Are there any questions about that? Okay, so uh next is micro hydro. Um and microhydro is kind of funny because it's harder to find really good examples of installations in the developing world because they tend to be just built but not well documented is what I'm finding. So, um, so I'm going to talk more about how you would, uh, determine if a microhydro installation would be appropriate, and I don't have as many good examples of installations that are successful, but um, they're certainly out there. Uh, so hydro power is just using the gravitational flow of water to generate power. Um, considering both the the two terms I'm going to use are head and flow rate. So head is the distance that the water falls and flow rate is how quickly the water is moving. Um and so hydro power can be at you know two megawws and much beyond and can be a sizable um is a sizable impact on our nation's electricity supply for example all the way down to a 200 watt um turbine or smaller. Um so I'm saying micro hydro for this lecture. probably some of the stuff I'm talking about is actually pico or mini um ranging um it's and everyone defines these differently. So if you look up what pico hydro is you'll see 10 different definitions. So it's not critical that you're getting exactly and you can even see I there's there's uh between pico and micro there's something right. So according to this definition um yeah so and this is with water power it's the same um as wind in terms of there's mills and there's turbines so you can think of the the o old grist mills and other things that you can see in parts of New England still um they're again they're low velocity high torque delivering mechanical power directly um as opposed to a turbine which is higher much higher velocity much lower torque to allow you to generate electricity. So those are the two extremes. Um yeah in terms of micro or hydro power there's two methods. So, one is called run of the river, and that means that you're just taking a chunk of the river um and siphoning it siphoning it off into a tube that goes directly into your turbine. Um the as and the other option is a dam. So, the benefits of this are that it's relatively simple. You can build it locally um compared to a dam is much harder harder to build generally. Um it's comparatively lower much lower environmental impact than a dam. um they're relatively affordable. Um but when you have a drought, you don't have any storage like you have with a dam. So that's the drawback. Uh and the dam is, you know, the reverse that you can accumulate your rainfall, which is great, but it's relatively expensive and there's a greater environmental impact on the negative. Um because damning up water affects the local environment from the fish to just what the fields look like etc etc. Um I'm sure you've heard of dams in China or similar that um you know have destroyed entire like many entire communities um for building dams on a very very large scale. Um and then yeah and there's more maintenance associated with the dam too in terms of silt silt accumulation. It's it's challenging. Um so we're just going to talk about the run of the river model. So the components that you have is something called a wear that diverts a chunk of the water into your tube. Um you generally have a settling basin so that any debris um settles out uh because you don't want it going into your turbine because you'll destroy your turbine. Um a for bay which is a small holding tank so you're getting reserve capacity that way but that's talking about like variation on the order of seconds or minutes not days or months. uh pentock, which is a closed pipe flowing downhill um that feeds directly into your turbine um that then generates your electricity and then the water is returned back to the river. There's a lot of different turbine types. Um so the one of the most efficient, if not the most efficient, is called a Pelton wheel. And you can see it's it's got a relatively complex geometry. Um and so relatively expensive and challenging to build. Um but if you do um it's it's very efficient. Um it works well for a high head low flow situation. So again head is how far the water is dropping. Um Francis wheels which work better for lower head higher flow. Um which has a high a spiral casing where the water comes in and spins this turbine and then comes out. uh cross flow where the water flows over this um cylinder which has a bunch of blades on it and that's what spins the spins the ro the shaft to generate electricity. A propeller which literally uses a ship's propeller um and instead of the ship's propeller being powered in order to move the boat it's it's using it in the exact opposite way. Um and you can see that these, you know, you need different um types of turbines for different flow and head situations. Um and then one example is just literally putting something in the river, skipping that all that extra stuff of filtering um of of siphoning off the water and just putting something on top of the water. Um which seems really simple and great until you think about like all the challenges in terms of flooding and debris in the water and etc., etc. This this is a a device that is really prone to failure. Um but it works in areas where that's your only option. Um or it can work. Uh yeah. So some of the considerations you need for microhydro one is uh that the minimum um head and flow you need is 3 ft of head and 20 gallons per minute of flow. Um so that would be the minimum head you need and um if you have more head either bonus you get more power or you can therefore have reduced flow because the the power equation here is again a coefficient of efficiency uh times the water density and gravity times the height which is your head and Q which is your flow rate. So you can see that HQ you can keep constant if you you know if you increase your head you can lower your velocity and keep your power constant. Uh one nice just rule of thumb is if you stick with SI units row G is about 10. So you can just plug that in rather than having to remember the density of water and gravity. Though in SI units that's relatively easy but if um 10 is a nice way to just remember it. Um and then efficiency is somewhere be generally between 40 and 70%. Uh one other thing to think about is just when you have your uh pentock go so that's the water going through the pipe to get from the top of the river down to your generator. Um if your pipe diameter is too small the you're going to have frictional losses in the pipe that dominate and slow your water down so much that it's problematic. So that's another thing just to remember. um because it's tempting to use small diameter pipe um for a variety of reasons, but that's dangerous. Um so how do you figure out if a air of a river is appropriate for using um microhydro? So the two things you need to know again are flow and head. So the simplest method I can find for measuring flow um is called a float method. And you can imagine actually doing this in a river would be challenging. So it's not trivial, but it is possible. Um, so you mark about a 100 feet along a length that's ideally straight with uniform length and depth or width and depth. Um, which is comical to find in a river, right? Like I've never found a river that has 100 feet of uniform width and depth, but you do your best. Um, and then you calculate your cross-sectional area. A people usually model it as um a semicircle or a trapezoid or even just a rectangle. Um calculate that cross-sectional area. You place a marker at the start and end of your 100 ft and then you put floats in the river at the center of the stream um and time them to find out how long it takes for them to get from one end to the other. If you want to get complicated, you can uh put them all along a bunch of different points at different levels to worry about friction losses, but you don't actually have to do that to get a a ballpark measurement. You can just do it in the center. Um and so and good floats could be a tennis ball, could be an apple or something like that, whatever you can find that floats. Um, and then you do have to use a conversion factor because your water's flowing faster at the top of the water than in the the river than in the center because um because of the friction associated with the the base of the river. Uh, and so you have to um you can use a coefficient just to correct and then you get your flow rate. Yay. So that was a lot of work and all you have is a flow rate for one day and water varies like flow rate varies tremendously during the season. So again you can do your 10 10ear study or you can just um get some data on annual precipitation and when is the rainy season the dry season and do your best to estimate. Um but yeah so that's how you'd get your flow rate. And then in terms of head, the simplest method that again that I found that's used is you take a yard stick or a stick of known length. It doesn't need to be a yard stick. And you put on it just a tube that's clear that has the ends capped that's half full of water. And that's a really cheap level. Um, basically uh or you can get a real level if you have a real level. But if you don't have a real level, you can just use a cheap level. And then you hopefully with two people you put the stick at the bottom or the top and then just keep moving it over and over again until you measure your head which is a pain but people do it and it works. Um and actual surveying equipment is really expensive and so you're unlikely to have that in the field. So if a community partner asked about this you have a method to measure that's plausible. Yeah. Sorry. What the heck was the drop of the water? Right. So, you're putting this in the river this way. So, for the flow measurement, you're putting the the your floats in the water and watching how long it takes to get from one end to the other. And that'll give you a measure of flow. And then your river ideally is, let me get a picture instead of trying to draw a bad picture. So your river is hypothetically going down the mountain here and sort of doing a curve. And so you're saying, okay, well, I'm going to put my um weir and everything up here, and I'm going to put my uh location where I'm going to actually generate the power down here. So I need to calculate the height from right here to right here to get my head height. So now I need to, you know, very painfully go up the mountain in order to figure out exactly how high this distance is. Does that clear it up? Okay. So, that wraps up microhydro. Are there any questions in addition? Okay. So, trip. Uh I want to start talking about the trip uh and spend actually the rest of the time talking about it. So yeah uh so let's do that. Um so one um change is that one group of students is going to go to El Salvador now instead of Nicaragua. And the reason for that is Amy Smith just came back from a trip to El Salvador where she found a community partner that's really interested in us and we think they're doing great work and are a solid connection and um so we decided to see if we could add Necar or El Salvador and we're able to in about 2 hours which is remarkably fast compared to like the months it takes to develop relations with other community partners. So hopefully that's a good sign. Um, and they're really interested in charcoal, which, um, is something you'll be trained in next week. So, it just seemed like a good fit. So, u, and you've already know about this group, so I'll talk to you offline if you want about it. Um, but yeah, so we're excited to be working with them. So, one group of students is going to be going to El Salvador and then two teams will be going to Nicaragua. Um, and El Salvador doesn't border Nicaragua, but it's pretty close. So, we're not that spread out yet. Uh we're not we're not approaching DAB development quite yet. So the teams are as follows. So OSO Phoenix will be going to um well Boss Roser and Briana will be going to OSO Phoenix and um Carter you'll be working with them um for the start of the term. Just I don't know if I've mentioned this, the teams that you go with to like and the projects you work on at for the for the spring break trip may or may not be what you end up working on afterwards. So what happens is the week after you get back from spring break, we sort of figure out what projects are going to happen. You tell me what you prefer to work on. And some students are really psyched to stay on the project that you went on spring break. And naturally, I'm going to try to make you or m make it possible for you to stay on the project you're really psyched about. Um, and especially if you're knowledgeable about it because you just went on a spring break drip, great. Um, but if for whatever reason you're like, you know what, I can't stand Phoenix. I don't want to work with them or any of their projects ever again, I'm not going to force you. I'm hopefully not going to be have to force you to stay on that. So, there may be a little shuffling. So, especially the people who aren't traveling, um, there's variation. And I'm pretty sure Eric has dropped the class. So, but if he hasn't, um, he, uh, would be on this group. So, the projects that you're going to be working on, um, one is, uh, last year the students worked on the OJ bag sealer. And so, one thing is delivering that bag sealer, which ideally means reading the final report from last year and learning how it works so you can show it to us Phoenix staff when you get there. Um, and that's sort of like the side servicey project as opposed to the investigative parts of the work. And then the one, two, and three are the projects that you're going to be investigating. So one is the biodigestertor, which is um they have biodigesttors and they want to be able to mix internally um so that the slooh um provides better digestion. Um and they're looking at either hand or bicycle power. Um and they have both concrete and plastic biodigesttors. Uh the second is a feed chopper mechanism using bicycle power and I can show you video of the feed chopper. And third is a washing machine. DAB actually has done a lot of work on washing machines and so this is one area where you can learn about the existing washing machines designs and then potentially bring them down and even build one while you're there um is a possibility. Um, and I at the end of going through all this, I'm going to talk about what you need to do with this information in the next few weeks. And then um, you'll have time to work with your teams, talk to me a little bit, your mentor if will show up at two to work with you a little bit on all of this. Um, the second group of one, Jessica, Elizabeth, Vivian, Sid, and Kurt is going to group of Phoenix. Um, Amelia Servey is your trip leader. She took the class this class last year um and did a summers fellowship at Group of Phoenix and so she knows them pretty well. Um and she's a grad student now. Um and so the projects are number one they're really interested in charcoal both um the stove and a stove project that was worked on last year on making charcoal generally. So working with them on charcoal. Um two solar cell phone chargers um to develop more affordable um version for production. Um they currently are working on developing a cell phone charger. I can show you the battery charger they have and it's pretty rudimentary and partly that's a function of their poverty and availability of materials but there is opportunity to improve it. Um and they would like to have a really good solar cell phone charger. Um, and then three, they have a solar cooker that's really expensive. I'll talk about it next week some. Um, and there's a lot of opportunity for improvement there to make it more affordable to produce and more aesthetically pleasing and um, more functional too. Uh, we have some data on there. And then the third group um, in El Salvador is called Asoproar. And so Benzy, Missy, and Julia will be going there. and Adrian and Benji, you'll be on that team, too. Um, and so the projects, so they're interested in a charcoal training, and that again, so that would be sort of the service part. Um, better ventilation for smoke in the home is one area of interest we believe. Um, secondly is we think charcoal stoves will be relevant in El Salvador based on what I remember of my trip there. I'm pretty sure they cook with adobe stoves just like they do in Nicaragua. So, it'll be relevant to work on the stove project there. And then potentially better lighting um opportunities, too. Um and a lot of these are sort of have a bit of an architectural bent, which we haven't focused on much in this class, but Julia is a grad student architecture, so she's going to help um with that aspect of things. Um guess what? Uh uh so yeah, so we're excited about that project and thanks for the people who are rolling with just being sent to a new country with very little notice. Um so what do you have to do with all this? Um, so right now and by right now I mean in the next two hours. Um, talk to me um, and do some brainstorming of ideas. Um, and your deliverable for this step is two annotated pictures from each team member. Um, and so there's a lot of different deadlines for all these different things. I'm just trying to help you get through the next couple of weeks in a way that you actually get output and don't save it all to the last night, which will lead to really weak both packing and um help for your community partner. Um so this is all hopefully in preparation so that you can maximize the value to you and your community partner for the spring break trip. Um, and for people who aren't traveling, you're helping make sure they're maximizing their their work and it's also getting you prepared for doing the project work after the spring break. So, I don't think this is busy work for you in any way. Um, so, so that's one is doing a brainstorming effort and I'm going to talk a little bit about brainstorming in a minute. So, you have some guidelines there. Yeah. I pictures you mean find examples of existing technology or like do sketches? No, just sketches. So, yeah. So, basically, I'll I'll show you this in a minute, but when you do a brainstorm, like if I was brainstorming wind turbines, I might do a picture that looks like that, you know, like takes me 10 seconds to draw tops. Um, and for the pictures you and that would be really appropriate in a brainstorming session for the pictures you turn in, I'd want it to be a little more refined so that um, this is everything is drawn a little bit more carefully. Um, there's a few more elements that actually make this a real device rather than just something disembodied in air, whatever is appropriate. Um, not many if any of you are artists, right, or techn graphic designers. And so I'm not looking for an amazing sketch that was done by a graphic designer or artist. Um, I'm not one either. But um, if you just draw relatively slowly and carefully, you know, maybe do a couple tries, you should be able to get a drawing that looks decent enough that it's understandable, which is all I'm really looking for. Um, so then the second thing is a literature search on the topic, which you may have time for as well, but I want you to do a brainstorm initially just to sort of get creative before you know what's out there necessarily. Um so then so that's why we're doing the brainstorm one brainstorming first but then a second set which you may have time to do some today if you brought laptops or what have you um is to get some information on what's out there um so that you're more informed uh about whatever you need to be u whatever your project is um there's and so the what I think would be a good deliverable for this is an annotated bibliography Um, and there's guidelines right there on how to write an annotated bibliography. The guidelines for annotated biblographies are generally on the like liberal arts side of things. And so they talk about summarizing what was the content, reflecting on whether it was useful and assessing the quality of the source. And all those things are are good things, but basically I want you to focus on summarizing what was there and reflecting on how it's relevant to your project for for each annotation and assessing the quality of the source. If it's a crappy source, just don't include it in the bibliography. And if it's a great source, include it. Um, and if there is something to assess that you want to note, don't don't hesitate to, but otherwise, you don't really have to time spend time assessing the source um in a written form. Um, so third is developing project specifications. And 29 does a really nice job of defining what a project specification is. So I've provided links to their lecture and examples. Um, and so you're going to provide project specifications for each project using the 209 format. So that would mean an attribute, a metric, a unit, and a value. And you'll see the definitions there. The value is an actual number. Like it needs like a three or a seven. And a lot of those numbers you probably won't be able to fill in until after your trip. And that's fine. But I would, what I would like you to do is come up with a best guess. Even if it's a range of a couple of orders of magnitude, come with the best guess so that when you talk to your community partner who often don't have a lot of um comfort with numbers and may give you really wacky numbers, if they're giving you numbers that are completely different from what you're expecting, that's a really good indicator to you that you need to keep asking questions so that either you learn that your assumptions are totally off, um which is a really important thing to learn, or that your community partner isn't really understanding the question or doesn't have the um educational background around to be able to give you a useful number and you have to work in a few different guises to actually get to that number and we'll talk about that on the trip prep week of how you actually do that process of getting that information. Um, and then the next aspects are doing a second brainstorm. Um, and it's up to you as a team if you want to do this in two stages. So sometimes people like to brainstorm on their own for a bit and then come together and bring those ideas to a brainstorm and also build on more in a group brainstorm session. Some people prefer just to do a group brainstorming session. So it's up to you. But the second brainstorm should at least have a group component. Um and for those it's just two animated annotated pictures for each project. And so it's fewer pictures because it's it's not per team member. And so um you guys can just figure out how you want to split those up. Uh, another thing is the big questions you have that you want to make sure you get answered that you have those in mind so that you make sure by the end of the trip you've gotten answers to those questions. Um, and all of these questions are related to figuring out can you actually work on this project? Is this a good project? And if you are going to work on it, what what is the appropriate deliverable? That's the type of questions. Um, a materials list for the trip. So, you may well need some materials if you're going to do a charcoal demonstration. If you're going to try to build a washing machine, if you have a great idea for um a project and you want to try to actually implement either a prototype or something in the field, your community partner needs to know so that they can provide the materials andor we need to get them here so that we can bring them down. And so, um I put that you don't need this until the 16th, which is right before the trip. And that's only if like that's the last desperate time. If you can define them sooner, that's better so that your community partner has time to get them and or we have time to get them if you need help. Um, oh no, that was questions. Materials is earlier. Okay, good. That makes more sense. And then finally on the 16th you're going to do about a 15inute presentation um on your literature literature search findings your project specifications the annotated pictures the key questions and your key expected activities just so that you're well prepared for the trip. So that's basically the assignments apart from a little bit of reading for the next few weeks um which again violates the syllabus but um hopefully will work out. So, um, or be okay with you guys. Um, but I didn't want to add problem sets on top of this because this is a lot of work. Um, are there any questions about all of this? I have it, um, printed out so that when you're working on it today, you have something to refer to. Um, yeah. Did you get the dates for the flight? Yeah. Um, so most people are flying on Well, are people So people going to Nicaragua are flying on Sunday and getting back on the following Sunday. Um, what about El Salvador? Unless So, uh, Juan and Jessica have personal commitments, so they're flying back on Friday. And do you know what El Salvador is doing yet? Am Saturday. Okay. So, El Salvador may be traveling a day early. So, whatever the days are, I think so. Yeah. The 18th is the Friday. So, the Sunday would be the 20th. Um, and we'll send out your actual itinerary soon. Some of the tickets are booked, others are just reserved and we'll be booking them today. Um, so there's a couple of reading assignments um that'll be up on Stellar shortly. Um, this is just a somewhat different perspective from the Paul Pak reading you did. Um, and then this is directions on on charcoal making. So, both are are quite short. So, I know it might be seeming like a lot, but these are very manageable um to get done. So, um, now I just want to go over how to do brainstorming and then we can take a break and then you can get into your project groups and do brainstorming and start talking about the trip. Um, and then at two uh your mentors will show up unless your mentor is on meet. He's already here. Um, or trip trip leader um and uh so you can get support from them as well and and get to know them. So um effective and fun brainstorming you require a clear problem statement. So for this case um you're it's whatever the project idea is for your community partner project. Um after the after you get back from spring break, you have about four weeks of building and you have about a $500 budget. So, while you'll see I'm going to encourage you to have really wild ideas. And so, if you come up with a idea that completely violates the four weeks of building in the 500 budgets, still throw it out there. It's nice to have in your mind a general sense of these sorts of things so that you're not only brainstorming things that are in the like 7 megawatt wind turbine category. um if you're thinking about wind power. Um so for fun and effective brainstorming um you're trying to generate as many ideas as you can in 15 minutes. Um so 15 minutes is a good length of time. Sometimes you need a little more a little le less but around that time for any particular project statement. and then you can say take a break, take a stretch, and then come back and work on the next problem statement. Um, you want your sketch to really be a picture with a few words. So, a lot of people, if you know they're brainstorming weapons of war and you have your eight and a half piece of paper, might draw this. And I would say that this picture is a lot more evocative of what your idea is than using the words big and the, you know, just a tiny drawing. And those of us who are not so good at drawing, and I'm one of them, are tempted to draw really small because you don't want to show in really big format just how bad your drawing is. But even being a weak drawer, you can still get your idea across pretty well. This is like a threeinut sketch for an artist. So none of your brainstorm ideas are going to look this crafted. This might be some the actual annotated sketch that you turn in that you actually refine and spend some time on. So, you know, the 10-second version is going to be a guy and you have a guy and he's shooting stuff and here's the person who's unhappy getting shot at. And then here's the wheel that's moving your wall of doom. Right? So, this is a really fast version of that sketch. And um so that's what I'm looking for, not that. But I just wanted to emphasize it's most people start out you doing this and you really want to force yourself to do that with maybe you know the description at the top or the bottom but the picture should dominate not the words. Yeah. So I'm still a little confused as to how like the three projects that you listed on each slide relate to like the brainstorming and the Yeah. So the three projects, so if one of your projects was the feed shopper, right? Now you know nothing about that project, right? So you may not be able to brainstorm that at all until you come talk to me, which is part of what you need to do in the next hour and a half um is come talk to me so I can give each team a little bit more detail about their three projects. Um but one of them like might be something you you can brainstorm on initially um if there's a cue to wait for me. But either way, once you know a little bit about the feed chopper, then that'll be one of your brainstorming assignments is the the project the the community partner needs this this um mechanization of the feed chopper and let's brainstorm ways to mechanize that feed chopper. Um and just put out as many ideas as you can in 15 minutes. Um, and a good goal is to be generating like at least three ideas per minute, which doesn't sound like that many, but it's pretty challenging. Um, but that is sort of something to keep in your mind is I should be generating three ideas per minute. And so, if I'm not, I need to get crazier probably um, and less inhibited in order to successfully do it. Um, and so when once you draw this beautiful picture with your group, what you do is everyone's hopefully drawing and you just say, "Hey guys, my idea is an advancing wall of doom." Um, and then you grab a piece of tape and we're going to use the um the three fume hoods as our our boards. So each group will be around a fume hood. And so just tape your idea up on the wall and then get back on drawing. And if Kurt, you had said this advancing wall of doom, and I love that idea, I can say, yeah, it's going to be an advancing wall of doom, but instead of being wheelpowered, it's going to be um on on a big wheelpowered, it's going to be on a bunch of little wheels. And so in other circles, that might be considered theft, right? And you'd be really mad at me for stealing your idea. But in brainstorming, that's really encouraged is to quote steal people's ideas. So have no worry about that. Um you guys can work out your patent rights if you become millionaires over over your advancing wall of doom um later. Um so what are the rules of the game? So one is deferred judgment. So when I propose that I want to make a wind turbine that's just going to float in the air magically with helium balloons and you see a few flaws in that idea. um you just have to bite your tongue, right? Um and the one way you can manage that is by saying, "Okay, I'm gonna still take your, you know, I'm gonna build on your idea and instead of helium balloons, we're going to use a post that's attached to the ground." Um so, um but defer judgment even of your own ideas and of anyone else's. You know, if you're showing your idea, no saying this is really stupid, but here it is. Just say what it is. Um hopefully everyone is coming up with some really terrible ideas as well as really really good ones. And some of those really terrible ones have a kernel of awesomeness in them. And so that's why it's worth it to get them out. Um one at a time. So if everyone is talking at once, it's ineffective. So post them up one at a time. And you shouldn't draw like three ideas on three pieces of on one piece of paper. You should have each piece of paper for each idea. Um as I mentioned, so building on ideas. So theft is encouraged. Um don't be afraid of that. Try to stay focused, which can be hard. Spending 15 minutes trying to generate three ideas per minute. That's a lot of ideas. Um, but do try to do that. And then, um, as I mentioned, be visual. Um, and encourage, use wild ideas. Don't be afraid to be like, uh, yeah, wall of doom, but it's going to be made out of peanut butter. Like something that ridiculous, um, you know, just pops in your head, throw it out there because it may inspire someone to say, well, not peanut butter, but what about peanut shells? That would be a really lowcost way to make it, right? And all of a sudden that's a slightly useful idea for this ridiculous wall of doom. Um yeah, and then once you're done, um you can sort the pile to um divide to to get them into themes. So you can sort of, you know, just figure out what are your themes or what are your combinations. um figure out do those themes actually make sense and then often refine and combine the best. So those two ideas from each group don't necessarily have to be the ones you came up with but um ones that you think are some of the best of the what you came up with. Do you guys have questions on that? I went over that kind of fast. So but yeah. Okay. So then um for the next hour and a half, you guys can like take your 10-minute break and then come back and do the brainstorming, meet with me. Um and then please remember to fill out your muddy cards and include the hours per week um on them so that uh that you think you're spending on the class so that I I just have a sense of how that's going. But it's sort of a big blue box with a lid that you can open and it has like a table built in that sits on. Wait, so how big is a bunch of um They make them in different size, but it's basically like this. No, I'm doing a better drawing. Go. Wait, it doesn't make sense. It's supposed to be parabola and it's supposed to make it look like a funnel. I like it. Steal your idea. I'm trying to make a parabola. Well, then make it. Wait, hold on. Let me explain what it is, though. Oh, yeah. Oh, I'm trying to make a parabola. So, it's a parabolic solar cooker. I had thought of parabola. Let me just say that's why that's why you scratch it out so I could throw out a parabola with basically kind of stealing the idea from I don't know you guys source. They do solar cookers and they're in the Himalayas and they're really they use they're really mobile. You can fold them up and carry them around. So that was the idea. That's a redrawing. No, I'm trying to drop. You're like fine. Whatever. You can like redraw the poster over if you really want. Um my plan is to email us combination box and parabolic solar thing heating some kind of heating element then is So would that be like a liquid? Yeah, that's a liquid and Oh. Oh, shoot. Shoot. So, it'll have to cycle back.