Okay. So today we start the the natural language processing sequence and so just to give you a quick idea we're going to start with uh what's called vectorization uh and then the bag of words model and then we'll spend a fair amount of time on a collab uh and then on Wednesday we talk about these things called embeddings which you'll come to appreciate over the the next couple of weeks form like the sort of the core atomic unit of all modern natural language processing and for that matter vision processing as well. uh and then we will uh following week we'll do transformers two lectures on transformers we'll get into the theory and then we'll get into a bunch of applications and then lectures nine and 10 will be all LLMs all about LLMs so it's going to be a lot of fun u this is one of my favorite segments of the class of course truth be told every segment of the class is my favorite so don't judge me all right so let's get going uh so why why natural language processing u you know these are in some sense the the things I have on the slide here are sort of obvious but I think it's actually worth reme reminding ourselves of how important text is for everything we do. Uh obviously human knowledge is mostly encoded as text. The internet is mostly text. At least this was true till the advent of Tik Tok and YouTube. Uh and uh human communication is mostly text and cultural production you know movies, books, uh arts and so on. So much of it is so textheavy and so in some sense uh text forms not just a big chunk of all the media that's out there but it also happens to be the way in which we think and communicate and so on and so forth. So it's sort of uh primacy is in my opinion sort of unparalleled uh in how we think about the world. And so the the tantalizing possibility is that imagine if we had an AI system which could just read and quote unquote understand all this text, right? Um and so you can imagine such a system reading all of PubMed, reading all the medical literature and then coming back and saying you know for this particular disease you know this particular sort of protein is actually the malfunctioning protein and for that that small molecule is going to dock into the protein and cure the disease and you didn't know this. It came back and told you that. Wouldn't it be unbelievable? So my feeling is that such things are going to happen. It's just that it's not going to happen soon enough for my lifetime, but perhaps it'll happen in yours. All right. Okay. So, let's continue. So, NLP is an action all around us. Um, you know, according to Google, apparently Google autocomplete, uh, which uses a fair bit of NLP, uh, saves 200 years of typing time apparently, every day. Uh, I actually thought it was, you know, this I wasn't very impressed with this number, frankly, because billions of searches are being done every day and I'm like only 200 years. So anyway u but I think the more important point is that it made mobile possible right if you if you didn't have autocomplete people would not be you know typing and pecking on their keyboards it's going to be much worse it would have had a hugely dampening effect on e-commerce for instance so this humble little autocomplete has incredible incredible impact on the world economy and the other thing which I heard about I'm not sure if it's 100% true but it's an interesting example apparently the very first iPhone keyboard that came out right the soft keyboard not the hard keyboard. Um they had some very basic, you know, sort of word continuation prediction going on. And so if if when you start typing T and H, obviously it's going to guess the E is going to come next, right? So that part is old old news, nothing new there. But apparently the E letter in the keyboard will become slightly bigger. So when your finger goes towards it, it has a better shot of actually connecting with it. Right? So these kinds of things are used to change the UI in real time in a whole bunch of applications and you just don't even realize it. All right. So uh and of course we all know about uh LRM at this point. So I asked it to write a limmerick about the beauty and power of deep learning yesterday and it says in a world where data flows like a stream deep learning is more than a dream. Sifts through the noise with an elegant poise unveiling insights that gleam. Cool, right? All right. So let's get back to work. Uh so NLP has extraordinary potential for making products, service and services much much smarter. Uh and what I want to point out here is that you know even if you focus on this very very simple sort of formalism right a bunch of text comes in a bunch of text goes out that's it. If you take that very simple text in text out formalism this little humble little thing has just an enormous enormous range of applicability. Right? So obviously you can send a bunch of text in and ask it to classify it right for mo you know sentiment route it for customer support you can try to figure out the intent of what the person is asking in search you can filter it you can content filter to make sure there's no toxic abusive stuff going on I mean the the possibilities for just text classification are numerous okay but that's a that's sort of a use case we are all kind of familiar with right so no surprise there now text extraction we may be less familiar with here and the idea is that you can actually look at a lot lot of uh unstructured textual data and extract all sorts of interesting entities from it. Right? Hedge fun hedge funds use it very heavily. They will extract all sorts of company information from news articles u and then obviously doctor's notes. There are a whole bunch of NLP startups that will take the doctor's the doctor patient conversation transcribe it and then extract disease codes, diagnosis codes, medication codes and things like that. Uh right. So the possibilities for this are enormous. Of course text summarization and we all have been doing it thanks to chat GPT right take text in and any kind of summary that comes out of the text is just text out okay and then text generation of course we can take text and do marketing copy sales emails market summaries so on so forth and including troublingly for educators college application essays code generation is a more subtle example of text out because code is just text right so text in text out also covers was text in code out. Okay. And question answering. So you can take a bunch of text, you can take a whole bunch of documents, you can add a bit of text to it which is your question and this whole thing at the end of the day is just text it in and then you can have and you can use it to answer questions and therefore create chat bots for all sorts of interesting applications. And you know if you look at this example call centers that's that is where a lot of money is being spent right now to build these call center chatbots for text and text out question answering and so just if you drill into this right if you imagine taking all the call center transcripts and their internal product documentation service documentation FAQs etc stick it in you can start to answer these kinds of questions okay yesterday what are the top reasons why customers were upset with us what interventions made by the agent actually worked what did not work, right? What characterizes the best agents from the rest? How should we grade this particular agent's interaction with the particular customer? How should she how should we chain the call center script? How should we coach the agent in real time? Every one of these applications is aminable to this very humble text and text route model. Okay. And so, and of course the potential for is now everybody knows this potential because of the advent of large language models. Uh, by the way, Google is uh released something called Google Geminy 1.5 Pro u a couple of days ago. Uh, and it's incredible. It's incredible, right? And anyway, we'll get back to that later. But the point is that the kind of potential we have is just amazing even for text and text. Okay. And as you would imagine >> this is all like though we are calling it language this is all primarily English right >> now there are lots of multilingual uh models as well uh there are multilingual models by that I mean models which are specialized to other languages non-English languages and models which are mult truly multilingual like polyglot models as well and both of them are available uh right now and many many modern LLMs are actually trained from the get-go to be multilingual in a bunch of the what are called high resource languages. Languages which are spoken by lots of people. Uh but actually it's funny you should ask that question because this this Google Gemini model that I just described they actually u so there is a language called kalamang which is spoken by 200 people in the world and so a researcher had created a one book which is sort of like a grammar manual for kalamag right because there are no other written works in that language. And so what they did is they took a whole bunch of English dialogue and this book fed it into uh Google Gemini 1.4 Pro 1.5 and it translated into Calamong at human level proficiency. It had never seen it before. So that's an example of of this. Yes. So the question is the question text here is all the things you want to translate from English to kalamong. The documents here is just one document singular the grammar book the manual and then what comes out is a translation. So these models even when they're not explicitly trained on a different language if you give them enough of sort of grammar manuals and stuff like that they may do a pretty decent job from the get-go with no training. It's kind of a shocker. Two years ago people would be like that's impossible. All right. So back to this. All right. And as you folks, you know, may already know and maybe you're in fact participating in this gold rush already. Um, you know, lots of people are creating lots of really cool companies to take some of these ideas and actually create really interesting products and services out of them. Um, so if you're not doing it and if you've been thinking about entrepreneurial stuff, here's a word of advice. Take the plunge. Dismissed. Just kidding. All right. So, and as you can imagine, enterprise vendors are rushing to add NLP to all their products. Salesforce Einstein now has Einstein GPT. Microsoft has co-pilot. I mean, the list goes on. Everybody, everybody's like scrambling and really trying hard to infuse some GPT magic into whatever they're doing. Okay, some of it is real, a lot of it is not. Uh, okay. So, let's go to like the arc of NLP progress. How did we get to this kind of crazy times that we live in? Um so if you look at natural language processing basically efforts to take language and try to analyze language and you do predictions with language and so on and so forth. Um the first phase of it was just handcrafted rules based on linguistics. So these are all linguists who would really understand the grammar of a language and then they would use a deep knowledge of linguistics to figure out all these rules by which you can process and analyze natural language text. And then this other thing came along which was a statistical machine learning approach which basically said never mind all that complicated knowledge of linguistics and grammar. Why don't we simply count things? Let's count the number of times these two will co- occur. Now let's count that. Let's count this basically just count a lot. Okay. And let's see if it does right if it does for predicting things for say for classifying text and so on. And shockingly those methods ended up being really good. They ended up being really good and in fact they actually were better than the lovingly handcurated linguistically driven rules. Okay, so much so this is a famous quote which says every time I fire a linguist the performance of speech recognizer goes up right obviously made in justest but there is a kernel of truth to it. So that was that's what that's that's what that's where we were and then deep learning happened okay um in 2012 roughly and then we had these things called recurren neural networks which are based on deep learning which actually moved the ball forward and then in 2017 something called the transformer was invented 2017 and the transformer replaced everything else across the board so we just going to leaprog directly to transformers in hodle we will not spend any time on recurren neural networks and that is not to say that they are sort of dead. Um there's there's a very interesting work which actually is trying to now revive recurren neural networks to make it work for these kinds of modern LLM kinds of tasks but it's still very early days. Okay. So for now we'll just focus on transformers. Okay. So the the very high level view of the problem here is that like most things in deep learning it's basically fancy regression. There is some variable X that comes in. It goes through a bunch this goes to this very complicated function along with this W which is the weights and then out pops an output. Right? That's just the view that you've always had. And so in this case X happens to be text. Y can be text. It could be labels. It could be numbers. It could be anything else. The W is the weights. And the function is a deep neural network. Right? This by by at this point when you look at this slide it should be like blindingly obvious. So now the key question here is how do you actually represent X? That's the key question for pictures for images. We saw that we just took the pixel values which were light intensity numbers between 0 and 255 and you could just use that directly but when a when a sentence comes in like I love deep learning like what do you do right how do you actually represent it because remember we have to numericalize everything that's coming in. So that's a key question and and this actually is a very subtle question very important question and we'll focus on that today and then next week when we look at transformers we will look at what neural network architecture is best suited to process this sort of text inputs that are coming in right those are the two big questions we're going to look at all right so processing basics we going to follow this very standard process this is the process by which we take any any text that comes in and we do run it through these four steps and this process is called text vectorization and as the name suggest that we are essentially taking text and creating vectors of numbers out of it right text vectorization and we'll go through each of these processes one after the other so I just find it very useful to just have this acronym stie in my head like stie just keep that in mind it may be helpful um all right so we what we do is the setup here is that we have a whole bunch of documents, right? We call it the training corpus. We have a whole bunch of text documents, text data. Uh, and as far as we are concerned, you can just imagine it as just lists of long passages. Okay? What is a novel? It's just a long passage, right, of text. So whether it's a novel or a sentence doesn't really matter. We just think of them as a big list of strings, a big list of text. Okay, that's a training corpus. And what we do is we take this training corpus and we run it through and we apply standardization and tokenization which I will describe to this entire training corpus up front. Okay. So we first do this and and standardization is basically the default for most applications tends to be this which is we first strip capitalization and make everything lower case and then we remove punctuation and accents and so on and so forth. Okay, that's the first thing we do. I'll talk about why we do it in just a moment, but the mechanics of it are we do this first. Then we look at words like a, the, it, and so on and so forth. Basically filler words, right? Which which we we need to actually make complete sentences, but they may not have any value predicting things. So we remove them and they are called stop words. And then finally we take words which are very similar which have sort of a same kind of stem or root and then we just map it to like a common representation like ate eaten eating eaten all these things just becomes let's say eats and we do that sometimes. So this we almost always do this we often do and this we do it sometimes. Okay. Now, why do we do any of these things? >> I think we want to try to recognize the essential thing with the word, right? Whether it's eaten or eat, but the essential thing is the eat, right? So, we want to try to sort of abstract from it the more essential thing, >> right? So, why do we need to abstract? I guess you're absolutely correct. We're trying to abstract. Why is there a benefit to doing this abstraction? How about somebody from this side of the room? Oh yes. >> So I want to reduce the library. >> Why is it a good idea to reduce the library? The size of the library >> because of the the amount of computation needed. So that is part of the answer. There's another part to the answer which says all right let's swing to the right um is it faculties comparison between different sets of standard [clears throat] >> okay so I will go with that but I think the the key thing we want to uh the key thing to realize here is that you want the model much like when you go when we talk about computer vision we said look if it's vertical line. I want to be able to detect it wherever it happens. I don't want the model to think that the vertical line on the left side is different from the vertical line on the right side and then later realize they are the same thing because you would have wasted valuable capacity learning things which actually happen to be the same because you didn't know it was the same. So here if you for example take a word and lowerase it clearly the case of it whether it's uppercase or lower case most of the time it's not going to matter for anything you want to predict. So you're essentially telling the model you know the lowerase version uppercase version they are not different they're actually the same and the easiest way to tell the model they are the same is just make everything lower case so that is the key idea okay and similarly if you look at stop words the reason is that these stop words may not help you predict anything whether a word uh and the showed up in a movie review probably does not affect the sentiment of the review and therefore let's remove it so that's a slightly different reason stemming is the same reason as the first which is that all these words kind of mean the same thing. We don't have to be super precise about it and so let's just like collapse them onto the same thing. Now that these are all the standard things we do there are totally notice you know important exceptions to all these things. Okay we'll come back to the exceptions a bit later but that is the standard thing we do make sense. All right. So if you look at something like this um this sentence here right hola what do you picture when you think of travel Mexico boom and then you can see here this is the standardized version like everything has become lower case like the h has become small h the punctuation has disappeared that's part of standardization and then uh travel and you can see here that Mexico m has become small sipping has become sips uh things think has become things and so on and so forth So that's an example of strandization at work. Okay. The next thing we do is something very important and it's called tokenization. So what we do typically is that okay now we have standardized everything. We have a bunch of words. Uh we need to now split them into what are called tokens. So the most common default is to just think of a word as a token. We just split on the white space, right? You take each string and wherever there is white space, meaning actual spaces, uh, carriage returns and things like that, boom, you just split on them and you just create words out of it. So, so for instance, if you have this standardized sentence here, you just split it after every word and you get this thing. Okay? So, each of these is now a token. Now, this has some disadvantages. What are some disadvantages of just splitting on on the space between words? Uh yeah, >> I think we lose any context because we look at each word separately. Uh so we don't have any password or what happens next, >> right? So for example, the cat sat on the mat and the mat sat on the cat will have the same like set, right? Yeah. So you lose the order. What are some other issues with it? for words that should have two together like you lose the fact that that's one name because you separated >> right exactly so there are compound words right like father-in-law for instance that's one problem another problem is that lots of non-English languages they actually don't have this notion of a space between words right actually runs one after the other and it is and the native speakers know from context how to chunk it and break it so well what do we do Right? Because you basically will have one word for the whole passage, one token. The other problem is that there are languages, German is perhaps the most notable one in which you have very long words. Um I saw a word uh which I think I might have it on the site somewhere this like this long which means uh you realize that something amazing is happening but the rest of the world hasn't woken up to it yet. It's that feeling. There's a word for that. Amazing, right? Anyway, so yeah, some words or Japanese, for example, there's a word called. Do people know the meaning of the word combi? It means the transient beauty of sunlight going through fall foliage. There's a word for that. How cool is that? Anyway, sorry. I love that word. So, back to this. Um so we have this thing here. So there are all reasons for which splitting on the the space between words not going to work. Okay. Um so what we will so what happens is that modern large language models. So the the what we have described so far despite its shortcomings is actually really good for lots of NLP use cases. Okay. If you want to classify text as good enough for instance but if you want to generate text like LLMs do it's not going to work. It's not going to work because you know when you ask the strategia question it comes back with perfect punctuation. Clearly punctuation was not stripped. It comes back with particular upper and lower case clearly that wasn't stripped. You can actually make up new words and ask it to use the new word. It'll make it I'll use it. Therefore, it's not like it can only recognize a finite set. So there's a very clever scheme called bite pair encoding right which is which is invented to do all those things. And I have slides at the end and if we have time we'll talk about it. All right, for now let's continue this thing. So when this is done for every sentence or every uh passage in our training data set, we have now have a list of distinct tokens, right? We have a list of distinct tokens. In this simple case, it happens to be all the distinct words that we have seen, right? That's called the vocabulary. So now we move to the third and fourth stages. In this in these stages, the indexing and encoding stage, we only work with the vocabulary. Okay. And so what we do is the first thing the indexing we assign a unique integer to each distinct token in the vocabulary. So for instance, let's say that you know you took a whole bunch of English literature as your training corus and you ran it through you basically you'll come up with English dictionary right? So it'll have maybe starting with a all the way to zebra a whole bunch of words. Um, and so I'm just putting 50,000 here because turns out the GPD family uses something called 50,000 tokens. So I'm just using 50,000. It's not the actual number of words in the English language. It's much more than that. So let's say that we give a number one through 50,000. And then we actually also introduce a special token called UN. It stands for unknown. And we'll come back to this later. And we give unknown the integer zero. Okay. So this what this is what we mean by indexing. take the word the tokens you have identified and just map it to an integer. Okay, that's the indexing step. Then what we do is we assign a vector to every one of these integers. Okay, and that is the encoding step. We assign a vector to each integer. So you have a bunch of distinct words and each word we put an integer on it and then we take that integer and map it to a vector. Yeah. Can you please explain to >> Can you please explain what unknown means? >> Yeah. So, so I'll come back to that for now. Just assume that we have a token called unknown. And the way we are going to use it will become apparent in a few minutes. >> Does it mean there's a base to it though? There's like a letter or something. >> It's it's a it's a placeholder for something else which I'll describe shortly. Okay. So, that's what we have. U so let's say that we want to assign a vector to each integer in our vocabulary and let's assume that we have uh okay let's say we have 50,000 possible integers because we have 50,000 possible words and we want to assign a vector so that if you take the vector of two different words they should look different right clearly that's the whole point of mapping from integer to vector they better be different uh what is the simplest way to come up with a vector for each each of these tokens the same as the index. >> Sorry, >> the same as the index. It's just a vector one one by one with the index. >> So, a vector of uh zeros and ones or >> it's just a vector with one dimension. >> Oh. Oh, I see. So, god. Well, it's it it's creative, but it's a little cheating, right? Because you're essentially putting a square bracket around the number and saying it's a vector. Good try. >> You can try one hot encoding, >> right? You can try one hot encoding. So remember the list of distinct tokens you have, you can just think of them as the distinct levels of a categorical variable, right? And you can just use one hard encoding for it. So what you can do is you can the simplest thing is do one one hard encoding and the way it's going to work is that if you have let's say 50,000 uh 50,000 possible values the vector is going to be 50,000 long it's going to have zeros everywhere except in the index value of whatever that token is. So for instance since we said ank is going to be the first uh first number zero it has a one here and the zero the zero index position has a one everything is zero a happens to be the second one so it happens to be one in the second position zero you get the idea okay >> so this real zero hot encoding we can do the zero hot one coding one hot encoding and so so the dimension of this encoding vector how long it is it's basically the number of distinct tokens that you have seen in in the training corpus plus one for this unk thing that you'll get to. Okay, so that is a dimensional encoding vector which is this is called the vocabulary size. It's called the vocabulary size. All right. So at this point we have created a vocabulary for the training data training corpus. every distinct token vocabulary has been assigned a one hot vector and we are done with basic pre-processing. Okay, so all the text that has come in, every token has been mapped to some one hot one potentially very long one hot vector. Any questions on the mechanics of this before we continue on? >> Now let's see if when you get a new input sentence in a new sentence freshly arriving and we want to feed it into a deep neural network, how will this process actually apply to the new sentence that's coming in? Okay, so let's assume um that we have completed our SDIE on the training corpus and it turns out we found only you know 99 distinct tokens 99 distinct words and then we add this ank thing to it so we got a 100 okay so this is our vocabulary it starts with ank a and then goes all the way to zebra but there are only 100 of them in total right and just to be very clear we didn't bother to do things like stemming and stop word removal and stuff like that which is why you have words like 'the' showing up in this list. Okay. All right. So, let's say this input string arrives, the cats are on the mat, and then we run it through STIE. So, the cats are on the mat goes through this thingoop. Then the output is going to be a table with a bunch of rows and a bunch of columns. Any guesses how many rows and how many columns? Just raise your hands. I'll call on you. >> Yeah, you use a microphone. Go for it. >> Yeah, I would guess uh 100 rows and uh six columns. All right, we'll take a look. Uh 100 and six as well as six and 100 are both correct. So, so the way I've done it is six and 100. And the and that's exactly right. So, the idea is that this is your vocabulary, right? So, the word the cat sat on the mat once you change the case of it, it becomes like this. So, the the happens to be a one hot vector with a one where there is a the and zero everywhere else. I'm not showing all the zeros because it'll get too cluttered. Similarly, cat has a one where the the cat position is and zero everywhere else and so on and so forth. Does that make sense? So, the the phrase the cat sat on the mat came in as just whatever six words and then it became this you know 600 entry table. Okay. Now, what is the best way to feed this table to a deep neural network? What can we do? It's not a vector. It's a table. If it's a vector, we know what to do. We just feed it in. We'll just maybe send it to some, you know, hidden layer and declare victory at that point. >> Yeah. >> You would like to flatten it. And like how how might you do it? Flattening is a reasonable answer by the way. I think you mean you just have to like take each like each column take the first one each row and each row each word kind of like >> yeah so basically you can take all the first columns and then take the second column and attach it under the first column and so on and so forth right so we can certainly do that and that's very akin to how we work with images right u but there is one downside to that what is that downside uh Um, >> it's pretty long. Like I wonder if instead you could for the first word it's one, for the second word it's two, and then you maintain the order, but you still keep it just as like one row. >> One row. So one issue, so we'll come back to what we do about this, but what you're pointing out is it could be very long, right? Because if each word is A-50,000 long one vector with just six words, it becomes a 300,000 long vector. Imagine take the 300,000 long vector and sending it into a 100 hidden unit hidden layer. 300,000 times 100 parameters. Too much can't learn anything. So that's one issue. The other issue is that different length texts that are coming in will have different sized inputs. So here the cat sat on the mat has six times 50,000 but maybe the cat sat on the mat and the rat rat ran over to the cat becomes even longer. We can't handle variable sized inputs. the inputs all have to be mapped to the same length. That's another problem. >> So maybe you can count how many you can sum the columns basically and count how many times each word appears since you're using the like spatial relationship. >> Yes. So you Yeah. So both you and are on the same sort of trajectory which is that uh we need to somehow take this table and make it into a vector. And there are many ways like what you folks are describing to make it into a vector and turns out um this is all the things that we've been discussing so far the varying length ratio and so on. So, so what we can do is we can aggregate all these things. If you just add them up, this is what you described. I believe it's called sum encoding. And if instead of adding you just or them, meaning if you look at the column and say, is there any one in this column? If there's a any one, I'll put a stick of one, otherwise it's a zero. It's called multihot encoding. So, so if you look at this thing, if you literally just go column by column and count everything. Okay, there's a one here, one here. Oh, wait. There are two twos here. So you put a two. That's count count encoding. Multih hard encoding. It just looks for any ones and puts on. Make sense? So by the way there are many ways to take these tables and make them into vectors. These two happen to be very commonly used and they kind of make common sense. Okay. Right. So this aggregation approach that we just described is called the bag of words model. Bag of words model. And the reason is that first of all this bag that we have has words either it counts whether a word exists or not or it counts how many words how many times the word has appeared right count versus multihot versus sum encoding count encoding but more importantly and this goes back to your observation is that we have lost the order of the words now whether the phrase came in was the cat sat on the mat or the mat sat on the cat the count encoding and the multih hard encoding are exactly the same. There's no difference because we're just looking for the the presence or absence of words. That's it. We don't care in what which order they appear, right? That's a huge limitation, but shockingly for many applications, it doesn't matter. It's good enough. So, it's called the bag of All right, so this called the bag of Um, now does it have any shortcomings? I already talked about the first shortcoming which is that it loses sequentiality the order we lost this order information right uh we we lose the meaning inherent in the order of the words what are some other issues with it what do you mean by that >> right so there are lots of zeros not that many ones so you have it's a very sparse amount of information but maybe is carrying around a lot of information to to make it all work. Now there are some tricks CS computer science tricks to handle sparsity in some clever ways but it is certainly an issue. Now the other issue is that let's say the vocabulary is very long. Each input sentence whether it's the collected works of William Shakespeare or the phrase I love you will have the same length input. Is that the same length input because ultimately every incoming thing gets mapped into one vector. Okay, that feels a little sub suboptimal. Clearly the collected works of ins have a lot more stuff going on in them. Right? So that's a problem. In particular, very very small things that come in, you'll be spending a lot of compute on those long vectors and processing them. Um, now you can mitigate some of this by choosing only the most frequent words. You don't have to take, you know, I think the English language I read somewhere has roughly 500,000 words or so. Uh, but turns out the top 50,000 most frequent words are responsible for just about everything you're going to see ever. And the other 50,000 are what's called the long tail. They almost never happen, right? You never see them. So, you can be very pragmatic and say, "I'm not going to take every little word that I see in my vocabulary. I'm going to only take the most frequent words. I'm just going to ignore the rest. I'm just going to ignore the rest." Okay? But if you ignore the rest, let's say the there is one word uh let's take some Shakespeare word hamlet. Let's let's assume that you ignore the word Hamlet from your training corpus. You just delete it because it's not one of the top most frequent things you have seen. And then somebody sends you a text saying, you know, Hamlet was a bad prince. Analyze the sentiment of the sentence. Well, when you see Hamlet, what is your system going to do? It's going to look at the Hamlet and say, I can't see it in my vocabulary anywhere. And if it can't see in the vocabulary, what is the only thing it can do? Replace it with Unk. So that's where comes into the picture. So whenever it can't see something in the vocabulary in a new input, it just replaced with ank. Which means that if you had ignored Romeo, Juliet, and Hamlet in the in the training corpus, all of them are going to be replaced by the same ankh, which means that we can't distinguish between them anymore. >> So is this whereation comes into play here where it doesn't recogize H interesting question. This is whereation comes up. Actually, as it turns out, no, as we will see when we talk about LLMs later. Uh LLMs actually will not have this UN problem because they use a different tokenization scheme which can handle anything you throw at it, including new stuff you just made up. So, we'll come back to that. All right. Um so, that's what we have. And so what we're going to do is despite its shortcomings, bag of words is actually a really good default for many NLP tasks. Uh and in the spirit of do the simple stuff first and do complicated things only the simple doesn't work. We'll use a bag of words model right now. Okay. So we'll switch to a collab and see how it's done. So here the the application we're going to work with is kind of a fun application. Uh we're going to try to predict the genre of songs. Okay, it's a nice classification use case. Um, so we want to take some arbitrary song and then classify it into either hip-hop, rock or pop. Okay. Um, and so for instance, right, this is the kind of lyric you're lyrics you're going to see. And as you will see in this data set, the data set, just a quick word of caution, uh, the data set does have lyrics which may not be sort of, you know, safe for work as it were. So I'm not going to be like exploring the lyrics in the collab, but I just wanted to be aware of it. Okay. Um, so but it's just some data set that we downloaded from somewhere, right? Uh, it's got all these lyrics. Okay. So we're going to try to classify each verse that we see into one of three things. Hip hop, rock or pop. It's a multi-class classification problem. All right. Actually, what is the simplest neural network based classifier we can build for this problem? All right. So what is the simplest neural network we can build for this problem? So remember what is the input? The input is going to be a bunch of song lyrics. It's going to be a really long song for all you know, right? And we're going to use the bag of birds model. Uh and let's assume for a moment that we will use multihot encoding, right? We'll create a vocabulary from this for the song. We'll take all the songs. We'll process them, run it through STI. will do multihod encoding which means that every song that comes in will have will be a vector that's how long it'll be as long as the correct as a vocabulary size right so um so maybe what comes in is this phrase um since it's supposed to be songs I'll say something which is probably common to 90% of songs I love you okay that goes in it goes into our ST STIE process and then this SDIE process gives us a vector which is X1 X2 all the way to XV where V stands for the size of vocabulary. Okay. So that that's our input layer all the way. So knowing what we know now about deep learning what can we do next? Couldn't you or maybe I'm getting ahead but wouldn't the classifier just be like the baseline would be classify it as the most common genre? >> That is the baseline. Correct. Correct. I'm just saying and we'll come to the baseline a bit later. But here I'm saying suppose you need to you wanted to build a neural network model for this. How would you set it up? >> You think about the layers that you want, >> right? And what is the simplest thing you can do with a neural network? How many layers? >> Uh no layers. Well, then it becomes problematic with even a neural network because it could just be logistic regression >> one hidden layer. >> Yes, thank you. I'm being a little squishy about this because there are some people who be like well even if there's no hidden layers if you're using relus and this and that and sigma that's maybe it's a neural network and I don't want to get into that how many ages in the tip of a pin argument. So um so yeah we need one hidden layer right in this course we need at least one hidden layer for it to qualify as a neural network. Okay, so let's have a hidden layer and we'll have a bunch of ReLUS as usual. Okay, bunch of ReLULS and I'll ignore all the arrows between them. It's kind of a pain. U and then we come to the output layer. And what should the output layer be? How many nodes do we have need in the output layer? Three, right? Hip-hop, rock, whatever. Pop. So we And then that layer is called what? What activation function? Softmax. Perfect. Love it. love this class. All right, three things. Uh, rock, hip-hop, and uh, pop, right? And this is a soft max right there. And then it's going to give us three probabilities that add up to one because it's a soft max. So that's our basic network, right? Perfect. Yeah. >> Why do you need those probabilities? Again, if you just want to identify the most likely genre, the soft max just give you a way to kind of add them all up once. Why do you need soft? Why don't you just take the max value and say it's that? >> Oh, interesting question. Why can't we just produce three numbers and grab the maximum number? So, it turns out finding the maximum bunch of numbers that function is not very it's not very friendly for differentiation. And ultimately you want to take this output, run it through a loss function like cross entropy and then be able to run back prop on it. And so fundamentally back propagation is just differentiation and it requires everything inside of it to have well- behaved gradients. And so this little max function is actually not well behaved and which is why we have a soft version of it soft max which makes it easy to differentiate. So I can tell you more about it offline but that's sort of the quick synopsis. So a lot of tricks you will see in the neural network literature or ways to avoid this the problem of having certain the like the obvious choice of function will not be well behaved for differentiation. That's why you need to go through all these other mechanisms much like we couldn't just say accuracy. Why don't you just maximize accuracy instead of doing this cross entropy business? Same reason. All right. So let's come back here. All right. So that's what we created on the thing. Right? Cats out of the mat vocabulary thing and so on. And I you know I was playing around with it uh earlier and so I I found that you know eight relu neurons were pretty good to get the job done. So I'm just going to go with eight rel neurons in the hidden layer. So I think that brings us to the collab. Yeah. So let's switch to the collab. All right. So um that's what we have here. We you know there's a little bit of verbiage here which just describes what I just talked about. So we'll do the usual things and upload everything uh import everything we want. TensorFlow and caras and the the holy trinity of numpy pandas and mattplot lib. Uh set the random seed as usual at 42. This is our SDIE framework here. And the nice thing is that all four of these things SDIE are beautifully implemented in Keras is a single simple layer called the text vectorzation layer. Okay, which is nice. Um, so we have the text vector right here. And so in our first example, what we'll do is we will use a default standardization which will just remove punctuation, convert to lowercase. We'll use a default tokenization which just means split on the space between words. And then we will set the output to multihart. Right? All the things we talked about, KAS will just do it for you automatically. And so output mode multihart standardize this spread whites space and boom, you run the text vectorization thing. And once you do it, KAS creates this textualization layer with these settings and it's now ready to swing into action. So what does swing into action actually means? Well, now we need to actually feed it a training carpass so that it can do all the things it's supposed to do and create the vocabulary for you, right? So um so and that thing is called the adapt method. So we create a tiny training corpus for us. This is our data set. Um right this just a bunch of words from some of these lyrics. And then what we'll do is we'll take this layer that we just defined here that we have set up here. And then we will ask this layer to actually create the vocabulary using this adapt command. Okay. Index the vocabulary. And it's done. And once it does it, you can actually ask it for the vocabulary. Okay, this is the vocabulary using the get vocabulary command. And so first of all, how long is the vocab? 17 17 words, 17 tokens. What are they? And see here, and you can see these are all the words and you can see it is stuck in an in the very beginning, right? It's sort of the default. By the way, uh just a little programming tip if you're not familiar with if you don't have a ton of programming experience. If you want to, you know, print these Python objects like list and all in a pretty way, one trick that often works is just stick it into a data frame and then print it. Usually, it'll print it in a much better way. So, you can see it like that. So, you can see here ank arrays blah blah blah blah blah. And you can see integer zero assigned the ank token. By the way, how come it picked the word arrays as the second entry? Why not something like an or um you know why not? Why not a how come a is not chosen as a second entry? Why why did it pick arrays? You think >> maybe maybe it tried like the words that are most influential on the meaning of the sentence to be on the But it at this point it doesn't know what we're going to use it for. So it has no way to know what word is useful because we haven't told it how we're going to use it. But but you're kind of on the right track. So what KAS does is it'll calculate it'll find all these tokens and then it'll actually just sort them by frequency. So the most frequent as it turns out in those four sentences we gave it happen to be the word arrays. That's why arrays is showing up on top. Um, and you can actually confirm this by going to the our little data set and you can see here array shows up here and was up here twice and that's why it came up on top. Okay. All right. So that's what we have and u and now now that we have populated this we can run any sentence through it easily. Yeah. >> Does [clears throat] it matter that it's on the top or is it just >> it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The reason why it's helpful later on is because suppose you tell Kas hey don't take every word you see here give me only the most frequent 100 words I don't want any more than that it can easily do that that's the reason yeah >> this is just a vocabulary so basically you you give it all this phrases it happens just four phrases in our example and then it finds all the distinct words and you know does all that stuff and and then it has created a vocabulary. At this point the the training corpus you fed it will is forgotten and the only thing has survived this processing is just the vocabulary. That's it. Now we have to start applying it to any kind of text we want to use it for. So here when you come back here u so this is what we have and so what you can do is you can take any sentence and you can just run it through a layer and to make sure that actually is doing the right thing for you. So we'll take the sentence, we will then run it through the text vectorization layer by just passing that sentence into it and then we can just print it. So now it's giving you a tensor. This is a multihot encoder tensor with all these ones and zeros. So note that this tensor is 17 units long which is which is a good check because our vocabulary is 17 long. So it's better match that. Uh now recall that the ank token is at the first location. It's at index zero and it says that this encoded sentence does have an unk word. Okay. So why is that? What is this UN word? Anyone can guess? Well, it turns out to be the word still. Um I think yeah still is not in our vocabulary because the four sentences which is our training corpus used to build vocabulary. They had a lot of write and rewrite but there was no still in it anyway. That's why there's an UN ank for it. Uh we can just double check that by asking Python is it is it vocabulary? Nope, it's not. Okay. Now, in the spirit of making small changes to the code to understand what's going on, which is a very useful tip for folks who don't have a ton of programming knowledge. Let's say that you send the phrase Sloan Hodddle and DM, DMD. Uh I think you will agree with me that none of these words is in the training corpus, right? So what will this what is the multihot encoded vector for this phrase sloan hodddle BMD three it's not count encoding it's multihod encoding right it's going to be 1 0 0 so you can see here or in this case remember the vocabulary is 17 right so each of these words is going to be a one followed by 16 zeros And then it's going to multih hot encode them which means the three ones in the column just become a one. So so you still have only this one. Okay. All right. Good. So now let's see that's now let's actually get to the the the data set. We have this 90,000 songs. Uh and it's in this little thing here. Uh we have grabbed the data and cleaned it up. Cleaned it up meaning like formatting wise not content wise. uh and then we stuck it in this uh data frame and it's we already have divided into train, test and validation for your benefit. So you don't have to worry about it. So turns out we have 40 almost 49,000 songs in the training set, 16,000 songs in the validation set and 22 roughly 22,000 in the test set. Okay, lot of songs. It's a lot. It's a big data set. Um so let's just look at the first few. So oh girl, I can't get ready. We met on rainy evening. Paralysis through analysis. Okay, that I can relate to as a data science person. But anyway, u but uh by the way this uh these things are very useful for exploration of any uh data frames that you might have. Collab is a collab feature just check it out. Um so anyway, that's the first few the first few rows. Let's look at the last few rows. Okay, you never listen to me as pop. Beamer Benz is hip-hop. Yeah, of course. So, okay. Uh, now to go back to the question of, okay, um, what could be a good baseline model? We need to understand the proportion of these three classes of songs. So, we'll do a quick check. Turns out rock is 55%. So, if you had to just guess something just naively, you would just guess everything to be rock and you'd be right 55% of the time. Uh so now uh by the way the the the target variable which tells you whether which of these three genres it is uh is is is a is actually a dummy variable. So we need to one hot encode that right. Um so we'll just turn that this way using the pandas get dummies function. And when we do that uh this is y train which contains the dependent variable. And you can see that is one hot encoded now. Uh 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 and so on and so forth. That's it. So I think the first I forget it rock, hip-hop, rock, pop or whatever. It's in some order. We'll we'll get to that later. So it's one hot encoded as well. So that is as far as the data downloading and setup is concerned. Any questions? >> Yeah. >> Uh this kind of goes back to the transfer learning concept. But do you always want to build your corpus based off of the vocabulary of your training data or could you have like a pre-ompiled like somebody's already made like a list of the 50,000 words? >> That's a really good question. Uh unfortunately I'm going to punt on it for the moment because um with modern large language models a number of these NLP tasks for which you had to sort of roll your own and build your own thing can now be very easily done using large language models without even any further training. Case you pay for it is that you have to use a large language model which means you have to pay somebody an API call and things like that and there are other issues with it. uh but we'll talk a lot about transfer learning for text when we come to a little later in the NLP sequence. So if I forget please bring it up again. >> Yeah. >> Um quick clarification on the encode factor. If I post it as floats not ins. If it gets incredibly long wouldn't that eat into compute time? Is there a reason why it's floats? >> Yeah. So uh question is that when when I showed you that tensor the it is actually is written as a continuous number right a float floating point number but we know these are one zeros and ones so why can't we why do we have to waste compute capacity by telling the computer that these are all big continuous numbers when it's just a zero one there are ways to optimize that but these problems are so small we just don't worry about it but when we come to something called parameter efficient fine-tuning lecture maybe 10ish uh we actually exploit that particular fact to make things faster Okay, so that's what we have. Uh, so we'll we'll do the bag of birds model. Um, by the way, there's a whole bunch of stuff here. It just repeats what I've been telling you in the lecture. So feel free to read it again, but we can ignore it for the moment. And now there's a new thing we are doing here. So we are basically saying, look, instead of taking every word you see in these 49,000 uh songs in the training corpus, uh, it's going to be too many words. just pick the 5,000 most frequent words and that's what this max tokens stands for. Okay. And so we tell it uh all right do this thing max tokens 5,000 sorry not 50,000 5,000 and still do multihart and we are not explicitly saying the standardization and all that stuff because the defaults are what we're going with. Okay. Yeah. This is for making it more efficient. Like this is like don't waste your time on these thousand sports. Use them more. Use them. Just focus on that to make more efficient. >> Make more efficient. But there is a related and important point which is that fundamentally the number of tokens you allow this layer to have dictates the size of your vocabulary and the size of your vocabulary dictates the size of the vector that you feed in. So shorter vectors are better than longer vectors. That's the efficiency point. The other point is that the longer the input vector, the more the number of parameters the network has to learn because the first layer itself is the size of the input times roughly times the size of the hidden layer. So this thing becomes 10 times as long. You have 10 times as many parameters to learn and given a finite amount of data, right? The more parameters you have, the worse it's going to do when you actually start using it in the real world. It's going to overfitit heavily. That's why you need to be very careful. Okay. Yeah. So, um, you downloaded the data set, but are you still using the vocabulary the 17 words or did you >> No, no, I'm that was just for fun. I'm going to actually build a vocabulary now. It's coming. Yeah, good question. Yeah. So, all right, let's do that. Um, so I first, you know, I defined this layer. Uh, okay. I just defined it. All right. Now we actually build the vocabulary by essentially telling it to adapt the layer using essentially the full all 15 basically 49,000 songs in the training data set right that's a long list of songs as far as kas is concerned you're just looking for a list of strings so you just give it the list of strings instead of four we're giving it 49,000 the same uh philosophy applies so we run it it's obviously going to take a few seconds to do that because it's 49,000 songs five seconds. Uh, all right. Let's look at the most common 20, right? We get the vocabulary from our layer. See, once you adapt the layer and has built a vocabulary, the layer is sort of been populated with all this information. So, you can query it. So, you can get the vocab top 20 words, the most frequent word, no surprise, u, I, blah, blah, blah. Uh, let's look at the last few. Dagger cheddar verified moving on right and then we so once we have done that now we actually can vectorize all the data sets we have using this and by vectorize you mean take every string and create the multihot encoded vector from it uh yeah >> are we doing stie because we're keeping stuff like d a etc. Yeah, we are not strictly doing STI or to put it differently the S stands typically S has lower case uppercase strip punctuation stemming stop word removal here the default in KAS happens to not do stemming not do stop word removal so we're just going with the default thanks for the clarification and in fact in practice what I find these days is that don't even bother to stem don't even bother to remove the stop words it's going to work well enough okay so all right uh okay so now Each phrase is a vector. How long is this vector? Each song is now a vector. How long is that vector? 5,000. Correct. Because that is a size vocabulary. Correct. It's max tokens long, which is 5,000. So if you actually look at X Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I haven't done this thing yet. It's going through 49,000. It's going through another what? 23,000. Fine. So let's run it. Okay, now we can see X train which is all the training data you have has is a tensor is a table with 48 991 rows and each row is a 5,000 long vector. All right, good. Now we will try the simple neural network that we wrote up in class. So and now at this point this code should be sort of second nature, right? Isn't that cool? It's so easy to write the write the thing the power of abstraction. So uh we take kasin input as usual input layer we tell it what is the size of each thing that's coming in. Well the size of each thing is A-50 max tokens long vector. So we tell it the shape is max tokens and then we run it through a dense layer with eight relus. Okay I'm hurrying. So we get the outputs then we string the inputs and the outputs into a model and then we summarize the model. That's it. So we go here and this has 40,000 parameters and you can see here right when you go from the input the 5,000 * 8 that gives you 40,000 plus the eight neurons have a bias coming in that's another eight so you get 40,0008 okay and we compile it as usual we use atom as usual and because now the the output y variable the y train variable is now it itself is actually one hot encoded right 0 1 0 0 1 depending on pop rock and so on and so forth. We don't use sparse categorical cross entropy. We just use plain old categorical cross entropy here. Okay. And this was explained in lecture last week. So you can revisit it if uh if it's if it's not familiar. We again report accuracy, right? So let's compile it. And we've got a model. So we just run it for 10 epochs with a batch size of 32. And because we have validation data already supplied to us, we don't have to tell Karas take the training data and keep 20% of it aside for validation. We can literally tell it what validation to use. That's what we're doing here. Okay. All right. So, it's running. Um, it's pretty fast. Any questions so far? >> Yes. >> The microphone. >> How do we decide the max total? like define the number of 5,000 here but we do not know how many words would be there in the entire text. >> Yeah. So it's a good question. How do you decide on this the maximum vocabulary? What you typically do in practice is that you actually you do it without the max tokens and then you see how long the vocabulary is and then you actually get statistics on how frequently the very infrequent words actually show up. And then you'll typically see like a dramatic fall-off at some point and you pick that fall-off point and then set that to be the max. Uh all right. So perfect. Let's test it. Uh accuracy is pretty good. 87% on the training and 73 on the validation. We'll do it on the test set. All right. 72%. So we saw earlier the the largest class of the three-way is a rock with around 50%. So the naive model is going to get 50% accuracy and this little neural network model gets you 70 72% which is pretty nice. Okay. So now let's actually kick it up a notch and make it slightly more capable. So the key thing here is that uh as was has been observed in class already when you go with a bag of words model we lose all notion of order right the word order clearly matters and we're kind of ignoring it. So what we do to get around it is um so actually this actually really interesting uh sentence here. Let's say this is a movie review. Kate Vinclet's performance as a detective trying to solve a terrible crime in a P small pin tennos is anything but disappointing. Tricky tricky thing, right? Because if you look at the word separately, the word terrible and disappointing like negative sentiment, right? But then if you actually know that the word terrible respon refers to the crime, not to the movie or anything but disappointing changes the meaning of the word disappointing, you will see obviously it's a positive review, right? So clearly the the the words around the word provide valuable clues as to how to interpret that word. And so what we do is how can we make our little model a bit more capable of recognizing the context around every word. And the way we do it is something called bgrams. Okay. And what for biograms what we basically do is instead of taking instead of just taking each word we take each word and we further take every pair of adjacent words and those become our tokens and because we take two adjacent words right it are called bgrams you can take three adjent words trigrams you get the idea engram grams okay so that's the idea of bgrams and so um so for example if you had the cat matt sat on the cat sat on the mat you will have the the cat cats sat you get the idea right uh that's what we have so let's do a little example and kas makes it very easy you literally tell it engram grams equals 2 bs and now by by from this you auto immediately should know that engram grams equals 1 is the default that's why we didn't have to specify it okay so you run it and then you do cats on the mat is your training corpus and then you get the vocabulary and you can see here, right? It has created all these nice biograms for you. And so that's it. All right. Now, what we do is we'll go back to the songs and we actually tell Keras to not just take each word, but take all the biograms as well. And hopefully you'll do a better job, right, of figuring out what the sentiment is. And now because you know when you have when you when you say, okay, take the top 5,000 words, that's great for single unigs as they are called. But when you have biograms, you have 5,000 possibilities for the first word, maybe 5,000 for the second word, right? That's a lot of possibilities. 25 million. Now, most of the 25 million possibilities are not going to show up in the data. So, you don't need to actually make it much larger, but you should make the vocabulary a bit more than 5,000. So, here we go with say 20,000, right? Otherwise, it's the same. Still multihart. So, let's run it. And now we will run this. Now that the layer has been set up with all the right settings, we'll ask it to create the vocabulary. Okay? again by doing exactly what we did before. Create the vocabulary seconds by triagrams all of them will get much more computer intensive that's why you're seeing this. So all right let's look at the first 10 words. The first 10 words are all just single words and that's not surprising because the single words are going to be the most more frequent right u and then the last few your mom your god you short you hell all right let's just uh you know uh index the whole all the data we have the training validation test sets using this Perfect. Now we come to our second model where we say the shape the incoming shape is now 20,000 long right because we increase max tokens from 5,000 to 20,000. So each thing is a 20,000 long vector otherwise it's the same and now we will use this thing called dropout for the first time which is a rigorization thing that I have referred to earlier that I never really described and I will describe today if we have time but I'll first run through the whole demo. So just you know just you can just you think of dropout as just another layer you can insert and it's essentially a great way to prevent overfitting. So I just routinely will use it and I'll talk more about it. So for now you have this dropout layer in the middle. It receives the input from the dense layer and then sends it to the output layer. The output layer is unchanged. It's a three-way softmax. Same model as before. Okay. And now uh all right we'll come back to drop out. So we'll compile it the same way as before and then we will we will I will just fit it for three epochs. Um if you're interested after class later on you can actually try it for more epochs and see if it does better. Uh for now in the interest of time we'll just do it for three right I think 72% right was the uh the single word unig thing we had. >> If you're rerunning this code with the same number of Do you ever expect the accuracy to change? >> Um if if you had to run this code in your machine, you would expect it to be roughly the same, but there are some minute differences due to hardware and device drivers. >> If you rewrite it on your own machine twice, would you expect a change? >> That's actually a very tricky question. Uh because it depends on what else I have been doing in that notebook. If I start fresh and do nothing but that, typically I get the same numbers typically. But for some reason I don't get it exactly the right. Okay. So we come to this. Let's evaluate our little model. Okay. 75%. So it went from 72 to 75. It's actually a meaningful jump just by using biograms. Okay. And I ran it only for three epochs. If you run it for 10, maybe it's going to do even better. All right. So that is the beauty of this thing. Now let's just actually do a little demo. Uh we'll try to predict some lyrics. Okay, I'll try another one. Bites the dust. It's a rock song. I think that's correct. Yes. Okay. Okay, folks. Your turn now. Uh, somebody tell me your favorite song. >> Dancing Queen from Aba. >> I love ABBA. That's awesome. All right. Okay. Uh, Dancing Queen Rex. worse one intro. I don't like that. Let's just go to something without all this metadata. Right. All right. I'll just take the first page. Okay. Are we good? All right, down model. Let's predict pop just about. Yay. All right. So, uh yeah. So, that's basically the model, but we have five minutes. I want to get back to you can play around and put your own lyrics in. Uh typically what happens is that the last two years that I've been doing this particular lecture, I've noticed that the songs are always rock songs for some reason. >> First time I'm getting a pop song from the from a group that I actually like. So thank you. Uh all right. Uh let's go back to dropout. So the idea here in dropout is that you know you have all these the input comes in, it goes through a hidden layer and so on and so forth. What the dropout? So dropout is a layer and you put this layer just like you use any other layer. And what dropout does is that it takes all the things that are coming into it from the previous layer and randomly decides to replace that number with a zero. That's it. It drops that number and replace it with a zero. Okay? But it does it randomly. It basically toss a coin and the coin comes up heads zero. If it comes up to us, let it through. Pass it through. Okay? And the reason why this is very effective is because you can imagine all the neurons in a particular layer when they overfit to a particular data set the overfitting happens because the neurons essentially collude with each other right they sort of collude with each other to actually overfitit and predict things in sort of a very accurate way. So you want to break any sort of collusion between the neurons, right? I'm obviously using sort of like a you know again theoretic way of describing it but the idea is that any kind of speurious correlations in your data neurons can pick it up by being correlated themselves. And so the way you avoid the spurious correlation is by dropping neurons randomly. You just kill the neuron randomly which means that no neuron can depend on another neuron being available. I know it's a bit grim but that's the basic idea of dropout and apparently the story goes that the the folk person who the team that invented it Jeff Hinton who won the touring for the stuff not for not for dropout just for deep learning um he said I don't know if it's true but he said that apparently he got the idea when he went to a bank and realized that you know very often the bank the folks who working in that bank branch that he used to go to kept changing right they were never sort of the same the people would be transferring in transferring out and he was like why Why can't they just leave these people alone? Why does it keep changing? And then he got the insight that maybe a lot of fraud happens because the person working in the branch colludes with the customer, but by changing the staff constantly, you break the the risk of fraud happening. And that apparently was the genesis for this idea. True, apocryphal? I have no idea. But it's sort of a fun story. Uh yes, >> instead of random, if we go to the way historical models are built, concepts of multiple and all of that, would that make it sharper as compared to this? >> The problem is that um these networks are massive, right? And for you to take each layer and look at it correlation with some other layer and so on and so forth. First of all, investigating multi-linearity is pro is a problem. The second thing is okay, what do you do then? Next uh in linear regression you can do things like principal components analysis to get around it. Here everything is nonlinear. There is no easy way to solve the problem. So we are like we'll just solve the problem in one shot using dropout. That's all right. Um so I had uh some material on something called bite pair encoding which I will um which I will do when we get to LLMs and I stuck it in the end because I knew that we probably won't have enough time to cover this anyway. And that is a very clever tokenization scheme used by for example the GPT family and that allows them to do beautiful punctuation, keep the case intact and then use words that you just made up and things like that. Okay. So we have two one more minute. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. >> And so initially when we are picking like the hidden layer the number of neurons and weed. So so far in all the materials this is has been given to us but initially how do you pick it? Is it more of a trial and error type of thing or >> it tends to be trial and error. Um so that's in fact what I did when I created the collabs. So um and and you can actually make it a bit more systematic by trying lots of different values and there is a particular package uh Python package called Keras tuner. So just Google Keras tuner and it comes with very nice collabs and if I have a chance maybe I'll just record a screen walkthrough of doing that. But that's that's a very efficient way to do these things. And it comes under the broad category of something called hyperparameter optimization where the number of neurons, the activation you use, the learning rate, all those things can all be tried. You can try lots of variations and kas is a great way to do it in the context of kas. Other questions? >> All right, I give you 30 seconds back. Thank you. See you tomorrow.