The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. So, uh let's get started. Our a lot of stuff happened in the last lecture. So, I'll spend a little bit more time to review what we talked what are the key points here. Uh so what we did in the last lecture is to ask the question what are the electron energy levels uh in a periodic potential and that's uh really uh the periodic means we're start thinking about the crystals and we started with a onedimensional simple pictures where I have periodic arrangement of atoms And uh uh so if you recall uh before last lecture what we're considering really are confined states of a atom of a molecule where the wave function is specially just around the atom around the molecule right and uh uh in this periodic structure what could happen is the wave function that originally belong electron belong to a atom Now they have space to flex their wave function muscles right it go through the whole crystal and uh uh in that expression what we have is we use extended wave of different wave vectors right and uh and so this each of those wave vector represent uh say a wave function and uh if I have n atoms And the wave vector uh is every two pi k * a every two pi I have a repeating so at the end I'm drawing only two pi in fact I'm drawing from negative pi to plus pi and I'll give you the rational today why we draw this way and then it's important to recognize that between minus pi / a to plus pi / a we have a total of n points because I have n atoms in this uh periodic direction and uh each point of course represent a quantum state except I do not have the spin included so each so if I have n points in fact I have two n so it's a symmetric right from minus pi a to plus pi / a so I only draw you see I only draw the other the one half of it right and if I count from here to here there are really two end quantum states right and with that uh I say if I give hydrogen as example if I could arrange them in one dimensional periodical uh fashion then because each hydrogen has one electron and at the absolute zero temperature the lowest energy level feels And you will feel to the middle of the band, right? And if I have three electrons, lithium you'll feel to here. It feels to the middle of the band. And in that those are the metals where at the long zero temperature uh they uh there are some uh if there's very little energy you can move around those electrons near the top where the uppermost energy level that filled with electron this is called uh the firmy level right uh at the absolute t the upper most energy level where electrons are are the firmable and if you read the different books sometimes uh people uh will call at the long zero temperature they'll say that's also firm level but say a more uh um better way is at long zero temperature this one can shift a little bit around that position and that's uh say it's better call them camper potential okay so different books Sometimes they distinguish some times they do not. I had student came to me and say uh what is uh say in electrical engineering for example if you read electronics they'll always call that uh firmable non zero temperature is always called firmable. Okay. And uh so this is a uh of course it fills to the top then there is a gap uh in energy that means no electrons can exist with that specific energy in the crystal. So no waves allowed and so if I have two electrons uh then again at zero you will fill to the upper most uh of the lowest band there right and now because there's a gap electron does not have enough energy to go to the next level if that gap is large. So uh if we for large gap electron cannot move because there's no quantum state. Now everything is filled here. There's no more quantum state this electron can move to. So the firmy exclusion principle say you can't have more than one electron per quantum state. So this is the case where the there are electron in the material there always a charge right but you got the insulator there's low electric conduction so this is the insulator and of course uh uh we spend the uh most of time on this onedimensional uh uh say uh latice chair model and if you go to 3D which I'll talk more today you look At the each direction of the crystal you can say a different periodicity and different periodicity also means the bonding between the atoms in that specific direction the force is different right and so you'll see a different band structure I'm just handling drawing this right so this is the A1 is one specific direction with that periodicity A1 and Another crystalraphic direction could be A2 and in fact there are many crystalraphic direction in the crystal. So uh ideally you know everything you know each direction what are the energy uh diagram energy of the charge and here I'm drawing two direction and uh uh now say this is the minimum point here this is uh say the maximum point in the first band here and again the bank gap this is a gap here but when I talk about the semiconductor ctor I'm talking about the absolute gap meaning there this is the low at the highest point where the electron fails and lowest point that's empty and there is a separation energy. So in this region there's no uh in this region here there's no electron in the material in the crystal that has say could have those synergy that's quantum mechanically forbidden right that's what a real insulator like a glass or quartz if you think about crystalline form of glass right this is where electric insulator it has a very large band gap And if this band gap is small uh is not that large let's say silicon is 1.1 electron volt it becomes a semiconductor and uh uh uh for semiconductors we have different scenario where this uh noise energy point maximum energy point they do not align to the same wave vector. That's the case for silicon and that's a indirect gap semiconductor. So we have different type of semiconductors. We have uh uh direct gap. We have indirect gap. Right. Uh as direct gap is when the conduction and the valance band. So the upper band we say conduction and lower band is valance. So they are happening the minimum and maximum is at the same way vector while indirect is uh different. It could be uh here is the energy, here is the wave vector and they may happen at different wave vectors. Okay. And uh uh this uh makes an important distinction between gimmite which is direct gap semiconductor with a bang gap 1.4 electron volt and silicon which is indirect gap semiconductor with a bang gap 1.1. And you see most computer chips are made of silicon but most lasers pointers made of gyneite light uh say this one uh they when you want to make a light active device direct is usually better because you need a light light itself do not have much momentum. So here k is the momentum. So, h bar kar k is what do we call crystal momentum. it has uh some difference from the real momentum of the electrons but say we're not getting into that subtle difference in typical way you can think is this is when I think about momentum conservation of say a light comes in interact with electron I use h bar k of the electron in the crystal I'll h use use h bar k for the photon right um now the difference of course remember K is 2 pi lambda that's magnitude right so if you look at the uh uh here in crystal my latice constant this is pi / a that's unstrong in lambda wavelength and photon lambda is micron so the photon momentum is almost negligible very small and the electron momentum in this case if they're different they're very large that's why indirect semiconductor do not absorb well okay do not absorb light well that's the biggest problem when you make a silicon solar cells it doesn't you need a lot of materials to absorb this photon okay so this is the direct gap indirect gap and a little bit more terminology for semiconductors right and if I do not put impurities do not put say any uh say other atoms silicon for example at the absolute zero temperature the electrons will be here that's the uppermost energy level that's at the absolute zero temperature uh uh the firm level where the firm level is okay And now at a long zero temperature some electron gain enough thermal energy because the boardsman statistics there always electron has a distribution and some electron move from here to here and that leave behind empty states and because empty states the electron here few electron here are very happy because there are a lot of empty states many electron here are also so happy because now they finally have a little bit of room to wiggle, right? So the ones on the bottom uh rather than describing the motion of all those electrons, right? feel the electron uh equivalent terminology is describe the motion of those amplitude states that's holes and holes when I think about holes energy is increasing this way because negative of the electron when I think about electrons the energy is increasing this way so when I look at this band diagram when I think about electron hole I actually say this direction is energy increasing for hole that's the energy increases for electron. So we have electrons, we have holes and here where the electron is the conduction band and where the home of this one is the valance then okay and if it's a uh true intrinsic semiconductor without doping a absolute zero it's a insulator because it's frozen all the charges here and there's no mobile charge uh say there are no empty states for the electron to move uh but say normally I do not deal with when use a semiconductor device. I want to have a specific either electron as a majority or hole as majority. So I do it. So that's uh uh intrinsic uh extrinsic semiconductor difference. So we have uh intrinsic that's when we do not do it and exttrinsic when we dope it. And when we do, we can do put the N type. When I put a phosphor or I do P type. So those are the uh um semiconductors. And uh one more thing I want to introduce this is uh if I look at uh the energy uh electron at the bottom or hole at the top right and in fact that's the bottom a hole right and when I do the uh because this is at a minimum maximum point so most of time the charge in semiconductor when you do not deal with the heavily dope they only at the bottom or top region there and because there's a minimum maximum so I can use approximation I can expand the potential electrical energy right around the minimum maximum so if I do a expansion typical expansion so energy as a function of K and I'm writing 1D you can say K in a real crystal in each crystal graphic direction has a k right so I'm not writing in vector form and but say I can expand that let's say here this is a uh e say conduction band edge this is a k0 right that's where the minimum happens so I'm going to expand this uh as a e say k0 That's the lowest the first term of the expansion and the second term DK K0 and K minus K0 and and the next term is D E D K² and K minus K0 square right okay So this term because the maximum minimum is zero as long as I do not have a sharp turn in right it's if it's a linear profile I'm I cannot make that approximation so normally this is zero and uh this one let me write into uh a form that's nicer so I could write this h² square k - k 0 squared and divided by uh uh say 2 m m as m star. So just a symbol right? So this mar because I have a h bar square. So I will have in the denominator I will add h bar square and the d e d k²h do I okay right? So uh you can say this mar is a second order der derivative of this curve at the bottom right. So uh if it's a uh the mar is large how is that shape looking like flat right? MAR is small that shape that parabola local parabola is Lar. M star is large the local parabola is a fat right. So this mass is like a in fact it has a unit of mass. If I write the free electron uh this is a h k is the momentum divide by 2m that's the kinetic energy right so by writing to this I introduce this m star as effective mass and uh I using this effective mass. This is HK. That's a more like a kinetic energy term and this is a pot potential energy term. So I can describe now the electron in this small band they transport as essentially inside a crystal as a free electron but with a different mass mar. And in fact now you can say because this K in a real crystal in different direction is different right so the mass in different direction is different. So in fact many times this M star is written as a tensor rather than just a single uh value there and that depends on different materials. So uh this is a uh both uh overview of last lecture and also some extension in terms of the uh effective mass and where I'm going today is continue this 3D picture. Now we have 1D picture. We're going 3D, right? So uh in the 3D I want to first talk about the crystal structure to get more familiar and and uh then I will talk about how what are the bonding between the atoms that hold the crystal together and finally we'll use uh uh a mathematical terminology ology is how we can um it's a periodic function in 3D and what's the corresponding fer transform right we did a onedimensional we say this k essentially the fal transform so this is where we're going today let's uh uh look at the crystal structures first and uh uh at the end of the lecture I'll show the best is by looking at the more visually I can't draw that well so I'll use a 2D D as a example but at the end we'll look at the 3D uh online. Okay. So crystals uh can be described the most important characteristics of crystal is periodicity periodical arrangement of atoms right and they have uh different atoms putting into same structure. So a crystal we can describe as a lattice which is a mathematical concept plus basis. So lattice is a periodical arrangement of points in space and it's mathematical concept no devoid of any real materials and by doing that you can actually uh classify different structures of this periodic points. So uh let's take a look at the a simple 2D like I said and 2D but there is a center point 2D structure periodic arrangement and uh we introduce a few uh basic terminology one is primitive latice vector There. So in 3D will be A1, A2, A3. In 2D of course you only have two. And what is a primitive lattice vector? It's a a set of vector with that I can use the linear combination to reach all other points by integers. So uh uh I can use this primitive latice vector to construct a translation vector uh n1 a1 plus n_sub_2 a2 plus n3 a3. Well, n1, n2, n3 are integers. Okay. So, this is uh the primitive lattice vector and uh the problem is if I look at this 2D, I have a different ways to choose the primitive lattice vector. Uh here is one way. If I have this one and this one, if you look at this, I can use this two and the linear combination of these two reach any other points. Right? So this is let's say a1 and this is a2 and of course you could also choose a different one. You can choose this one and this one. Right? So one of the challenge is how to narrow down our choice. How to uniquely define this choice of primitive lice vectors. The other is a conventional unit cell. So primitive lattice vector those vector will form a unit area or unit volume. Right? So in 2D is by this unit area. If I choose this, this is my uni area and I just repeat it. I will pile up the 2D space without any voids. And similarly in 3D I choose my primitive this unit vector form volume that's a primitive unit cell. So this will form a primitive unit cell. Right. And so this is a uh uh the one choice of the vectors. And uh the other choice is a conventional you can say uh uh unis. Okay. And uh say if you look at this, it probably is much easier if you choose this as your unit cell, right? It looks more regular. And if you look at the difference of a primitive unlimit cell, each of the cell has only one lice point equivalently. This is because although this primitive unit cell has four lattice point each of this lattice point is sheared by four unit cells. So each the lattice point is one force you add up is one uh point one lattice point in one primitive unit cell but if I take this conventional one you can say this one is shared by four. So one force one force that's in my current drawing there are two points two lattice points. one in one conventional unit cell. Okay. And the uh so uh like I said one of the challenge is even if I take a primitive unit cell each of the cell has one at this point I do not have a unique way the way I have many choices. So there is a cuber sum but a unique way to do it to define uh primitive unisell and this is a uh vagner size construction. So let's let me extend this drawing here. I will extend to this side so to make it clear. Right. So one way to construct this is take any of this lattice point. Right. Here is a lattice point. I connect all the labor lattice points. So I connect to the all the laboring points right and then I take the bisect of this uh uh points here of this lines. So this is a bisct and here is a bisect and here is a bisct and you have another point here and it turns out this one is not a regular cell doesn't look very good right but it's unique because any crystal structure I can take latice point I collect all the liver points I take basex and the minimum volume In this case of area, the form is a primitive unisell and I can use that to stack together and form and fill the whole space without the voids. Right? So it's not the easiest construction but it's a unique con uh con construction and this is called wagner size uh construction. regular size unic wigler size seal because it's always this construction always give you unic. Okay. So uh uh this uh unic gives you now we have uh the primitive lattice vector the uh primitive unic and uh uh as I said this lattice is mathematical concept right. So there are different require different symmetry the most uh uh uh uh in 3D for example they use uh the uh easiest is uh uh tricinic unit cell that I can stack and form the whole uh uh to form the whole space I fill the whole space. So there's no symmetry the angle there's no 90 degree uh and the the lattice constant between here the unit cell of the lattice constant in each direction are different. So this is a general one, right? But then there are different symmetry. If you add the symmetries, it turns out there are only a total of 14 types of the uh crystal lattice. And uh I will defer this later on to show you uh on computer. And these are the 14 times also called the braas that is okay. So uh we'll look at this in computer later on. And uh one more convention of this uh uh lattice the mathematical description is a different crystal graphical plans right so if I take a a cubic structure a unisell that's made of cube right my question is how I would denote different faces different crystalographic directions, right? And the different crystalographic plans. And uh uh the convention that's usually used in define the crystalraphic plans is let's say this is a 3D I have a1 A2 A3 right and uh I have any crystalographic plan for example from here going here this is the middle point and uh I could have this point so this form a crystalographic plan right any any of those so if I have a plan that intersect this within the unit cell let's say at the one point uh A1 direction I have intersection point A2 A3 let me give you uh arbitrary lumber as example so this is a point 8 in terms of the total length of UNCL and here is a 0 four and here is 6. Right? This is a plan within that cube there. And uh the way I label this plan is uh this uh uh Miller index method and and you take first step is you take a reciprocal of those numbers. uh the reciprocal is8 4 right and uh then say 6 uh uh you you take say inverse of those intersect and then you reduce this two uh integers uh the uh you multiply by the uh common the common factors right so if we multiply uh reduce this to integer I multiply by 2.4 and I got a 36 4. So that's the crystalographic plan that we just draw. This is the convention. Okay. And you see that's a pretty cubism why you take a inverse, right? uh uh that's a uh one way to think about this is if I look at this cube again for example this surface here right and uh if I do not take a inverse you see my intersect say this is a a1 this is a a2 and this is a a3 and if I look at this surface here that intersect here is a one and the other two direction is infinite right so this surface will be intersect is one infinite infinite okay and I guess people don't like infinite so you take a inverse and that becomes one 0 plan okay so that's uh just the convention of denoting specific crystalographic plans. Okay. Now here is so far is mathematics. We see the lattice point is abstract. There's no mass, right? Just periodic array and there are 14 types and uh but we have so many variations in real world different crystals right different materials. So structurally among this 14 type the difference is really at each lattice point what do you put there right what do you put there at each lattice point is a basis okay and you can put a single atom at each lattice point you can put a two atoms at each latin point or put a molecule at fish latice point right so uh uh salt is a common salt is among this 14 types later on is a face center cubic it's a cubic structure with one atom at the face but say at each of those lattice point you actually put a sodium and a chloride atom not well so okay each lattice point doesn't mean they occupy the same space. It's just a periodically you can say okay this is a sodium and then another direction you have chloride you just repeat that for the each lattice point this will become more clear later on as we look at the uh uh the computer okay uh I can't draw very well so I will rely on that and similarly silicon silicon crystal right and uh silicon crystal it turns out uh uh say at the each lattice point you put the two silicon and silicon and silicon. So again that's a uh uh even at say the same everywhere uh is a is a silicon atom but if you look at the crystal itself you actually put two silicon atoms in specific direction with specific angle that form the silicon crystal. So those are the bases uh for what we call lice plus bases together to form the crystals. Okay. Uh let's hold that we'll look come back to look at it. What uh we want to talk next. So here is a description for the crystal structure. Right? And next we want to answer what is the uh bonding between the crystals. So bounding potentials and uh um what really hold the material together I think I said this before are charge right it's the electron so I say electron is the glue for all the materials Okay. And uh uh uh when we have uh the typical potential when I have two atoms putting close together. So typical potential curve is this is the separation and this is the potential interatomical potential and they always look like this. Right? when they are far apart they're attractive and uh when they are close to each other they are repulsive that's a typical inter interatomic potential and the minimal energy point is where the separation will be most stable right so uh it turns out this what's the why you have repulsive that's when the for example the nucleus of the two atom positive charge start to overlap influence each other and that's always uh that's what's the cause of repulsive and nuclear of course that's when they get really close right so uh repulsive part is actually uh easier uh to describe repulsive and uh uh typical potential form uh for the repulsive part as a function of separation. One is people often use is the 12th's power law. Very sharp function 12's power. Right? This is a Linda John's type and uh uh the other is using exponential function u0 exponential minus r c and cass is a caristic length and this is a b born meer So repulsive that's the typical form that people use to describe repulsive potential and what really differ between different crystals is the attractive part. Okay. So attractive potential and uh I said the electron is the glue right so even for the least say u uh strongly bonded the crystal is still due to electron these are the crystal formed by alert atoms argon crystal Argon is a gas right but if you cool to low temperature it actually form crystal. So uh we already learned before argon why is stable because the time say electron field to the uh close to the let's say um n equals which which which line it is there I forgot n= three right um uh three or four okay right so it fails closed shell and there's no so each l atom is neutral right so even in this uh neutral atom. Remember that atom always have nuclei and the electrons right? So when you put them together what for what what what's the interaction why they could have attractive is this possible nucleate will attract the electrons in the labor atom and similarly the electron of this atom will attract the nucleate in the labor atom. Right? So these are the dipole dipole interaction. So you will polarize mutual polarize each other and that create attractive force. Okay. So this uh uh attractive force is a vender and uh uh the attractive is a to the separation six power and repulsive is positive, attractive is negative and uh so by putting the crystal together forming argon crystal what we have is when they are very close is repulsive. When they're uh far apart they attractive but of course a real crystal has many atoms periodic arrangement. So we want to a stable crystal is when the total energy is minimized right. So if I have many atoms together I minimize the total energy. So if I have um uh the total energy of the crystal if I denote the atoms as I say uh uh I sum i / j right pair wise because what I have here is between two atoms. So atom I and atom J and sum up all the atoms and I does not equal to J because I'm look at the inter mutual interactions and I have here uh the uh Lena Johns that's a B R I J 12 IG is separation between the two crystals. If it's a cubic you can calculate no matter how far apart in terms of unit constant and then minus b a r i j6 power right so you uh this is total energy and when the crystal is stable is you uh take the um uh r uh one two for example one two is the unit constant the constant between two labor atoms. So you can always express ri between further away in terms of if you have a cube, right? You can express any further points in terms of the smallest lattice constant and you can take the derivative of that in terms of lattice constant and that give you where the crystal is stable. What's the corresponding lattice constant? So this is the u uh uh uh simplest uh potential uh that's the wand potential and correspondingly those kind of crystal is called wand crystal argon and krypton those crystals wonder so uh uh uh I I remember uh you see the superman There's this cry cry uh krypton right I don't know what's the say condensity or the temperature I haven't checked what's the temperature and uh it's not a very strong bonding okay and uh uh secondly what I say let's look at that this is where it's really the one attraction and the next type of attraction that's easier to deal with is if you of salt, right? And uh in the case of salt, sodium chloride, what happens is the sodium the electron has a one sodium has say one outer electron. It completely lose it to the chloride. So sodium is a positive charge and chloride is a negative charge. Right? And uh in this kind of periodic arrangement you have attraction. If it's a if sodium say sodium atom is is positive or positive is repulsion. It says a chloride atom is attraction right. So at the end whether you have a stable crystal is you put all those energy together you minimize them together uh and in addition to the repulsive we can't put them too close right. So uh in a ionic crystal and the uh attractive potential for any atom I attractive part is uh uh it has to be attractive the lead effect has to be attractive otherwise everything is repulsive you don't have a crystal right so this atom I you look at the surrounding sodium you look at the surrounding Lex atom could be chloride right so you sum them up and you look at le shell that be sodium again that's a repulsive and you do all the summation so we have this summation of all other atoms and if uh they are say charged each atom is with charge q so plus minus to represent it's repulsive or attractive due to electron to a coolum interaction RI right so this is the uh coolum interaction and uh uh it's a very simple uh analytically and again you can express further atoms say in other locations if this is the one you're considering uh other any other location in terms of unit constant and so they uh this one in fact sometimes people write into alpha squar alpha q ² 4 pi epsilon0 and r0 r0 is the nearest labor distance. So that's a le labor distance and this alpha is a constant for uh different crystals. uh you do your s uh structures you sum it up it becomes a uh just dependent on crystal structure and this is a uh meline constant constant okay so with this and also with the uh repulsive part you add them together the whole crystal you find out what's the le's labor separation that minimize total ionic crystal energy and that uh uh that's the stable crystal structure. Okay. So um having said this if you do your uh this is this is of course the minimum this is a zero point it doesn't include temperature right some of you may do molecular dynamic simulation for example and in that case long zero temperature you write F= MA and then your F is this kind of potential interaction and that separation now is not ideal lattice constant because the atoms jiggle around So this separation was a function of time right and dealing with ionic force become more challenging in fact that's more challenging than coalent in certain uh uh sense because this dies out very slowly right one / r dice out very slowly and that means you need to include a lot of atoms together to do your simulation increase your domain size when you do a simulation. If the force is short range, it's much easier to simulate. Okay. So, uh now we have ionic and next is uh coalent coalent. So I have given a coalent example before and this is a when two hydrogen atoms form a hydrogen molecule right. So when we have two hydrogen atoms form hydrogen molecule and with the lower energy states is when now electron because the poly exclusion the hydrogen atom energy level split into sigma and sigma star right sigma bonds the lower bound one is when the electron orbital is like what I draw here and you can say the electron is orbited between two hydrogen and has directionalities right and those are the uh coalent bonds and uh if you form a crystal so again 2D for simplicity so you have directionality in this one you have directionality in here directionality here so those are the regions where most likely you find electrons Right? And in this region you don't find the probability find the electron is small. So the bonds has directionality right those are the coalent bond and now uh the next one is if this expand start to overlap and fill the whole space those coalent right the electron can go anywhere that becomes under that picture I come to the metallic bonds electron become free. It's a metallic bonding. So coalent is strongest uh bonding uh uh among the uh say for the crystals. Okay. And uh uh in passen uh uh when we deal with water liquid there's also hydrogen bond right what is hydrogen bond and uh I I think you you all know so if I have H2O right so I have say this is a hydrogen this is a hydrogen this oxygen and uh uh it has some directionality in bond angle That's a single hydro uh water molecule. And now when you bring your lex molecule oxygen will form some bonding rather than just now electron is shared between one hydrogen say H2O molecule there start bond between this oxygen and next hydrogen. That's your hydrogen bond. Okay. So what I have talked so far is uh uh the periodic structure crystal and the basic notation of periodic structure and then we talked about the bonding what holds the atoms together different forms of bonds and next I want come back to this periodical structure I'm going to talk you to you uh very mathematical concept And this is a fer transform and uh uh if you're electric engineer you're familiar with the uh frequency domain right and uh the question is we we we mentioned this in different occasions like last time when we talk about the uh fun common periodic boundary condition right so up. And uh um last time when we talk about from common periodic boundary condition we say a one-dimensional lattice ch of length l right has n atoms and from common per periodic boundary condition say uh x + l equals cosine x and from Here uh we use the uh block theorem because this one is x exponential minus i k which is the wave through the whole lattice l is n a and that equals cosine x. So this is a block theorem from he this this equals so this one equals one that's why we get a k equals plus mass 2 n uh 2 n pi / by capital n a so this is how we got one way we got it right from block theorem allowable v vector k and the other way we got it we we explain it is uh I just have a w function Here I want to expand in fial space right in in fial series. So uh this are equivalent essentially they say I have periodic function I want to use uh here is extended wave uh uh in in in block block wave the other one once you expand into fial series you still got a wave vector you got the extended wave through the whole region right this is a 1D 1D I think you're all probably comfortable because it's just a corresponding time right time into 1D space. Now I'm asking you to construct a 3D because crystal is periodically in 3D. my wave function I'm going to write in general case a wave function and any location plus any translation of wave vector that's periodic right or unit say primitive lice vector and that equals so now I have a 3D rather than writing 1D can you do the full representation, right? So this is uh uh uh uh where why we introduce the reciprocal lice and turns out if you look at the uh 1D uh the here the period is a right and then in your denominator you have a so it's a inverse of that pure okay so the way I do 3D construction of that period uni vector because the 3D. So a real space 3D is inverted into F real space 3D and the F real space I also correspondingly have a primitive unit vector a primitive unit cell and vner size construction. Okay. And the way I construct this reciprocal uh uh primitive lattice vector is if I have the uh a1 a2 a3 as the real space primitive lice vector and then the reciprocal space is b1 equals 2 pi. So that's my 2 pi. Okay, length becomes a volume. So length become volume and uh uh here I have a2 * a3 and then permute the subscript then I have b2 is 2 pi volume a3 * a1 this is a cross the vector product and 2 pi we a1 * A2 and this ensure me the that's the corresponding uh vector uh in the fuller space of this 3D periodic space real space. Okay. Uh uh you will see why. Let me uh give a a few more points. here and uh uh so with that I can construct this is my primitive unit vector uh in the reciprocal space. So the translational vector uh so any of this m_sub_1 b1 and m_sub_2 b2 plus m3 b3 any of this combination give me one point the lattice point in the reciprocal space. So this will make a periodical space reciprocal space and uh that's reciprocal of real space. It turns out sometimes I joke physicist live in the not in the real world they live in the reciprocal world. Okay, that's because most of time you see everything is draw in terms of the uh wave vectors and uh you can of course construct your uh unisell primitive unl cell based on this latice points and uh now if you have your uh for example you have your function that's a periodic any function that's a periodic R + uh T and the way you do your FIA transform if this is due to this periodicity you can write write this function in FI series right 3D rather than 1D F series now you write 3D FI series and the FI series is your R equals and uh here is the for a constant u g exponential I r * g so like r * k and uh uh this is a sum up over all uh g's over all those latice points okay and uh uh I will not I I will not say prove but I will use that I'll do that proof in the next lecture. uh the point of this reciprocal space the the what you could use it's very easy actually doing when you do an experiment when you do a transmission electron micro uh uh say defraction pattern it turns out that what you map out are the reciprocal space you can actually uh easily map out this reciprocal space and uh uh so if you have a object crystal periodic structure, right? You shoot a wave coming in and you have defraction, right? And some of you have seen gradients. How many of of you have seen gradients? Gradient structure. So it turns out that any periodic structure I next time I'll bring one. Okay. you should uh say uh uh light onto a a gradient you only see the defraction uh the light in the reflected in any say any in discrete spots okay so again if I have a periodical range of atoms and what they'll say is only in certain directions you'll see the light come out or this is not light this could be electron beam when you do transmission electron micro graph uh or it could be X-ray right why you use X-ray because X-ray wavelengths can be very short comparable to the lattice constant and in that case in uh say if you m satisfy this gradient say condition let me write down the condition I'll prove it uh in the uh next lecture so your condition is if this is the wave vector of incident wave this V vector of the reflective wave and uh you will have K I minus KF equals plus G equals zero. So the you say G is the uh latice point point in the reciprocal space. Okay. And uh say this is incident reflected. And coming back to why at the beginning we draw the uh uh electron energy dispersion. This is pi / a right and we only draw uh over pi / a. And this pi / a turns out that's the wagner side seal boundary in the reciprocal space. Okay. So uh having said all this I think we really need to look at some pictures. Let's look at the So uh this Google image is be a wonderful I don't need to draw anything. Let's first look at the uh the uh bravis lattice, right? And uh uh you can say there are uh 14 type right. Uh here is a uh tri clinic right different angle different latice constant and here the simplest is a simple cube this is a conventional cell. So if I put uh say a center here, put a a lattice point at the center, then this simple cube, I got a body center, right? And then if I put a lattice point at every face, I got a face center. In this conventional UNC cell, you can have more than one lattice point. In primitive unic, you can only have one lattice point. So if you look at the body center how many last points I have equivalent two right because each of this corner is shared by a uh say eight right so that's 1/8 so simple cubic I have one body center I have two how about f center four right because say every face you have six face and air face is shared by two so that's one half and that's three + one of the eight corners. So, uh gives you u so this is um uh if you look at the uh they they form a total of uh 14 type and hexagonal is also interesting because a lot of people interested in graphite right and graphite is a hexagonal structure. So let's look at the so this is the bravid latis let's look at the some real crystal structures. So starting with uh uh sodium chloride so probably zero let's still look at this here right uh if you say uh sodium chloride and uh here is uh if If we look at sodium atom right this is a uh here at the center you have sodium right so a basis is between here and here that's a say molecule you put a sodium chloride and every point you can look at that same sodium chloride you repeat that basis at each lattice point right and look at the crystal silicon structure silicon, right? If you look at silicon crystal, the uh what do you have here? Again, this is a uh face center, right? There is a one point here but you have each point you actually put a two atoms silicon this point and this point this is not in any of this is 1/4 point right. So between 0 0 and 1/4 you repeating that structure to each lattice point. So it turns out this atoms there is more like a tetraula. It form it's equidistant between this and this center and this center. Right? So it's at each lattice point you put a basis you put a say a molecule or atoms say or two atoms of three atoms many atoms you you you can have polymers form crystal and that could be very long uh a very large basis. Okay. uh reciprocal space. Let's say I don't like this regular size. Okay. So, uh you can see this is a construction of wigler sides unis. So, you have a point in the center. If you from center to this direction, you take the uh midpoint, you cut the I think you cut this plan, right? So, the wigler size seal looks in 3D. could be very uh irregular but that's a unique way uh for constructing there's no ambiguity and each lice uh type uh uh you you construct uh you can construct a corresponding wigler sites uh unl Oh, so uh we see pretty cool. I still on Google unit still. Let's see this. Ah, no. Let's get Do I have a simpler? Okay. So this is a this is now getting more to uh what people uh usually draw FCC structure face center cubic uh uh they will say okay they actually have specific location from gamma to L that's 111 direction okay and the way I look at this the shortest distance is say because um 111 is the longer distance in real face and inverse is the shortest distance. So I'll say that's the one one direction. This is a one z direction longest distance right and uh so those are the uh very complicated reciprocal space and uh coming back to here uh this is the broad condition we'll prove it next time. I don't actually know whether it's a 1g or 2 G. 2 G's. Let's see. Okay. So, if you do your uh you can map this out. So, TM defraction. So if you do uh uh transmission electron microraph uh micro microscopy we mentioned the TM is you actually electron to very high uh uh velocity and under that high velocity the electron wavelength is short comparable to the uh uh lattice constant. So now it goes through a thin specimen typically 1,00 2,000 Armstrong maximum right it go through there and even though it's 1,000 Armstrong remember the latch constant is a few Armstrongs so you got a thousand period and so it's a periodical structure and depend on so you rotate your crystals you can look at a different uh uh uh defraction spot Right? In this dark region, you don't say the electron going there. That's a result of the wave defraction. And uh uh the uh um we again we'll show this uh we'll prove this later on. And that's the electron defraction. Let's look at the X-ray uh defraction, right? Uh so X-ray defraction again is a is a optical wave and what you show what you people say is people uh they don't uh the image the detector is typically a line. So by rotating the angle of X-ray incidence you see the picss right again that's the uh uh say um B condition requirement and uh let's see whether they're uh the clean ones right you some of those clean pick what oh like this H doesn't look like I can show this one. Okay. So you can say some so basically people have built libraries and uh sometimes you don't even know what you have. You got all those picss you search library and you find out what the materials you have. Okay. And uh one more time going to uh next time I'm not going to go through this here, right? It's no longer single spot. Why? That's because it's not a single crystal. It's a poly crystal. Okay? So you got rins. So uh uh this is all coming back to the uh reciprocal space. You can rotate your crystal, rotate your angle of incidence in X-ray uh change your angle of incidence. So you can map out the what's the latice constant? What are the arrange of arrangement of atoms? Okay, I'll stop here.