The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, welcome back to 6890. Uh today will be our last lecture about pure thresat so to speak and we'll be focusing in particular on circuit sat today. Um but before we get started with more reductions I want to highlight uh two styles of threes proofs that we've seen. Um this sort of this is orthogonal to the circuit perspective versus uh logic perspective. Um, so I think and I think it's interesting to highlight the two different approaches. So approach one I'm going to call dual rail logic. These are not the usual names. We're making up names here. There aren't really names for these types of reductions. And the other type I'm going to call binary logic. These names come from uh actual circuit stuff, real hardware. Um so for example, the all the Nintendo proofs we saw are in the style of what I would call dual rail logic because the variables have two outputs. The idea is that this one is activated when X is set to true. This one is activated when not X is set to true or X is set to false. Uh never should both of them be activated. So you have a separate rail, a separate line for the true case and a separate line for the false case. So and this is usually called the variable gadget that does that. And I'm going to make up some more terminology. I'll call these semiwires. to distinguish from wires. Um so over here in the binary logic case this is sort of a half of a distinction. It's a semi- distinction. So um but this is my attempt to unify things slightly. Uh so we have um yeah so so the idea is that these semiwires either they get activated or they don't get activated at all. Um in the unactivated case they're I mean there nothing happens to them. So uh they're not really interesting in the binary logic case. The idea is that the wire gadget is active in all situations but it can be active in two different ways. You can either set it to the true state or you can set it to the false state and it represents both sort of in one wire. Now this distinction is going to get a little bit vague but we saw an example of this kind of proof uh when we were talking about crease pattern flat foldability and P hardness. Uh the wire was the pleat and the pleat could be folded one way or the other. Uh but either way the the information is right here and it this the same wire gets put into this gadget whether you're true or false. Okay. Whereas over here uh you're connecting to this clause only the true uh half wire or semiwire goes to this clause. Uh the false one goes to this clause and to this clause. Okay. So there's a distinction between here where the wire has been split in half and here where it's all in one place and the wire goes to the gadget whether it said true or false. Um I think that's sort of what I wanted to say. My main intent here is to highlight what kind of gadgets you need. So uh we have a wire gadget on this side, a variable gadget on this side. Uh for binary logic, you also need a splitter or split gadget to make copies of the wire. So the idea is you have one wire coming in. There's some magic split gadget which makes two wires or three wires whatever uh coming out. So then you can repeat split however many times that variable occurs. um you can uh make a copy in the non-monotone versions of threes. You may also need uh a negation or not gadget. If you need negation, then you'll need a negation gadget. Um in some cases, you also need uh a terminator gadget. In this perspective, terminator gadget uh is just uh the end of a wire, you might say. So if you want to just not use a wire, then that's uh you would put a terminator gadget. And the idea of the terminator gadget is it leaves it free. Leaves the wire free to choose true or false. Uh now sometimes you can get away without a terminator gadget if uh you can for example if each of your variables occurs exactly four times uh then you can just use two splitters make four copies and then connect those directly to the clauses. So maybe with some negations. So in that case you wouldn't need a terminator. Uh over here we're using a terminator in a certain sense which is the edge of the paper. If a wire goes to the edge of the paper it becomes free. Uh so that sort of the terminator gadget here although we didn't make it explicit it was part of this uh overall plan. Uh in both cases in one and two you probably need something like a turn gadget and maybe a crossover gadget. And we've seen we've seen these in various forms. In this case, the turn gadget was very explicit. Uh I mean it was also a splitter and also a negator, but in particular it changed the angle. And we needed that in order to take this truth value and send it up to the clause and aim everything, right? Uh, and in general, if you're doing any kind of embedding into two dimensions, you're probably going to need a turn gadget so you can move your wires or semi-wires around. Um, most a lot of the time people might call this also a wire. So, that's why uh, but I think it's useful to have a word to distinguish these kinds of wires which are only active or inactive versus the wires which are always active but in two possible states. Hopefully that's that clarifies or makes more explicit the types of proofs we've seen so far. Um now today we're going to do a couple of circuit sat proofs which all of this applies to circuit SAT proofs as well as SAT and one and three sat and not all equals SAT not all equal threes. um circuit set you're going to have I guess in principle you could do it uh dual rail logic or binary logic although usually we probably think of them in this capacity um in binary logic and you're going to have wires you still need splits because you need to be able to take the output of a gate and send it to multiple other gates um in addition to a not gadget you're going to want some other universal uh logic gate So we're going to talk about that in a bit after we see some examples. So our first example is called Akari or light up. Uh this is another nicoli puzzle like Sudoku and uh uh number link we saw last time. Uh so here's the sample input and a sample output. Uh ignore the black dots there. So, uh, you're given a grid. Uh, there's blank squares and there's obstacle squares where you're not allowed to put anything. Some of the obstacle squares may have a number between zero and four on them. And that number represents how many among the four neighbors, edge neighbors of that square, how many of them should have a light. These blue circles are lights. Okay? So, like this one has zero lights in those four positions. This one has two. This one has four. That's forced. and so on. A lot of the cells are free, but whether you're lit or not. And then the rules are uh so you can think of a light as a rook in chess. So it can see everything horizontally in the same row up to obstacles and in the same column up to obstacles. So this guy for example lights these this portion and this portion. This guy lights that portion and nothing here and so on. Uh and the goal is first of all to light the entire board. So that's why it's all green. It's all lit um in such in that way. And no two lights should light each other because then it's too bright, I guess. I don't know. So uh uh no two rooks can attack each other would be another perspective. Um and I think those are the rules. So you've got to have you've got to satisfy the number constraint. You can only place lights in the blank squares. Uh you have to light everything and they can't see each other. So, this is a valid solution. This is puzzle one on the Nickel website, and there's a ton more if you want to to play. But you're saying they can't be in the same row or column. Uh, I mean, they can be in the same column, but they have to be separated by an obstacle. Yeah. So, they can't see each other within a sort of sub column or within a sub row as given by the obstacles. Cool. So, that's the problem. And now we're going to prove that it's empty. Um this is a nice proof because it's relatively simple and it illustrates a kind of circuit SAT style reduction. Uh so for starters and most I would say most SAT proofs a good starting point is a wire gadget. You want to think about can I make some construction that has ideally exactly two solutions one to represent true one to represent false. So here are a very variety of ways to do wires and this is a fairly flexible kind of game. The basic one looks like this. So most of the things are going to be obstacles to make to tie it down, make it easy to separate gadgets. Uh but here we have two blank squares, a one, two blank squares, a one, two blank squares. That's sort of a simple kind of wire because you know from this one either x or x prime is a light. Exactly one of them is. So uh that forces alternation. Done. Uh why? uh because if we choose X, we can't choose X prime because then they're in the same sub row and all the way down the chain. So in general, uh if X is true, the idea is that the X's are the lights. If X is false, then the X primes are the lights. Okay, now uh that's a basic wire, but sort of part of the wire is we need a turn gadget. So this is a 90° turn. Um just check that this is still lit. Uh if these guys could not see each other, I think this is black. It's also okay. The alternation is forced by the one, but some flexibility. Uh, and let's see. Uh, the other fun thing you can do is spread out the x and x prime. If you put a bunch of zeros here to force that there's no lights here, uh, because this has to be lit. Again, one of these has to be active and the ones force an alternation. So, this is helpful uh because if our wires just look like this, and we'll we this will come up again today. uh then you're forced to be congruent to zero mod 3. You have first of your width has to be a multiple of three. Uh and this can be an issue if you have a bunch of gadgets each of different sizes. Maybe one is 5x5, another's 3x3 and other fun prime numbers, then you might have trouble actually getting gadgets to meet edge on. Uh maybe there's a gap of one or two or something between the gadgets. Uh but once you if you have a setup where you can make wires you can adjust the wire lengths to be any integer that's good because then you can go do this most of the time but then when you're getting close to the gate uh if you're off by one or two or three you just uh make it a little bit longer and you're all set. The unfilled one can also just have a crossover gadget. Then uh sorry since you have nothing it's very natural to have a crossover gadget by putting two of them orthogonal. Oh yeah, you can make a crossover gadget easy in this setup. I think that is a future slide. Um let's so we'll do crossover in a bit. Let's start with uh yeah you can very easily do a crossover. Uh we won't need a crossover here. That's what I mean. Uh so we definitely need splitting though in general whenever you have wires you've got to be able to make copies because if your variable only appears in two places uh threes is easy or circuit set is probably easy. Uh so uh here is a splitter. Uh this is the the main mechanism. Uh I guess these ones and this two. So these ones force an alternation uh between here and here. These have to be opposites of each other. and then the two. So if both of the x's are present, if this is absent, then these two have to be present by the ones. And so by this two, that's all there is. And therefore, this is absent. So these guys have to be the same. These guys have to be opposite. Uh and conversely, if this is present by these ones, these have to be absent. And by this two, this has to be present. So this is this is almost sort of a well, you could also put some ones here, I guess, uh if you felt like it. Anyway, if you think about the parity here, what we we have for an when we're representing a signal coming into a gadget, there's X on the left and X prime on the right. Uh so that means coming out here, there's now X prime on the left and X on the right. So this is actually a negated copy of X. Um and up here with some turns, uh we have a regular copy of X and a regular copy of X. This is actually a fairly common thing that happens when you try to split. Maybe you also get a negated copy or instead you get a negated copy. Uh this is actually great because it kills two birds with one stone. You can use this as a splitter. It kind of makes three copies of your signal. Uh but you can also use it just as a negation gadget as a not gate. I think I have a slide of those done explicitly. Uh yeah. So uh here we're effectively using a terminator gadget. We're saying, well, we could throw away this negated copy because we already have two positive copies and that's enough for a splitter. So, if we just end the the this wire here, great, we've got a split. Um, or if we throw away the two copies of X and we just want the negated copy of X, then ends up looking like this. So, we get uh a split gadget and a notgate essentially for free out of this. You could just present this gadget and say, "Oh, I also have terminators." And then you know that you get these uh but for fun he drew them and I'll show you them. I won't show you them in future proofs but uh cool. So let's see what do we have. We've got a wire. We've got a split. We've got a knot. We've got a terminator. Uh we need some kind of clause or some kind of logic gate. Uh and then possibly we also need a crossover. We have turns. Okay. So, uh, next up is a, uh, gate. It's sort of a a mega gate. I'm guessing, uh, McFale tried various little configurations and then found one that did interesting things. It actually does, uh, two interesting things at once. So, we have X coming in on the left and Y coming in on the right. So, both of them have this X- prime and Y prime, the negated copies. And then we've got some fun stuff in here. So, uh, let's start with maybe the bottom, which is supposed to be an ore of X and Y. So, um, let's say that they are both false, for example. And general, we're going to have to check all the cases, but I won't do all of them. So, let's say this is absent. This is absent, meaning the other it's lit from the other end. If it's false, it means X prime is present. Oh, right. Sorry. Right. If they're both false, good. uh then both of these are present and therefore uh we're gonna get hopefully that this one is absent because the ore of false and false is false. Uh so the claim would be that a prime and b prime must be activated. If they weren't then you couldn't light both A and B. Uh right these are at best ored together. At most one of these is present. These regions both need to be lit. Uh, so we're going to need uh at least one of them to be on, but once one of them is on, we know that Z is absent. And then the other one must be on. Try this two. Good. Okay. And then we should up here get Xnor uh because so when these were both false and present, these were present. Uh these are absent and therefore this is present. and the xor of 0 and 0 is zero. The x nor is one. So that's good. So in general, you check all the cases and confirm this is the case. Again, by putting terminators on here, we can get either x or y or x nor x x nor y sounds funny. Um that's great. Uh we actually uh this is the one that we really care about. Uh the or gate. Well, so different answers to this, but uh you should know and we'll talk more about this later. NAND and or let's say the NANDgate is universal and a NOR gate by itself is universal. These are just good things you should know. Uh they go back at least 50 years. And uh what does universal mean? Uh so universal means that from that those from if you're just given a bunch of nans then you can construct any logical gate you want. Uh I will talk about that more in a moment. So this ore is particularly interesting because we already have not. And so from from or and not we can make nor it's just the knot of the ore. And so from that we should be able to make anything which is great except uh for one thing which is the crossover gadget. So in the case of lightup uh crossover gadget is easy to construct but uh because we have exor anyway we can use this fun fact that if you this is a symbol for exor. If you have exor gadgets, you can make uh a crossover gadget for free. So this communicates x to x y to y. Again, there's four cases. I won't check all of them. Uh but that's cool because we have x nor. We can negate it and get xor. And then we can take three of them, plug them together, and we get a rather complicated crossover gadget. If I expanded it out, there is a simpler one, but we don't care about simplicity here. These are just constants. uh and we just care about polomial. So uh that's light up is MP MP hard. Yeah. Do we need crossover gadgets in general for circuit set? Is planner circuit set hard? Please wait. Yeah. Uh this is a something well yeah I want to talk about that after the next example. Okay. uh which we'll get to an answer to that question which as far as I know haven't hasn't been explicitly raised before but uh it's pretty the answer is basically you don't need crossover gadgets and for all the cases I can think of so uh that was lightup is np hard it's also innp because certificate is just where do you put the lights there's only polinomial number of places to put them and checking it is easy cool so nplete oh here's uh for on an overall construction which uh McFale worked out. So putting all the pieces together and possibly using I think here there's maybe no crossovers. Uh but so so in general with circuit set you can construct sort of any boolean formula you want once you have a universal uh set of gates. Um but yeah you can work through details here once you have it's easy to convert between and and or uh just by negating the inputs by deorggan right so you've got uh not x or y is not x and not y or vice versa. So as long as you've got not and or you can construct and and vice versa by negating things appropriately. So that's what he's doing here for getting some ores and and so on. And because there's two copies of X uh while X is sort of getting split here. I guess you didn't have to split X. You could just connect directly. But this is a pretty nice clean construction. You could actually make decently sized puzzles with it. So you end up with the wire carrying the formula just by doing all these combinations, right? And then what you do? Ah, good point. Thank you. There's there was one more point to to this picture which is this zero. This should be an or of x false and this ore of this and of blah blah blah which is this thing. Uh so so if that wire is carrying true then you don't need to put a light next to the zero otherwise you would have to but then that means the puzzle can't be solved right so for this puzzle to be solvable uh we better not put a light here which means it has to be here which corresponds to this formula being true I think if I got the par right so or either way you could put a one there and force there to be a light uh so this makes the puzzle feasible if and only if this formula is feasible because the wires are unconstrained except by setting this thing equal to one. Yeah. So, this is a special kind of terminator, you might say, uh, a true terminator if you want to force the thing to be true in the end. That's usually pretty easy to do. Terminators are usually one of the simplest gadgets to worry about. But yeah, you do need it. For circuit set, you need let's add that. Circuit set. you need to uh let's say a true terminator. There are other ways you could do it, but cool. Other questions about Aotti? All right, so uh next topic is Mindeeper. This is from our poster. We did Super Mario Brothers and briefly did Rush Hour, so Mind Sweeper is the last one on the poster. Um let's prove it hard. Uh we're actually going to cover two proofs about mind sweeper uh because there are sort of two natural problems you might ask about it. The first problem is uh consistency. So this is I give you uh a setup. I'm going to give you a partially solved board that you're not given the x levels. Uh so just a regular instance of mind sweeper. Uh maybe you're told where some of the bombs are. Uh it won't actually matter because all the bombs that I'll draw here are derable. you know from this I should mention the rules of mind sweeper just in case you haven't played anyone not played mind sweeper not willing to admit it so the numbers here representing among all your vertex neighbors all eight neighbors how many of them are bombs uh you don't want to click on the bombs because then you die so your goal is to from this partial information these blank squares represent zeros from this partial information you want to figure out where the bombs must be and here's a very familiar looking wire. Uh here, um we're we can't just have obstacles that are wild cards. So, we have to put it numbers if we don't want there to be bombs there. That makes the gadgets quite a bit trickier to work with. But, uh this looks pretty similar. We've got these ones which force an alternation. Exactly one of these two is a bomb. So, if x is present, x prime is absent. Vice versa. Um and then this one forces I guess actually this one forces these to be opposite. So uh that forces the alternation down the line. So again there are exactly two solutions to this wire gadget uh for where the bombs could be. And so the mind sweeper consistency problem is I give you some picture involving these things. Uh and I want to know is there a solution to uh is there a placement of the bombs that satisfies all of these constraints. Okay. Now uh you might ask why is that the problem we care about? Um, and one reason if you're playing Mind Sweeper, you'd like to know, for example, could there be a bomb at this position? Uh, so could there be a bomb at this position? I could solve that problem potentially if I could solve mind sweeper consistency by saying, uh, let's put a bomb there as part of the partial information. Is that consistent with everything else? So add a bomb to the partial information. Is that a consistent configuration? Uh, so if I could solve mind sweeper consistency, I could play a mind sweeper very well by just testing which are bombable positions. If they're not possible to be a bomb there, I should click there and get more information and cook until done. Now maybe you could solve mind sweeper in a different way than using consistency. But one way to solve it would be consistency. Question. By consistency, you don't mean unique solution. I do not mean unique solution, right? Yeah. So when you actually want to solve the game, you'd like there to be unique solution. That's a problem we will get to in a moment. So, a blank board, unfilled information is consistent. Yes. Completely blank board is consistent. And wouldn't it be interesting if as you're playing you imagine you've got you've gathered some information, you add a bomb, you want to say, is this consistent? If it says yes, like you have a blank board, like could there be a bomb here? Of course there could be. Uh then that's not a safe move. So, this will help you. If you could solve this, uh you could identify safe moves. Turns out you can't solve it. So, uh it doesn't directly help you. Yeah. So, um there doesn't always exist a safe move. There doesn't always exist a safe move, right? What good is it kind of um to know whether you see what I mean? Like I would say consistency is the wrong problem to solve for mind sweeper. Uh we will get but it was the first problem solved. It the gadgets are relatively easy which is going to be fairly complicated. uh and then we'll get to the right problem for if you wanted to solve the puzzle. It's just at this point it's an interesting question. You just want to know is it consistent? Did the computer cheat would be one other perspective or you could imagine some adversarial mind sweeper where you only decide the bombs as the person is playing. So this would so here just even telling whether your opponent is cheating is hard. Okay. So that's that's another perspective. So okay let's finish this proof. Uh we have a terminator uh which is actually a little bit tricky here. You can't just end with ones because that would force this guy to be a bomb. So you end with these threes which force uh these guys are already bombs because of this picture. Uh and then exactly one of those will still have to be a bomb. Okay. And then we have a splitter. Uh this is similar picture to Aari. Uh we have this two which forces exactly two of these to be present and these ones force alternation. So that makes uh now I'm orienting things I'm orienting these arrows for the splitter and defining true to be when the the pointy the pointy end of the arrow is present. Um so that means this is actually a negated copy and these are unnegated copies. Uh but that's only from the orientation. This gadget is actually symmetric four-fold but uh but if you put these arrows in which you would do if you're actually following a circuit it's a directed our circuits are directed a cyclic graphs remember so uh this is negation which is good because it gives us a knot also gives us a split you can also uh end these two things and get a turn so great three gadgets in one uh so uh we already have not this is another way to do not and it's interesting here because uh with Aari we could stretch wires to any length uh any integer length that is long sufficiently long. Uh here we're forced in this u modulo 3 picture normally. But when we do something like a negation here we we get kind of messed up. We're no longer in the same position modulo 3. Uh we should be uh off by one I believe. So the idea is if you do two negations in a row uh then you can end up shifting by exactly two um and still have the same signal. Uh so you can see here we have xxar but uh down here we have it shifted uh two positions over uh yeah or I guess it's more impressive over here. So xarx um and normally this would repeat in this kind of pattern. Ah, so it actually shifted by one position. Good. That's that's actually what I want. So see the pattern here, here, here, here, and shift by one. Yeah. Or to the other direction. Okay. So that's good. That that lets me adjust my wire lengths. Uh these are also often called shift gadgets. Uh they just sort of let you shift by one. And whenever you have gadgets that force certain modulo constraints, just having the ability to add one is great because then you can break all such constraints. You no longer have to live in a mod 3 grid or whatever if you don't want to. So this is important in general. Uh maybe I'll add it to the list here. Um, when you're dealing with wires, uh, you may need some kind of shift gadget that lets you, uh, fix par issues, or in this case, a mod 3 par. Okay. Uh, here's a more complicated gadget, which I will not go through. It looks scary. It's not actually a ton going on. It's a lot of gadgets we've already seen. Um, it uses a slight I've mentioned a turn gadget. This is another way to do a turn. Uh there's a few redundant gadgets in this paper because it's fun to make gadgets. So why not have more? Um and uh so there's for example just a turn gadget here. There's a splitter here. Another turn gadget. This is uh reflectionally symmetric around the x-axis. Uh there's basically just a turn here. So x is just getting copied or and negated into here. Uh z is getting copied and negated into here. Um this is the output value which is getting copied around into here. And then a little bit of magic happens here and here to get these to interact in the right way. And it's essentially just checking uh cases to see that this computes an of these two inputs. Okay. Uh but you know a little bit complicated. Is coming up with these gadgets harder than checking them? Uh, good question. It's unclear. Often when you're designing things, you have a lot more control and it could potentially be easier to design hard problems than to check them. Uh, because we know it's MPcomplete to check this. So, in in a certain sense, uh, yeah, I mean, of course, in this case, there's only four cases, so it's not really that hard. Uh but yeah, when you're designing things, you you have in mind a certain connectivity structure and then it's a matter of getting things to resolve in the grid and not have cross things overlapping and so on, which is a different kind of constraint. It's usually AI might say it's a more fun one. I would call designing these puzzles metapuzzles and to me that's more fun, but of course I'm a theoretical computer scientist, so that's uh that's why we're here. Um anyway, yeah, fun abstract question. Uh so here's a fun thing. I hadn't seen this paper before uh by uh Goldlogger in 1977. Uh they were worried about Pmpleteness, which we haven't talked about yet, but uh in particular, they give these two pictures. This one we've seen uh from if you have an exor gadget, you can construct a crossover. Now, we don't have an exor gadget in this case, but we have an AND gadget or a NAND gadget. This is a funny way of writing NAND, not of an and. And if you have NAND gadgets, you can construct an exor. So if you plug this picture into each of these three pictures, you get a kind of ugly thing, but it's planer and it implements a crossover, which means if you have NAND, you get planerity for free. Okay. So, I'm going to call this uh planer circuit set. Slight catch is that this I think is also a madeup term. I haven't seen it in the literature because it's a little bit vague what it could mean. Uh but let's say we're given a planer uh directed as cyclic circuit and let's say all gates are NAND then this is MP complete. in checking whether a particular ah right sorry um and at the end you want it to be true thank you so you have the let's say the sources are unconstrained so those represent the variables and there's a sync which is set to one and we can say there's just one sync. So you have some starting points. Those are completely free to choose true or false. And then at the end you have a sync. Uh I guess it just has one thing probably coming into it. Wouldn't make sense otherwise. And we set this to be one. So that's just like satisfying a formula but drawn as a boolean circuit. And it's planer. Okay. Now we're going to see more versions of planer sat next class. Uh but this one as far as I know is newish. I mean it's obvious it's essentially argued in this paper say hey look um this paper was not talking about NP completeness but uh the K paper uh says hey we've got these two things so as long as you have NAND you've got crossovers for free so you don't have to worry about planerity which is good news. So no crossover gadget needed there is one. It's actually not that hard in mind sweeper but it's nicer when you don't have to do it. questions. I guess I did talk about termination. Uh but if you we do need a true terminator here because we're doing circuit set that's really easy. Um in fact this would do it. Just ending with all ones means in fact you have if there's zeros out here that means this has to be a bomb and so that sets it to one. So there's a true terminator for mind sweeper consistency. But as we've seen in various ways mind Mind sweeper consistency is probably not what we want uh to actually play the game. Um the algorithm I gave you is maybe is one way to think about playing the game where you're you add a thing and you check for consistency. U that's also a little bit weird where you're just where you're assuming that the input is consistent and then you add one bomb and you want to see whether that makes it inconsistent. That's a special case of this instance. Maybe not as hard as the general picture. everything was consistent up until the moment you added one new bomb information. These pictures don't look exactly like that. Uh, another thing I want to point out in these uh, gadgets is that the let's say the number of x and x bars is not the same. Maybe this negation uh, there's equal numbers of x and x bars over here, but there's one extra xar. What that means is local to this picture, uh, the number of bombs that get used varies, right? There's either one, two, three, four bombs if you choose X or there's five bombs if you choose XAR. And one of the minor things in mind sweeper is that the number of total number of bombs is given to you as input. Uh, so that actually also kind of messes things up. Um, anyway, luckily this problem is solved. uh is actually independently solved by multiple people. Uh it's claimed in um in Bob Hearn's PhD thesis, though it never got fully written up. Uh and then it got published, so there's no reason to write it up anymore. Uh so here is their proof. Uh both this proof and the previous one appeared in mathematical intelligencer. Um so they draw the gadget slightly differently and so far everything looks about the same. They're not going to use a phase changer in this form at least. Uh so they're going to draw the wire gadget like this and the idea is that you would copy it. You get things mod 3. Uh that will turn out to be okay for them. But what they really want is that in each diagram there an equal number of x and x bars. Why? And also what are they proving? So this is uh what they call the mind sweeper inference problem. But it's also what you might just call mind sweeper. I want to solve this puzzle. What does it mean to solve the puzzle? Well, it means you're given this partial information. You want to know, am I done? Did I solve it? Can I solve it? Can I figure out where all the bombs are? This is like there being a unique solution. Um, so I want to conclude that okay, I can figure out where all the bombs are. So, can you figure everything out? Okay. So again, uh the reduction is from something like circuit SAT. Uh it's going to be a reduction from circuit unsat. unsatisfiability. So satisfiability, you want to set the variable so that the outcome is true. You might say, well, I could try to set the variable so the outcome is false. That's the same problem. Uh that won't change anything. You just put a knot at the end. Okay. Unsatisfiability means that you cannot satisfy this formula. There's no way to set the variables to make the output true. There is no there does not exist uh choices for the xns such that sum f of x i's uh equals 1. If we do some sort of I don't know if this is called deorggan probably not uh another fun fact is uh not there exists not is the same thing as for all or however you want to write it. Um so if we put this negation over to here uh this turns into uni universal quantifiers. These are existential quantifiers to for alls. Uh so this is quite a different problem right is about do there exist the settings for these n variables such that this comes out to be true. Uh now we're saying for no matter how you set the variables this comes out to be true or false I guess. But again that doesn't matter. You can just put the negation inside f if you wanted to. So the key difference here is we switch the quantifier direction. This is such a big difference that this problem is not nplete unless np equals cop. Uh this problem is co-enpe. Okay. Uh recall co-enp are the problems where uh it's easy you can always give a no certificate. Whenever the answer is no, I can give you a short proof that the answer is no. How would I tell you that the answer to this question is no, I would give you a satisfying assignment and give you x1 through xn where f ends up being one. Then you know this is not true. It's very hard to prove yes here. You'd have I mean you might have to check all possible exponentially many assignments to the xis. Of course, we don't know whether that's possible. That's compp completeness. It's the same NP versus uh P problem but negated. Cool. Uh so claim is mind sweeper inference is compplete and in general the proper statement is mind sweeper is compp complete. Uh it's mind sweeper uh consistency is npmplete but mind sweeper the game I want to solve the game is compp complete. Cool. Uh this will be one of the few cases where co arises for us. Yeah. Where does co lie on? We don't know where uh in my one-dimensional diagram you can think of NP and comp lying in the same space but maybe like in a parallel universe. I think uh people always draw this picture of uh NP co-enp uh P is here and this is NP intersect co-enp who knows um so it's it's really off it's there are parallel universes one about positive problems one about negative problems uh but in some sense equal complexity if you Think about when we in this class we think about reductions as being one call reductions. You take your problem you map it so that the output uh when you solve this new problem it has exactly the same solution to your original problem. If you instead think about multiol reductions where you can make calls to an oracle that solve the target problem multiple times and then do stuff with it. You could for example call that thing then negate the answer and return that. In that universe, NP and Comp become the same thing or NP completeness and co-enpesseness which are about reductions become the same thing. So that's the only thing holding them apart is that we're not allowed to negate the answer. So I view them as almost the same but obviously they're different and you have to distinguish one from the other. But in terms of difficulty they're about the same like difference between NP and co-enpace is totally different or X time or you know other things in my onedimensional diagram. Yeah. Would P equals NP imply P equals Coen NP? If p equals np then I'm pretty sure co uh np equals co p uh because under in polinomial time you can do yeah p is closed under complement because you can just solve the problem that negate so I should say np and compp are different but nplete and comp complete are very close let's say they're you know this they're sort of dual for every problem over here is a corresponding problem over here is like the hardest and they're sort of symmetric or something. All right, back to mind sweeper. So, uh here is the compp completeness. We have wires just like before, but I'm drawing them differently because uh part of the issue here is we are told how many bombs there are and we don't want that information to help us. So, we want every diagram to have an equal number of say x and x bars. So if we set it with X or set it with XAR, we use exactly the same number of bombs, which means just knowing what gadgets are glued together, we can just add up how many bombs each one has, that will be the total number of bombs given to the puzzle. Um, and that shouldn't give you any extra information because all of these pictures will have equal number of X's and X bars. So here we have wire, terminator, and turn. pretty similar to before but now checking that everything has equal number of x's and x bars. I think this turn for example that one happens to be balanced but some of these gadgets are not balanced. This one almost certainly. Okay. So um in this case they construct a notgate and an orgate and then uh they also build a shifter. This is a different kind of shifter. um it's actually it still has you know width a multiple of three but we're taking the wire and shifting it perpendicular by one unit with turns you can simulate the other type of shifter but this turns out to be the only one that they need uh so it's let's let's talk about that first let's say so if x is set by this two uh and this bomb this one is not set okay this four already has three of them so it effectively becomes a one so then these two have to be opposites from each other. This is sort of where the shift happens. Uh and then uh because we have to deal with these bombs that are left over, let's put some more in. And then this is five. So there's already four here. And so that forces an alternation there. So same idea, but with some bombs added in to uh fill the space. Let's say, could I do a one here and a one here? A one there. Uh this is a problem. I couldn't can't put a one here. That would force this guy to be present. So that's probably why that bomb is there because we don't want to have to say how many bombs are adjacent to this corner. With regular wires, you don't have corners. Good. But when you're doing this shift, you have sort of corner. Same thing with the turn gadget that we already saw. Okay. Uh I think not is also pretty intelligible, but it's fairly complicated. It essentially involves making another copy of the signal just so we get an equal number of X's and X bars because we saw in the in the previous reduction with the notgate we had this one isolated guy that would be like this one and so if you just have this picture uh yeah it would negate things and and again this is designed to be mod 3. So there's three six this is hard to do 9 12 15. Okay. So things are nicely aligned on the mod 3 boundary but they end up with these three dudes. Uh they end up flipping the signal. Here's X. Here it's also X which is like the reverse because it's on the left. Uh but this would have an unequal number of X's and X bars. There's too many X's in this row. So uh we end up splitting off a negated copy here basically to balance things out. And now if you count all the x's and x bars they should be equal. Cool. Uh and then they build an orgate. So uh it's again looks fairly complicated probably pretty simple in essence but I don't feel like checking all those cases. Uh what is annoying is that this thing is not mod 3 aligned. Mod 3 aligned would be here or here with the output always in the middle finger. But instead it's here. And so they use the shift gadget over here to offset that by one. And similarly in all three pictures. Okay. And then you get an orgate with proper alignment. Everything works out mod 3. Okay. Cool. Uh so we have not and we have or therefore we have nor and therefore we can build any uh logical gate we want. Uh, and so we have turns, we have shifts that we need, we have not, we have, do we do split? I think we did split on the previous. No, we didn't do split. Okay, then let's do split. Uh, so we need to copy our wires. Uh, this is a more complicated version of the previous split again with some extra things thrown in. Like this is not needed. You don't have to put this here, but it adds an extra XAR. So uh there's actually two of those things and so together that offsets all the extra x copies that are on the inside and so that forces uh again equal number of bombs whether it's x or xar chosen. So uh we can just count how many bombs are needed in this picture. Uh cool. Uh this is again a symmetric version. So if you're thinking of of let's say this as the input and these two as the output uh then negation happened. So if you don't want negation to happen just put a big not gate there. And uh in this case they give a crossover gadget uh in particular because it's not that hard to give a crossover gadget but uh it's also not necessary. So you could do crossover explicitly but in fact uh I just looked on Wikipedia earlier today uh how do you build we already know that planer circuit sat with NAND gates is hard so can we build NAND and so I looked up in Wikipedia how do you build NAND out of NORS and the answer is this and that's planer so we're done so you take this picture you plug it into each of these guys and you take that picture you plug it into each of these guys make sure it preserves plainerity all the way through. It does. And then from uh I should know that's how you construct NAND out of NOR. It's exactly from de Morgan's law. Uh because this is just negation. So cool thing is all these constructions preserve plarity which means we can add to our definition of planer circuit set. uh all gates are NAND uh or all gates are NOR. This is nice because when you're solving next P set or whatever uh you can uh just take planer circuits and if you happen to construct an ANDgate you're done. If you happen to construct a norate you're done no crossover needed. You'll still need turns and maybe a shift and maybe a terminator. Uh you won't need not if you build NAND or nor uh you'll need a split, but you don't need a crossover anymore. This is cool as far as I know a new result, but I mean obviously implicit in all of these things. Uh yeah. Do you know if there's any um sub problem I guess of SAT where you don't have universal gates and you can't be planer and yet it's still hard. Uh so maybe you can you can oh interesting you can split wires and you have a variable that has you know the negation of it coming out but that's all you can do no other gates. Uh my guess is that all such problems are polomally solvable but maybe that's something we could think about. Um certainly plausible that you don't need to be able to construct all boolean formulas in order to be hard but my vague sense slash experience playing around with uh other weird other gates most of them are all equivalent to splits if they're not universal. something like a split. Maybe with some like five operand operator, you could do something cool. But uh usually they degenerate to either split-like things or uh clauseike things. But if you don't have both, you don't get enough to be hard. We should prove a theorem like that. But I would guess that you need something like this. Now, these are not the only universal gate sets. I think in a moment I will have a uh I in if you are curious about more of what universal gate sets are these are usually called functionally complete or functional completeness if you look at that Wikipedia this is an excerpt from Wikipedia you see NAND andor are the only among uh two operators so you have two inputs one output um NAND andor the only things that by themselves are universal but once you allow two different gates you can do other things so uh these are particularly interesting. This is false, I think. Uh it's called bot and this is and this is called top. That's true. Um and so uh these are slightly unusual ways for me to think about writing them. Here we have of course and and not. Um but this is this is right implication uh which is like not the left thing or the right thing. We talked about that in the past. That by itself is not enough because you can just follow implication change. But if you also have false that is universal that's kind of funny. Uh and this is exor. I think exor is the same as saying that the two things are different. Um and this is xnor. So those by themselves are not universal. But if you have some other kind of one-way implication then uh that gives you any logical formulas. Now whether these in the planer version are hard I don't know. But I know that these in the planer version are hard. Okay, back to mind sweeper. Uh they drew a picture of how everything fits together. So it's maybe nice to have the big picture. Uh but let's in particular think about what the decision question is and make sure what I mean I claim this is coenp and that we're doing unsat, but we should actually check that. At this point, we've just simulated a circuit. We haven't thought about what we're trying to solve overall. Now we want to know whether we can derive everything. So we compute our formula and then the output is here and at this point there's just a terminal there saying I don't know what it is different from the previous proof right the previous proof said uh that should be one at the end and then you have to figure out how to fill in the things now we're saying I don't know what's there can you figure out what's there and if it's the case that no matter how you set the variables you always get false then you know uh what this wire looks like, you know that it's false. And in fact, you can figure out everything. If you know what all the x i are, you can just run through the circuit. Uh so you can figure out the entire diagram. But in general, just asking the question, can I figure out this square? Is there a bomb or not? In order for there not to be a bomb, uh you would have to solve this problem. uh you need to determine that no matter how you set the things you end up with a zero or the adjacent position it would be the opposite. Okay. So conversely what I really care about that was the wrong direction. I want I'm given a circuit unsat instance. I want to turn it into a mind sweeper instance. So I do that and then the the the question is you know uh get this right. Can you derive whether there is a bomb in this square? Can you determine that there uh must be a bomb in this square for example? That would be a slightly cleaner version. And that will be true if and only if no matter what you do there's a bomb in that square which is like saying no matter what you do uh this formula comes out to zero. Okay. So any kind of inference question like that is going to require you uh to solve this problem or rather this problem can be reduced to any inference problem like that. Clear? It's easy to get backwards here. So hope I got it all right. Uh and that's co-enp completeness. Reductions look the same for co-enp uh we just start with different problems. Cool. So that was mind sweeper uh and functional completeness. I have one more well sort of two more proofs only one that I will talk about in detail uh for Candy Crush and soon enough bejeweled. Um so but let's let's think about Candy Crush. This is the modern version. I'm guessing you've all played but in case not uh please don't play. It's very addictive. But on the slides, we're allowed to. So, um, you have a grid of colors, colored candies, and a move in this game is to take two candies and switch their order. Uh, I guess in this picture, I did these two. Okay, if you switch these two, you get this picture. And whenever and the the mechanics of the game, the physics or whatever is whenever you have three or more candies of the same color in a row or column, right in a row, uh then they disappear and anything above them falls. So like this red candy ends up there. In this case, there were no more candies above in the real game. Usually there's always more candies above. But if we're in a small game, uh this will if we're in a big game and looking at a small window, uh we know everything about what will fall. Do you need to move make them fall or do they automatically fall once you get they automatically fall? Yeah. So they they're forced to fall. Uh it's all I get to do is make this move and then stuff happens. So I make this move and then anything that uh any three in a rows or more disappear and then if that makes more three in a rows they will disappear and so on and I'm my hands are off at that point. Once that's once the chain reactions are finished. Not all games work this way but Candy Crush happens to work this way. Once these things are finished, then I can do another exchange. And when I do an exchange, I must make three in a row. I can't just swap these two guys because uh it's not interesting. Yeah. What if it's like a T pattern or like nonlinear? Uh in this uh T Yeah. Okay. In this picture, we'll never have T's. It'll always be three in a row. We'll never have four in a row. With four in a row, magical striped candies happen, and you don't want to know. So, uh, potentially you could get up to five in a row with these rules, but that that that in these reductions that won't happen. So, we don't care what the rules say there. Um, we're only going to get three in a rows. There is a weird catch in this proof. These I'm going to cover two mentioned two proofs from 2014. So, all very recent. I guess the game isn't that old. Um, and in this proof, we're going to assume if there are in general, there may be multiple three in a rows at once. And the proof is going to assume that they are resolved bottom to top. So you do the bottommost one first, things fall, then you do the next one, things fall. Do the next one, things fall. That's not how the actual game works. The game in the game, they all uh disappear simultaneously and then stuff falls. Okay, but ignore that for the moment. The next proof will change the model. Okay, this is a much easier one to think about and draw the pictures. So uh in that model, here's a variable gadget. We have uh this is the starting point. It's the same picture top and bottom. And the idea is either you exchange these two to make three or you exchange these two to make three. And the consequence is either the right column falls by three or the middle column falls by three. And that's all you can do local to this gadget. So that's easy. Things are going to get messier but um okay. So imag you have this picture variable gadget for XI. above it. I'm going to make one of these two gadgets. Actually, both of them, but one at a time. So, in fact, it will actually look kind of like this stacked on top of the variable, which is down here. So, variables down here. Either the uh center column falls or the right column falls. Now, the idea is this is going to eventually connect to a clause. And this variable, I should say this is not from circuit. This is from three set. Regular old 3AT. So that variable appears in the clause either in positive form or negative form. Positive use this gadget. Negative use this gadget. So in the positive case if this falls by three we get this picture and then these disappear and so this guy falls one more. And the idea is that's going to trigger something off to the right. That will be next slide. Okay. Uh that will be the wire gadget. Uh if the center column fell by three, nothing would happen, right? the purples. I should mention uh how these gadgets are constructed. There's a a fourcolor sort of checkerboard pattern. Every in odd rows it's alternating orange, green, orange, green. In even rows, it's alternating red, yellow, red, yellow. And then in a few places, we're going to put the purple ones cuz purple's best. Uh and all the action is going to be in the purple candies. Okay, the these guys are just uh out there. And the real game has six colors. We're only using five of them. So cool. Uh these guys are just sort of filler to make sure nothing else happens. But still things fall vertically in a nice controlled way. Okay. So if you if these fall by three, the purples don't align. So nothing happens in this case. Uh if the center one falls by three, we get alignment and that falls by one. So great. Uh also note these gadgets stack somewhat nicely in that other than these this three gap uh in in reality more candies will fill in here. I drew it this way so you could see how much the columns actually fall. Remember this all sort of happens in one one move. So this falls, these clear, then this will clear and stuff happens. Uh it's annoying. So, so far everything's good because uh we've each of these is followed by one in addition to the original three. Uh but in this case, uh this follows by an extra one. I think you need to add an extra candy here. I'm a little unclear in the details of how to do that. It's mentioned in the paper, but without details. So, uh anyway, in the end, we will have uh a bunch of these stacked on top of each other. Each time the variable occurs in various clauses, we're going to have some positive and some negative ones. And we want the same variable trigger. Ah, that's right. Uh, there will be well, okay, no, I'm going to leave it like that. So, at this point, we have um a purple thing triggering something to the right. So, now I'm going to show you how that part works. This is the wire. So, the wire itself is like this. And the idea is that when there's a purple one here, chain reaction happens. And it happens in this way. As soon as there's a purple um candy here, this clears, which makes these two fall by one, which clears that which makes this fall by one and triggers the next thing. Okay, this one uh some stacking happens. Let's see. So overall, uh I think this one is actually better behaved. Uh this falls by one here and then two. So overall these columns fell by two. This column has fallen so far by one uh but it's about to fall by a second one because this will always trigger something. And so these do stack nicely because you always clear exactly two columns. So the worry is that the gadget above it uh will be skewed. Okay. Uh let me give you one more gadget then I'll tell you how um no actually I think at this point I should tell you how things fit together which is this picture. Okay, so we have variables down here in the lower left. Then uh let's worry about one thing at a time. These are the uh connection gadgets. I didn't I don't think I told you their name, but they're your connector gadgets. This is sort of making a 90° turn. From the falling action, we're going to get a purple in a particular position, which causes rightward motion. And then, uh, the wires, as you saw, basically go in some angle off to the right. I want these all to be non-intersecting. Uh, and there's sort of two of them. There's going to be the true case and the false case. Okay? And then way over here somewhere, we're going to have clause where these wires all attach. And then above it, we're going to have a reward where you get tons of points and uh etc. So, let me tell you what happens next. Uh this is a fun way to draw the picture. So, above these we'll have some other connections. I should not do it in the same pattern. I should not do it like that. Yeah, sure. Connection. Connection. Okay. Again, diagonal lines. Great. Not quite diagonal. They're at some angle. We have a clause. Everything connects up. Above the claws is a reward. Okay. And then I move the boards. And that's the picture. Okay. So, and just above the variables, we just keep adding more connections connected to some clauses. And in this way, and it's not just three variables, of course, we can have different uh there's n variables down here, and we use some three of them, and then connect that off to a clause, and they're all just stacked. Uh I happen to draw the clauses one on top of the other. That shouldn't happen. Uh so there's some extra space here. This is more over to the right. So that none of them will interact with each other. That's the goal. Except there are some issues like uh notice this wire gadget. Notice uh dual rail logic, right? Either this is active or this is active. And we hope that not both of them are active, although that can actually happen here. I'll get to that. Uh so uh when this activates, notice this might this goes on top of a variable gadget. Now wire by itself is kind of good. We've seen uh it removes two things from every spot. So uh things don't shift too much. And furthermore uh we know we hope that either this activates or this activates. So this will shift by a consistent amount in either case. But uh the wire may get messed up because the variable actually removes three things from one of the columns. So, we need a better wire gadget, which looks like uh this. This is a super wire gadget. It's really cool. It works no matter how you use it kind of. So, this is what it looks like in general. And this is regular use. So, this is as before. Uh if we trigger this, then this triggers and this guy falls by one just like before. But now also if there's a variable down here and this column falls by three or sorry if this column falls by three. So it's same picture but things fell by three still everything works out. Uh this these two fall it's a different uh these two fall but they meet a different dude but there were a bunch of guys to meet up with so it's fine. Uh and I clearly drew the output in the wrong place. Uh the output should be here I think. Yeah. So in in this picture the output was here also it shifted by one. In this picture the output is here not up there. Okay. So in both cases it triggers. And finally if the middle column fell by three before this gadget activated then uh this again triggers uh this time with this guy being different. Instead of this one matching this one's matching. Uh that still triggers these guys and this is still the output. Okay. So this is a different wire gadget that works in three different scenarios depending on what happened below it. So that's good news that lets us do this type of wire. In general, we're going to have a chain reaction all the way down here till we get to the claws uh from bottom to top. These will resolve and let me show you the claws. Uh I think details are a little bit messy. Um there's a little locking mechanism here, but uh basically the idea is all of the these things come in X1, X1 bar, X2, X2 bar, all of the half wires or semiwires. Um and so we we expect one of these to activate. Maybe you don't do that, but that would be weird and you won't end up satisfying the clause. So if this one activates uh then these align and you're happy. If in general if you can get this column to fall you're going to be happy because above this thing is this reward gadget. If this column falls by one you get a million points. Okay. And every clause has its own reward of a million points. So and million here is like n squared or something. Uh so you really want to get these and the only way to do it is to satisfy the clauses. The only way to get all the points is to satisfy all the clauses. Okay. Now, uh the goal in this game, I didn't mention is to maximize the number of points you can get uh for a given number of moves. Usually in uh Candy Crush, you have a limited number of moves. Okay? So, the idea is you're just going to have enough moves to set each of the variables, right? If you end up setting one of the wires directly, you can trigger any wire by doing a little flip. You can say, "Oh, trigger this one wire." But that will satisfy at most one clause. Whereas if you do it on a variable, you're going to satisfy a bunch of clauses and that's clearly better. Uh so that's a bit of a argument you need to make. Uh it doesn't help enough. You could even set this wire and this wire uh you know an x wire and an xar wire. But uh you can show the claim is that will never uh buy you more uh that will never buy you as much as setting an entire variable. we set uh and here's the reason why uh I drew this picture simply that say oh for every clause we're going to have this picture connected to some variables in fact every time you have a clause you make a million copies of the clause a million is like n uh so that it's really worth setting the var every variable appears in in millions of clauses so you really want to set the variables if you just satisfy one measly clause and get one measly million points it's not worth it but if you You can get a million times a million points. Whoa. Trillion points. Okay. So that's why you should only set variables, not set wires directly. Okay. Uh I think I have roughly covered this proof except I didn't go up the chain. Uh here setting X1 bar doesn't do much except setting one or the other of these ends up shifting all of these things by one which ends up clearing this which shifts all of these columns by one. And basically things look really spread out here but as you work your way up they're coming more and more into alignment. So the idea is as long as things resolve from bottom to top um you fir well it doesn't yeah uh yeah then first you figure out whether x1 satisfy the clause if it doesn't it sets things up for x2 and then maybe x2 satisfies the clause if it doesn't it sets things up for x3 here they're spread out even more but by the time you've done these things below uh that that thing will be ready okay so that was the first proof The second proof uh uh sorry before interlude uh Candy Crush is based on a variety of games. Um most famous is Bejeweled but there's a long history of even Tetris is in there but uh there's a long history of match three games and pretty much all of these are nplete. I don't know the details of all of them, but there's this paper uh by three authors a little bit later in the year uh that proves basically all of these games are emptying complete even when you're not given a move limit. So this is interesting in Bejeweled the goal is just to maximize your score. You don't necessarily have a limit on the number of moves unlike Candy Crush. Uh so or in also in some levels of Candy Crush it's like that. So uh here it was very crucial that we only had enough moves to trigger all the variables. We didn't want to be able to do other things. Um, so here's a different proof and I'm just going to give the highle picture. Uh, basically, uh, this is cool because even just figuring out whether you can get this one gem, this one, uh, candy is hard. Uh, in order to do so, you have to line up all of these things for each clause. And here it's a reduction from exactly one three set, one and three set. So only if exactly one of the variables gets set correctly does this shift to the right level. And only when all of these are shifted to the right level can you trigger this wire to go all the way here and get that guy. And it's the only way to get that guy. You can't do it directly. You can only be triggered from the left hand side. And there's also a sequencer over here which forces all of the variables to get set before this happens. Uh so it's a little tricky because you don't want to have to you don't want it to be you could set half of them and then trigger this and then things happen to align in a cheating way. The details are complicated, but they actually implemented their reduction. Uh, so this is it. Now there, as it says here, there are 4,000 rows above and 2,000 rows below. So it's a large construction and this is for this formula. Um, I can clean it up a little bit. Remove the again there's a background checkerboard pattern here. So if I generate instance then uh things are a little bit cleaner and I think highlighted in red are the moves you can make. So here's the first variable. You can either uh let's do the simple one first. Move this guy with this one and then trigger trigger trigger. All this happens without you able to do anything. And that will move some stuff up top. Um or uh we can move this one here and then this is fun. The variable goes down and it just keeps it goes down basically to where the x1 bar is down here and then it triggers that guy and maybe that guy also. Okay. And that one and that one. Okay. Uh, lots of stuff happens. Anyway, eventually we'll get down to X2 and we'll be able to set it one way or the other. Uh, so the details are obviously a little bit complicated, but clearly they've been explicitly worked out because they can even play the game, which is pretty awesome. Uh, anyway, and they also have the greatest URL, uh, candycrush.ismpnard.com. We should try to get other things.ismpnard.com. Um, and that is Candy Crush and Bejeweled and all of its friends RNP hard. Uh, and I think that's it unless there are questions. Uh, so we've just started to scratch the surface on the idea that planer graphs are hard and next class we'll see planer versions of threes and one and three setat which we weren't using here. This is using a non-pler thing. Uh, so that will that helps with a lot of proofs especially ones that happen in the plane. Um so we've seen it with planer circuit set but next we'll do planer three set planer one and three setat planer not all equal sat those kinds of things and again be able to avoid crossovers which is nice. Cool.