The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. I wanted to tell you a little bit about the use of digital communication schemes in the space uh program and part of that is it's not it wasn't just the use a lot of coding theory was developed for use in this program. So um uh in the early days there was no error control coding. So they had very slow transmission rates um and tried to compensate for not having error control coding by um taking a long time to send a bit over um but in later years uh with the mariner and viking probes uh they started to use error control codes and linear block codes are what we're talking about. Um this would be the typical parameters for such a code. So we know how to read this. This is uh 32 bits per block, six data bits and a minimum hamming distance of 16. A particular kind of code called a borththogonal code or a hadomard code uh which had specific characteristics and specific symmetries that actually helped with the uh uh decoding. So for instance on um Mariner 9 um it's 1971 this went into Mars orbit and uh the code was used to um encode the picture transmissions. So um each data word was six bits to encode 64 gray levels in a picture. Uh it turned out that because of uh transmission issues the uh safe number of bits for a block was 30 bits and after that you had to do a little bit of re realigning or tweaking. So you could um send 30 bits at a time safely and so that was a choice of n in that vicinity was a natural choice. Uh one thing you could have thought to do would be take the six bits and repeat them five times in that 30-bit window and that would be a repetition code. Um it turned out that with this particular hatamard code you could actually um get the same uh data rates or comparable data rates. Let's see what would the data rate be k over n right 6 over 32 um but with much better error correction properties. So let's see how many errors could you correct in this code per block. somebody seven. Yeah, because you've got a minimum having distance of 16. Um, so you want d minus one over two the floor of that, right? So you could correct up to seven errors per block. And this code was actually used on space probes right into the 80s. Um, and as I mentioned, this particular code has various symmetries that allow actually something called the fast for transform to be used in the decoding. And um uh so that's really uh what drove this. Now, as you read about these probes, it's actually staggering how much they did with so little. Um let's see. This thing went half a billion miles almost. It had an onboard computer with a memory of 512 words, right? So you can imagine the kind of engineering that went into uh organizing all this. um the transmitters and this is typical of these space probes. You can't put uh you don't have uh lots of energy generated from uh your solar panels necessarily. So 20 watt transmitters. So these have to transmit over this kind of distance uh the data that you want to send uh in the presence of noise and various other errors. Okay. So quite an engineering feat. Now, the kinds of pictures that you would get, well, these are pretty amazing, actually, considering what the uh probes had to do. So, over the lifetime, it sent over 7,000 images. Mariner 9 is still orbiting Mars from what I understand. It's not sending back, it stopped sending back transmissions uh one or two years after this, but it's still in orbit till it's um till it slows down enough to uh crash in. Okay. So, as I said, um you're typically talking about low power, 20 watts. Uh W MBR, uh what what's a typical radio station power on a college campus. They advertise something on the order of 700 watts for their transmitter, right? So, um we're we're talking about doing a lot with a little here. uh a lot of the uh art is in the antenna. So you have an antenna that directs this power very sharply towards the intended receiver, but the more sharply you try to direct that, the bigger of a control problem you have because you've got to point that antenna all that more carefully. So all of these are coupled issues. And then at the receiver end, you've got um very high quality uh amplifiers and signal processing, but the data coding and error correction schemes are a key part of that. And it turns out that as you got more ambitious with these transmissions, you had to go to more complicated codes. And these are the codes we're going to talk about uh today, what are called convolutional codes. We'll talk about the coding today. And then we'll talk about the decoding with what's called the Vurby algorithm um next lecture. So this has been used extensively uh from the late 1970s onwards. More recently you have um codes that are actually combinations of convolutional codes what are called turbo codes and uh another family of codes low density parity check codes which were uh developed in Bob Gallagher's u PhD thesis here Bob Gallagher is on our faculty um but convolutional codes were really a workhorse of uh the whole system okay so u an example is now Cassini which is in orbit around Saturn. It's actively sending pictures. This if I read the uh website correctly is a picture from August 29th and I saw the pictures posted from June and July. Uh so this is a picture of one of Saturn's moons and you can see the rings and the shadows of the rings and so on. Uh this is actually recreated in natural color for multiple uh images. This, I guess, is part picture and part artist rendition, but that shows you what Cassini looks like. There's only one of them out there. I don't think there's something else to photograph Cassini. So, uh, the kind of code that's used is a convolutional code. We'll learn what uh these parameters mean, how they enter into the definition of the code. And here is a typical uh code rate. you're talking about something on the order of uh 83,000 bits per second as the code rate here. Uh the um sorry not the code rate this is the data rate. Okay. So the um the um messages are coming um uh let's see yeah you're sending six times this amount per second but this is the rate at which the data is coming in. Okay, so convolutional codes and again I keep coming back to MIT names. Peter Elias was on our uh faculty here. He was a department head for a while and uh in a short uh paper in 1955 invented the idea of convolutional codes. So the idea here is um not to divide up your data into blocks uh but to actually work on the streaming data and as the data goes past you generate par bits uh at a regular rate and what you transmit in most typical schemes are just the par bits. You don't send the message bits. So this would be a non-sistatic code if you like. So you're not there's no part of that message that's directly observing the uh the message bits. Um now uh you you will actually generate and send multiple multiple par bits. So you'll have a message uh sequence x0 xn sorry x0 x1 and from this you derive um parity bits and you do that using the standard sorts of equations we've seen with blog codes. Each par bit here uh for instance par bit zero at time n will be some linear combination of message bits but it's the message bits as they're streaming by. So you might have for instance this as your choice for uh parity bit number zero. Okay. And then uh parity bit number one could be some other combination here. So for instance xn plus xn minus2 for instance. Okay. So it's a linear combination of some set of set of message bits just the way we've been generating parity bits all along. Uh the the plus here of course is we're talking about binary uh messages. So this is addition in GF2. So it's um exclusive or or modulo 2 addition and you can imagine a whole bunch of such parity bits. So in general you would have r such parity bits computed off some set of message bits and transmitted instead of the message bits. So you might have in for each message bit coming in uh you might actually be sending out R parity bits. So what you'd do is just send these out in sequence. You'd send out the P 0 value, the P1 value at time N, then recomputee at time N plus one and keep going. All right. Oh, actually I have them here. I didn't see that. Uh so all this happens on a sliding window. This happens for a particular choice of n. Then it happens for the next choice of n and the next choice of n. So you're doing this on the fly with a streaming uh sequence, right? Uh so let me just put up an equation that explains why this is called a convolutional code. It turns out that expressions of this type where you take a data stream coming in and generate uh new data streams of this form. It turns out that the operation that's being carried out here is something referred to as convolution. So in general um what is P 0 of N? It's some weighted combination of X at the current time, X1 time step back, X2 time steps back. um in general uh k different uh values involved. So what I have is P 0 N being a summation from U let's say J equals Z of say G0 J um X of N minus J. All right. So this is just some set of numbers 0 or one just as these bits are these are zero or one but this is the general form right this particular kind of combination is referred to as a convolution operation on the input stream and we'll see much more of this when we come later to modeling um uh channels via physical channels we'll talk about convolution type models. So here it's not so important that you master this expression. We'll have plenty of opportunity to work with expressions like this. It's just for you to know that an expression of this type wherever you see a summation with indices that are in this form uh this is referred to as a convolution. Okay. So it's convolution of the message stream with uh some set of weights. Professor Yeah. What does G stand for? Uh the G is just a set of weights here. So in this particular case for parity expression zero um uh G0 of one G0 of 0 would be one. G 01 would be one. G 02 would be one. Okay. It's just a set of weights. So yeah, this expression is a bit of overkill for the kind of uh use we're making of it, but it's just to uh explain the origin of the name. It turns out later when we use it for channel modeling, the x's will not just be zeros or ones. They could take arbitrary real values and the g's could take arbitrary real values. So we'll be working with much more elaborate versions of this. Okay. The number k is referred to as the constraint length and it's the maximum number of message bits involved when you look over all your parity expressions. So in this particular instance uh k would be equal to three right it's the maximum window uh of data that you're using in a non-trivial way to generate the bits. So here you're using up to uh three to generate this. Well in this case also you're using a window of three message bits. It happens that you're ignoring the one in the center but the constraint length is the uh the length of message that you're actually looking at. Okay. Um so in some sense if you want to think of it this way the um the number of parity expressions that you use well that's straightforward that's just telling you how much redundancy you're willing to put in. Whereas the constraint length is telling you how deeply you're folding that redundancy into the message. So the bigger the constraint length, the more message bits are involved in generating a par bit. And so the more you're scrambling up the message and spreading it over a large section of what's transmitted. And so you might expect that you get better error correction properties with larger constraint lengths. Okay. This is not saying anything new? So, so how do we come to actually transmitting? Well, we generate the par bits and then as I said, you send all the par bits associated with your computation at time zero. Then all the par bits associated with the computation at time one, time two and so on. So in the case of the um code used on the Cassini probe, that's a one over six rate code. It's actually computing six par expressions. So it's transmitting six par bits for each message bit that comes in. Uh what happens then at the next time instant is that you shift everything up by one and uh redo the whole thing. Okay. Now um you can actually and I'll have this up on the slides. You can actually crank through the equations but it's not the most illuminating way to u think of things. It's much easier to think of it visually through um a block diagram of this type and using the idea of what's called a shift gen shift register. So what is a shift register? You may have encountered it in other places. So we think of a shift register as it's basically u a box that can remember something. Okay, that's the register part of it. A register is something that remembers a number. Um you've got some input stream that comes in and some output stream emerging at any time. This stores a particular number which is available to the output. So whatever stored in the register is available to the output. The shift part of this description is that whatever's at the input will get shifted in at the next clock cycle or the next time instant. Okay? So the input gets shifted in at the next clock cycle. Whatever is in here is remembered for that one clock cycle and is available at the output. Right? So if I have uh a sequence xn being fed in for n01 2 3 and so on. Um if I'm seeing xn here, what must have gone into the previous time? If I see xn here at time n, if I'm seeing a particular input at time n, what must have gone in the previous time is x n minus one. So what's sitting here is xn minus one, right? and xn minus one is available to me at the output. The next clock cycle, the next input comes along, the xn goes in here and uh it the whole thing shifts. All right? Now, what you have up there is a cascade of shift registers. You've got two shift registers. If you keep in mind the operation that I described, if this is xn, if I'm looking at this at time n, xn sitting here, what must be in this shift register is the input of the previous time. So that's xn minus one. Uh this these are shown adjacent. What we really mean is that one shift register is feeding into the next one. They're just shown as adjacent. But what must be sitting here then is xn minus 2. Okay? And if I read off something from here, what's what I'm looking at is xn minus one. Namely, what's sitting in the register? What I'm looking at here is xnus 2. All right. So, do you see how this is working now? Um, this is actually the same example that I had written up earlier, I guess, for the computational par bits. So, here's except it's Yeah, it's the same one. P 0 N I have the equations. Let's see if I can display them for you. No, I don't. Okay. So, what's P 0N? P 0 N is XN that's connecting from here plus X N minus one plus XN minus 2. Again, by the way, in this diagram, what I showed as an arrow coming from the output of the shift register. There's just a short hand here that shows the arrow coming out from the body of the register. It's the same thing we're talking about. Okay, so P 0 of N is the sum of these three message bits. So, we're talking about constraint length three here. And what about p1n? It's xn plus xn minus 2 with nothing of xn minus one. And so imagine this being the picture for every n. So you start off at time zero and keep going. Right? Uh we refer to the state of the shift registers as the pair of numbers that we find in here. So if we're talking about X's that can be zeros or ones, uh the shift register combination here can be in one of four states, right? 0 0 1 1 0 or one one. So four states. So here's a four state U shift register into which we're feeding in the stream. And what gets put out on the channel are these parody bits interled. That clear enough? Okay. Nothing I haven't said here, right? So, let's actually work through an example step by step. This this is clear enough, but let's just see it concretely. Um, let's assume that I'm starting out with the shift registers in the zero state. And now I've got this message sequence coming in that I want to send out. Okay, so the sequence is 1 0 1 1. So the first bit that appears here is the one and I've got to generate P 0 and P1. Well, P 0 is the exclusive R of these three things. So it's one. Uh, P1 is the exclusive R of the first and the last. So it's again one. So that defines P 0 and P1 at time N. And the same way at the next time instant the next input the next message input bit comes in. Uh so we had one zero one one we took care of the one here. Now comes a zero. Uh we do the same thing. So the exclusive R of all three of them appears here. That's the one. The exclusive R of the first and the last appears there and that's the zero. So you can see how things are getting folded together. uh because the input that was here before is now sitting in here and plays a role in generation of the uh par bit for the next step. Okay, in fact the word convolve means to fold together and this is what it's actually trying to capture. You're folding together these uh these two sets of weights the weights on the taps here and the input sequence weight. And then the next uh two cases similarly. Okay. And that's what gets sent out at the bottom. So this is the transmitted sequence. So it's the one one 0 0 0 1. Right? That's all there is to it. The implementation of the shift register is very easy. Um and so this is actually a a very straightforward thing to implement. Now there's another viewpoint that's also very useful here. Another way to look at what's going on uh which is thinking in terms of the state of the register and how you uh move between the states. I guess um how many here are doing 004? Are those the ones with smiles on their faces? Yeah. Okay. Um, you see a lot of this there I imagine. Okay. So, how do I read a diagram like this? I've got a circle for each state that the shift register can be in. So, the shift register can be in 0 0 1 0 sorry 0 0 1 1 0 1 1, right? Um, each of these arcs represents a transition from one state to another. So, let me ask you this. What does it take if I'm in the 000 state with my shift register? So, what you've got to picture is your shift register sitting there with 0 0. What does it take for me to get to the uh one zero state? What must my input have been to get to the one zero state? Imagine how these shift registers operate. Right? If I'm going to get from 0 0 to one 0, I must have fed in a one at the previous time instant. Right? So it takes an input of one to go from the 0 0 to the one zero. So to go from 0 0 to one zero, you use an input of one. That's the number that we write before the slash. That's our uh labeling convention for the arcs. We put the input that it takes to make that transition and then after the slash we put the parity bits that are emitted. So what we've got for the one one is the parity bits that are emitted. When you've got input one sitting here 0 0 here and you're using the parity computation that I uh had before. Let's see here. So P 0 is going to be X N + XN -1 plus X N - 2. So that gives you a one. And what about P1? P1 is XN plus XN minus 2. So that gives you another one. Okay. So you if you're in state zero, the 0 0 state, and you get an input of one, you're going to transition to one zero, and you're going to emit one one. Okay? So the state diagram captures all that. And similarly all the way around. So I haven't checked each of these, but I hope uh there no mistakes in it. Uh but if you're in one zero, well, by the way, if you're in 0 0, there's no way to get to 01, right? So you don't see any arc from 0 0 to 01. Um if you're in one zero, you can get to one one or you can get to 01 depending on what you feed in. Okay. Uh so it's very straightforward then to actually build up this diagram. Why don't we do a little bit more on here. Okay. So, um if I'm actually abstracting from the shift register picture to something that's more like the state picture, I'm going to say here are my four states. I've just drawn it a different a little differently than I have in the upper picture. Instead of circles with these states in them, I prefer to think of them this way. So, what we said is if you get an input of one, you'll emit one one and you'll get to that state. Uh what does it take to get to the state? Somebody can I have a hand in a loud voice? Yeah. Okay. And then I guess you've got to uh go back to this to think about what's happening. So I'll allow you to think of a zero sitting at the input here. So what would the uh parity bits be? So the first par bit will be the exclusive R of the zero, one, and zero. So that's going to give you a one, right? And then the next parity bit is going to be exclusive R of what's here and there. So that's going to be a zero. I hope that matches with what I have upstairs. We're talking about going from one zero to 01. It takes a zero input to do that. and what you emit is one zero. Right? So you can fill in all of these. This is a state transition diagram. Okay. Um let's see. And we say that if you've got a constraint length of three then of k equals 3 for instance or let's say if you've got a constraint length of k uh you've got 2 to the k minus one states. Well, that's because uh in that constraint length, one of the uh bits involved is the input bit. That's not sitting in the shift registers. So, you've got k minus one bits left over. So, your shift register is k minus one stages long. And so, Um all right. So, you could imagine generalizing this to more complicated sorts of situations. Let's see. Just going back to the Cassini example. If you let me jump back a bit, there was a K there. What was it? K of 15. Okay. So for Cassini, you're using one input bit and 14 more bits in your register. Okay. Okay, so you've got 2 to the 14 possible states there. So in these codes, you're actually using very large constraints. Okay. All right. I want to go from the state machine view uh to another view now which is what's called so this is the state machine view uh to something called the trellis view. This is something by the way that was uh a way of looking at things that was um developed by someone else who's on our faculty David Forny. Um in fact if you visit his home you'll see his garden has a nice trellis around it and you'll see why when I when we draw this okay so what's the trellis view? So the trellis view says take the state machine but unfold it in time so that all your transitions over time are not happening here. Every time step you draw the picture again and look to see where you get to. So let's do this. This is the one I want to be most careful with and where I'll introduce a few notational conventions so that our later life is simplified. Okay, so we've got state 0 0, state 01, state 1 0, and state 1 one. Okay, except that this is going to be the picture that I have at time, let's say, at time n equals z. At time n equals 1. While I've got this the same shift registers, I'm going to draw this picture again. The easiest way to learn this is to just follow through one example. So, please keep your attention here and you'll have it sorted out and then you won't have to worry about it again. It's the same thing as with LZW. All right. So it looks kind of detailed, maybe tedious, but it's actually very simple. Just hang in there and follow through one example. Okay. So what does this say? I'm in at time n equals 0. Uh I'm in 0 0. Suppose I get the input zero. Suppose the input is zero. What state do I transition to here? Right? So if I have an input zero, I'm going to transition here. So this is with an input of zero. And what are my parity bits going to be? Both zeros, right? What about if I get an input of one? Where do I transition to? Well, we've already seen that here. If I get an input of one, I'm going to transition to here. And what am I going to emit? Well, we've already calculated that we're going to emit a one one, right? Let's do it for one more case. We're in 01. What states can I transition to? I could go to 0 0. And I would do that if my input was zero, right? And what would my par bits be? Well, that's another case for us to look at. Um, if our input is zero and we're in state 01, what would the parity bits be for this choice of parity bits? It depends on what specific choice you made, of course. One one you agree. And if I get an input of one instead, where do I go? If I get an input of one, I'm going to go to one zero. Um, which is here. Okay. So, if I had an input of one, I would go to one zero. My parity bits would be what would they be? Can I have a hand on the voice? Yeah. 0 0. Right. Okay, so it's that simple. That's all you have to do. Fill out this picture and you're seeing what this picture translates to at the next time instant. We're not using anything more than is in the state transition uh sorry in the in the state machine diagram. Uh but we're unfolding things in time which is actually very helpful. Now there's a simplification we'll make in drawing this because I've arranged the uh states in natural binary counting order 0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1. It's always the case that the upper arrow that emanates from a state corresponds to an input of zero and the lower arrow corresponds to an input of one. Okay? So I don't really need that first thing before the dash. I'm just going to dispense with it. So if you're going up of the two choices that you have when you come out of a box, if you're going up, it's zero. The input was zero. And if you're going down, the input was one. So I'm just going to label that as 0 0. I'm going to label this as one, one. And um I guess I've forgotten already what some of these are. But you can see what the whole picture starts to look like. Okay. Um, so let me actually I'm not going to um do these in detail, but let's just see how this the next stage would differ if at all. when I come to n equals 2, well, it's the same story all over again, right? So, whatever pattern of arrows I had coming out of here, I have the same pattern at the next stage with the same labels, right? Because there's nothing different. So, if you'll allow me, let me actually fill out a few of these. Um, and you'll get practice uh drawing one of these. these when you uh do recitation maybe for another uh example. So I I can keep going with these. Let's see here. This is going to be one one if I haven't found two arrows coming out of each box and I'm not done. Oh, this is wrong. Right. Thank you. from 01 I can go to one zero. Okay, so there are two arrows coming out of each one. The upper arrow corresponds to an input having been zero. The lower arrow um corresponds to an input having been one. And there are two arrows going into each box as well corresponding to whether the bit that's going to get dropped off is a zero or a one. All right. So there's a a real symmetry to this. Um I'll draw one more stage just a little bit to make a point here. Okay, so you can keep going. So how do you generate a code word from a trellis diagram? You're starting in some state. Typically, it's the all zero state. In fact, what you'll usually do is have a header for your message stream, which is all zero. So you force the shift register to be in the zero state once the real message bits come in. Um, and then you move from here. So you're typically starting here and then you navigate depending on whether you've got a zero or a one. So if the first message bit is a one, you're going to go down here. If the next message bit is a zero, you're going to go up here. If the next message bit is a zero, you're going to go up there. And the code word that you emit is going to be in that case one one uh one zero one one and then all zeros, right? Assuming you're staying at zero from that one. So depending on what the message uh sequence is, you can actually go through the trellis. It's infinitely long or as long as your message sequence is um and figure out what the code word is that's emitted. So this is actually just a graphical way of displaying code words. So the set of code words that I get does that correspond to a linear code? Let's assume that somewhere downstream all these things come back down to zero. Okay. So I'm only considering a finite window of things. It's not going to go on forever. So suppose I'm going to end my input messages with 0 0 at the end and come back down to that state. So my messages will always start with 0 0 to force the register to the 00 state and they'll end with 0 0. Okay. Um the set of possible code words is a set of par bits I emit along the way as I navigate through the trellis. Is the set of code words does a set of code words constitute a linear code is the question maybe not obvious right the way you answer that is actually thinking back to uh this setting. So um one particular code word would correspond to a particular input sequence that generated it a particular data message sequence that generated it. Another code word would correspond to another message sequence and the question is is there a message sequence that would generate the sum of these two code words that you have and actually it turns out that it the answer is yes because these parity relationships are based on uh a nice linear operation. Okay, so it turns out that the set of code words that you generate um constitutes a linear code. So if you were going to think of uh a minimum Hamming distance for this code, what would what would you want to be thinking of? I don't know if I've actually drawn this correctly right now. Has anyone spotted any errors along the way or do I have it right? seems to be okay. What would cause how would you look for a minimum humming distance in the set of code words generated over this this window? Sorry, I didn't hear where that came from. Yeah. Could you could you speak up again? The minimum number of ones in a non-zero code word, right? Okay. So, it' be the weights the minimum weight code word you'd find among all the non-zero code words. So, you would have to find a path starting here. All my code words are going to start here and end there. You'd have to find a path through this that picks up the minimum number of ones. A path that's different from the all zeros path. Okay? Find the path through there which has the minimum number of ones in it in the code word. So what would that be in this particular case? Maybe this path we highlighted in another color. I don't have this is not a proof this is just a suggestion that this might be it and you you would have to draw in all the parts explore all the other parts but what would be the minimum weight along this one let's see I got one one there one zero here one one there so I would get a weight of five on this path and the question is whether you could find another path with a smaller number of ones attached to the code word um and I think if you work this out in detail and stare at it, you'll find that you're actually stuck with five. Okay. Now, it turns out that the interpretation of this number is not quite as straightforward as the interpretation of the minimum having distance in block codes. And the reason is that actually um this is a more complicated uh kind of picture because it continues on with the structure. Um, so we don't actually call it the minimum hanging distance, we call it the free distance. So I'm just trying to evoke this. So the um the minimum weight code word you find among the non-zero code words will indeed be a code word of weight five. But the interpretation of that number may not be directly as simple as in the case of the Hamming distance. Um, but it's close. Okay. So, what it really tells you is that over a data length that is maybe not much longer than this, the code words that you have are separated by this distance minimum. So you might expect that you could correct uh two two bit errors over data lengths that correspond to code words that are somewhat longer than this perhaps. Okay. Um so that's all very handwavy, but that's all we're going to do with the notion of free distance. So this is more complicated to deal with than a block code, but the free distance actually has that kind of intuition. It has the intuition of minimum having distance. um locally. All right, over this window of data, even if this went on for thousands of bits, if you got a burst of errors in this stretch that had up to two errors, you could correct them. And we haven't talked about the decoding. We're going to talk about that the next time. Okay. Um so that answers this piece. Now, let me say one thing about decoding just to set us up for next time. If I didn't have any noise in my channel, it actually turns out that decoding is pretty trivial. How is that? If I gave you the sequence of par bits, can you think of a way that you could recover the input sequence? Yeah, good. Yeah. You see, if I add these two, I get XN minus one equals P 0N plus P1N. So, if you give me the parity bit stream, I can reconstruct for you exactly the input with a onestep delay. That's pretty good. I'm happy with that. If if it's taken me uh you know minutes for the signal to reach me from Saturn, um I'm happy with a onestep delay here in decoding. All right. So in the absence of noise, the inversion is simple. The inversion meaning deducing the input message bits from the output, the parity bits. And this is a theme you'll see in many other settings. If there's no noise, inversion is easy. You can look at the output of a system and figure out what the input was. Um, if you know exactly how the system was creating the output from the input, but in the presence of noise, you've got a problem. Because you see, if you have these parity bits corrupted at some rate, every few bits you've got errors, well, your interpreted message is going to have that same kind of error rate. Okay? So, it's really in the presence of noise, it's an unsatisfactory way to do it. So, um, this doesn't work. We'll be looking at something more careful next time. Okay. So, we'll uh we'll well, actually, since I have you here, let me put up a spot for us. We haven't quite uh hit the mark. So, can you answer these for me? What's the constraint length of this code? Anyone who hasn't answered, yeah, four, right? Because you've got xn xn -1, xn -2, xnus 3. That's the largest window over which you're uh picking things. What about the code rate? One over three, right? Because for every message bit, you're generating three parity bits. You're going to ship out those three parity bits before you do the shifting on the shift registers. So the code rate is one over three. The coefficients of the generators, of course, you can read up there. What about the number of states in the state machine here? what eight right because uh constraint length is four but one of those is the input so you've got three bits that you're storing in memory 2 to the 3 is eight so the number of states in the machine is three is eight okay so more complicated picture than this but the same principle all right we'll continue next