We continue our journey with natural language processing. Uh we looked at the bag of words model, one hot embeddings and so on and so forth. And today we will talk about uh embeddings or to be more precise standalone embeddings. And then that'll tee us up for something called contextual embeddings which is where the transformer really sort of comes into play. Uh all right so let's get going. So so far we have uh encoded input text one hot vector. So to just to refresh your memories from Monday um if you know if this is the phrase that's coming into the system we run it through the SDIE process. Uh and when we do that what happens is that we first of all we you know we standardize then we split on whitespace to get individual words. Uh then we assign words to integers. Uh and then we take you know each integer and essentially create a one hot version of that integer. Um and when we do that basically we we have a vocabulary right and in this example we just have 100 words. And you will note that this vocabulary which which you arrive at once you standardize and tokenize uh you know has words like the because we decided not to remove stop words like a and the um and so on. So just to be clear standardization u here standardization while it has historically been all about stripping punctuation lowerasing everything removing stop words and stemming. While that has been true historically, if you look at modern practice, people will essentially strip punctuation maybe and then lower case and and they often don't even bother to do stemming and things like that or to remove stop words. Okay. Uh and that that's why in KAS the default standardization is only lowering and punctuation stripping. This detail may actually be handy for homework too perhaps. >> That's why I'm pointing it out. >> Uh okay, so that's what we have. And so for each word that's coming in uh we have a one hot vector right uh with the one hot vector is just like onto the vocabulary uh and then you know and we can either put in code [clears throat] add them up and get a multih hot encoding or we can u uh sorry get a count encoding or we can just do or right look for just any ones in a column and get multihot encoding. So that's what we saw last class. Uh but this uh scheme while it's quite effective for simple kind of problems um is it has some very serious shortcomings and so we will sort of delve into those shortcomings and then sort of step back and say all right is there a solution to fix these things. >> Okay problem with one heart uh there are lots of problems any volunteers similar words are understood differently. So for example, if you have this house is great and this house is awesome great for some differently and differently even though >> absolutely so that what was pointing out is that if you have two words which are synonyms let's say great and awesome. We would hope that the way we represent them using these vectors would have some connection to what the words actually mean. In particular we would hope that if they mean similar things that they are sort of close by. If they mean very different things, we would hope that they're very far away, right? Things like that. Sort of common sensical expectations of what you want the vectors to have. So it clearly won't have that. And we'll look into it in a detail in a bit. But before we do that, there is also a computational issue which we covered last class, which is that if the vocabulary is really long, then each token, each word that's coming in here will have a one hard vector that's as long as the size of the vocabulary. Right? Right? If you have 500,000 words in your vocabulary, every little word that comes in has a vector which is 500,000 long, which feels like a gross sort of waste of stuff. Now, you can mitigate it somewhat by choosing only the most frequent words, but it does increase the number of ways the model has to learn and increase the need for compute and data and so on and so forth. Okay. Now, let's say that we have created a vocabulary from a training corpus. Okay. We have a bunch of text that's coming in. we have done we have done the ST uh the standardization to organization we have credit vocabulary from it and let's say we get the words movie and film so the question is and and IO's observation gets to this immediately if you look at the words movie and film are these two vectors close to each other or not okay so if you have two vectors how would we measure closeness what's the simplest way to think about closeness not a trick distance. Yeah, exactly. So, if they're really close distance-wise, we would hope right the words similar words should do u should should be close by. So, here if you let's just imagine that the vector for movie let's say your vocabulary is I don't know um 100,000 long. So your vector is 100,000 long and the word for movie. This is the position. So this this has a one. Everything else is zero. Right? >> Sorry. This is the vector for film. And maybe this is the position for film. So that has a one. Everything else here zero. Okay. What is the distance between these two vectors? you just use the ukidian distance. So the uklidian distance you will recall you literally just take the difference of these values square them add them up take the square root. So which means that all the zeros will obviously give you zero. This one is going to give you a one. This comparison is going to give you another one. 1 + 1 2 2 that's the answer. So distance between these two vectors is 2. Now so the distance between them is 2. What about the one hot encoded vectors for good and bad? Clearly good and bad mean opposite things. What is the distance between the good and bad zero vectors? Still root two because the zeros don't mean anything. the ones are not in the same place. So when you subtract the one and the zero, you'll get ones and ones. Add them up to roo2. In fact, you take any two words in your vocabulary, what's the distance between the two one hot vectors for those words? It's roo2. So if any two words have the same distance, does this even have a notion of distance? It doesn't. No distance from one hard vectors. It has no connection to the actual meanings of these words. It's just a rep way of representing them. Okay. So that is the big problem with one hot vectors. So the distance between them is the same regardless of the words got nothing to do with the meaning of the words. And this is a huge problem which we'll have to solve. So to summarize where we are, if the vocabulary is very long, each token will have a one hard vector as long as vocabulary. That's that's sort of a computational and sort of training problem. And then this is a deeper problem where there's no connection between the meaning of a word and its vector. Okay. So wouldn't it be nice if vectors that represent synonyms movie and film apple banana hopefully they're close to each other. Would it be nice if the vectors for things that mean very different things are far from each other? So let's take a look at a particular example. Okay, let's assume that we have been magically given these vectors so that they actually have some notion of meaning. And for convenience, let's say that we take the just the first uh two dimensions of these vectors, the first two dimensions so that we can do a scatter plot on them. So we plot the first dimension of the of these vectors, the second dimension. And what we have in this little cartoon is we have plotted the the word for factory uh for home for building and they all happen to be clustered here. Clearly this representation is capturing some notion of what the thing is right some sort of building. Um and here we have you know a bicycle, truck and car clearly some this is like the automobile cluster right transportation cluster and here we have like a fruit cluster and here we have some you know sports balls cluster okay because it's a cartoon things are all nice and cleanly separated okay so now if you take the word apple where do you think it's going to go it's going to go into A C D or B right It makes eminent sense it's going to go to C. Good. Now, would it be nice if in more generally if the geometric relationship between word vectors represent the semantic relationship between the underlying objects that the words represent? Yeah. >> And it's and I say relationship and not distance because it's not just distance. It's actually more than that. So, let's take another one. Here we have uh this is the the vector plotted for puppy and dog and this is calf uh right we have plotted the word for calf and let's say that we need to figure out where would the embedding the word vector for cow appear is the most logical should it be a should it be c should it be b where should it be >> okay what's the logic any volunteers just put your hand up. >> Uh yes. Uh >> the cat is a baby animal whereas the cow is normally adult. So you closer dog which is the adult version of a dog. >> Got it. So you're basically saying go from the puppy version to the grown-up version. Right? That's sort of what you're getting at, right? And that's a totally valid way to think about it. But there are a couple of ways to think about this which is this is one of those those two ways. So what you can do is you can actually look at it and say well okay if this is bringing you you know bad memories of GMAT and GRE and stuff like that I apologize but so a puppy is to a dog like a calf is to a cow right which means that this exactly what Jay is pointing out you can go from like the baby version to the full grown version if you go in the horizontal direction okay but maybe if you go in the vertical direction you're essentially going up and down the young entity entities of animals. Okay, so here you're growing with, you know, you're still across the same dimension of animals. You're just going from, you know, the same age level, right? That is the band here. So this is the grown-up version of a whole bunch of animals, the puppy version of a whole bunch of animals. So the vertical dimension measures some sort of variation across animal species of the same roughly sort of maturity stage. Okay, so these directions also matter. It's not just the distance. Okay, that's what I mean when I say semantic relationship and geometric relationship. Relationship is distance and direction, right? Both have to be involved. So, so now word embeddings as we will learn soon are word vectors designed to achieve exactly these requirements. Okay, they will achieve these requirements um and they will fix both these problems very elegantly. Okay. So let's say that we have word embeddings that are achieved all these problems. Are we basically done? Can we declare victory or are there any is there anything that even words which actually capture the meaning of the underlying thing don't fully address? Is there any remaining problem we have to worry about? Yes. >> Context. >> Context. Yes. >> Context. Right. What about the fact is a bird's meaning? Sure, every word has a meaning, but we know that some words have multiple meanings and that meaning is really sort of inferenceible or you can make sense of it only if you know the surrounding context, right? If I give you if if you see the word bank, B A N K, bank, sure, it could be a financial institution. It could be the side of a river. It could be the act of a plane turning in one direction. It could be someone hoping for something, banking on something. The list of possible meanings of the word bank is basically enormous and you cannot figure out what it means unless you know what else is going on around that word. So context is super super important. And these embeddings, word embeddings just tell you what the meaning of the word is. And basically what's going to happen when you have a word which could mean many different things, it's going to give you some average version of that meaning and that average version is not going to be very good. Now there are some words which only mean one thing and you'll be okay there. But for the rest of it, right, it's going to be tough. So what we need is some way we need to find a way to make word embeddings contextual. meaning we need to somehow consider the other words in the sentence. Okay. So if we can do that then we will be in great shape solve all sorts of NLP problems. So as it turns out contextual word embeddings or word vectors or word embeddings that achieve both these requirements. They capture the semantic geometric relationship thing I talked about and they are contextual. Okay, they're really fantastic. uh and the key to calculating contextual word embeddings is the transformer. That is why transformers are justifiably famous. Sort of the the lay of the land here. So today we're going to look at how to calculate standalone or uncontextual word embeddings and then starting Monday we will take these you know un standalone embeddings and make them contextual using transformers. Okay, that is the plan. Any questions so far? So now let's think about how we can learn these standalone embeddings from data. Right now the naive way to think about it would be hey let's why don't we manually collect a whole bunch of synonyms, antonyms, related words etc. and try to assign embedding vectors to them that satisfy our requirements. Okay. Now as you can imagine this is going to be a long painful and never quite complete exercise. Okay. Uh so and the and given that we are machine learning people question is can we do it in a better way can we just learn it from the data without doing any of this manual stuff. Okay and the key insight that makes it all happen is this humble looking line on the screen by John Fur who was a linguist. You shall know a word by the company it keeps. I wish I could deliver this in a British accent. a word by the company it keeps. Okay, it's a very profound statement. Okay, and here is the sort of the key intuition behind this. It says, let's say that we have a sentence like the acting in the dash was superb. Okay, what are some words that you folks think are likely to appear in the sentence? >> Shout it out. >> Play, movie, so musical, right? Those are all some great candidates, right? The acting in the movie, the film, musical, and so on and so forth. Okay. Now, let's say that I ask you, what are some words that are unlikely to appear to the sentence? And I think we could all be here for like days, you know, listing them out. I just listed these out. Um, I love the word tensor. So, I have to find a way to use it somewhere. >> All right. So, the acting of the banana, superb, clearly nonsensical, right? So what this actually what what we are seeing here is that if certain words are sort of interchangeable in a sentence meaning you you change them they still the sentence still makes sense right if they appear in the same context very often i.e. If they're interchangeable, they are probably related, right? Sort of like we don't even have to know what the word is. All we have to know is that this word and this word, you can drop them into a particular sentence. You can fill in the blank of that sentence with that word and it actually makes sense. Then we're like, "Oh, wow. Okay, these words are related then, right? You're sort of inferring their relatedness not by looking at them directly, but by seeing where they live, right? It's a very very clever idea and it slowly sink into you. Okay. Um so that's the first observation. If they appear in the same context very often they are likely to be related. More generally related words appear in related contexts. So all we have to do is to figure out a way to calculate context >> and then use that to understand you know what the words are that have to live in this context >> and there are some beautiful ways to do these things and we'll you and we'll really dive deep into one such way to do it. So, so the so what we're going to do in this approach is that since words that appear in related context mean related same similar things. First of all, you have to define what do you mean by context and there are many ways to define context. We're going to go with a very simple explanation simple definition which is that if words happen to appear in the same sentence a lot then we think that okay they are in the same context. So context here means sentence. Okay. So what we can do is we can actually take a whole bunch of text maybe all of Wikipedia and then break it up into sentences. We'll have billions of sentences right and then for all these billion sentences we can literally go and count for every pair of words how many times are both these words showing up in the same sentence. Okay. And we call this co-occurrence. Right? The words are co-occurring in the sentence. And it doesn't have to be next to each other. Right? We know that in complicated words, a word at the very end of the sentence could actually alter the meaning could be its meaning could be altered by a word that happened in the very beginning of the sentence and it could be a really long sentence. So we take the whole sentence and say are are two words co-occurring in the sentence yes or no and we just count them up and when we do that right when we do that we will get something like this. So I'm just this this just captures what I've been talking about. Identify all the words that occur. let's say in Wikipedia and then for every sentence you look at every word pair and count the number of times they appear in the same sentence across all those sentences okay this is a word word co-occurrence matrix so for example let's assume that you took all of Wikipedia looked at all the words distinct words and you found there are 500,000 words okay so there are 500,000 words here in the columns 500,000 words on the rows columns and rows and then you And each cell of this table is basically has a number that you calculate which is the number of times the word in the row and the word in the column happen to show up in the same sentence. That's it. So for instance if you look at deep and learning right the word deep and the word learning maybe that that those two words occurred in the same sentence maybe 3,025 times. 3,25 sentences across all you put 3,25 right on the side. Okay, many words are unlikely to appear in the same sentence. So much of this matrix is going to be zero. Okay, but we fundamentally form this co-occurrence matrix. Okay, >> this matrix essentially embodies all the context information that we can work with in a very compact beautiful you know sort of elegant and using this we're going to try to figure out what the word embeddings actually are going to be okay and so so by the way the approach I'm describing here to calculate standalone embeddings is called glove uh it's called glove and standalone memberings first sort of came onto the NLP deep learning scene. Uh there were two sort of ways of doing it. One was called wordtovec word to wet the other one is glove and they are both comparable right they use slightly different mechanisms of doing this we we went with word for for this lecture because I think it's actually a little easier to understand and equally effective. Okay, so this is what we have. And so what we want to do is we want to learn these embedding vectors that can be used to essentially approximate this matrix, right? If we can find vectors that can actually approximate this matrix, then hopefully those vectors do in fact capture some notion of what the words actually mean. Okay? So let me put it differently. You come to me with this matrix, okay? And you say, uh, okay, Rama, do you have embeddings for me? And I'm like, yeah. I reach into my bag and I'm like, okay, every one of those 5,000 words I have an embedding, right? Let's ignore for a moment how I actually calculated the embeddings. I have the embeddings. How will you know if my embeddings are any good? How will you know? How can you actually assess if those embeddings are any good? And you can certainly say, okay, give me the embeddings for movie and film, and you can see if they're really close by. If you can look at you look at the embedding for movie and tensor, and hopefully they're far away. But you'll never get done, >> right? >> How can you systematically evaluate this? >> Wow. >> What if you could actually what what if I come to you and say not really am I going to give you an embedding here is a procedure which you can use with these embeddings to validate how good they are and here's the procedure. What you can do is you can use the embedding to recreate the co-occurrence matrix. And if the recreated co-occurrence matrix actually matches the real matrix, well, these embeddings probably are pretty good. Remember the whole point of the co-occurrence is to handle this context information. So if my embeddings can actually recreate them, reconstruct them pretty close, right? It'll never be perfect. If it comes pretty close, then like wow, okay, these embeddings do mean something. So if it turns out for instance that the matrix has you know 3,000 possible a value of 3,000 for deepen learning and values of u say 50 for extreme learning under embedding comes in and says 3002 for the first one and 48 for the second one. We'll be like we'll be pretty impressed needed to be that close unless it is actually capturing something. Okay so that's what we're going to do. And so we're going to take this logic of saying find embeddings that can approximate the what we actually see in Wikipedia, right? And we're going to use that idea to actually build the model and learn using nothing more than basically linear regression. Okay? And here you were thinking that linear regression is useless now that you've graduated to machine learning, right? Okay. So, so we can think of the embedding vectors that we want to figure out as just the weights in a model in little regression. We can think of the co-occurrence matrix as just the data we're going to use in this model to estimate these weights. And the model we're going to use is something like this. So, first I I have to inflict some notation on you. We will denote the coence matrix of say words i and j as xig. XJ is just data. It's just data. Okay? It's not a variable. It's data. >> And then we denote an embedding vector for each word. Remember, we need to calculate a vector for each word. So we call it WI. Right? WI is the embedding vector for each word. And we will also assume that some words are just inherently very popular. They're going to show up all the time. Like the word 'the'. Okay. So we'll assume that every word has the natural frequency of occurring like movie versus flick the versus tensor. So we want the vectors to capture the co-occurrence patterns independent of how naturally frequent the words are. Okay. And so to capture this natural frequency we will assign a bias or BI to each word that we're going to calculate. And all this will become clear in just a moment. Okay. So with this setup basically what we're saying is something very simple. You're saying look this coinous matrix that we have right that we able to compute it came about because in in truth in reality in nature there are these embedding vectors for every word there are these biases bi for every word and every co-occurrence number that you see just came about because you know under the hood mother nature grabbed the bias number for the word I the bias number for the word J took the two embedding vectors which only mother nature knows at this point did the dotproduct of them add them and that's how we get this number. So it basically says the number you see is the sum of the inherent popularity of the first word plus the inherent popularity of the second word plus the way in which these two words connect to each other. That's it. And you will agree with me literally can't get simpler than this. If I tell you hey here are two things I want you to tell me how connected they are. You'll be like well let's take the first one figure out how inherently popular it is. Inherent popularity and then of course you got to worry about the connection. So we do a dotp product. That's it. Those three things, right? So this is what we have. Now you may have seen um from your you know good old linear regression that whenever u your dependent variable happens to be positive guaranteed to be positive and it ends up having a big range. We always advise you folks to take the logarithmic transformation to squash it into a narrow range because that'll make these models much more well behaved. Regression if the y-v value is like a huge range like the canonical example is that you know if you are trying to model you know the net worth of people right it's going to have a long right tail with people like Elon and Jeff and so on on the right side right and the rest of us on the left. So to model this big longtail distribution you just take the logarithm just squash everything to a very narrow range and that will make regression much better behaved. Okay, here most of the counts are going to be zero but some of the counts could be very high right and therefore you want to if you take the logarithm it makes it much better behaved so we take the logarithm here so this is actually our model that's it and I know that many of the numbers are zero and log of zero is not defined so we can just add the one a number one to all the numbers to avoid that kind of you know uh technical arithmetic problems but this conceptually is what's going on this is the model we want to calculate Right? So given that we have essentially postulated this model and we have this data, this coordinates matrix, how can we actually find the weights? How can we actually find the B's and the W's? What would we what should we do? Go back to the fundamentals of regression. Think about it conceptually. You have some model which has some weights. There's some data you can use to train the model, right? And you need to find the best set of weights. What does the best mean here? >> The lowest error. Exactly. There are many ways to measure error, right? What would be what is the simplest thing we could use? So what you would do is you would actually do mean squared error. Right? Which is what you're getting at. You could take the actual thing, you could take the predicted thing, take the difference of square error and minimize the sum of it. Okay? If your model exactly nails every number in the cogence matrix, the rest is going to be zero. Okay? So what we do is we literally just do that. This is the data. This is the actual predicted value. Predicted value, actual value, difference squared. Add them all up, minimize. Okay. Uh yes, >> I'm kind of lost where how is this capturing the context? Because unless my input data is having that context, how will this actually differentiate based on where the particular word is used? the word the way the word is the so let's take two words like deep and learning >> no let's take one word and then change it according to the >> okay [laughter] >> sorry go ahead >> yeah so basically let's say I'm talking about bananas so it's a fruit in some context and I could be saying he's going bananas that's a whatever right so now these are two different contexts in my understanding and my same model needs to be able to tell me that banana is the right word in this context but wrong word in this context four, but I can do the contest. >> Yeah, very good question. So, let's actually spend a minute on that. Good question. I'm going to swap to uh my iPad. So, let's let's assume that this is our co-occurrence matrix, right? >> And then we have words going from A all the way to let's say zebra, right? These are all the words in the vocabulary. And we have a through zebra here. And now uh what we have is we have uh apple and banana. Right? >> So basically what's going on at this point is that here every number here measures for every word here how many times that word and apple show up in the same sentence. Okay. It is not measuring to your point how many times apple and banana are showing up. It's measuring how much how many times apple is showing up in each sentence. Right? Now, if apple and banana are sort of interchangeable, what do we expect these numbers these two rows of numbers to look like? Let's assume that apple and banana are perfect synonyms just for argument. Okay, let's say it's a perfect synonyms. What do we expect these two numbers to look like? Very similar. So if two words are related their entries their entry row vectors the coance matrix are going to be very very similar. So that is how the context comes into the coerence matrix. So what we want to do is we want to find if if embeddings can recreate the same pattern of numbers in these two uh in these two rows it's actually capturing the underlying context. So words which are similar will sort of zig and zack together the same way through the coerence matrix and that's where it comes. >> Yeah. >> Um what's on the diagonal of the coerence matrix like if apple shows it twice. >> Oh. Oh I see. So yeah here the you can just ignore the diagonal typically uh because all the action is off the off diagonal entries. So, so that's basically the idea and uh if words which are very similar will have a very similar pattern of numbers and then any embeddings that can actually recreate the same pattern of numbers is capturing the underlying reality of what's going on. If words are kind of unrelated those two those two vectors let's say that the word you have is uh let's assume the word is um of course you know what I'm going to say tensor right these two vectors will sort of won't have any connection to each other which means if you look at something like the correlation of those two vectors it's it's going to be around zero right words which are you know interchangeable will have a very high correlation. Words which are antonyms and never show up in the same place together may have a highly negative correlation close to minus one for instance. So that's sort of the intuition behind what's going on in these two row ve on these row vectors. And so the point is given that this coers matrix is capturing all these word word correlational structure any embedding that can recreate it must have captured the structure as well because you can't recreate something like this with great fidelity unless you have some notion of what's going on under the hood. That's the basic idea. >> Yeah. >> So just connecting to SI's question. So in that example then banana is a fruit and apple is a fruit as well. Banana and apple are synonyms and you're going mad or you're going bananas and that comes together. Is that how we make it? >> Oh, I see. You're going mad, you're going bananas. Yeah. So, u so those will also have some correlational structure to it which the embeddings will hopefully catch. But words like banana which are very they they the thing is it's called polym where the word looks one way it looks the same way. It's like the word bank, right? It can mean very different things in many different context. So the embedding is going to be some average representation of it, right? But we not happy with the average and we'll get around that average next week when we do contextual stuff. All right. Um that's what we have here. So to go back to this thing. So what we can do is yeah not understood how did we get the mean square in this because we split the embedding you put in the data and we got >> we haven't calculate the embeddings. >> We are trying to calculate them. Those are just it's sort of like you know in regression you have you know beta beta 1 * x1 plus beta 2 * x2 kind of thing. The betas are what the regression produces for us right? the the embeddings are exactly that. They're just coefficients that we're trying to figure out. The data is only the x's, the xig. And so this is what we're trying to calculate, right? And so what you can do is you can actually start with some random values for these things and then keep on trying to improve to minimize the error starting from these random values. Do you folks are you aware of any algorithm that which allows us to take random value starting point and then minimize some notion of error? >> Who takes the random how to take random random how do you know it's actually random? Oh, so that's actually a very deep question. Um and uh so it's actually a tough question, right? because ultimately the random number is coming from a computer and we know how the computer runs. It's deterministic at the end of the day. So we actually use something called pseudo random numbers, right? Um and there's like a whole specialized field of math which essentially says look how can I get random numbers that are sufficiently random even though they come from a non-random computer deterministic process. So we can talk offline about it. uh but fundamentally all these systems have some random number generators built in. We just cross our fingers and hope for the best and just use them. >> So come back to this right we can start with random values for these weights um and then we can try to minimize the squared error. Are are you folks aware of any algorithm that can help us do that? >> Yes, gradient descent. >> Yes, gradient descent again comes to the rescue. Uh and since we are cool, we'll do stocastic gradient descent. Okay, so that's it. So gradient descent actually doesn't care what the function is. As long as it you can calculate a derivative from it. As long as you calculate a gradient, you're good. Right? So we can just run gradient descent on this thing. Right? One key point is that gradient descent, stoic gradient descent work for any any models as long as you can calculate good gradients from them. It doesn't have to be a neural network. be any mathematical function as long as it's differentiable and gives you a good gradient. Okay, so here this is not a neural network per se but we can still use gradient descent for it. So we do that um and when we are done we would have calculated some nice embeddings we all we can also calculate all these biases but we don't need the biases anymore. We just throw out the biases because we only care about the embeddings and how they connect to each other. >> Okay. Yeah. >> So with when you're doing the regression, are you predicting the code matrix? >> Okay. >> Exactly. >> So um actually let me just show a very quick example numerical example here. So let's say for example that um uh you know what so this is say W1 and this is W2. Okay. And this is the vector. And let's assume for a moment that it has two dimensions. Okay, two dimensions. And we also need to calculate B1 and B2 which is just a number. Okay. So, and let's say the number for deep learning in the coance matrix it happens let's say it has occurred 104 times. So all we are doing is to say log of 104 that is the actual value minus b1 which we don't know plus b2 which we don't know and then this thing here let's just call it you know w11 w12 w21 w2 okay and then we're just doing the dot product which is times w12 2 plus W21 W22. Okay, so this is our prediction. Where is that cool laser pointer? Yeah, so this is our prediction. This is the actual. So all we do is to say, okay, this thing, the difference, we're going to square it. And then we're going to do the same exact thing for every other word pair. Okay. And when we are done with all of that thing, we just take this whole thing and say gradient descent minimize. So then it has to find the B's and the W's and everything for every every pair, every every word. So that's actually what's going on. Make sense? All right. So by the way uh here I said I said you know let's assume that the embeddings are just vectors which are two dimension dimension two well that's an arbitrary decision that I made just to show you how it works because I was doing it by hand but more generally we get to choose how long these vectors are right and the longer the vector the more interesting ways it can actually reproduce the coates matrix it has more flexibility. But the longer the vector, what is the risk that you run? Overfitting. Because these are all parameters at the end of the day, more parameters you have, the more risk of overfitting. Okay. So, you get to choose how big these things can be. Uh yes. >> Uh don't you find it surprising that we're able to fit a model where we have a lot more parameters, we have data because usually when it comes to machine learning, we like sparity. We like to not have a lot of parameters. But here we're going to have as you said the number of dimension times more parameters than we have of data points. >> Well in this particular case as it turns out um let's assume that you only have 10 words right and for each word let's assume that you have let's just just to keep the math simple you have a two dimensional vector so 10 words * 2 that's 20 plus you have 10 biases for the words right? So another 10 that's 30 but 10 by 10 the matrix has 100 entries. So because of the matrix being a order n squ matrix you'll have a lot more numbers than parameters. In this particular case you have more data than parameters. So that particular problem doesn't apply in this case but that does show up in other cases and there is some very interesting research in neural networks which suggests that often times the traditional assumptions of data and overfitting and all can all be called into question under some situations. I'm happy to tell you more offline but if you're curious just Google something called double descent you know what I mean but in this case it's not a problem. Okay. So, so what that means is that we can choose how big these things are. So, if you look at one hot word vector, one hot vectors, right, where there's a one and everything else is zero depending on the position of the word. These are long vectors as long as a vocabulary, right? As we saw earlier, word embeddings on the other hand, right, they can be very dense, right? The numbers that make up these embeddings, we actually going to figure out from the data what they are. So, it can be anything. It can. So the first dimension may stand for some combination of you know um brightness plus speed plus animaless or something. We have no idea what it means. All we know is that it's able to reproduce the cosmetics really well. So it's probably has figured something out. Okay. And so we can keep it really short. So the word embedding tend to be very dense meaning not zeros and ones but some arbitrary numbers. It's very lower dimensional and it's of course learned from data. Right? So, so once you do this, once you actually run glove on this data and do gradient descent and so on and so forth, um you'll actually come up with embeddings and then you can actually plot the embeddings. You can take like this they say the you know you can take these embeddings and just plot them here. Um they are not literally plotting the first two dimensions. They're using a particular technique called tenney which is a way to take long vectors and project them to 2D space for visualization purposes. And you can see here some very interesting things are showing up. So they basically they plotted the embedding for brother, nephew, uncle, sister, niece, aunt and so on and so forth. It's all showing up here. This the embedding for man, embedding for woman, sir, madam, erys, air, duke, emper, you get the idea, right? So clearly there are patterns here where things which are sort of similar in their nature are all hanging out together in the same part of the space which is comforting which is good to know right >> now but as I mentioned earlier it's not just about the fact that similar things happen to be near each other the direction also actually matters >> and beautiful things happen when you look at directions so for instance you know let's say that man and you want to go from man to brother. Okay. So to go from man to brother, you have to start with man and then travel along this arrow, right? To get to brother. So this arrow has some notion of a person becoming a sibling, right? So you would hope that if you take that same arrow and then start here with that arrow, hopefully the woman will become a sister. It shows up like this. So this called word vector algebra right embedding algebra and these relationships are actually showing up in the data. We didn't tell it any of these things. We just literally gave it the coance matrix and said and asked it to reproduce it. I find it pretty shocking that these things are actually true and it gives us evidence and comfort that whatever has been learned does have some deep connection to describing the underlying nature of what's going on. It's not some statistically fluky artifact. Yeah. >> So synonyms by context or by adjacency to other words and not by replacing the same word, right? because you can't they won't appear in the same sentence, >> right? They won't appear in the same sentence, but the pattern of co-occurrence will be the same for them, which is what we've been able to reproduce with these embeddings. So that's the key idea. uh for >> um so my question is around like how are we able to capture all these directions in a 2D matrix versus a multi-dimensional matrix because I feel like okay so this relationship is kind of confirmed like yeah I'm moving to kind of like a family or like blood relationship or something of this sort but like how does it mock me up the other side of that matrix like >> no this is just a visualization ation thing. So we basically taking this uh you know as you will see glove embeddings come in lots of different sizes and this I think uses the 100 dimension embedding and just projects it to 2D space using a particular technique and then looks to see what's going on. Um yeah >> if the input data being the co-currence matrix is biased are we amplifying the bias? >> Yes we are. Yes. No it's a great observation. uh any sort of data you scrape from the internet and use for this sort of modeling exercise will be subject to all the biases that produce the data in the first first place and the model will faithfully learn those biases and if you're not careful it'll perpetuate them. So and that's a whole very important topic that unfortunately we won't cover this course because of time constraints but it's something you always have to worry about when you're building these models. >> How do we think about the dimensionality of the embings? not the 2D representation but the actual >> the one that we choose that's that's in our hands. So you should think of them as a hyperparameter. So much like the number of hidden units to use in a particular hidden layer um it's a hyperparameter. Uh so you know I would again start small and if it solves the problem that you're trying to solve with these embeddings great if not keep increasing them and at some point there might be like a a flattening out and a overfitting sort of dynamic and then you stop. So just think of them as a hyperparameter. Yeah. >> Do you see any benefit in practice of using like penalized regression to do this instead of you know making the embeddings more sparse or just like lowering the magnitude of them? >> Yeah. >> Yes. So there are lots of techniques to uh to apply regularization in the estimation itself of all these numbers. Um I'm happy to give you pointers. It's I'm just going with like the simplest version possible. I'm not understanding why overfitting is a problem in this case because we're not doing any like out of sample prediction. So like wouldn't you want like the embeddings to be like high dimensions so you capture like unique relationships? >> Ah interesting question. So the question is given that there's no notion of a a test set out of sample test set that we going to evaluate these things on why do we really care about overfitting? Don't should we do the best we can to capture everything in the data, right? Well, the the thing is even when you're not trying to use it for out of sample prediction, you do want to make sure that your model only captures the true patterns and not the noise. In every data set, there is always noise, right? And you want to capture the signal but not the noise. And regardless of what you use it for because if it captures the noise then the insights you draw from the word embodies may be flawed. That's the reason. Okay. Um All right. So let's keep going. So here the algebra is brother minus man plus woman is sister. That's it. Human biology reduced to a single sentence. >> All right. So, now the pros and cons of these things are you should use something like a a glove embedding. If you don't have enough data to do to to sort of to learn a task specific embedding for your own vocabulary as we as I'll show you in the collab, you can actually learn these things just for your own data set if you want. You don't have to use these glove embeddings. But the reason to use these pre-trained embeddings is that if you're working with natural language, you know, the word is the word, right? It means something. And so there's no reason for you to have for your model for your little use case for you to actually somehow learn all the fundamentals of English. The fundamentals of English or the fundamentals of English may as well learn it once and then piggy back on it. So that's the whole idea of using pre-trained embeddings because these things are all common aspects of language. May as well learn them using all the data you can throw at it and then you can sort of fine-tune and tweak and adapt to your particular use case. Right? So if you this is particularly useful when you don't have a lot of data in your particular use case. Uh right that's one big advantage. Now it does have the drawback that this embedding will not be customized to your data. Right? For example if you're trying to build an application for medical or legal use it's going to have a lot of jargon right and this pre-train embedding trained on all of Wikipedia may not capture enough of the jargon and know its meaning really accurately. So what you want to do is you want to take this thing, you may still want to take this thing and then you can adapt and fine-tune it using your jargon packed heavy domain specific data set. Okay, those are some of the things to keep in mind and of course we can also learn it from scratch if you want and the collab I demonstrate all these options. So when you're working with embeddings in kura kuras so what we do is remember sdieie where we after we standardize and tokenize an index right at this point we go from integers to vectors and so far we have been using integers to one hot vectors here we're going to use embedding vectors that we're going to learn or that we're going to preuse from glove and so what we do is we tell ker we tell keras's text vectorzation layer to do only st and i and then we will use new layer called the embedding layer to do the encoding. Right? That's how we're going to divid divi divide it up. So we'll take a look at this first uh before we switch to the collab. So before we told KAS in this layer output mode should be multihart or whatever. Right here we don't want it to actually encode anything in multiart. We just wanted to give it integers back. So we tell it give me int. >> Okay, that's the first change. We only we tell it give me give us int. If you say give us int, it'll stop with st and just give you the integers. Uh and then what you do is that all the incoming centers are going to have different lengths. So what we want to do is we want to actually take all these sentences and sort of normalize them so they are of the same length. >> Okay. And the way we do that and the way we do that very quickly is that we either trunk we choose a maximum length for every sent for the sentences and then if something is uh exactly fits that length perfect let's say in this case we want a max length of five cats on the mat is exactly five boom fits perfectly but if something is smaller I love use only three of these things we actually pad it with something called the pad token actually the ank token pad token is a special token which we use for padding and then it'll You know and so and KAS you will see will use zeros for these paddings. So so it fills it up and gets all the way to the end. And if you have something which is much longer than five you just truncate everything else and just use the first five. So this is what we do to get all the sentences to be of the same length. Okay. And once we do that we then go to the embedding layer. And the embedding layer is actually very simple. What is what is an embedding? It's just a vector. And we need a vector for every token. Of course, we're going to learn these vectors. We need one for every token. So in this case, for example, uh let's say that these are all the tokens we have in our vocabulary after the STI process. Maybe in this case, we have 5,000 tokens token. We have this embedding vector, right? And we choose what the dimension of the embedding vector is, right? [clears throat] And so we can set it up by saying keras layers. And we tell it max tokens, which means what? How many rows do we have here? you know how many what is the vocabulary size that we are working with and then we tell it okay this is how long I want each embedding vector to be so rows the size of the columns and that's the embedding layer and we'll use it in a second I just want to show it you here so that because it's slightly clearer so when an input sentence arrives the text vectorization layer will run STI on it'll truncate and pad it to max length as needed so let's say this phrase comes in STI will give you the same tokens plus pad pad because let's say the max length is five and then these are corresponding integers and then the embedding layer will just look up the corresponding vectors. So for example here uh the vectors are you need to look up the vectors for 23 9 5 0 and 0. So we just go here and look up 23 5 9 and 0. And then once we have that boom this is the resulting output. So whatever input sentence comes in we have now five embedding vectors that have been looked up from the embedding layer. And once we do that, this is a table. So I love you comes in, it becomes this table. As we have seen before, neural networks can only accommodate vectors as inputs. We need to, you know, make this into a vector. And as we have done before, you know, we can either take all these things and concatenate them, make a one long vector or we can find a way to average them or sum them and things like that, right? As we have seen before and we will use the simp uh we the simplest thing is probably just to average them. So uh these are some options and we but we'll average them here. So and this is called global average pooling layer 1D and all it does is whatever you give it a table you give it it just takes each dimension and averages it. The first dimension average second dimension average and so on and so forth and once that's done that's the whole flow. So the phrase comes in STI gives you these things padding as needed or truncating as needed. We look up the embeddings from the embedding layer and then we get all this thing. We do global global pooling on it and it's done. The resulting thing is a vector that can then be passed into hidden layers just like we normally do. I'm going go over this a little fast but make sure you look at it afterwards and understand every step and the collab will mirror this uh you know perfectly. All right. So let's switch to the collab. Okay. All right. Can folks see this? Okay. All right. So, we'll do the usual um import all the stuff we need and then because I want to plot some of these uh loss and accuracy curves to uh you know just to see what's going on. I'll just bring in the functions from the previous collabs here. And then um and I think I already have downloaded this. Let me just make sure I have it. It's not there. Okay. do it again. This is the same songs data set that we looked at on Monday. Okay, so roughly 49,000 examples as we saw before. We'll one hot encode them. All right, so this is a bunch of stuff that we already covered in class. So this is the thing. Uh this URL has all the glove vectors available for download. I downloaded it uh before class because it takes a few minutes. Uh, and I've also unz Did I unzip it? Uh, yes I did. So, let's just look at the first few. All right. So, these are all the first few. We'll create a sort of an easier to view version of these glove vectors. So, I'm going to use the vectors which are 100 long, but it comes in many different shapes. So, we have 400,000 vectors. 400,000 word vectors. Each is a 100 dimension. uh and these all have been calculated from Wikipedia using the model we described using gradient descent. Okay. Uh all right. So this is the vector for the word for movie. Yeah. I don't know what these dimensions mean but it is there's something going on. It has figured stuff out. Uh but the proof is in the pudding, right? So all right. Now we'll first set up the text vectorization and embedding layers like we saw before. Um, and so I'm going to use uh a max length of 300 for the songs. Um, right? Because all the sentences have to be the same length. And you might be wondering, okay, why did you pick 300? Not say 400 or 200. So typically what you do is you actually look at the the length distribution of the songs you have. And you would find you're looking for like an 8020 or a, you know, one of those things. And in this case, it turns out 90% of the songs have less than or equal to 300 words in our data set. So, I'm just going to go with 300. Okay, it's pretty good. Uh, the problem is if you actually say if you look at the song which has the maximum length that might have be like 3,000 words and there would be any hardly any songs of 3,000 long. You're just wasting a lot of capacity by doing that. So, you're just being a little pragmatic here. So, okay. So, and then we as before for the vocabulary itself, we tell Karas use the most frequent 5,000 words, right? When you're doing the ST um SDI. So we do that and we tell it the output mode is int like we saw before uh we have there. Okay, perfect. >> Okay, this is a very dangerous thing where somebody is remotely changing it in another tab somewhere. Fingers crossed. Okay, this one. >> Okay, so we have this um and this is what we did with all the stuff uh as I've covered. So now we will adapt this layer as we have seen before using all the litics we have that we'll take a look at the first few and so here's a very important thing before when we asked it to do multihod encoding and so on in on Monday u the zero the first position was ankh right ank had zero but here ankh actually has one and the reason is that the zeroth position is going to be used for essentially you can think of this as the empty string. That's how keras will print out pad. So the zeroth position is the padding the pad token. The first position is the ank token. Okay. So it's an important thing here. So let's say that uh we do um hodddle you're the best. We vectorize it. Um do you think hodddle is going to be part of those 400,000 word vectors? Ridia not yet. So um all right. So let's try that. Okay. And as you can tell um hodddle is an unknown word, right? That's why uh it's showing up here, right? So one is unknown, right? The index value one is unknown. Zero is pad. But then this is unknown. Hodddle I sorry you are the best and then everything else from that point on is a zero because we are padding all the way to 300. Okay so that's why you see all these zeros here. All right. Uh now let's just you know run everything through the vectorzation layer and then we'll get to the embedding layer. Okay. Now we will we'll first this just a bit of Python uh housekeeping um to create a nice easy to look at matrix. So what we're going to do is we are actually going to create a nice matrix which shows us all the the word the glove embeddings. Um and so here this is the embedding matrix and this matrix has only 5,000 words and each is 100 long. Why is this embedding matrix only 5,000 even though we downloaded 400,000 vectors? >> Right? >> So clearly the 5,000 we used there has some bearing to this. But what is that 5,000? >> We told Keras to take the most frequent 5,000 words in our corpus. So we'll only have 5,000 in vocabulary. That's why there's 5,000. So we grab just the word the glove vectors for those 5 5,000 that KAS has chosen to be in the vocabulary. Okay. And that's our embedding matrix. And then if you look at the first few rows, the first two rows should be all zeros because it's pad and ank which clearly glove doesn't know about. This is all going to be all zeros. And um so you can see all these zeros here. And then from third onwards you start getting some numbers. Okay. All right. Next we'll set up the embedding layer. Uh so basically what's going on here is when you we tell the embedding layer how many rows which is just the cap size max tokens what is the embedding dimension well that's going to be 100 because the glove vectors are 100 and then here's the thing you can tell it um in this embedding layer just use this matrix I'm giving you as the embedding layer because we already know what the embeddings are we downloaded from whatever glove right so we will tell it to use glove as as the as the weights for here as the embeddings here so we initialize it using that embedding matrix Right? And then we tell it don't train when we do back propagation later on. Don't change any of these weights because somebody spent a lot of money created these weights for us Stanford. So we don't want to like further change them. Just freeze them and use them as they are. Okay. And this mask zero business I'll come back later. Don't worry about it for the moment. All right. So once we do that we we are ready to set up our model. So this model is pretty simple. uh keras input the length of course is the length of the sentence right which is uh 300 long and then it runs the input runs through an embedding layer right there right and out comes a 300 by 100 table and then we glow average pool it right and that becomes a 100 element vector and then we are back in familiar ground and we run it through a dense layer with eight relu neurons uh right eight relu neurons and then we run it through the final output layer which is a three-way softmax as before hip-hop rock pop and then we tell karas That's the model and then we summarize it. Okay, so that's what we have and you can see here the total parameters are 500,835 but the trainable parameters are only 835. It's because the total parameters are all the glove embeddings plus the the things we added to the glove embeddings like the hidden layer and so on. But the glove embeddings are we have told kas freeze it do not train it right which means only the rest of it is going to be trainable. That's that's the 835. Yeah. >> So when we do the global average pooling, don't we don't we lose any sense of meaning that we gain from the embedding as we average very different embeddings together? >> Sorry, say that again. I I >> mean if we average the the embedding of apple and learning in these are very different words that are used in different meanings. So we have different ambience but we average it. So can't lose this. >> We will lose a bunch of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you're very anytime you average anything you're going to lose some new nuance and so on. So the real question is is that despite that averaging is it good enough for you and sometimes it's good enough very often it's good enough as it turns out but as you will see when we go to contextual embeddings there's just a better way to do it right when you have contextual embeddings but it requires bigger models more powerful stuff and so on and so forth and that's why you're going from the foundations to the advanced stuff. >> Yeah. Well, when we're doing optimization like let's say we are having work problem, it's often best to optimize everything together than to optimize one part of the system and then optimize another part of the system. So in that case, why wouldn't we want to also change the embeddings? We would like I understand why we would like to start with those weights that some people have spent a lot of money trying to find. But will we be able to find more specific uh embeddings related to our problem if we optimize if we let everything be trainable? >> Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And in fact, you will see in the collab uh that we will do that next. I just want to show people you don't have to do it. You start with not training it because it's going to be much faster and then you train everything and see if it gets better. And sometimes it'll get better in which case it's great. Sometimes it won't get better. And I will also show you and I probably will run out of time which I'll so I'll do it on Monday. I'll also show you hey what if you want to do your own embeddings from scratch without using glove so all possibilities will be covered u yeah so to come back to this this is the model we have um and then all right so we'll if you take a look at the first few embedding vectors by the way this model layers uh we'll give you every layer as a list a list of all the layers and then you can just grab any layer you want and look at its weights okay it's very handy so we looking at the weights and you can see here the First two vectors are all zeros because that stands for uncanpad. And then we have everything else. So everything looks fine so far. And now we just you know compile and fit it. So as usual atom cross entropy accuracy um and then we'll just fit the model. All right it's going to take a few minutes. and while it's running. So what what you will see in this collab is that uh in this particular case the embeddings actually don't help a whole lot. Why do you think that is? Part of it could be because we're averaging a lot of stuff maybe that's hurting us. >> Yeah. >> Um I mean I think that embeddings were probably trained on some corpus right like Wikipedia or something like that that is different from the a little bit different from the language we tend to use in soft lyrics. And so maybe it's not its ability to sort of extract the meaning of uh candy from like a song lyric um maybe is limited because it's thinking of all the other ways like that could be represented. >> Yeah. So there could be a mismatch between the corpus on which the preed stuff was trained on versus the the corpus that you're working with right now. That's one big reason. The other reason is that we actually may have we have 50,000 examples. Basically it's a lot of data. So when you have a lot of data, you may not need any of these things. These things tend to do really well when you don't have a lot of data and which means you you you get to piggy back on what these embeddings have learned from all of Wikipedia. So so when you have a smalish data set basically the rule of thumb here is that when your data is really small try to use a pre-trained model, right? And that's what you saw with the handbags and shoes classifier, right? We had 100 examples of handbags and shoes and we used restnet to got basically get to 100% accuracy. The same sort of logic applies here. All right. So here let's see what's happening. Uh okay it's done. So we'll plot right. Uh okay this look a very well behaved uh loss function curve. Uh okay so there doesn't seem to be any massive overfitting going on. They're moving really nicely in lock step. Let's see what the thing is. Okay, 63% which is not great. Um, right, it's not as good as what we saw before when we used all 50,000 examples and just train something from scratch. And that's just because in this case we have lots of examples. These pre-trained embeddings aren't, you know, as helpful as they could be. But if you have a small data set, they could be very helpful. And now we go to what um he pointed out like why can't we just you know optimize these embeddings too why don't why do we have to trade them as sacred we just let's use let's inflict let's just apply unleash back prop on it and see what happens so we'll do that um so here what we do is we retrain it but here we set trainable equals true for the embedding layer okay this is the key step trainable equals true otherwise it's unchanged uh and And we'll skip that. We'll run it and see what happens. So before it was what was 63% accuracy or something. We'll see if it gets better if you train the whole thing. And the thing is you can never be sure, right? Because it may start to overfit, which is why you just have to empirically see what's going on. There are no guarantees. >> All right. Any questions while it's training? Yeah, >> in the first graph when um you had the training accuracy still increasing that might suggest that you could use even more plots, right? >> Correct. Exactly. Exactly. So in the in in that curve we saw that the training was continuing to increase. Typically what's going to happen is the training will continue to get better the more you train it. The key thing is is the validation also improving. If the validation continues to improve there is a little bit more gas left in the tank. You can keep increasing more. If it starts to flatten and even worse, if it starts to go down, then you want to pull back. >> Yeah. >> Um, so you kind of use the next tokens to limit the vocabulary to the most common 5,000 and then the width of that was 100. What does the 100? >> The 100 is just the length of the glove vector. >> Does that mean that it can only capture how that word is related to 100 other words? >> No. No. It it basically we are saying that every word its intrinsic meaning can be captured using a vector of a 100 dimensions. >> Each of those dimensions means something. We don't know what it is. The first dimension could mean color. Second could mean some sort of location. The third could mean some sort of se time of the year. We just have no idea. >> Okay. And the pre-trained model because we're not till now I get to learn the pre-trained model has those already. We don't know what they are but it has some cap. The people who created it don't know what they are either. >> Yeah. >> All they know is that for each word they learned a 100 long vector >> and that 100 long vector was able to re kind of recreate the co-occurrence matrix and then they probed it using that visualization of man, woman, sister, brother all that stuff and it seems to sort of fit with what you would expect. >> You think of it as analogous to when we did the convolutional ones you have the number of kernels right? So, and in this case, so you got 32 kernels insert, like 32 things it can learn. >> I think that's actually a great analogy. I love it. That's that's a great way to think about it. Yes, much like we got to decide how many filters to have here, we get to decide how long the embedding dimension needs to be. And our hope is that the more things we are able to accommodate, the more complicated things it will pick up, right? Uh at the same time, you don't want to have too many of these things because it's going to start picking up noise and that not a good that's never a good thing. Okay. Um, was there a question on this side? Yeah, go ahead. >> Matthew, why did we use why do we use embeddings and not the actual correlation matrix rows to represent words, right? Like why do we need to abstract? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's actually a good that's that's a good that's a good question. Um, one immediate reason is that that row is 500,000 vectors long. 500,000 long right so you want a compact dense representation provided the second thing is so that thing is subject to all the counts of the Wikipedia corpus it's not normalized so you need to normalize it so that if you take any two rows and two dot product you'll get some number which is sort of in a narrow range otherwise things don't become comparable now both these objections can be handled you can normalize you can reduce the size of the corpus and so on and so forth and in fact that used to be a very common way used to do it before but what they have discovered is that these the way we learn embeddings now tends to be much more effective in practice. >> So so what what we've done is what what what this process does is it creates this like n dimensional incomprehensible matrix that captures in essence a summarized version of these relationships. >> Right? a compact representation of relationships which is not subject to the size of your vocabulary. So you know you're find words today tomorrow somebody comes up with a word called selfie which didn't exist 5 years ago and now your corpus has gotten a little bit more right. So here it's very compact and it tends to have a much longer shelf life. Yeah. Uh all right so let's see where we are. Uh okay. So evaluate 68 69% almost into 63 went to 69. So clearly here training the whole thing including glove actually helps. Uh and so that sort of begs the question well if it u every if training glove helps maybe we should actually train the whole thing from scratch. Like why the hell not right? Why the heck not? I apologize. So uh what we'll do is we'll actually create our own embeddings and just train them. And here we don't have to worry about coercmmetries and so on and so forth because we have a very specific objective. We want to be very accurate in predicting genre for these songs. The people who had who had worked on glove they didn't have any objective. They just wanted to create embeddings that were generally useful. Okay. Here we want to be specifically useful for genre prediction. And so what we can do is we can actually train the whole thing ourselves, right? We can actually give it uh we can actually put an embedding layer here. I you know we just arbitrarily decided to choose 64 as the the dimension as opposed to 100. It'll run faster. Uh and then it's the same thing. Global average pooling activation blah blah blah blah blah. Um and then you run it. We'll see if it finishes in the next minute. Um and we'll see if it actually does better than the pre-trained embeddings or the pre-trained embeddings that have been further fine-tuned. And I don't remember what I saw when I ran it yesterday. uh and while it's running other questions. >> So my question is regarding embeddings when we call a betting for a particular award we indicate that we have certain amount of parameters let's say in this case we have defined we defined 100 [clears throat] so there'll be 100 parameters and there'll be coefficient paid for each of them. So when we take a pre-trained model like the one we took so for each word there would already be those number of parameters in terms of it. So but then how do we redefine them is that we want only 100 or we only want 10 parameters. >> No no the the glove thing actually gives you packaged it's prepackaged to be 100 long. I think they have 200 and 300 as well if I recall. We just happen to use the the one with 100. >> Yeah. Yeah. And there are many available. We just get to pick and choose. And I happen to pick 100. Uh oh. Okay. It's a bit slow but it's actually looking promising. um 9:55. Yeah. >> So during the CNN models our assignments um changing the filters gave us more depth and improvement in performance. So here would I be right in concluding that it's actually training the embedded which is giving us more assuming that epoch and batch changes are not going to change as much. So if I really want a genuine change in performance we go to the level of retraining the embeddings and working. >> Yeah. So what we saw was that using glove as is was okay. Using glove and then training them helped a lot. And now we basically saying well what if you just abandon glove and train our own embeddings for our particular problem. See glove is a general purpose tool. So a general purpose tool is really good if you don't have a lot of data as a good starting point. But when you have a lot of data you should always try to do your own thing and see if it's any better. And in this case I go oh okay I think it's uh come on it's 955. enter any moment now. So, right, let's look at the thing. Okay, folks. So, 74 72%. So, you can actually retrain your own thing because you have 50,000 examples and you can see an even better thing. Thanks a lot. Have a good rest of the week.