The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Uh, okay guys. Okay, I guess I'll get started. So, uh, I guess one quick announcement is, uh, so I guess everyone has taken a look at the prizes. If you can take a look at the prizes and especially if you're near the top and expect yourself to be getting some prizes. So, we haven't announced the final ordering yet because it'll also depend on like the homework and then we'll decide, you know, how much it'll mostly just be number of points, but we might give a bit of waiting to people who have like a high points per game or something. Uh, so but if you're, you know, if you think you have a decent chance of getting prizes, it'd be good if you look them over. You know, if you can research who this like M McDonald guy is, how much is this coaching? Where is, you can do that beforehand so that people don't take like forever deciding which prize you want on Friday. Okay. So, I'm going to get started then. So, this is going to be the last class I'm going to teach. So, next the final class on Friday is going to be guest lectured by Bill Chen. Um, so I want to go through sort of an indepth combinatorial hand analysis of a cash game hand. Go very in-depth on, you know, a very a hand where you have deep stacks and there's a lot of action and there's a lot of deduction that can take place. And then I'll sort of finish with some general poker stuff and answer any question you guys might have about like the poker economy, how certain things work, the history of poker. I'm happy to answer whatever questions. Okay. So, first we'll do something more technical and more practical to the game. So, an in-depth combinatorial hand analysis in cash games. So, I'm going to look at the following hand. And the board is visible. It's good. Okay. Um, so, so this is a cash game. This is no longer a tournament now. And everybody has 100 big blinds. So, the blinds are one two and everyone starts with 200. So, it's 100 big blinds. The cutoff opens through six. And we have 87 suited on the button. And when it's this deep stacked, so in a tournament, this might not be a good situation to call because it just puts a lot of risk on you to bust and also you're not really that deep stacked. But here with a 100 big blinds, we can really realize a lot of our implied odds given that we're both in position and we have a hand that plays very well, a suited connector that can make straights and flushes. So we decide to call and the big blind also calls. Okay, so the flop is 1086 with with a club and the cutoff continuation bets 14. Um, so one thing I'll talk about first is, you know, continuation bet sizing. So I've said a bit about this, but um, I wanted to talk a bit more about bet sizing, and it's really just, this is really just a review of what I've been talking about all class. It's the same principles when deciding your flopping turn bet sizing. So, you know, you don't want to bet so small that your opponent has the odds to call with anything, but you don't want to bet so big that you're risking a lot of chips when you're bluffing. And also, if your raise size commits your entire stack anyway, like if you're go roughly, let's say, betting 40% or more of your remaining chips, then you might as well go all in if it's the flop or the turn because you probably aren't going to fold with like given that your hand is good enough to put in 40% of your chips, you probably have have enough equity that you're okay putting in 100% of your chips. Um, yeah, remember that raising their bet gives them the option to re-ra. So, that's always an incentive against raising a flop bet. Um, the sizing should be bigger on dry boards and smaller on dry boards. We talked about this and you want to bet bet a bit bigger when you're out of position. So, he's kind of out of position here against us. And he bets 14 into 19, which is a reasonably big bet, but I think it's fine. So, with our hand here, 8 seven of clubs, I think we definitely don't want to be folding. Uh, so let's talk about the differences between raising and calling. So, we decide to call. And so, what's the So, what's the analysis? So, we're definitely not folding. Um, raising, I think, is a bit suicidal when we have a medium strength hand that can play well in position on a lot of turns and we have a back door flush draw and our straight draw is very legitimate when there's no flush draw out there. So, we decided to just call. We We have to be a bit worried about a big blind check raise, but I think it's it's okay. It's not that big of a deal, especially when there's no flush draw. So, the big blindfolds and on the turn is the queen of clubs and he bets 30. Okay, so this is sort of a tougher decision now and than the flop, I'd say. So, let's let's analyze this. So, he bets 30 into 47. We've got 180 behind, which is about four times the pot. And we've got we've got a pretty bad hand right now. We But we don't care. And we have lots of chances to hit a straight or hit a flush or hit like three of a kind or hit two pairs. So, so tons of outs, tons of river cards that help us. And so, what are the benefits of each? Okay. So, so I think it's fairly clear we're not going to fold here with this much equity. So, what what are the benefits of calling? Um, well, we get to see the river for sure, right? If the river is a club, then it's we don't want to like fold in situations and not see the river when it could be a club, which is the best card for us essentially. Um we yeah so we really want to see the river because yeah if we raise then maybe they could re raise all in and then we would have to fold. So that's that's one clear benefit and another sort of benefit is we already have a pair to start with. So you know we don't really need to bluff to win the hand, right? So this is something I've been talking about a lot too. You you don't really need to if you your hand you don't need to raise to um win the hand because you already have a pair then it's there's a lot more incentive to call. So, what are some benefits of raising? Well, it can get him to fold something like pocket jacks if we think he might have like pocket jacks. It can definitely get him to fold some better hands. Um, and we can like bet the river and win a bigger pot when we hit. And we can also maybe make some bigger bluffs when we miss. So, we'll go through a more detailed analysis in a bit, but I I think calling I like calling in this situation. I think with a draw that has no showdown value like say I had nine five of clubs instead of 8 seven of clubs which has a pair I think I would raise because for two reasons. One is I like I would need to bluff the river anyway if I miss the river. So if I raise now I just give myself a chance to win the pot right now. And another benefit of raising is that I can um I I'm not that unhappy if he goes all in because my draw is sort of less strong than eight seven of clubs is. Um okay. And then yeah, maybe with a hand like ace jack of clubs I would raise just because we can maybe get it in against weaker flush draws. Okay. So yeah, so this is sort of a general principle that I haven't really talked about for playing on turn flops and turns is in general, I mean this sort of goes along with most of the stuff we've talked about in this class, but in general when you have like the stone cold nuts and when you have weaker draws, you sort of want to you you want to be the one you want to be betting and raising in a way such that your opponent gets the last bet in. So I'm talking about like, you know, so one person is always going to go go own first, right? like if you're raising each other or betting and raising um one person is going to go all in first and the other person basically has to decide whether to call or fold and play for your stack. So if you have the stone cold nuts then you sort of want to be the person having your opponent go all in first because obviously you have a very easy decision. You just call and you're going to win. Um on the other hand, if you have like a weaker draw, which is essentially your bluff, right? Because we don't want to be bluffing with absolutely nothing. We want to be bluffing basically with our weaker draws. That's it's also an easy decision cuz like if let's say we have a gutshot straight draw. So we have a four outs only, we're not that sad if our opponent goes all in on the flop or all in on the turn. We just fold. We have an easy decision. Whereas um if we have a more vulnerable good hand like we have top pair with a medium kicker um then you know then it's sort of a tough decision, right? So we don't really want to we don't really want to be letting like if our opponent goes all in, we have a tough decision. we're not sure what to do. And same with like if we have a stronger draw, like say we have a flush draw and we have nine outs and then our opponent goes all in on the flop and we have like 1.6 to1 odds to call or something. It's it's a difficult decision. And um so with these hands, you definitely want to you generally want to bet in a way that allows you to get the last bet in because with a stronger draw, you're not you know, your opponent gets to make a decision, but even if they have the nuts, you still have nine outs. And with a more vulnerable good hand, I mean, if your opponent has the nuts, I guess you're kind of dead, but you're sort of protecting the times you go all in with your stronger draws. So, following that principle, I decide to just call here cuz if I raise, then I sort of have to make a decision when he goes all in of whether to call with my medium strength hand. And pretty good draw. Okay, so we call and the river is an ace of spades, so we completely miss and our opponent checks to us. So, so we decided to bluff the river for 70. And this is sort of the main decision I want to analyze. And it's it's going to be quite a complicated decision. So, uh, so, okay, let's do some quick analysis. So, yes, we do have some chances of winning with our pair of eights. So, maybe you could make a case that there's no need to bluff cuz we do have a pair. But there's a lot of reasons to bluff. So, one is there's a lot of higher cards on the board now. the pair of eights. It looked pretty good on the flop, but now it's a lot worse after a queen turn and an ace river. So, you know, we could get him to fold a queen. He could have a queen and he could very willingly be able to fold it. Um, also the pot is big. Like, they bet the flop and the turn and we called the flop and the turn. So, sort of both ranges are just very strong because so much money has already gone in. So, a pair of eights is not so good. You know, like if you knew had he had two random cards, sure, a pair of eights will win the decent percent of the time. But when you know you're up against a hand that was willing to bet the flop and bet the turn, it's less likely the pair of eights is good. And then the ace is always a scary card. And another advantage of bluffing is this is why position is so great, especially when it's deep stacked in the cash game. We're in position and we know that he checked the river. Um, so you know, maybe he's trapping with like king jack, but it's more likely than not that it's a sign of weakness that he checked the river. So we could try to bluff him off his hand. Okay, so what about river bet sizing? So So okay, so one thing is whether to bluff. Two is if you bluff, how much do you bet? So I decided to bet 70 into 107. And so what are the things to consider when you're deciding your river bet sizing? So one is there's no more cards to come on the river. So, in some sense, there's less of a worry of betting really, really small, cuz there's no such thing as like letting your opponent see a draw, but it still has a disadvantage. Like, if your opponent checks you and you bet small, it still does give them the option to check race. So, that is one thing you worry about if you're trying to bet really small. And another thing is you should bet big if your range is polarized. By polarized, I mean you either have the Stone Cold Nuts or you have a bluff. Um because your opponent b if basically if you bet small and your range is polarized, your opponent can just call with a very wide range of hands because their odds are too good. By betting big, you give your opponent worse odds to call and since you have a stone cold bluff um some percent of the time, you don't want your opponent to have the odds to call with like third pair. Okay, so uh okay, so it doesn't matter what they did because our decision is betting 70. Okay. So now what I sort of want to do is a lot happened this hand, right? We know they raise the pre flop, bet flop, bet turn, checked river, right? So in some sense we have a ton of information. So in the turns that you play, maybe a hand like this doesn't show up that often cuz often it's just all in pre flop and you you can't really deduce that much about your opponent's hand. You know, it's just like he has the top 30% of hands or something. But here we can actually do a lot of deduction. So let's replay the hand from our opponent's perspective and sort of exploitatively put them on a range. So let's like go put ourselves in our opponent's shoes. Consider all the actions they did. Consider So I'm going to use exploitative analysis here. So you know there are some flaws with this, right? We are sort of um arrogantly assuming we're one step ahead of our opponent. We can build a mathematical model for our opponent. But still this is a useful exercise even though yes there are flaws. You know maybe he's one step ahead of us. Maybe there's flaws in our probabilistic model, but let let's just assume for the sake of the exercise that we can do this pretty well. Okay, so first of all, pre flop. What's our opponent's range? Um, let's just say roughly he's opening from the cutoff. Let's say he's opening about 30% of hands. I think that's about reasonable for like an average player. And I think it's consistent with the guidelines I gave in the first lecture. So, so this includes any pair, any suited ace, any two Broadway cards, which are cards 10 and higher. It includes suited hands as bad as 53 suited. Um, this is maybe like one difference between cash games and tournaments where is 53 suited is a pretty bad hand in tournaments when it's so short. But when it's 100 big blinds deep, a hand like 53 suited is a lot better than a hand like 108 off suit. So, um, so yeah. Yeah. So, it includes 53 suited, but not like 98 off, which is or like king seven off, which are just terrible hands when it's 100 big blinds deep. So, okay. So, what's our opponent's range here? So, they decided to continuation the the continuation bet into the flop against two players after the big blind check. So, okay, what can we put them on? So, okay. So right, so this is a complicated analysis and you can't really do this in during the game itself, but it's very useful to do it after the hand. So let's review the factors of why a player would continuation bet and then consider why he continuation bet. Okay, so right. So this is also sort of a review class. It's the last class, right? So what what are the incentives for continuation betting? Well, your hand is good enough that it beats most of their calling hands, right? Okay. So, you're betting for value or your showdown value is poor, but you have some equity. You have some back door equity. You have some overcards or draws and you're essentially bluffing. Um, another incentive is you're out of position like he is. And it's not like you can see a free turn card by checking cuz I can still bet if he checks. So, you know, so you you want to bet opponents, you want to bet. Um, incentives against continuation betting. One is your hand is so dominant that you need to give him a turn card to hope that he improves. So this is like the trap. This look like um you have decent showdown value but not amazing showdown value. So like middle pair. Um you don't want a continuation bet if you have like zero equity on a reasonably dry board like this one. And there's too many people for you to fold out or like you're in position and you can see a free turn by checking. So So there's a lot of things but so let's look at the situation again. Keeping some of those factors in mind, he continuation bet and do 1086 uh rainbow, which means three different suits. Okay, so let's roughly put him on. Okay, so actually before I show this slide, um what's the let me think what the best way to Okay, I'm going to use the annotate feature and we'll sort of try to write on here what hands we think he can have. So this is this is going to take a while, but I I plan on spending the next 20 25 minutes discussing this hand. Okay. So, does someone want to say a hand that you think is in his range? At this point in the hand, pretend we don't know what he's going to do on the terminal. Yeah. Just at this point in the hand, can someone tell me a hand you think is in his range? Yeah. Ace Jack. Okay. Yeah. Ace. AceJ. Okay. Yeah, I think that's reasonable. It's actually, I think, a bit weak, but um let's say like AceJ. AceJ suited with a back door flush draw or Okay, I'll write down AceJ for now. Okay. So, someone who want to tell me another Yeah. No, we need to pair maybe 9 10 jacked or ace 10. Okay. Uh, ace 10. Uh, sure. Jack 10. Uh, 10 n. Okay. Um, someone want to tell me another type of hand? Maybe. Yeah, pocket jacks. Okay, good. Pocket jacks. Yeah. So, that's a clear value hand. Um, yeah. Okay. Someone want to tell me sort of another type of hand? What about queen jack? Queen jack. Okay, that's a good Yeah, that's a good one. So, queen jack, I think, is like one of the best draws. Oh, maybe not the best draw. What What is the best draw? Would you say queen jack of clubs? Queen jack of clubs. Yeah, but queen jack of clubs only it it's not the best straight draw, right? Yeah. What's Jack? Yeah. Jack nine. Jack nine or queen nine. So, okay. So, I I've roughly uh I wrote some hands here. Okay. Jack nine or queen nine or like 57? possible. Okay. Um, one pair of six. Is it possible? Pocket sixes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, that's good. Yeah. So, I'll write that down. So, pocket sixes. Good. Um, okay. Here's a question. What do you guys want to put him on if he has like a really really good hand? Like, what do you do? So, this is open-ended. I didn't come with a planned answer. Do you guys want to assume that he checks with pocket tens and like 9 seven basically the absolute best hands on this board to trap us or do you want to assume that he bets? Yeah. Yeah. I think if he has 97 he probably bet because someone might get a better straight if he doesn't bet. Okay. Yeah, that's a reasonable assumption. I think it can go either way with with 97 and like pocket 10 depending on our opponent. Um, pocket sixes I think is a clear bet whereas pocket 10s is not because pocket 10s you're taking away so many of the top pair hands from your opponents whereas pocket sixes just get so much value when you bet. Okay. So, so roughly speaking, you know, I sort of categorized all the hands he could have into five categories. So, the first the top is hands that are so good that he checks to trap or check raise. The second category is like the hands that are good but not that good he value bets. Then it's like medium strength hands that he checks should check call um hands that so this doesn't agree with exactly what we wrote but that's okay but this is um just roughly and then the next category is hands that he bluffs and then the last category is hands that he just check folds because they have no equity like pocket threes where he would just give up the hand. So, we basically crossed off the these three categories, right? Because with these three categories, he would check. Um, whereas the top one he's checking to trap, the second one he's checking to hope for a showdown, and the last one he's checking to give up. And then the two types of hands he's betting are essentially value bets and like draws or fluffs. Okay. So, now let's consider the situation on the turn. Um, okay. So, so once again, okay, so let's let's consider his incentives first for betting again on a turn. Sorry, this is a bit hard to read. Maybe I should uh maybe I should do do it on notepad so that it's the annotate isn't annoying. Sorry, just give me a sec. Okay. So, what are the incentives for betting again on the turn? So, one is you bet a good hand for value on the flop and your hand is still good on the turn, right? So, you're betting for more value. Two is you bluffed a speculative hand on the flop and now you either hit the turn like the queen helped do. So like if you had jack nine or you improved your draw um or like an over card to the board came which was the case and maybe you thought bluffing the turn could be so okay. So so he bet the turn. So okay so let's maybe put the hands we think he could have into poker stove. So yeah I think that's the easiest way to do it. Okay. So let's do this. Okay. So uh Okay. So roughly speaking can everyone see this? This is easy enough to see, right? Okay. So, okay. So, let's do this. This is this is so bear with me. Yeah, this is a meticulous exercise, but um Okay. So, let's say pre flop um 30%. Okay. This is about reasonable. Uh actually, let me give him a few more pairs. I'll take away a six off. Let's say he goes uh suited suited connectors down to 54 suited. Suited one gaffers down to 53 suited. Suited two gaffers. Um, so so suited two gaffers means like suited cards that are two three apart essentially. Yeah, you're like 85 suited. Something like this. Okay, something like this is probably probably not. Let's say he plays 10 six suited. Okay, something like this. Uh maybe take away like some of the worst off suit hands. Okay, so something like this. Okay, good. So on the flop, what happened on the flop? We said, okay, so let's eliminate hands. What can we eliminate? Right. So, this is his entire range of possibilities pre flop. Okay. So, on the flop, we're going to eliminate pocket twos, threes, fours, fives, cuz he just gives up. Um, pocket sevens and nines we're going to eliminate because we're going to assume he checks. Uh, 53 I think is bad enough. We can assume he gives up. Um, let me just display the flop so that let me just display the flop so that we can see. Okay. Right. So, okay. So, what else? Uh, so, okay. So, let's go through let's go through everything. I'll do this a bit fast, but um, so let's see. So, okay, let's say all the middle pairs he's going to check. So, I'm going to remove most of the hands with an eight in them. Yeah. So, Ace8, king eight, queen eight, jack. Okay. So, 108. He's going to do that just because you have an eight pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. So, we will take that into account, but but he could still have an eight, right? So, we still Yeah. But yeah, you're right. it is less like play and we will we will take it into account at the very end. Um so Ace5 let's assume let's assume a lot of these offsuit aces he gives up because because even with overc cards but with no back door flush draw on a dry board I think is kind of scary to bet. Um okay so let's say something like this on the flop 85 let's make that 87 I think he'll check. So 97 we're going to assume he bets. Let's assume he checks pocket 10s. Let's assume he also checks some of the weaker some of the weaker uh some of the weaker tens like jack 10. Let's let's suppose he checks. Okay, so this is about reason maybe 10 9 he checks as well. 10 seven he checks. Uh I guess like okay 98 98 he checks. Um okay. Am I missing anything? Does someone see something that you disagree with? King queen off. King jack off. I think those are too weak to bet into this board. Uh, queen n king n suit to A9 down to here. Okay, I think Okay, I think this is this is roughly it'll get easier on the turn basically. Okay, so so let's say this is what he's going to have on the flop. Um, actually some of these weaker aces probably should be eliminated. Okay, let's eliminate everything down to Ace5 and below. A7 and Ace9 will keep in cuz he has a straight draw. Um, okay, let's do this. Okay, so on the turn he bets again, right? So, okay. Does someone want to suggest a hand that maybe we should eliminate because he bet the turn? Yeah. Any weak hands? I guess. Okay, good. Yeah, I think that's a very good answer. Yeah. So, let's get rid of ace 10, king 10 because those are no longer good hands or they're no longer, I think, hands that you want to really continue betting for value, right? Queen 10 is good cuz it's a two pair. Okay. Um, is there another hand that's sort of a similar category? So, I guess pocket jacks is of a similar category, right? It's not as good as it once was. Um, okay. So, what are some other hands maybe you don't want to bluff with, you don't want to bet with anymore? Are there any hands you think maybe he would just give up because the 65? Yeah, I think that's reasonable. I think the hands like um I think the hands like most of these we can assume he's going to give up on a queen like 54 especially you know on the flop. So on the flop he didn't even have a great hand. It was just drawing to a seven but now it's sort of worse. So yeah let's get rid of 54. Um are there do you think they would continue betting like 96 or 76? Yeah, even 75 is a pretty bad is a lot worse after the queen because 75 was like drawing to a nine. Um, but now when the queen comes, the nine is not a good card because you still lose to a jack. So maybe we can get rid of that one. Um, do you think they definitely continue betting with ace king, ace queen, ace jack and all of those? Yeah, maybe if they had ace queen, they would continue betting. I can just pretend I had it all along. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, ace queen I think is good. All right. So, yeah, I think this is about good. Um, Ace9, you know, some of these hands I think they would probably stop bluffing with. Like I think Jack seven suited is pretty. Maybe some of the sixes also. I think it's hard to even like Ace7 suited. I think it's hard to continue bluffing because as you see, there's already enough hands with draws, right? Like there's there are already a lot of bluffs here like king jack ace king um I guess like uh queen 9 96 some of these. So yeah maybe he'll bluff with these but okay let's get rid of these. Um okay so okay so we've sort of cut down his range a bit. All right so now it's a river situation and he checks. So what does this mean? Well, it seems improbable that our opponent would be trying to trap us with this check because um he's already been showing plenty of aggression. So, it's hard for him to like pretend he suddenly has a bad hand by checking. Um and with the pot already so big, he can get a large percent of our remaining stack into the pot just by betting instead of check raising. So, it seems like it's less likely he's checking as a trap. And also the ace is sort of a better card for his range than ours because he's the one who's doing betting. So, you know, having draws, having overc cards like aces and for us, we're much less like likely than him to have an ace. So, if it's a better card for his range, he should be betting both for value and with his bluffs. So that being said, so let's suppose we we assume it's sort of unlikely he has a really really good hand, but he could still easily have a hand that beats ours and calls our potential bluff. So okay, so now let's go back to Poker Stove and eliminate some more hands. Okay, so what are some hands we can eliminate after he checks the river? Aces. Aces. Yeah, I think that's a good one. I think aces pretty clearly he'll bet again on the river. Um what's another hand? King Jack. Yeah, King Jack. I think they might. So, okay. So, let's eliminate all the good hands that we think he's going to continue betting, right? I think any straight I think it's reasonable to assume they're just going to keep betting like 97. Even though it's nowhere near the monster it was on the flop, you know, it still only loses to jack nine and king jack. So, let's get rid of that one. Certainly like ace queen of those. Yeah. So, okay. So, let's Okay. Yeah, let's do that. So, let's suppose Yeah. I think any most strong two pairs I think definitely he like could heal he bet. So let's get rid of that. So let's get get rid of ace queen. Let's get rid of queen queen. Um let's get rid of queen 10. I think queen 10 is good enough. Uh ace8. Let's get rid of that one. I think that's yeah that's good enough. Pocket eights. Pocket sixes I think is good enough. Um okay good. So okay. So we we got some hands here. Uh basically all the good hands we removed, right? all the really good hands that he bets again. What What do you guys think about 108? I guess it doesn't matter too much. We Let's leave. Let's assume Let's assume he checks 108 because by this river 108 is no longer the powerhouse it was. Oh, I got to get rid of Jack 9. Okay. Um, what are some other hands you think we can eliminate? So, there's actually another category of hands we could potentially eliminate here. Uh, yeah. Uh he would probably bet an ace on uh well an ace isn't that good of a hand. I don't think it's I I mean right so this is one problem with this analysis is you know it's it is very subject to debate what we think about our opponent but for the sake of this exercise I'd say um I mean I also I think in practice I think it's not clear that you should value bet an ace here because there's just a lot of stuff that beats you a lot of straits a lot of two pairs. Um, I think even if you have ace king, you shouldn't really be confident enough in your hand to bet. Like maybe ace king is marginal, but definitely not like a7. Yeah. Uh, bluff bets like weak hands, maybe 64. Great. Great. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So, that's what I wanted to hear. Yeah. So, so we can also eliminate some of his really weak hands, right? This is crucial. This is an easy thing to miss. We can probably assume he's not going to have king seven because like the ace is a reasonable card to bluff. you know, it's it's not great. It's not like the Ace of Clubs, which would be a better card for him to bluff. But if he's got nothing, like if he just completely missed probably, I mean, let's assume, you know, the these guys are pretty good players. He's probably going to bluff. So, let's assume he can't have king. Let's assume he at least has a pair. He has some showdown value because if he had zero showdown value, he would bluff. So, let's get rid of king 7. Let's get rid of king 9. Um 65 64. You know, I think definitely he should be bluffing, but maybe some players will see a pair of sixes and say, "Oh, I have enough showdown value." And so, let's get rid of one of them, but not the other. Maybe that's reasonable. So, let's get rid of two of So, yeah, let's get rid of 64 and 76, but keep in 65 and 96. Um, okay. So, we leave ourselves with these. Um, okay. So, this seem this seems about reasonable, I think. Um maybe like maybe we can eliminate uh yeah let's let's eliminate like A7. I think A7 is maybe I think we should have eliminated it on the turn. Maybe like A7 of clubs we can Oh no. A7 of clubs he can't have but because we have the seven of clubs. Um I think any other A7 other than the A7 of clubs is kind of bad to bet on the turn cuz it's the seven isn't really that good of a card do isn't that good of a draw. So let's get rid of these seven. Okay. So, so let's just suppose it's this. Okay. So, okay, that was a lot of work. Okay. So, now, okay, so roughly speaking, we conclude his range on the river is something like this. Um, so let's assume that he's going to call with top pair or better. Once again, this is, you know, a pretty strong assumption, but let's suppose this is the way we think he's going to play. He's going to call if he has an ace or better and folder once. So we're risking 70 to win 100 and Okay. So let's let's so yeah. So let's do an exact calculation now of how many combinations of these hands. Okay. So Okay. So let's do I'll do this on notepad. Um okay. Okay. Uh let me pull up the board. Okay. So, okay. Hopefully people can see this. Okay. So, now, okay, so when I said combinatorial hand analysis, I mean we're going to basically count the combinations. And like you pointed out, this is Oh crap. Did I accidentally get rid of that? That's not good. Um, okay. Let me quickly put it back. So, okay. We had kings left. Ace king, ace jack, ace9, king, queen, queen, jack, queen jack, queen nine, queen nine. Uh, what else? 108 106 86. Uh, we had some sixes, right? 7 six 65. Um, and is there something else I'm missing? Does anyone Does anyone remember us? There's something I'm forgetting to check off. Not P9 off. I guess I think this is about right. Maybe I'm missing like one or two things. Uh, no one sees anything. I think this is approximately what we had, right? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I hopefully I didn't miss enough that it drastically changed. It It shouldn't, but Okay. Okay, so let's calculate combinations because you can look at this square on the poker stove and you Oh, uh, let me clear this annotation. Sorry, I should have done that a while ago. Okay, so um, you can sort of see the yellow hands on the square and sort of roughly see how many hands of each type, right? There's there's essentially three types of hands he could have, right? There's uh there's hands that call. There's hands that beat us and call. There's hands that beat us and fold. And there's hands that we beat and fold. Um but the thing is if you just look at these yellow squares, it won't give you the right probabilities because we have certain cards in our hand and also because of the specific way suited combinations work, there's different combinations of each hand. So, okay. So, let's go through this. So, how many combinations of ace king are there? Ace king suited are there that. So, we assumed he had a back door flush draw on the flop, but um so how many combinations of ace king suited are possible? Don't worry about the back door flush draw part. It doesn't matter for this example. So, how many combinations of ace king suited? Well, three. So, because it has to be suited and it can't be spades because the ace of spades is on the board. So, yeah. So, so it's three three combinations. Okay. Ace jack suited. three. Okay, good. Um, Ace9 suited. Three. Okay, good. Um, all right. Pocket kings, right? So, pocket kings is six cuz there's no kings. We don't see any kings and there's no such thing as suitedness. So, so yeah. So, one thing you realize in this Oh, so pocket kings, we're assuming he's going to fold. Um, one thing you'll realize in this exercise is you got to put a lot of weight on the offsuit hands instead of the suited hands because the suited the offsuit hands combinatorilially have way more possibilities, essentially three times as many possibilities as the suited hands. So like this queen jack offsuit hand here has a huge weight in our calculation. That's by far his most likely hand cuz it's the only offsuit hand we're putting him on. Um, yeah, it's the only offsuit. Is it really only the offshoot hand he could have? Um, I guess according to our analysis, we're assuming the only offshoot hand you could have is queen jack off. So, how many combinations of queen jack off are there? 12. 12. Um, okay. Sure. Let's just say queen jack in total. Queen jack and queen jack suited plus offsuit is 12. Um, because we see a queen. So, there's four jacks, three queens. 3 * 4 is 12. It could be suited or not suited. So, okay, that counts for both of those. What about king queen suited? three as well. So, it's three as well, but I'm going to put it as two cuz I'm going to assume assume if he had king, queen of spades, which has no flush draw, like no running runner runner flush draw on the flop, I'm going to assume that he would have folded king queen of spades on the flop. So, so I'm going to give it two. Um, okay. So, which ones haven't we done? Queen nine suited. How many combinations? Three. Everyone agrees. Okay. Uh 108 suited. These get fine. So we're the reason why 108 is suited is because we're assuming he doesn't raise 108 offshoot pre flop from that position. So that's why 108 has to be suited. Um so how many combinations of 108 suited? Two. Okay. How many combinations of 10 six suited? Two as well. Two. How many combinations of 86 suited? One. One. Yes. Okay. Um Uh, okay. So, I didn't Oh, no. Hang on. I miscatategorized this one. So, queen nine is in this category that he's folding. These are all the hands that call call or bluff and beat us. And okay, so the last category is the hands that we can actually beat if we check it down. Um, so it's very small, right? It's just 76 suited and 65 suited. Um, okay. So, 76 suited. How many Uh, two, two, six suited. Three. Okay. Uh, did I miss anything? I think this is it, right? Okay. So, we we basically we have to tally it up. So, here there's 14. Here there'S-23 and here there's five. Okay. And then essentially, okay. So, now that we're done this calculation, we need to we need to basically run the numbers with these calculations. So essentially, roughly speaking, um they're going to fold they're going to fold more than half the time. Um so they're going to fold more than half the time. And so the numbers I think this will actually come out close because the way we did this specific calculation there we I think we gave them a lot of combinations of hands that we can actually check and beat. But um I think this is still this will still definitely call for a bluff. But it is close as you if you've done the homework, the homework sort of addresses this, right? It's not just what probability is he bluffing. It's the probability that sorry, it's not just the probability he's calling our bluff. It's the probability he's calling our bluff versus the probability we win the hand by checking. And the probability we win the hand by checking is roughly 5 out of 42. Um, so which is pretty small. And he's he folds more than half the time. So if you run the numbers, you'll see that bluffing is overwhelmingly profitable. And I think this this is this is it's this is a good example of why this combinatorial analysis is good is because um if you look at poker stove and you look at this you might actually think um you know bluffing is bad because you look at most of the hands you know ace king ace jack ace 9 108 106 86 it's hands that it's hands that call us and beat us but when you do this combinatorial analysis you'll realize there's way more combinations of queen jack than there are 86 six. So looking at this itself isn't quite enough because this doesn't weight the probabilities of each one correctly. So um yeah, so this is a good e exercise to do I think um even though you know we made a lot of assumptions in our model but it's a very good exercise to do to after after the fact to sort of just analyze what are the different all the different possibilities. Okay. So, I'm going to take a quick break here and then for the last half of the class, I'm going to um I'm just going to talk about some general poker topics. So, no math, no poker hands, but just some general stuff about poker, some ending remarks. Um since this is the last time I'm I'm teaching since Bill Chen is coming next time. Uh if you want to during the break think about any questions you might want to ask me about poker in general or or specific hands. Um yeah, so we'll take like a 2-minute break. Make sure you hand in the homework. All right. So, I'm going to wrap up with some general thoughts about poker and poker in general. So, one question that I get asked a lot is sort of it's called the money maker effect. So, what happened and this is sort of a big catalyst for poker becoming really popular was I think in 2003 Chris Money Maker and that's actually his name. Moneymaker is his last name. Um he won he spent like a dollar playing in this like satellite on poker stars. won a seat to the World Series of Booker main event and then went there and then won the whole thing for like two and a half million. Um, you know, it was a beautiful Cinderella story and then people heard this and also like they made it seem like, you know, it's not like the lottery where you got to get really really lucky to become rich. It's literally this guy is really smart. He can read people and it's all skill and then he he did this and it's sort of like anyone can become a poker star just like Chris Money Maker. Um and this caused uh was a huge driving force in the popularity of poker. Um so a lot so question that I wondered myself is you know how could there actually be so much money you know cuz someone has to be losing this money for you to be winning this money right so so like you know where's the money coming from you know how can anyone smart and motivated succeed in poker etc. So, so okay. So, and so what's unique about poker? Why is it that, you know, why can't you make this much money playing like chess or something? Why can't you play make this much money playing hockey? Um, so what's unique about poker? So, I guess four unique aspects that allow for there to be so much money. So, I'm going to talk about them individually. One is I think everyone is overconfident, myself included. Two is uh gambling, self-control aspects of that. Three is it's a very fast evolving game. And four is when I sort of started the class, the very first class I talked about being dis I talked about credit card roulette not being resultsoriented and I think that's very hard. So I'll go through each of each one of them separately. So so yeah, one is this huge overconfidence thing which is very prevalent. So um it's it's normal in general for people to be overconfident. I don't know how many of you have seen like the experiment where it's like you know write down your 95% confidence intervals for all these things, right? So if they're actually 95% confidence intervals and you're correctly calibrated, then actually 19 out of 20 of your intervals should contain the real thing. But like you do this for a normal person, it'll be like 30% of their things actually lie in the interval. So they're just drastically overconfident. Um and so yeah, it's normal to be overconfident, but especially in poker, it's I think poker is among the things I know where it's easiest to overestimate your own abilities. Um does someone want to suggest any others? Is there something else you think where like, you know, everyone thinks they're good at this thing? So, I can think of sort of like two examples that I think are sort of true. Um, okay. Raise your hand if you think you're a below median driver. Oh, wow. Some people actually are willing to do that cuz I very rarely talked to someone who admitted to being bad at driving. Everyone I've ever asked about their driving skill thinks they're really good at driving a car. uh myself included, I definitely don't think I have a below median driver. Um, another thing is teaching. I've also I've also rarely talked to someone who thinks they're worse than median at teaching. Um, I guess maybe professor No, you can speak about this, but yeah. Um, but yeah. So, uh, so it's rare, I think. You know, cuz in most things, you know, someone will admit to being bad at this, but poker, it's it's it's similar to like, I don't know, these two examples I've got of the driving teaching sort of where it's just very easy to think you're really good at it and and it's hard to admit to yourself that you're not good at it. Um, yeah. So, one saying in poker is, you know, if you're if you can't spot the fish at the table, the fish is like the losing player that everyone is trying to win money from, then like you are the fish. Um, this is sort of a popular saying. Uh, so, so why is overconfidence so common in poker? So, right, so it's this aspect that it's, you know, you're it's like a mental battle. You're like mentally battling against your opponent. Is he bluffing? Is he not? And it's just easy to always assume, which I do in um like throughout a lot of this class, right? I talked about exploitative play. I'm building a model for our opponent and assuming that they behave as a probabilistic machine according to my model. I'm assuming that I'm ahead of my opponent. I'm assuming I'm better. Um there's also a lot of selective memory. I think it's easy to remember your bad beats, the time they hit a king on the river and beat your aces. Um and it's easy to forget the times, you know, you got really lucky on the river and beat them. So selected memory I think is a big aspect. Um I think lack of clear benchmarks is a big aspect as well. So you know it's not like running 100 meters right no one who takes 30 seconds to run 100 mters is going to think oh I'm I can compete in the Olympics right cuz it's very clear there's a very clear benchmark how fast you need to be. But in poker, you know, even if you don't win tournaments, it's easy to blame it on luck. And there's like different types of tournaments and it's easy to like bench bend the benchmarks in a way to convince yourself that you're better than you are. Um, it's easy to hit a lucky streak and consider it all skill and you can blame all your losing streaks on luck. So, those are some reasons I think I think poker is just a very welldesigned game for this purpose into basically tricking, deceiving people into overestimating their own ability. Um, and another aspect of it is this is and this is what's really tough about poker I think is even though it's so easy to be overconfident and it's such a flaw to be overconfident, it's also in some sense necessary, you know, like if you're not confident, how can you take risks, right? Like poker, you're you're gambling and essentially and you you have to do risky things and if you're not confident, how can you do risky things, right? And also like you know if you're trying to like mentally read your opponent if you're constantly reminding yourself that you're dumber than you than you think you are then how can you actually think that you can outread your opponent right and like and I talk about this resultsoriented you need to be confident to trust that you made a good decision even though your result was you lost $10,000 on the day right so so confidence is also necessary but it's also so easy to be overconfident so this this balance of being exactly the right Confidence is something that I think you know even like like professional poker players strive to try to strike the balance between every day and I think it's very tough and it's something I struggle with a lot too to try to figure out when I'm being overconfident when I'm being under underconfident. Um, so I think one good mentality. So, back to this driving thing is I think it's it's can it's a good mentality, you know, if you play poker and you enjoy it, I think it's a great game. It's a beautiful mathematical game and like a fun game you play with friends. You know, if you just are willing to admit, you know, I play in this home game every Friday night. I'm probably a below average player. I probably lose on average 10 bucks every time I play. I think that's totally fine. You know, it's just like spending your Friday night going to see a movie. you pay 10 bucks and you're happy to take $10 out of your wallet and not see it again, right? You could um I think it's it would be a healthy mentality for more people to be willing to do this and just like you know admit to themselves, yeah, I enjoy playing poker and I lose a bit of money, but you know, I have fun doing it and you know it's the same as seeing a movie. But in reality, I think this isn't the case. You know, if even at these friendly Friday night games for low stakes, probably if you ask all the people there, do you think you're beating your friends, everyone's going to say yes, everyone's not saying, oh, I'm going there essentially paying Friday, paying 10 bucks to play poker with my friends. Everyone's saying, I'm winning a bit of money or whatever, right? So, um, so I think that's an important mentality to try to have that. I think poker can, um, and I think it's fine, you know, if you're if you're not a you don't have to be the best at everything, right? So, um, so one story I like to tell is, so David Einhorn, he's he's like a billionaire. I think he founded Green Light Capital or something. And he he actually won $4 million in a $1 million buying poker tournament and donated it all to charity. So, and after the fact, you know, he's obviously like a super smart guy and he, you know, so he played a $1 million buying tournament. So, everyone else playing this tournament is like a poker professional, the best in the world. And he's just like this rich billionaire who doesn't really like he wasn't bad, but he he just started playing poker. He was like, you know, he's a smart guy. He got coaching to play it, but he's he was the clear loser in the tournament. And he just admitted it. He just said, you know, I'm a billionaire. I'm happy to spend a million dollars playing this tournament. I understand I'm probably expecting to lose like $200,000 or whatever playing this tournament with all these guys, but I'm fine with it. I got a million dollars. Who cares, right? And he was just very honest. And even after he he actually won 4 million, he didn't come first. He came like third. He just admitted, you know, he said like, you know, I was very lucky. I came in ad expecting to just lose this $1 million that I don't care about. Um and then he just donated all his winnings to charity anyway. But um I I think like I wish more people were like him. I think that's a very good mentality to have to just admit that you're playing poker for fun and that's totally fine. Um, okay. So, the second thing I want to talk about is sort of gambling self-control. So, I think this is uh this can also be the downfall of a lot of smart and motivated people trying to get into poker. So, um it's so one. So, yeah. So, the these are some things that can happen, right? So, after getting unlucky and the previous hand, you play the next hand poorly cuz you're like upset, you're tilted, as poker players say. Um or playing when you're tired just to get unstuck. I've definitely done this many times before in my poker career. You know, if I've lost money, especially when I feel like I've gotten unlucky playing against someone who I'm better than and just like I've lost money because I got unlucky, I like won't stop playing until I get like unstuck, which is like win back the money I'm lost, until I'm in the black essentially. And um you know it's terrible because even if I'm a bit better, if I'm playing with this mentality trying to get unstuck, I'm just going to be making the low average decisions and it's just not a good thing to do. Um and also from the other side, you know, it's it can be hard to rationalize gambling. So So it's hard to stop yourself from gambling too much, but it's also sometimes hard to rationalize that, you know, gambling there is a lot of stigma around gambling, right? You have to convince yourself that, you know, I can I shouldn't be too scared. Gambling is I'm playing this game that involves, you know, you can call it gambling. I'm playing this game with a lot of luck. And you got to convince yourself that this is what I'm fine with doing. It's like a lottery. And you know, you got to sometimes make decisions under pressure as well. And you just got to rationalize to yourself that, you know, yeah, this there's a lot of luck in this, but this is the game I chose to play. So okay, the third thing is um so fast evolution I think is another big aspect of how there was so much money in in Texas Holden for so long. Um so it was a relatively new game also with a lot of hidden depth. So something like this could never happen in chess where chess has been studied for like hundreds thousands of years and it's not like a new game and you know even though the best player today is still better than the best player 20 years ago it's not like the game is evolving super fast and um whereas Holden was like a new game at the relatively new game at the time and just there was so much hidden depth and it the best players just kept improving so fast that you know so I like to say like the best player in the year 2000 000 would be like a terrible player by 2004. And like the best player in 2004 would be a bad player by 2008, etc. So, it's just, you know, even if you're on top of the game right now, if you stop studying, you're going to be nowhere near the top of the game in like a year. So, it was just so fast. And can anyone else think of other examples of things that were kind of like this? Um, CrossFit was when it be like the winner of the 2009 10 games would wouldn't even compete. Oh, wow. Okay. I didn't know that. That's called That's called I didn't know pass. Yeah, that's pretty crazy. Uh, there's one other thing I can sort of think of. Uh, how many of you guys have done like math contests as a kid? I think those, to my knowledge, have gotten a lot harder. like just in terms of how good you need to be to say be on the United States national team is way harder now than it was say 30 years ago from what I've heard. But um but yeah, so this aspect of Texas hold them. So this was also a huge driving factor because you know like it was it would be easy to tell yourself I was the best player in the world 4 years ago. I can obviously sit down at this $1, $2 game and make money, right? And the answer would often be no. So this was another reason why a lot of people there was a lot of money in it because you it's it's easy to just remember that you were the best a year ago and just forget that the this the tides are rising so fast. Um so that being said uh so I wanted to also take this opportunity to suggest some further readings for I know I've been asked this yeah so why is that based on your understanding right I think because your strategy is you have to improve your strategy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I also think there was a lot of hidden depth. Um so I I mean I think with any new thing this will be the case but I think for in poker there there were many times where sort of the consensus amongst the top players was that they were close to solving the game and then a year later they would realize they missed like completely viable strategies that completely messed up all their calculations and they have to start over. Um, so I think that was a big like it's it was it's easy to think that you've like solved the game and then suddenly realize, oh, I'm nowhere near solving the game because I forgot about like all these different strategies. Yeah. Um, I think that's it. But this might be sort of true with a lot of uh I'm trying to think. I mean, the the biggest thing is it's a new thing, right? Like it's hard for this to happen in like I think in most sports that have people have done for a long time, people get gradually better, right? Like you look at like the 100 meter sprint, it's like yeah, the world record is getting broken, but it's not like it's going to go from 10 seconds to like 5 seconds, right? It'll go from 10 seconds to 9.99 9.99 seconds to or or something like that, right? So, um I think just the fact that it's new is a big aspect. Um but yeah, like Texas hold it would be equivalent, you know, to the world record in the 100 meters being 10 seconds, then like 5 seconds a year later, then like 2 seconds like 2 years. It it was just insane. Um, okay. So, that being said, so some people have asked me, you know, if I want to continue learning about poker, reading poker, um, what what should I do? So, so that being said, I think the best resources by far are online. Um, a lot of people have asked me about books and, um, I will recommend some books, but I think books basically go out of date way too fast. So, I think in general the best resources are online. Um, so carders.com is a website where basically poker pros can make videos of themselves while while playing and talking. Uh, it you do have to pay to get a subscription. So, okay. So, this is a bit of a biased uh advice. Just a warning because I'm AI'm a pro at card runners, but I mean amongst like 50 60 other pros. They also donated some free memberships to students in the class if you guys looked at the prizes. So, you can get some free memberships to card runners. Um, a good free resource is 2 plus2 forums. I think there's a lot of garbage on those forums nowadays, but still like most of the best poker players in the world still do use those forums and post on those forums. So, 2 plus2.com there is a lot of, you know, just like garbage and banter, but if you are just trying to improve, there is good content on there. You just have to find it. Um, and recently, so this is a new thing, but on Twitch streams, so Twitch is like a website you can go on to watch essentially poker pros play in real time. They share their screens and talk through their hands. Uh, it's a pretty good free resource. It's sometimes more entertaining than educational, but um, I think it's quite good. And you know, they would do like a 10-minute delay so that you can't like watch them and know what cards they have in case anyone was considering trying to do that to get an advantage. Uh, so the these are some online resources and I will suggest some books although I do think, you know, most of these books I think are reasonably outdated, but I do think they're very, in my opinion, out of the books I've read, these are the best written books. And um even if they're a bit outdated, I think like the theory and the way they're written is very good and also somewhat entertaining and sort of gives you an idea on the history of poker and the evolution of the game. So, so my favorite book is the first one. It's called Small Stakes Holde. Uh it's by Ed Miller, who's a MIT graduate, David Scalansky and Mason Melmouth. Um so this is actually limit holdem which is in some sense a solved game nowadays and no one plays limit hold anymore. So limit holdm is where you you can't bet any amount. You have to bet a very specific size. Um but I think this is one of the classic books in So this is one of the classic books in poker. It's very well written written by mathematicians and it just goes through the basic concepts in poker I think very very well even though it's for limit hold and it's a good read. Um yeah so I yeah it might even be a collector's item nowadays. Um, so I one story I like to tell about this book is so my good friend Mike McDonald, he was uh so he he's the guy who got me into poker and he he would often tell people he's probably read this book he says like maybe like 20 times and then he he's also a guy who doesn't really like reading. So I think there was a point in his life where he's read less than 20 different books in in his life but read this specific book more than 20 times. Um so it's yeah it's a very good book. Um, Harrington on hold is on tournaments. It's outdated. It's really, really badly outdated, but it's I still think it's very well written and has some good concepts. That's how I first started learning to play tournaments. It's Harington on hold one and two. Um, Kill Phil, Kill Everyone, I think, is a is is pretty good and pretty up to date. It's it's it's decent, I think. Um, every hand revealed is Gus Hansen's a very famous poker player who's been around for forever. Um, it's more so it's it's it's a book where he goes through every hand he played in this tournament that he won. And I think it's more entertaining than educational, but definitely a really good player. Uh, Mathematics of Poker by Bill Chen. It's not that practical. Don't tell Bill this when he comes Friday, but um, it's theoretically very interesting if you like math. Um, if you like game theory, it's theoretically very interesting. Um, building a bankroll is a recent book that this year, uh, he didn't have any leftovers to donate to our class, but in the past he's supported our class and donated a lot of the book, a lot of copies of the book, and I think it's pretty up to date and it's um, it's it's for cash games, but I think it's it's very good. Okay, so the last thing is uh, okay, so back so sort of back to the four things about poker that I think makes it unique, right? So the the the so the fourth one is this idea of not being resultsoriented. Um so yeah so we talked about this a lot in the first class already this decision mentality and um where you need to care about the decision you made not the result you got and I think this actually is a barrier to a lot of smart and motivated people getting into poker cuz it's almost antithetical right it's you're um you know if you're a smart and motivated person you're used to like you know you study hard and then you get like a good result on your test Like no one will ever tell like if you get a failing grade in your test, you're never going to be able to like go up to your parents and be like, "Oh, I made good decisions, but I just got really unlucky and failed the test, right?" Like no one's going to believe you. So it it's very um it so poker this can happen all the time, right? Um so it's it is a bit antithetical to to sort of being motivated. Um, yeah. One thing poker players like to laugh at is I don't know if you like to put like the word resultsoriented on your resume. I I've seen, you know, I've seen like seminars that teach you to become resultsoriented and like advertise this as being a great thing. You know, you achieve results. You you work hard, make decisions, and you achieve results. Um, but we always laugh at this and just cuz resultsoriented is always a negative term in poker. Like if if a poker player says someone is resultsoriented, they don't respect them very much. But um but I've seen like resumes that you know where people say I'm very resultsoriented. Okay. So uh so yeah. So another thing so a related thing is um it's easy to underestimate the variance in poker and and this is a big aspect too that goes along with being resultsoriented. Um, so there's this like statistical experiment involving making up sequences of coin flips. I've heard of this where where like a professor would ask students to make up a sequence of 200 coin flips. He would get half the class to do this and then he would get the other half to actually um flip 200 coins and write down like heads, tails, heads, heads, heads, tails. Um, and he could tell with like 100% certainty which ones are made up and which ones were real. And the way he did this is basically looking at which of the what's the longest sequence of heads in a row or tails in a row. And basically in reality if you flip 200 coins, I forget the exact numbers, but I think it's something like you're like 99% to get at least like six or seven of the same thing in a row. Whereas in all the madeup ones that people would be like, "Oh, if it was heads seven times in a row, that can't be random, right? So we can't put seven heads in a row." Um, so I think it's it's known that it's easy to underestimate how long you can get unlucky for. Like it's easy to think, you know, I've been unlucky the last three times. That means I must deserve to get lucky now, right? But this is like not true mathematically. And um it's just very easy to underestimate variance and underestimate how likely it is that you know, you're just actually going to lose 10 coin flips in a row in poker. It's going to happen to you. and and um and you're going to get tilted. And it's very important to control tilt. And yeah, pretty much every poker player thinks they're unluckier than mathematically possible. I've definitely felt like this in many parts of my career. I still feel like this sometimes now. Um it's very easy to get this feeling where you just, you know, how how can it be possible? How can I actually lose 20 point books in a row? Well, it can happen. And um one of my poker players I was talking to, John Tannon. He plays a lot of online poker and this is actually a picture of his desk. Um he basically was so angry I think he like smashed his mouse and made a big hole in his desk. So you know it can really frustrate you. Uh and and yeah, so in poker, you know, and I hate to say this, but I think even if you're um working very hard, you do need some lucky big scores along the way, especially at the start to get into it. even if you're very smart and working in the right way. And this is also antithetical and smart sorry antithetical to smart and motivated people, right? Because we want to believe that if you work hard and you're smart, then you'll make it for sure. But I I I won't say this is true in poker. I think I'm I mean I think I'm willing to admit I think I was very lucky at the start. You know, I had some big scores at the start that really drove my interest in the game and really propelled me into professional poker. And I think, you know, they're they're probably in a parallel universe could be another copy of me that did the exact same things and just didn't get as lucky as I did at the start and just never got into poker. Um, so this this fact that, you know, you do still need to get lucky even if if you make all the right decisions to make it is is sort of a tough thing to um is sort of a tough thing to swallow. But um, you know, this is sort of a different story, but I I' I'd like to argue that that's sort of true in life, too. um you know the fact that being smart and working hard doesn't guarantee success by any means. Um so so although that's that's a negative thing for poker, I like to end you with I like to end with sort of the what I call the joy of making good decisions. So you know even though you know not everyone makes it in poker, but poker players we like to talk about um we like to talk about sort of you're not really there you shouldn't be trying to think about making money or whatever. you're sort of just there to enjoy the game and have an honest opinion on your ability and calibrate your confidence. Um, I've told the Bill Gates still runs, sorry, but yeah, basically, you know, Bill Gates, I think, was a pretty good poker player for quite a while. Um, and he like he would make money and clearly it was not his best way to make money. Um, like he could probably just go to his company and make like $500 a second or something like that. But um but when asked about it, Bill Gates would just say, you know, I love making good decisions. I love thinking about this game, making decisions, and even though clearly the money means nothing to me, it's still important to me as a personal goal to succeed at this game and make money, even though it doesn't mean anything. But so, so it's about this joy of making good decisions. And I think part of the reason Bill Gates was able to be quite good was because the money meant nothing to him. He didn't really care about his results and how much he made or lost. Clearly, he just focused on making the best decisions. Um, and yeah, so so yeah, it is true that there's a decent amount of luck in poker, but I mean, yeah, so I would argue, you know, life is luck. Um, and you know, you only live once. There's all these things, but overall, the thing to keep in mind is like Jennifer Shahadi talked about this with the Goldilocks video. Uh so like you want to think of your life and or your poker career or whatever as one long session where you're just trying to make the best decisions and even if you don't get the best results today hope that you get the best better results throughout the course of your life. Um so yeah so okay that's that's the end of so yeah that's the end of what I wanted to say about the general uh poker and what I hope you take away from this class from a non-mathematical non-poker point of view. Um, I guess there's a bit of time for questions. There's a lot of things I didn't talk about, but I'm happy to answer questions about. So, um, yeah, I'm happy to answer any questions now. Yeah. Uh, now that there are no longer any class tournaments, where can I go to play to get better and improve? Um, okay. So I think so you can Okay, so there's an MIT poker club and they run tournaments on poker stars similar to the way the class works. Um the way you can get into the poker club is so Lee Marie is part of it. Um she she's like one of the exec. You maybe ask her send her an email. I can ask her. I can ask I'll ask her and I'll send something to the class if you guys are interested in continue playing poker on Poker Stars. And um yeah, so there's the MIT poker club. Um, and I know in the past sometimes the class I've the class has continued playing tournaments after the class is over. We would have like a tournament every Saturday or something for people to play. But I don't know if they didn't last very long. I think people quickly lost interest in it. But um, yeah, I think just the poker club actually. Um, Martin, you're you're in the poker club, right? So you maybe you can say something answer that question better. Yeah. So sometimes like uh we have home games where people can play like 25 cents, 50 cents. So like there's like Okay. Yeah. So maybe Okay. I'll I'll find some information from Lee Marie and Martin and I'll I'll send something to the class and I'll give you guys some pointers. Yeah. Yeah. How do you personally deal with down swings? Um so I guess I've Yeah. So I mean definitely I've I've gone through bad down swings and times where I really hated the game. Um I think I mostly just took a break. So yeah, I I mostly just took a break. Um, so the first time I had Yeah, so my first couple of down swings when I was first starting. Um, yeah, I kind of just took a break from the game for a while, like a month or something, and then came back. That's sort of what I did. Nowadays, I'd say I I'd say in like the last four years, I've been I'd like to think I was fairly good at dealing with down swings. You know, I've sort of went through enough down swings where I kind of was able to just keep it together through it for the most part. Like maybe I play slightly less, but I wouldn't quit altogether. Yeah. So, for like small cash games online, what kind of edge do you think you have? And then like what kind of edge? What would be like your like borderline edge where like it suddenly wouldn't become worth it anymore? Oh, uh think that. Okay. So how much edge I think I have. So it's so in online cash games I think it's the thing is I don't really specialize in cash games so I never really play them. Um so I'd say it's probably very little. I mean I'm sure I can find like a low enough stakes where I'll have a significant edge or even in tournaments then on my stakes tournaments. Yeah. Yeah. So, in tournaments, I mean, uh, yeah, like I'd say I' I'd say there's still, yeah, like I still a decent um decent edge and I'll play it for but mostly I'd say I'll I'll play poker mostly for fun nowadays. Um, I don't I don't I rarely force myself to do it for making money. I'd say most of the time I'm playing, you know, I'm still trying to make good decisions because I enjoy doing that, but I'm not really doing it for the hourly rate or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. So, what about maybe the best cash game player in the world? How much would they make? 2550 cents online for example. Oh, 2550 cents online. Uh, so I don't have a great sense of this, but let let me think. Um, I think this Okay, so the thing is the sort of the the players who are sort of considered the top players in the world who play like very high stakes like nose blade stakes with like $100, $200 big blinds or something. It's sort of the variance is so high that it's it's not really accepted who's the best because if if it was accepted, you know, someone had a someone had a win rate over someone else, then the guy who was worse just wouldn't be playing. So, the only reason those games run is because they all think they have a win rate. So, I it's hard for me to state a number because I'm not going to know better than them what their true win rates are against each other and they're all going to tell me something different cuz they all think they're beating the other guys. Um, as far as how much like a really top player can win at like a low stakes game, um, I it's still it's still going to be very significant. Like I think making something like um maybe like five or six big blinds per 100. So that would be Yeah, five or six big blinds per 100 I think is maybe doable at a reasonably low stakes if you're like one of the very best. Um, so that would So by that I mean every hundred hands you make it's quite a lot. It's it's quite generous. But let's say okay, let's say every 100 hands you make five big blinds. So um so let's say you play 25 cent 50 cent. So if the So 25 cent 50 cent, five big blinds is 250. You make that every 100 hands. If you play like six tables, you can get in about 100 hands per hour. 120 hands per hour. So that's 600 hands per hour. So 6 So 600 hands per hour. So it's 6 * 250. So it's like 15 bucks. But I I mean so so it's not a lot but I mean those guys can play stakes way higher than 25 cent 50 cent and still have a slightly smaller edge but right so so if you imagine they play uh like they play two $250 $5 then suddenly you multiply the amount they make by 10. Um, I mean you would decrease it a bit because they're they probably wouldn't make five big blinds per hour, five big blinds per 100, but um, but yeah, it would be higher. Yeah, but I think those numbers are ballpark correct. Yeah. Yeah. What's a good strategy for playing at a casino like exploiting people? Uh, what's a good strategy for playing at a casino and exploiting people? Um I think uh okay so I think one thing that's okay one general thing that's good to do is you go there you sleep at night and you go there at like 7:00 a.m. and play against people who have been tilted and angry for and you just woke up at 7:00 a.m. in the morning and you're um and you're just in such a good mood and they're all in a bad mood and you can um win a lot of money. Um, in terms of like specific a specific strategy, I think it depends a lot on the player. I think in general playing tight is pretty good. At least I'd say I consider myself in general a tight player. And I think um a lot of a decent amount of money can be made at casinos against recreational players just by them getting bored. You know, like at a nine-handed table, you're only paying the blinds one and a half blinds every nine hands. you can easily get away with only playing like you know pocket 9 plus ace queen plus I mean that's extreme but like you know they'll probably still call you because they're bored like they're not going to think like you know this guy's I'm going to just fold right so like one disadvantage of that strategy is they're just always going to fold you but in practice I don't think that's like what happens so I think in general playing tight is not a is will always be a pretty good strategy at um casinos against recreational players Yeah. Uh do you have any advice for like avoiding this pitfall of just thinking you're good and you're not actually? Uh um not really because I think it's happened to me a lot of times. But um yeah, I think um yeah, I mean it really is hard to judge like really the you the thing is you basic especially in tournaments in cash games it's slightly easier to judge because the sort of you can just look at your data points and it'll like converge faster. Um in tournaments the variance is so high you can't really use your tournament results. I think the most important thing for me personally was just talking to players and um having very honest friends who would tell me if they thought I was worse than someone else and tell me not to play them. And I think that's probably the thing that benefited me the most, just um you know, being able to talk to players better than me or like at a similar level to me and just getting their opinion from them talking to me. You know, if if they think I'm not good enough, I want them to tell me. And I think that's sort of the the one of the most important things is just getting good feedback from your friends and honest feedback. Yeah. You know, since we can't really play online here and we can and we can't do the casino, you know, either like every weekend, so we can't play for money. What's some good motivation to keep studying the game? Um are is this like mentality and the skills we learn relevant in our everyday life or in our jobs? Okay, good. So, so yeah. So, okay. Okay. So, I'll address a few things. Yeah. So, one thing that I didn't really formally announce, but yeah. So, one thing you pointed out is playing online poker for money is illegal in Massachusetts. Um, it's uh it's I mean, it's not it's it's illegal not from like the police can't come arrest you, but it's but the website will take all your money if they find out you're playing from Massachusetts. But I don't believe it's like it's written Massachusetts law or something. I don't believe the to my knowledge the police can't arrest you. But um but yeah, so the question was you know if we can't play online what can we do? Um so I think it is legal in New Jersey and Nevada. So you can move to New Jersey. Um so okay so in terms of and you don't Okay. Yeah. So if you don't want to go to the casino every weekend um so what else can you do? So okay so what's the motivation to keep playing? So I think I've tried in this class to sort of give examples where I think poker is very useful um just in terms of like related how poker is related to non poker stuff you know like calibrating your confidence figuring out what your biases are and stuff like that. So and I also think you know it's it's a fun game. It's it's a very fun game. It's mathematically interesting. But yeah, I mean, you know, if you don't enjoy playing the game much and since you can't really make money playing it in Massachusetts, yeah, then if both of those are true, then there's not that much reason to play it. Um, if you don't enjoy it, I think that's just the biggest thing. If you enjoy it and you enjoy the decision-m, I think it's it's very fun and it's also very good for you. Thank you. All right, cool. Um, yeah. Yeah. So, if there's no more questions, then I guess yeah, so we'll call it here and then this Friday will be the last class. There's two more nights of tournaments left and yeah, I'm excited for Friday for Bill's lecture and to hand out the prizes.