The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So today, what we've been doing, we've been looking at how there's a lot of different representations for CT systems. They look almost the same as a lot of representations for DT systems. And today I want to go one more step and show how there's actually a bunch of relationships between them. That's when things become very powerful. And so I want to do that by thinking about a very simple example. Thinking about a CT system and how you would convert that CT system into a DT representation. This is a problem we've worked on before, the leaky tank system. We've already seen a gazillion representations for it. We can think about the leaky ta tank system as a differential equation. We derived that in lecture one. We can think of it as a block diagram lecture one. We can think about it as a functional that was about two lectures ago as a system function that was lelass transforms that was about a week ago. We can think about an impulse response because the fundamental signal in CT, the thing that plays the same role as the unit sample in DT is the unit impulse. So we can think about the impulse response and there's a variety of connections between all of those. What I want to do today is compare the step response of the leaky tank system to the step response of a DT approximation to the leaky tank system. To get started then I want to figure out the step response of the leaky tank system for you. You should think about this as practice for the exam. You should be able to do this in 30 seconds. So start compare your answers to your neighbor. Figure out uh what is the step response for the leaky tank system. No, no. Okay, this question is too simple, so we're going to blast ahead. What's the answer? What's the step response for the leaky tank system? Everybody raise your hand. Let me see how many numbers. Okay, it's not quite as high a fraction as I would have liked. Uh, take another 15 seconds or better yet, talk to your neighbor. Explain your answer to your neighbor and let your neighbor tell you why you're wrong. Okay, revote. So, what's the step response of the leaky tank tank system? Better, better, better, better, better, better, better. Okay, almost 100%. Not quite. Another question. How many ways can you find the step response of the leaky tank system? One represents more than one. I'm not going to have a representation for zero, right? More than one, more than two, more than three, more than four, more than five. How many ways can you find that? Don't just stare at me with blank looks. Okay. What's a good way to find the step response of the system? You can shout. That way, I won't be able to identify where you're coming from, and I won't be able to point to you. But you have to be quick because if I see your mouth move, then I'll know which one you are. So, when I look this way, you shout over here, right? There's simple ways to do this, right? What's a good way to find the step response of of the leaky tank system? You have the transfer function multiplied with 1x then we have the trans that's a relatively advanced way and in completely correct. Could somebody tell me an even simpler way? Yes. What's the behavior AST goes to infinity? Okay. What is it? If I'm if I let's do something easier. What's the input? Well, it's a unit step, right? So the input is some unit step thing, right? So my input, if I think about some input r of t, the input is something that looks like that, right? So if I look at like you suggested, if I look at what's going to happen for t goes to infinity, what's going to happen? Eventually, the rate at which water is going out is going to be the same as the rate that it's going in. So if so based on that, do I like this one, this one, this one, this one, or that one? Knocks out one and three because we're not expecting it go to zero because the input didn't go to zero. Good. Okay. So it's maybe this or this or that. What's a good method? What's a good method? Yes. So confused me is that the original problem on the on the problem set we had it was a second order system but like this one was first order. This is first order. Yeah. So then you know that it's going to be it's going to look like something that's first order. Still looks like something that's first order. That's good. I asked the question here and I flicked back here. That was a clue. How many ways can you think of to do this problem? Five ways. Okay, you could think about solving it by looking at the differential equation. How how many of you could do that? Okay, how many of you took 1803? Ah, good. Good. So, all of you could do it by doing the lower lefthand corner, right? Okay, you could all do it that way. Uh, you could all do it with block diagrams, right? I we went around we thought about how you put a signal into a block diagram and you can chase it around the 10, right? You could do it that way. You So there's at least five ways. Just as rehearsal, I'm showing two ways here that don't quite fall there. So my answer would have been at least seven ways that I can do this problem because I'm going to show you two new ones that don't appear directly. One way is to think about the diff differential equation. Solve it for t less than zero and t greater than zero. Paste the solutions together with me so far. So solver for t less than zero. The answer is zero because there was no input. Started at rest. Solver for t bigger than zero. That means the input is one. So you can get some answer for t bigger than zero. Paste the two solutions together by using um unitstep functions. put the total answer back into the der into the differential equation. That total answer better have the property that it solves the differential equation for all time. Okay, nod your head yes. It'll make me feel like you're I'm doing a fantastic job. Right? So, uh and the only trick there is thinking about how do you do things like differentiate a unitep function. But the derivative of a unitep function is delta function. the derivative of one of these things which looks like a product of something that exists for all time and something that turns on at zero. It's just the product rule. Derivative of the first times the second plus second times the der of the first except I said the same thing twice. Um okay. And so if you do that you end up finding out that to match the delta functions and the u functions it places additional constraints on the constants. And the answer looks like this. Okay, everybody sort of sees what I'm saying? Here's a different way you could do it. You could think systems. So on the chart, I told you what the unit uh impulse response was. It's one over to E the minus T over to U of TOA U of T. Uh so you could use that to figure out the response. If I know that delta goes into a system, it gives me the um unit impulse response h of t. And the question then is find the unitst step response. Well, there's an easy way to find the unit step. That's just the integral of the unit impulse. So apparently the unit step response of this thing is the same as the unit impulse response of this combined system. But we know from our analysis of systems that you're allowed to commute things. So that means I can flip this order. Which means then that all I need to do is integrate the impulse response of this thing which I knew by assumption. So if I integrate the impulse response, I get the step response. That's another way of doing it. I could do it by lelass transforms. I could do it a gazillion ways, right? Easy. you should go home and make sure you can do all of those. Okay, so the answer then was number two. It's this thing. It's the first order response. Like was said, it has to go to a particular final value which is equal to the um uh final value of the input. There's a there's a variety of ways you could get that. Okay, the point of today then is to take that unit sample response that unit response and figure out ways to approximate it. What I want to do is think about how I would make a discrete representation for the CT system, the leaky tank system. You've done this in homework. This was homework one. What I'm trying to do is get some new perspective by thinking about all those representations that we have on the answer that you already derived in homework one. So if I wanted to represent this system, the leaky tank system by a difference equation, one way to get the difference equation is to make an approximation to the derivative based on differences. The easiest way to do that is something that we will call the forward oiler method. Uh in the forward oiler method, what we do is we think about all the functions of time. Say we have an x function of time and a y function of time, the input and the output. I've got the continuous version and the discrete version. That's the sub C and the sub D. The way I could make an association between discrete and continuous is by sampling the signals. So I could say that if I knew X subC of T, that's going to be some squirrely function. But I don't know the answer. I don't know what that is. But whatever it is, I will say that the discrete version at time n is the same as the continuous version at time n * t. t is a sampling interval. And the discrete version of this uh y function, this output function at time n +1 t is the n+1 sample of the discretetized output signal. Then the trick to to um solving the differential equation remember the differential equation looked like to y dot of t is x of t uh minus y of t. I need to have a way of thinking about this y dot thing. A way of thinking about the y dot thing would be the slope of the line that connects this sample to the next sample. We call it forward order because at time n we we approximate the derivative at time n by looking forward. So we approximate the derivative of y continuous at time nt by looking forward. yd of n +1 minus yd of n /t. Then all we need to do is make that substitution into the differential equation. and it turns it into a difference equation. So if I make the substitution that y dot is given by this kind of an expression substitute into this expression I get a difference equation that is in some sense equivalent to the original differential equation. I can solve that difference equation and I get that bottom difference relationship. That's what you did in homework one. If you were to plot that answer, here's what you would get. The blue curve represents the continuous the solution to the leaky tank problem. The continuous problem 1 minus e to the minus t over towo quantity u of t. So that's the blue line. If you select the sampling interval to be small compared to tao, tao was the time constant for the CT system. If you select the sampling interval to be small 0.1, the samples that you calculate fall right on top of the line. Great. That's what we would want, right? We're trying to make a dt approximation. If the approximation work, the solution to the dt equations should be the same in some sense as the solution to the ct equations. But if you change capital t, you get something that looks decreasingly like the continuous version. If you make t uh step bigger and bigger per per time, t is the sampling interval. If I started with a small sampling interval, I got a good approximation. By the time I get the sampling interval up to 2T, it the solution to the DT problem looks nothing like the solution to the CT problem. Okay, that's a general problem in a numerical method. So, what we're really talking about is analysis of numerical methods. What went wrong? Why is it that the approximation worked well and didn't work well? I mean, it's intuitively clear that that's what you should have done, but we'd like to be a little more formal and we'd like to be a little more quantitative. What was it that went wrong? So, to get some insight, let's figure out the pole for the DT system. Where's the pole? Okay. Where's the pole? Where's the pole of the DT system? Okay. not a large voter turnout but 100% among those who turned out. So the answer is uh number two. It's pretty simple to see how that would be the answer. If you start with the difference equation, it's very simple to write a z transform. This evaluate y at n + one is the reverse of a delay. It's an advance. Delay is multiplied by z minus one. So advanced is multiply by Z. So you can take the Z transform of the difference equation to to derive the Z transform of the system function. And then clearly there's a pole here at Z = 1 - T over to so the answer was number two. And it gives us a way to think about why the difference solution didn't work. Well, what we can see is that even though you remember the the um what was the pole of the CT system? What's the pole of the CT system? How do you think about the pole of a CT system? Close. What's the pole of the CT system? Minus one over towal. So we would do the same sort of thing but now with with a lelass transform, right? So we would say that we could write the applause transform of this. This would be s to y is x minus y. And the uh pole is going to end up with the pole that we get in the s plane is going to be 1 over 1 - 1 over to despite the fact that the pole in the s plane was the same for all the simulations. The simulations the discrete versions look different. And that's because the pole for the DT system is not the same. The pole for the DT system depended both on tow as did the pole for the CT system. But the DCT the DT system the pole depended also on capital T. Right? So we said that the pole you remember the solution to the last problem the pole was at 1 minus t over tow. So if t over tow is 0.1 the pole is at 0.9. If t over tow is 3 the pole is at 7. If the pole is at 2 it's 1 - 2 is minus1. So the pole for the dt system depends on both t and toao and it's given formally by by this relationship that z the equivalent pole in the dt system is 1 minus t over tow. So the pole in the CT system was um minus one over to the pole in the dt system moved. The amazing thing is that the correspondence between where the pole in the CT system was and where the pole in the DT system is is completely determined by the forward oiler method. It has nothing to do with the particular problem. Okay. So we just did we just figured out the map between the pole in the S domain and the pole in the Z domain for a particular problem for the leaky tank. It turns out that that same map holds for every differential equation. So what I want to think about now is how you would prove such a statement. So think about regardless of the CT system that we're thinking about I can always write it in a block diagram form with adders integrators u is it adders integrators and gains so for the leaky tank system that was easy I my system looked like um let's see I had one over towo um integrate add. So my system for the leaky tank system looked like that. So the point is that there's an a there. The oiler forward relationship is telling me how I can figure out a dt representation for the a function. So let's think about what a is. a a is a thing that in ct. If the output of a is y, what's the input to a? The derivative. It's the derivative. So the input we would want to call y dot. So I might say that's x. So if the input is x, which is y dot, I put it through an a box and it comes out y. So what's the oiler forward rule say? So the oiler forward rule says that if I want to compute x of n, the nth sample of this thing, I should do y dot. But y dot I'm doing oiler forward. But I should look ahead. So I should compute y dot as y of n + 1 - y of n / t. Okay. Now if I want to make a dt equivalent system, what I'd like to have is some kind of a box that I could put x of n in and get y of n out. If I had such a box, then I could replace every A in my CT block diagram with this new box that depends only on delays. So let's think about what would be in that box. If I wanted to make y of n out of x of n according to this rule, what would I do? Well, let's see. y of n + 1 should be y of n added to tx of n. So if I want to compute y of n + 1, oh dear, what's y of n plus one? Where's how do I generate my my output? I want to be y I want to be y of n. Where's y of n plus one? If I knew y of n, how would I compute y It would be back one. So if I had an r here, what would be the name of this guy? This would be y of n plus one, right? Delays have the property that their output is minus one. I need a signal that's plus one. So I need the reverse of a delay. which I can implement by having this y signal being generated by an r. Then this equation says that in order to compute y of n plus1 this thing, what I need to do is add this to that. So I need to add this to that. Okay, the oiler forward rule says if I want to make a discrete approximation to the relationship between y at the output and its derivative at the input, I should do make one of those boxes. Okay, I have a rule now. Regardless of my CT system, I'll take every integrator and stick one of those in it. And what I'll have is a DT approximation to my CT system. that's everywhere based on the oiler forward rule. Is that clear? So now I have a rule for converting an arbitrary CT system into an equivalent DT system. Equivalent in the sense of oiler forward and I know that that transformation will hold. But it's even better than that because I can now say something about the relationship between the position of the pole in the CT system and the position of the pole in the dt system because I know this original system the AI'm going to think of a as being 1 / s that's the applause transform transformation and I want that to be equivalent according to this map to some transformation in Z. Right? So I can look at this thing and I can see well that system function if I represent that whole block by a system function the system transformation is looks like that but ours that's the same as 1 / z but that's the same AST over z minus one. Apparently, there's a relationship between S and Z. In fact, Z minus one is ST. Z is 1 + ST. Regardless of how of what CT system I started with, if I use the Oiler forward relationship to make a DT approximation of the integrator, the resulting transformation will always have that property. That's exactly what we saw over here. So we think about the A's in the original system being mapped to something uh that's a little bit more complicated showed here but it's a DT representation and that DT representation always has this property that wherever the poles were in S I can find where the poles were in Z by taking Z = 1 plus ST t that's how we get from uh that's how we get the dependence on t if the original pole was like over here at minus1 over tow we just put u s = -1 / and we get precisely this relationship that we got before the 1 plus s t which is what I found here is the same as the 1 minus t over t tow that we found for the particular example of the leaky tank. Yes, I think you mentioned this earlier, but this is purely because of the mechanics of the forward oiler. Because of forward oiler, this is only true if I decide that all of my integrators are approximated using the forward oiler rule. It's absolutely true. Okay. And that's an interesting result. What it says is that if I think about how were the poles distributed in the splane, I just use that rule to figure out how they'll be distributed in the z plane. The rule says take the splane pole, scale it by capital t, and then shift the answer by one. Well, that's pretty interesting because that means that there are S's over here that when I go through that map end up outside the unit circle. That's exactly what I found. That transformation has the property that it can map a stable CT system, a perfectly well- behaved CT system into an oscilly or even a growing divergent DT system. And you can see that simply because of the map between uh Z and S. Had S been some number over here, the the uh response the the um unit impulse response of the CT system would have been completely well behaved e to the minus ST but the response to the DT equivalent would be badly behaved because it would have mapped outside the unit circle. Okay. And as you motivated the that's only true because I did oiler forward. I can do precisely the same analysis for backward oiler. Instead of approximating derivatives by looking forward in time like I did before, I could instead look backward in time. If I look backward in time, it looks almost the same. Now I say the derivative at the time n cap t is n minus n minus one. Look backwards. Seems like a trivial difference. But in fact the answer comes out completely different. If I look backwards in time instead let's see if I can. So if I look backwards in time instead what I can think about now is replacing every one of these a operators again. So think about a. A was this thing that Y came out of and Y dot must have gone into which was X and now I'm using oiler backward instead. So now I want um X of N should be look backwards in time. So I want y of n minus y of n minus one / t. So uh what this says is that I want to take y of n should be y of n minus one added to t * x of n. So that's a system that if I started with x of n and I wanted to generate y of n, it's almost the same as the other one except now it says when I want to construct y of n, start with a delayed version of y. How do I get a delayed version of y? Delay it. So I take y and I delay it like that. What comes out here is y of n minus one and then y of n is y of n minus one added to t * x ofn. So it's like that. It's almost the same, but the math is different, right? So now I'm replacing my A's, which are always 1 / s with a system that looks like t going forward divided by 1 - r in the bottom. So that's t over 1 - 1 / z. So that's zt over z minus one. So that means that z minus one now is s t z cross multiplying 1 - s t on z is 1. So z is 1 over 1 - s t. I got something that looks completely different. This is backward oiler. This is forward oiler. So the answer for forward oiler over here is 1 plus st. The answer for backward oiler is one one over 1 minus s. Everybody with me? So now when I think about where do the poles land if I make the backwards oiler approximation they fall on this relationship instead of the previous. And the interesting thing about that relationship is that if you think about the way this works, every point in the left half plane of S according to this map ends up inside a little circle in the Z domain. The entire left half plane maps into the circle that's shaded in the right. If you just make a picture, if you just think about plug in S= 1, where does Z happen? Plug in S= minus1, where's the new Z? You plug in S= 1 /T, where's the new Z? All of the values in the left half plane for S map inside a small circle in the Z plane. Which means that if the original system had a pole anywhere in the left half plane, remember left half planes, leftsided, we're thinking that those are the kinds of systems whose uh unit sample unit impulse responses converge toward zero. If you had a system who that had poles in the left half plane and you do the backwards oiler transformation, you're guaranteed to get a system that has poles inside the unit circle. In fact, they're in a smaller circle than the unit circle. Okay, everybody sort of know what I'm talking about? So this is the idea of thinking about not relationships among DT representations or representations among CT systems but relations between CT and DT. It's because we can cast each of those kinds of systems into a polomial representation that we can make a correspondence between the CT system and the DT approximation. I'll talk about just one more and that's the trapezoid rule which is what you did in homework two. You may remember homework two right since it was due like yesterday. Uh so the last problem in homework two had to do with finding a numerical approximation to the mass and spring system. And if you remember we did three of them. Those three were actually forward oiler, backward oiler and trapezoidal rule. trapezoidal rule says okay I didn't like this idea of looking forward that seems anti-ymmetric what's special about forwards or backwards that's also treating backwards special I want to treat it symmetric in time that's what the centered difference approximation did the center difference approximation in homework two was based on a trapezoidal rule the trapezoidal rule says okay let me approximate my DT output. Let me let me think about a sequence of samples in a DT output. Y then let me force the differential equation to be true at every point between samples in the forward oiler and the backward. We forced the differential equation to be true at integers n. that made us compute derivatives by looking forward or backwards. In a trapezoidal rule, we force the differential equation to be true between samples. Then we say okay the the signal yc should be the average of those samples and the derivative should be the difference of the two samples divided by t. So they're centered. Everybody see that? So, we're going to force the differential equation to be true at points between the samples of the difference equation. And that's going to give me a different kind of relationship that looks strikingly the same as these kinds of relationships. Okay. So now I'm going to say um that I would like to have a which maps y dot is x except now what I'm going to want to say is that uh x which I will represent as the average of the nth and n minus one should be constrained to be the derivative of this guy which I will do by looking at the corresponding values of y. Okay. And so that gives me a different way of doing the approximation. I get y of n should be y of n minus one uh let's see plus t / 2 x of n + x of n minus one. Just a different rule for how to do the derivative. That's all I've done. But it gives me a different kind of a system. Now I want to have x of n go into something that I will make my new a boxes. Uh to compute y of n I should have a delayed version. Well that's easy. I make one of those and y of n should be the sum of the delayed version and t over two times a delayed version of x. So I'll have to do this. So now I have the sum of x and a delayed version of x and I put that through t /2. So here's my new discrete approximation to the accumulator and I do just the same thing I did before. I say um what's the value of what's the relationship between S and Z. So my a which is the same as 1 / s now becomes that block diagram which looks like t over two uh looks like r + one see 1 plus r. Let's do it the other way. So t over 2 1 plus r 1 minus r. So t over two from here, 1 plus r from here, one over 1 minus r from there. Uh which I can convert into z and I'll get t / 2 z + 1 / z minus one. I don't think I made any mistakes yet. So then I get um so z + one uh z minus one bring that over there bring that over there st over 2 z + one and now bring the z's over here 1 minus s t over 2 operates on z to give me 1 + s t / 2. So z is 1 + s t /2 over 1 - s t over2. So that's my new transformation based on the trapezoidal rule which is showed here. Hopefully they match. So z maps to 1 + s t /2 / 1 - s t over2. And the interesting thing about that transformation is that it maps the entire left half plane of S precisely into the unit circle. That was the reason that the trapezoidal rule worked so much better on the problems that you tried in homework two. So if the pole starts out being real so that it's someplace in the s plane on this red arrow, oiler forward gave us a pole in the z plane that could be if t is big enough outside the unit circle. In the oiler backwards method, it always lands someplace in the unit circle. In the trapezoidal rule, it lands someplace in the unit circle. But in the mass spring problem, the poles were on the imaginary axis, which means that in the oiler forward method, the poles went outside the unit circle. That's the reason the solution to the mass spring problem diverged. In the oiler backward method, the poles that were on the J omega axis mapped to the perimeter of this inside circle. That's why they converged even though the mass spring system should have oscillated forever in the solution that you did with oiler backwards. It converged and that's because it ma the method maps poles on the J omega axis inside the unit circle. That's not what we want. What we want for the mass spring system is to map the J omega poles directly onto the unit circle so that pure oscillations over here corresponds to pure oscillations over there and that's exactly what the trapezoidal rule does. Okay. So the point then the and this was the solution to that homework problem. So the point is that not only are we interested in figuring out relationships among the different representations for CT systems and among the different representations for DT systems, there's a lot of insight that you can get, especially into things like numerical approximations by thinking about how the relationships in one domain map to the