So all right so transformers even though they were originally invented for machine translation right going from English to German and German to French and so on and so forth uh they have turned out to be an incredibly effective deep neural network architecture for just really a vast uh array of domains. It has reached a point where if you're actually working with on a particular problem, you almost reflexively will try a transformer first because it's probably going to be pretty darn good. Okay, so they have just taken over everything. Um and obviously they have they transformed translation which is the original sort of target. uh Google search retrieval completely transformed speech recognition text to speech even computer vision even the stuff that we learned with convolution neural networks now there are transformers for computer vision problems that are actually quite good right um which is kind of shocking because they were not even designed for that um and then you know reinforcement learning and of course all the crazy stuff that's going on with generative AI large language models multimodel models everything everything runs on a transformer Okay. Uh and then there are numerous special purpose systems and I find these to be even more interesting. Um you know like AlphaFold the protein folding AI is runs on a transformer stack. Okay. And I could just list the examples one after the other. So it's just amazing incredibly flexible architecture. Um and I think we are lucky to be alive during a time when such a thing was invented. And I'm not getting paid to tell you any of this stuff. All right, it's just amazing. Okay, so let's get going. We will use search um or or more broadly information retrieval as a motivating use case. So these are all examples where people are typing in natural language queries or uttering natural language queries into a phone and we need to sort of make sense of what they want and it's not like you know write me a limmerick about deep learning where there could be many possible right answers. It's more like, okay, tell me all the flights that are leaving from Boston to going to LaGuardia tomorrow morning between 8 and 9. Well, you better get it right. Okay, accuracy is a high bar. So, um, or you know, how many customers abandoned their shopping cart? Find all contracts that are up for renewal next month. Uh, you know, tell me the all the customers who ended the phone call to the call center yesterday not entirely pleased with the transaction, right? The list goes on and on. And so, in particular, we'll focus on this travel related example today. Okay? uh find me all flights from Boston to LaGuardia tomorrow morning, right? That kind of query. Um and so in these sorts of use cases, a very common approach historically has been well, we will take this, you know, natural language query and then we will convert it into a structured query. By that I mean we will parse the query and we'll extract out key things in that query. Once we extract out those key things, we will reassemble it into a structured query like a SQL query, right? Uh SQL is just one example of a possible structured query. There are many many ways to structure queries, but SQL is sort of familiar to lots of people. So I'm using that. So you take the SQL once you have the SQL query, you're in a very comfortable structured land in which case you just run the query through some database that you have, get the results back, format it nicely, and show show it to the user. Right? That's the flow. So the question becomes um how do we automatically extract all the travel related entities from this query right we want to be able to extract boss LGA tomorrow morning flights so on these are all the travel related entities we want to extract out right that's the problem and so we will use a really cool data set called the airline travel information systems data set and I'll explain the data set in just in just a bit we'll use this as the basis for this example And so the way we think about it is that we we have a whole bunch of queries in this data set. And fortunately for us, the researchers who compiled this data set, they went through every one of these queries, right? And we have, you know, several thousands of them. They went through every one of those queries and they manually tagged each word in the query with what kind of travel entity it is or none of them. Right? So for instance, so they cl they call them slots. So they will take each word in the query and assign it to a slot, a particular kind of slot and I'll explain what slot means in just a second. Okay, that's the basic idea. So so for example, if you have something like I want to fly from, okay, and this is a flights database. So we can assume that everything is related to a flight flying. So if you have all these words, I want to fly from each of these words, these five words gets mapped to something called the O, which means other. It's the other slot, right? We don't really care about it. It's the other slot. And then we come to Boston. Oh, Boston is very special, right? Because, you know, it's clearly a departure city. So we actually tag it. We assign it this label. Think of it as just like a classification problem, right? A multi-class classification problem. So we assign it to B from lock dot city name. Okay, that is the label you assign it. Okay. And then you go to at you don't care about at o other. You come to 7 a.m. And then okay that is depart time. So depart time and then another depart time. And here you see there is a B and then there is an I. Right? So what's what we are saying here is that there could be entities who are described using more than one word like 7 a.m. right two tokens and for that we need to be able to figure out okay the second token is really is part of the first token together they define the notion of a departure time. So what the B means that is that this is the word this is the token in which we are beginning the idea of a departure time and then I means we are in the middle of this description. B is for beginning. So you can see here so there is a B here and there is an I. B for beginning I for intermediate or in the middle. Um and then at we don't care 11 B arrive time. Boop boop morning arrive time period. So this is an example of how you can take a sentence and then manually label every word in the sentence with something that's relevant to your particular problem. And turns out these people every word is classified into one of 123 possibilities. Okay. Um, so aircraft code, airline code, airline name, airport code, airport name, arrival date, relative name. Now you get the idea. They want a roundtrip versus a oneway the relative to today because when somebody say tomorrow morning it's relative to today. So you need a notion you need absolute time and you need a notion of relative time. So they basically thought of every possibility with these researchers. And so every word in every one of these queries is assigned one of these 123 labels. Any questions on the setup um did they have to contextualize what comes before then let's say Boston so if someone says from Boston so that there should be contextualization with the from to Boston >> so because they did it manually they could just read it and figure out oh that's what they mean right Boston is the departure city and not the arrival city >> so do they have to do to Boston which is some like you know departure city as well as arrival city the word Boston >> in the particular phrase it's it's clear from that particular case and the context of it as a human reading it that Boston is a departure city so it just only gets that tag in that sentence in some other sentence where people are coming into Boston it'll have a different tag >> I was wondering if my query like the others basically there is like for example if my query was um give me flights from at 7:00 a.m. and flights from Denver were at 11:00 a.m. >> You mean like a compound query? >> Yeah. >> So, this one only takes single queries into account >> because most people are like, you know, give me a flight from here to there or what is the cheapest thing from here to there? And we'll see examples of queries later on. Okay. Uh all right. So, that's that's the deal. So basically what we have this you know uh this problem that we have here is really a word to slot word to slot multiclass classification problem. Okay uh because if you look at that that input we want to be able to take that input and a really good model will then give you this as the output right because this is what a human would have done so that is our problem. Okay. So the question is um the the key thing here is that each of the 18 words in this particular example must be assigned to one of 123 slot types. Right? Each word. It's not like we take the entire query and classify the entire query into one of 123 possibilities. Every word in the query has to be classified. That is the wrinkle. Okay. So now if we could run the query through a deep neural network and generate 18 output nodes, it goes through some unspecified deep neural network. And when it comes out the other end, the output layer has 18 nodes. Okay? Because that is that is the that is the that is the the dimension of the output that we care about. 18 in, 18 out. 18 in, 18 out, right? And then for each one of those 18 nodes, maybe we could attach a 123way softmax to each of those 18 outputs. By the way, isn't it cool that we can just casually talk about sticking a 123 softmax onto each one of 18 nodes? Folks, wake up. You're not easily impressed. I'm impressed by that. So, okay. So, so the so here's the key thing, right? We want to generate an output that has the same length as the input. But the problem is the inputs could be of different lengths as they come in. There could be short sentences, large sentences. We don't know, right? Yet we need to accommodate this range, this variable size of input that's coming in. But the key thing is the output has to be the same thing as the input, the same cardality as the input. Okay, that's a one big requirement. In addition, we want to take the surrounding context of each word into account. Right? To go to Roundup's question, when you see the word Boston, you can't conclude whether it's a departure city and arrival city. You have to look at what's else is going on around it. Is there a from, is there a to? Things like that to figure out what how to tag it. So clearly the context matters. And then we clearly have to take the order of the words into account. Going from Boston to LaGuardia is very different than going from Laguadia to Boston. So clearly the order matters, right? So the context matters and the order matters and the output has to be the same length as the input. Okay, so context matters, right? Just a few fun examples. Remember from the last week that the meaning of a word can change dramatically depending on the context and we also saw that the standalone or uncontextual embeddings that we saw last week like glove u you know they don't take context into account because they give a single unique embedding vector to every word and if a word ends up having lots of different meanings that vector is kind of some mushy average of all those meanings okay so the word see I will see you phone. I will see this project you would send. I see what you mean. Very different meanings of the word. See, this is my favorite bank. Uh I went to the bank to apply for a loan. I'm banking on the job. I'm standing on the left bank and so on. It the animal Oh, this actually very it's a good one. The animal didn't cross the street because it was too tired. The animal didn't cross the street because it was too wide. Can you imagine a deep network looking at this word it and trying to figure out what the heck does the word it mean? What is it referring to? Tricky, right? Um, and then you know if you take the word station and I have the station example here because we're going to use it a bit more in the rest of the lecture. The tra you know the station could be a radio station, a train station being stationed somewhere, the international space station, the list goes on. So clearly order matters. I mean context matters and clearly order matters. You can come up with your own examples. Let's keep moving. Okay, so the transformer architecture is a very elegant architecture which checks these three boxes beautifully. Okay. Uh it takes the context into account, order into account and then you know whatever is produced out there is the same length as whatever is coming in. And the reason it's called the transformer is because if 10 things come in, 10 things go out. But the 10 things that go out are a transformed version of the 10 things that came in. That's why it's called the transformer. Okay? If 10 things came in and like one thing goes out, well sure it's been transformed, but what is it? It's some weird thing. But when 10 comes in and 10 goes out, the 10 10 is preserved. Each one is getting transformed in an interesting way. That's why it's called a transformer. So develop 2017 this dramatic impact. So by the way the effect of transformer um Google had spent a lot of research on machine translation and obviously search uh and then when the transformer is invented uh they took a model called BERT which we will see on Wednesday in detail and then they introduced BERT into their search and the results were dramatic and from what I've read apparently the impact of doing that was a typically when you make an improvement to search the improvement is very very marginal because it's already a very heavily optimized system and then with the transformer I think came along there was actually a significant jump in search quality. So for example and you can actually read this blog post uh which came out when they introduced BERT into search it gives you a bit more detail but here so if you if you queried something like uh you know Brazil traveler to USA needs a visa right you would think that it is it should give you information about how to get a visa if you're Brazilian and want to come to the US right but it turns out the first result was how US citizens going to Brazil can get you know get a visa so clearly it's not taking the order into account. Uh but once they introduced it, boom, the first thing was the US embassy in Brazil and a page on how to get a visa. So the effect was dramatic. And so this is a seminal paper, right? And it's actually worth reading the paper and uh and it's worth and you know this is the picture this this is like an iconic picture at this point in the deep learning community and we will actually understand this picture by the end of Wednesday. Um and so but the funny thing is that when the researchers came up with it, they didn't realize in some sense like what they had stumbled on uh because they were really focused on machine translation. It's only the rest of the research community that took it and started applying to everything else and found it to be really really effective. Okay. So we going to take each one of these things and figure out how to address them and thereby build up the architecture. Any questions before I continue? >> Yeah. Is there any uh benefits to discarding some of those unhosts before it goes out rather than going like you have 18 word input discarding all the ones that don't actually matter and just put like an eight word out for example. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a totally fine way to think about it. Basically what you're saying is that can we have a two-stage model? The first stage model is like a O non Oo classifier and the second stage model only goes after the nonos. That's a totally fine way to do it. Yeah. But as you can see if you even if you go with a just a simple onestage model if you use a transformer you get fantastic accuracy and we'll do the collab in a bit. Uh all right so let's take the first thing how do how do you take the context of everything around the word into account. So so let's say that this is this is the sentence we have the train slowly left the station. Okay, for each of these words, we can calculate a standalone embedding. Say something like glove. Okay, so I'm just depicting these standalone embeddings using these uh you know thingies here. Please appreciate them because it took me a while to get them to do in PowerPoint. Okay, so these are W1 through W6. These are the vectors standing up. Okay, uh now let's say that so we can easily do that. Now what we want to figure out is we want to focus on the word station and since station could mean very different things in different context. We want to figure out how do we actually take stations embedding and contextualize it using all the other words that are going on in that sentence. Okay, clearly it's a train station. So we need to take the fact that it is a train involved to to alter the embedding of the word station. Right? That's what taking context into account actually means. So how can we modify stations embedding so that it incorporates all the other words? That's the question. Okay. So when you look at it this way, imagine just for a moment, just for a moment that we now some of the other words sentence don't matter. The word the probably doesn't matter. But some of the other words like train, slowly, left probably does matter. And suppose just magically we have been told all the other words in the sentence this is how much weight you have to give to them. These don't give it any weight. Those give it a lot of weight. Okay suppose we are told that or to put it another way and this this is the word that's heavily used in the literature. Someone tells you how much attention to pay to the other words whether you got to pay it a lot of attention or very little attention. Okay. And this how much attention to pay is given in the form of a weight that you can use. Okay. So, um if you look at it that way from this notion of which word should I give a lot of weight to and very little weight to in this example intuitively which words do you think should get the most weight and which words do you think should get the least weight? >> Yeah. >> Trade. >> Uh [clears throat] you can do one at a time. >> Trade. Okay. Thank you. Uh okay. Others >> slowly. Right. So that also seems to have some bearing to it. What about words that don't really I don't we don't think it's going or going to help at all. >> The exactly it probably doesn't do much here. Some context it actually might make a difference but in this sentence maybe not right intuitively. So we should probably give a lot of weight to train maybe a little to slowly and left and hardly anything to there. Okay. And so this intuition that we have can be written numerically as maybe we have a bunch of weights that add up to one. Okay. Maybe something like this. So we are saying the train 30% weightage maybe 8% weightage to left maybe 12% weightage to slowly u and then as you will see here the station's own embedding also plays a role because we want to take its own standalone embedding and just move it slightly change it slightly which means that has to be the starting point so it will get a lot of weight we can't ignore itself in other words right so we give it maybe 40% % weight. By the way, these numbers, I just made them up. Okay. Uh, yeah. >> Um, sorry, just a quick question. So, the weights are are they stand are they standalone to understand the content of the entire sentence or are they related to station because we started off with station? >> They these six numbers are only put into station. >> Got it. Okay. >> And for each word, we're going to something similar. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. [snorts] >> At this point, the model understand order because like I'm just thinking of like left because like I gave it a very low a very low weight but let's say left comes slowly the left station the station on the left it should be higher >> yeah correct so at this point we are not worrying about order we only worrying about contrast later we'll take order >> and how did the model know that left here is of lesser importance because it's a verb rather than a action >> it's it has to figure it We it doesn't know we we are just giving it a whole bunch of capabilities. How would it manifest those capabilities is all going to emerge from training. Okay. So all right so let's say we have something like this. So what we can do right and we'll get to the all important question of where do we get these numbers from in just a moment. But suppose you had the numbers. How can we use these numbers to contextualize W6? What can we do? What is the simplest thing you can do? You have W6. You want to make it a new W6 which is now contextual is aware of what else is going on. Okay. >> It's working now. I think >> we can take a weighted average. Exactly. Exactly. So when you have a bunch of things and you have a bunch of weights and I you know we have to somehow modify one of those things with those weights the simplest thing you can do is to take a weighted average right so that's exactly what we're going to do so we're going to take all these weights and just like move them up. Okay move them up. Don't even get me started on how long it took me to get this arrow to run. I don't know about you folks is it it's extremely painful to get the U-turn arrows to work in PowerPoint. Okay. Anyway, uh back to work. So, so we just move these up here. Okay. So, now we can do 0.05 times this vector plus.3 * that vector and so on and so forth. And the result is just another vector. Right? And that vector folks is the contextual embedding vector of station. Okay? That was a standalone embedding. And now we did the we multiplied this by that that boop added them all up and then you get a new vector and contextual embeddings have this bluish kind of color. Okay. And I'll maintain that color scheme as we go along. So that's it. That's it. That's the idea. Any questions? >> Yeah. >> How did you come up with the original weights again? Can you just kind of guess? >> No, these weights I just I just hand typed them in manually just to make the point and and now I'm going to talk about how we are actually going to calculate them. Yeah. Okay. Uh All right. Cool. So now I'm going to uh Okay, enough pictures. Let's switch to some math. So So basically what I'm So let's write it a bit more formally. So we have these W1 through W6 which are the standalone embeddings. And then for station we want to calculate you know W6 with a little hat on it which is a contextual embedding. And the way we do it is to say we calculate some weights for each of these words. So this weight S16 means that the weight of the first word on the sixth word which happens to be station the the weight of the second word on the sixth word and so on and so forth. And so what we are saying is that W6 is just you know this weight times W1 this time W2 that's it okay I have to inflict all these you know subscripts and all that because you know we need it all right so that's it that's what we have now let's talk about okay any questions on the mechanics of it before I get to okay where do these weights come from utilizing something like Google for example like how does it understand like the context of new words um that come into play like process like immediately through the train data that users put in or what makes it >> like like a totally new word that didn't exist before >> a newer or new context to a word that already exists. No, I think the the context is supplied because the query coming into something like Google is a full sentence and we only take that sentence and take only the sentence into account as the context for us. So the context is always present to us when we get the input. But the other question you had uh of okay what if there's a brand new word you never seen before for which there is not even a standalone embedding. What do you do then? So let's punt on that till Wednesday because I have to talk about something called bite pair encoding and stuff like that before I can answer that. >> And really quickly does that immediately translate to their predictive search queries >> utilizing like for the new word for example does that automatically get applied to the predictive search queries like where we're saying how to and then just >> oh you mean like the autocomplete >> you know autocomplete uses a slightly different mechanism. Um I they had a very complicated non transformer thing for a long time. I'm sure they have a transformer version now but I don't I'm not privy to how exactly they've done it so I don't quite know how they do it but what you're proposing is a reasonable way to think about it. >> Yeah. >> Uh my question is like we have particular number of parameters as in let's say 10 or 10 and then we've calculated the new contextual version of W6. So this gets added as an H2 or it >> replaces. >> Yeah. W becomes W6 becomes W6. >> And now we have >> right. >> No, we lose it. And as you will see here as it flows through the transformer it's getting more and more and more contextualized. So it's a left to right flow. All right. All right. Great. So the by the way this thing that we did for station we will do it for each word in the in the in the sentence. The same exact logic. Obviously the weights are going to change. Okay. But what will happen is that W1 through W6 will become W1 hat through W6 hat. the same exact logic is going to hold. Okay, that's what but I just I don't have the slides ready for it because it's a waste of time. The same exact logic is going to hold. All right, now switch gears and and answer the all important question of where are the weights going to come from. Okay, so the intuition here is really really interesting and elegant. So clearly the weight of a word should be proportional to how related it is to the word station, right? The word train clearly is very related to the word station. The word uh it's not clear how it's related is probably all that related. So the relatedness matters to the weight more related higher the weight. Right? That's intuitive. So one way to quantify how related two words are is to take their standalone embeddings and calculate the dot product. Okay. So um in case folks have sort of forgotten about the dot product oops that's not what I want. So um so if you have a let's say you have a vector okay let's this let's say this is the vector for train this is the vector for station [snorts] okay so the dotproduct of these two vectors I'll write it as train ation equals basically the length of the vector for train times the length of the vector for station times the cosine of the angle between them. Okay. So, how long is each vector? Product of the two and then the angle between them. Okay. Now, let's assume for simplicity that these lengths are roughly the same. They're just one unit length. Okay. Just roughly. So, if you assume that okay, this thing let's say becomes becomes one. Let's say okay this thing becomes one. So all the action is here. Okay. So all the action is here. So basically the dotproduct of these two vectors is really the cosine of angle between them. So now the question is if you have something like this right which are very close to each other the cosine of a very small angle actually the cosine of 0 is what? One. [snorts] So if the angle is really really small, the cosine is going to be very close to one, right? Because 0 is one. The cosine of 0 is one. So this thing is going to be, you know, pretty close to one. If you have a cosine of two vectors that are like this, 90° apart, what is the cosine? Zero. They're orthogonal, right? Which maps to the English orthogonal. So the cosine of that is zero. And then if you have something like this where they're literally pointing in opposite direction, what is the cosine of that 180 minus one? So that's it. So the if these things if these these these two vectors are very close to each other, the cosine of the angle between them is going to be very close to one. If they are really kind of unrelated, it's going to be zero. If they're anti-related, it's going to be minus one. Right? So that's how dotproducts capture this notion of closeness or relatedness. Okay. So all right um input. So we can use the dot product for these embeddings to capture relatedness. And so okay iPad done. So now what we do is we know now now that we know that dot products can be used we can't use them as is because we need to do one more thing to make them proper weights. And what I mean by proper weights is that the we want the weights to be first of all non- negative and we want to add up we want them to add up to one right that's that what a weighted average actually is going to mean but these cosiness could be negative right and so we need to now adjust them to make them proper so that every one of them is guaranteed to be non- negative and they will add up to one when was the last time you had to take a bunch of numbers which could be anything and then somehow make sure that they are going to be positive not negative and they add up to one when was the last time. >> Yeah. Softmax. Exactly. So we'll do the same trick. So what we'll simply do is we'll just you know exponentiate them right. So like this w1 w6 this angle bracket thing is the dot product. That's the notation I'm using exp of that is just you exponentiate them e ra to that. And once you exponentiate them they all become non- negative. And then we just divide each by the sum of everything. So the whole thing will become like a probability right? It'll just add up to one. Make sense? So that's how we take arbitrary numbers and make them proper weights. All right. So to summarize from embeddings to contextual embeddings that's what we do. We take all the standalone embeddings. We calculate these weights using this formula and then we just do the weighted average and we arrive with the contextual embedding and boom done. Okay. And so by way choosing weights in this manner, the embedding of a word gets dragged closer to the embeddings of the other words in proportion to how related they are. So just imagine for a second, right? In this case, station obviously has many context, but let's assume for a second that only has the train context and the radio station context. Okay, in the current context, train is closely to station and therefore exerts a strong pull on it. Right? Now radio is also later station but it doesn't appear in the word in the sentence. So effectively it has a weight of zero. Okay and that's the beauty of it. And and please do not ask me things like you know I I was listening to a great song on the radio station and the train pulled out of the station. Okay transformers can't deal with stuff like that. Okay but yeah but you get the idea the main idea. So by pay moving station closer to train by paying more attention to train we are contextualizing the station the word the embedding to the context of trains platforms departures tickets and so on. It's like this portal into the whole train world, right? It's beautiful. The simple idea I'll get you there. Okay. So, this folks is called self attention. What we just described is called self attention and it's the key building block of transformers. Okay. Uh and so the so to summarize standalone embeddings come in, contextual embeddings go out. Any questions? Uh yeah. >> Uh I'm still struggling a little bit with the intuition of the word. It's the weight of the word itself in its own contextual embedding. So like the weight of station in the station embedding. How how should I think about that? >> Intuitive like it would be high for all contextual embeddings, but I assume that's not the case. >> It'll be high. It'll be typically be a high number because the cosine of the the vector to itself is going to be very the cosine is going to be one, right? So it's going to be pretty high, but it's there's no guarant right because they not actually the the the length doesn't have to be one. They could be we try to keep them kind of smallish, but they don't have to be. Uh so the way I would think of it as imagine that you take an average of everything else first and then you average it with the new the old embedding. Effectively, it's the same as just calculating the different weights and averaging the whole thing together. >> Sure. Yeah. a little confused the same number of inputs and place but is this the reason why because you need the contextual embedding even if it's like a other word and it's definitely >> correct correct exactly exactly and the other thing to remember is that by getting by keeping the inputs sort of the size of the input cardality intact as you move through the transformer stack when you finally come out the other end there's sort of no loss of information and in the very end you can choose to aggregate simplify summarize and so on and so forth. It preserves your optionality as long as possible how long. [clears throat] >> Yeah. Yeah. So what we do is the the sentence comes in there's the whole notion of something called a context window or what is the sort of the maximum length that the sentence will handle and that's a parameter you can set and we'll come to that when you actually look at the collab. Uh was there a question in the middle? No. Okay. All right. So that is self attention. Um and now because that felt too easy we're going to do a little tweak called multi head attention. So this are this is the self attention we just saw. What we can do is we can be like you know what why can't we have more than this? Why can't we have more than one of these? So this is called an attention head. Self attention head. We'll have multiple self attention heads. Okay. Now and I'll come back to the top thing in a second. Okay. But so the question is why should we have multiple self attention heads? Because a particular attention head is going to pick up some patterns. The reason is because it'll help us attend to the multiple patterns that may be present in a single sentence. So far when I've been explaining, I've sort of basically been looking at what the meaning of these words are just the meaning of these words. But in any complicated sentence, you have to worry about grammar, you have to worry about tense, you have to worry about tone, you have to worry about facts versus, you know, opinions. There could be any number of complicated patterns that are sitting in a simple sentence which means well there is just not one way to pay attention. There could be many ways of paying attention many sort of there could be many needs to pay attention right which means that we let's have many of these attention heads and each one could be learning something else. It's exactly like having lots of filters in a convolutional network, right? One filter might learn a line, other filter might learn a curve and so on and so forth. And we don't want to decide a priority. Oh, you're going to learn a line, right? Similarly, here we not telling any of these things what you have to learn. They just have to learn based on the training process. So, what we do is so actually there's an example where this from the original transformer paper where this sentence is the lawyer will sorry the law will never be perfect but its application should be just. This is what we are missing in my opinion. It's a complicated sentence, right? So the first one attention head actually this is the pattern of things. It's it's it's so for example the word perfect here the contextual embedding of the word perfect draws upon heavily from the word law in this example. Okay. If you look at another attention head, the contextual embedding for the word perfect is actually drawing heavily from just perfect and nothing else, right? And if you look at other words, the patterns are subtly different of what it's paying attention to. So these are two different attention heads and they're learning different kinds of attentions. Okay, in reality trying to make sense of why they pay attention to the way they do, it's usually quite sort of difficult to figure that out. You can't actually interpret it. But when you have lots of attention heads, the performance on the task that you care about gets really much better, right? And then you say, "Okay, I can use that." Uh, yeah. >> This is the idea behind this earlier. >> Exactly. Same logic. Same logic. Yeah. Pretty much to that like in that filter we had designed a particular filter for particular task in terms of ones and zeros line. But here like the attention head how do we differentiate how do we create attention heads for each different kind of scenario or different kind of parameters we want to all kind of pattern you want to check in this >> actually in the convolutional case the ones and zeros I had were just example numbers to show that that particular filter could detect a vertical line or horizontal line. You will recall that when we actually train a convolution network, we actually don't specify the numbers. We start with random initialized weights and then we let back back propagation figure it out. Similarly, here we don't decide any of these things. We just let back prop figure it out. Okay. And now the question of what are the weights that are actually going to be learned, we'll come come to that in a bit. Okay. Uh yeah. Uh I was wondering how come we have different uh attention head even though uh it seems like they're only function of a dot product and we have the same dot product for same ambience. >> Great question. Great question and I literally have a a note in my slide saying if a student asks this good question tell them to wait till Wednesday. So great question and we'll come back to that uh on Wednesday and spend a fair amount of time on it. So um the the the point that's being made here is that oops when we look at self attention the embeddings came in and we did all these dot products and the contextual things popped out the other end. Note that inside the self attention box there are no parameters. There are no parameters. So the question that is being raised here is that so what are we learning really if there is nothing inside to be learned? If there are no parameters, no coefficients, what are we learning? That's the question. And by extension, if you have two of these and neither of them is learning anything, what's the point? Sadly, you have to wait till Wednesday. Okay? But we have a great answer to the question. So, uh it'll be worth it. And if you can't stand the suspense, read the book. All right? So, that is uh that's why we need multiple heads. Okay. And now to come back to this. So what we do is it goes through this set and you get these W1's right and it goes through here and we get another set of W's. Then what we do at the very end is we concatenate them. Okay, we concatenate them and we do a projection. And this is what I mean by that. So we have uh this this is one self attention head self attention one. This is self attention two and let's say that W1 hat comes out and I'm just going to call it Z1 for the same thing so that there's no name clash okay and W2 W6 all of them are coming right let's just focus on W1 and Z1 W1 and Z1 are both contextual embedings for the same word okay for the first word word one and so what we do is let's say this W1 uh let's call Let's say this vector is like this. Okay. And let's say that this vector is like this. What I mean when I say concatenate it here is we literally take u this word here. This embedding here. Then we take this thing here. Okay. And we just make it a long vector. We concatenate it. But now this vector has become twice as long. Right? So what but remember we always want to preserve this the the number of inputs we have and the lengths of these vectors everywhere as we go along. So what we do is at this point we run it through a single dense layer which will take this thing and make it back into the same small shape as before. So this is a dense layer. That's it. So this vector comes in and it becomes it gets compressed back to the original shape that came out of here. So you could have like 20 of these uh attention heads and the concent will be 20 times long and then just project boom one dense layer comes back to the original shape. So that's that is the projection step and that's what I mean here when I say concatenate and project. So at this point what we have is things come in we contextualize them using these different attention heads and when they come out of the attention heads we take them all we just like concatenate them and then compress them back to the same original starting shape. Right? If these vectors are 100 units long or 100 dimension long whatever comes out is 100 still and to pres preserving this size as we go along is very important for reasons that will become apparent a bit later. Okay. So that is the multiattension thing. Now a final tweak for today is that we will inject some nonlinearity with some dense layers dense relu layers at the very end. So we went through a bunch of attention heads. We we came up with a bunch of contention embeddings. Now so at this point so far there are no since there are no parameters inside these boxes. Uh right and there are some parameters here. We need to do some nonlinearity. So far there's been nothing that's nonlinear so far. So here we actually send it through one or more relus. Typically we just use one relu. So and what I mean by that oops sorry. So this is what we had here. And then we take it in and then run it through actually we typically run it through a relu. This is a nice relu. Okay. And all and and the rule of thumb as you will see if let's say this vector is say 100 dimensions long they typically will choose a value which is about 400 wide and then it just gets projected out again back to 100. So this is just a simple you know the input comes in goes through a single hidden layer with four four times as many as here and then it project another dense layer to 100 again and since there are rel here we we have injected some nonlinearity into the processing okay now a lot of this stuff when it came out felt very ad hoc right it didn't come from some deep you know theoretical motivations but And people had strong intuitions as to why these things were helpful. And as it turns out, since the transformer came out, people have tried to optimize every aspect of this thing. It's actually pretty difficult to beat the starting architecture, right? Improvements have been made, but it's actually a very robust architecture. So, so that's what's going on here. And then when we come out of this thing, this is what we have the story so far. We start with random standalone embeddings. These could be glove embeddings. It could be random weights, doesn't matter. It goes through a bunch of self attention heads. We concatenate it when it comes out the other end. Concatenate it when it comes out the other end. And then we project it back to the same size as before. Then we run it through, you know, a relu followed by a a linear layer and we get these things again. So in this whole process, if six things came in, six things will come out. And if six and if those six things that came in were embedding ve standalone embedding vectors of 100 dimensions what comes out is also 100 dimensions. So in that sense you can think of this whole thing as a black box in which whatever you send in the same number of things will come out of the same length. The numbers will be different because they've never been heavily contextualized. The numbers are much smarter in other words. So so far what we have seen is that we have satisfied two of the three requirements. We have taken the context of each word into account by using these dot products in the self attention layer and we can generate an output that is the same length as the input but we have ignored the fact that we have ignored word order completely. Okay, because whether I had said the train slowly left the station or I had said that the station slowly left the train, this thing won't know the difference because dot products function on sets not on sequences. they function on sets. Okay, regard you can you should convince yourself of this. Regardless of the order, the dot calculation doesn't change anything because we are doing every pair. Okay, so the question is how do we take the order of the words into account? Um right, as I was saying, we can scramble the order of the words in a sentence and we'll get the exact same contextings at the end. So by the way, if you're working on a problem in which the order doesn't matter, then you can stop right now and use the transformer. And there are many problems that are actually in that category where the order doesn't matter. So if you take traditional structured data, right, tabular data, uh you know, blood pressure, cholesterol level, boom, boom, boom, does it predict heart disease? Well, there's no order in that thing. You can use a transformer as is without doing anything more. So transformers work for both sets and sequences where order matters. Okay. So the fix for this is something called the positional encoding. Um so what we do is very simple. There are by the way there are many things have been invented um to c to to tell transformers to give transformers some information about the order of each of the things that are coming in. Uh I'm going to go with something called the you know uh the simplest possible way which actually works pretty well in practice. So what we do is for each position each possible position in the input starting from the first position all the way through to the last position we imagine that that position itself is a categorical variable right if a sentence can only be 30 30 words long let's say we say that hey the position of each word is a number between 0 and 29 and so we can just think of it as a categorical variable and because it's a categorical variable we can just imagine an embedding for that for each potential value. So it'll become clear in just a moment because I have a numerical example and so what we do is we will just take that standalone embedding and then we'll take this position embedding which represents the position of the word in the sentence. So we just add them up. Okay. Uh yeah. >> So if in the initial sentence itself I have a mistake so I just write it as the train slowly the station. So which means my output is actually going to be wrong. >> Yes. Now the transformers are since they're trained on lots of data uh they will be quite robust to these things but strictly arithmetically speaking correct. Yes. Um okay so here's let's look at an example. Let's assume that um your standalone embeddings right? This is your vocabulary. Okay. Unknown cat matt I sit love the you on. That's it. That's our vocabulary. And for this vocabulary, we have these standalone embeddings. And just for argument, let's assume these embeddings are only two long. Okay, the dimension of these embeddings is two. If you recall the glove embeddings we used last week, I think they were 100 long and the ones we using in the homework are even longer than that. Uh but here we are assuming they're only two long. Okay. So the embedding for cat is 0.5, 7.1. All right. Now let's assume that the we can we can have at most 10 words in any sentence that's coming in and obviously a particular word could be in position zero all the way through position 9 and we will learn embeddings for each of these positions and these embeddings are also too long two units long dimension two okay now where will these embeddings come from what's the answer to that question what is the answer to the general question of where will these weights come we will learn it with back proper. Okay, we will start initially with random numbers and then we'll get them make them better and better as over the course of training. So what we do is we have these two tables of embeddings u the standalone embedding for the word and the position embedding and then we literally add them up. So for example, let's say the word the sentence that came in is cats satmath. That's a sentence. It's got three words. Cat satmath. So what we do is we say well the embedding for cat is this thing here 571. So I write it here 0 571. Cat happens to be the zeroth position of the word. So I grab the embedding for zero which is 1.3 3.9. I stick it there. And then I literally add them up. 5 + 1.3 1.8 11.0. That's it. So now the positional encoded embedding for the word cat is 1.8 111.0 not.57.1. So if cat happens to show up in another part of the sentence let's say instead of cats sat matt we had mattsat cat. Now cat is now the third position right which is 0 1 and two which means its embedding doesn't change. It's just embedding for cat. But now instead of picking zero, we'll pick this one 681 and put that here and add them up instead. So this is the idea of the positional encoding. This is how we inject position knowledge into the transformer. >> Yes. >> The position and would be different for each sentence. Like how do you >> No, this is just one table which tells you what the position is. So it says for a word that appears in the seventh position in any input sentence that you're feeding in, this is the embedding that you need to use for that position. >> If a word appears twice in the same sentence, how >> great question. So if if let's say just for argument, let's say the word the the sentence was cat. So the for each one of those cat for cat cat the this embedding will be the same 0.571 because there is happens to be just the embedding for cat regardless of position but then the first cat for the first cat we will use 1.33.9 as the addition for the second cat we'll use 6.33 3.7 and the third cat will use 681 so only the things that are adding the positional encoding will change the positional embedding so the resulting sum is going to be different for each of these three words even though they're exactly the same word. >> Is that position at table specific to that standalone table? Like if you were to add or remove some words from the standalone, >> it's independent independent. It only depends on your assumption about how long the sentences can be. That's it. It doesn't really care about what what words are coming in. That's a whole different thing. So these are two independent tables that just learned as part of this process. So yeah, I have the same thing for SAT and Matt. Sat and Matt, that's what we have. So just make sure you understand these two slides to really like make sure the mechanics are clear. Yeah. >> How do you culture out for filler words? For example, if you're taking l NLP output for transcription and you were trying to run a transformer on it and you have a lot of pums and likes that are disproportionately large and have these random assignments or really deep effects. Are there ways to focus? >> Typically what they do is um as we will we'll talk about this thing called bite pair encoding in which we take individual characters uh fragments of words and words into account as tokens. So when you hear stuff like and so on, it gets mapped to these small tokens, right? And then we treat them as just any other token. >> Um yeah, is aggregation like a simple song right here? I mean actual semantic meaning of the word of embedding might be more important than it relative position in the sentence. >> It could be. We just don't know a priority whether it's going to be important or not for any particular sentence. we when we train the transformer with a lot of textual data, right, it'll just figure out the right values for these things so that on average the accuracy is as high as possible. So in many of these things, there's always a tension between our human intuition as to how it should work and whether you should just throw it into the meat grinder of backrop and see what happens. And so here, as it turns out, you can just throw it into backrop it'll actually do a pretty good job. Uh yeah >> for the positional encoding we would just be using the sum vector. We would be using like this 2x3 matrix that you have before right. >> Uh oh yeah this just for demonstration. Basically this is the thing that'll actually go into the transformer. Correct. Yeah that was just me being overly verbose in the slides. Uh yeah >> you keep saying sentence as the input at this point. Are we still parsing out punctuation or we have like a multi-sentence input? Is there a positional embedding vector for each of the sentences? >> Yeah. So here uh basically the starting point is tokens, right? And in our example because we're working with the idea of simple standardization and stripping and things like that. I'm just showing actual words. If you go to something like GBD4, since it uses a different tokenization scheme, uh each token might be part of a word. It might be it might be an individual character. It might be a punctuation mark. It could be in fact u G the GPD family doesn't support punctuation which is why when you ask a question it comes back with intact punctuation in its response and so we'll get we'll revisit this when you look at BP by pattern coding later on but the key thing to remember is that all the stuff you're talking about starts from the notion of a token as to how you define a token given a bunch of text that's the tokenizer's job and we just assumed a simple tokenizer for the time being Okay, so at this point folks, we have satisfied all the requirements. Uh we have taken the surrounding context of each word. We have taken the order and so on and so forth because what's coming in here is the positional embeddings. Okay, and it runs through the whole transformer stack. So this is called a transformer encoder. Okay, this is the transformer encoder and you can see here this is the original picture from the paper. It's an iconic picture at this point. So it says here this is these are the input. This is like the cat sat on the mat. It comes in here gets transferred to uh transformed into embeddings standalone embeddings and then based on the position of each word we add that's why you see a plus sign here we add the positional embedding to that and the resulting thing goes into this transformer block. And here we go through multi-head attention and things come out the other end. Then there is this thing called add and nom which will visit we'll revisit on Wednesday and then it goes through a feed forward network. Another add and nom which we'll revisit on Wednesday and then it comes out the other end. That's it. That's a transformer encoder. Okay. Um and so if you look at this just to point out a couple of things the input embeddings can be random ways or it could be pre-train embeddings. Um we add in a position dependent embedding to represent the position we in the sentence that's the plus then we pass it through multi attention to get a contextual representation. Then we finally we pass all this through a simple typically it's a two-layer network one hidden layer with relus and then a linear layer after that and boom uh and then we do it. This is the encoder and here is the perhaps the most important point to keep in mind because we have taken inordinate care to make sure that the things that are coming in and the things that are going out have the same size both in terms of the number of tokens as well as the length of each vector. We can then stack them up like pancakes. We can have lots of transformer stacks one on top of each other, right? Because it's the perfect API. It's the simplest possible API. The same thing comes in, same thing goes out in terms of size. So you can have a transformer encoder, another one top, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, one after the other. GPT3 has 96 transformer stacks. And like in all things deep learning related, the more layers you have, the more complicated things we can do with it as long as you have enough data to keep the model happy so it doesn't overfit. Okay. All right. So what we haven't covered which we'll cover on Wednesday uh is is the question that he had posed about how uh you know since there are no parameters inside the self attention block what are we actually learning and then there is these things called residual connections and layer normalization we'll talk about all those things on Wednesday those are all like you know refinements to the idea so all right 9:39 um let's apply the transformer encoder to an actual problem any questions uh Yeah, >> my question is regarding like you said you could have multiple transformers. What is the difference with having multiple self attention heads and rather than that having multiple >> when I say a transformer block within the block that could be multiple heads? So if you to increase accuracy as you said by putting this way >> yeah you can have a lot of attention heads and that's totally fine and typically I forget how many GPD3 and four have they have a whole bunch of them but you can so you can go wide and you can go deep both are done in practice but the thing is if the one thing you have to remember is that if you if you go wide you have a lot of attention heads then given the particular input that's coming into that block it'll learn different patterns from it. Well, if you stack them all up, it's going to learn different ways to contextualize the things that are coming in. It operates at higher levels of abstraction. So, the analogy would be that like the seventh layer of a convolutional net may take the sixth layer's output and say, "Oh, I'm seeing a lot of edges here. I'm going to take an edge like this, two circles like that, and call it a face." So, it'll operate at a high level abstraction. Okay. Um, all right. Let's go to the collab. So, what we're going to do is we're going to take the transformer that we just learned about and we're going to apply to solve the the travel uh slot problem. Okay. Um, all right. So, okay. So we'll start with the usual preliminaries and then we have taken the eight data set I talked about and we have stuck them in raw box for easy consumption it's here okay so if you look at the top view you can see here for example I want to fly from Boston 8:38 a.m. And then this is the output. The slot filling is the output. Um and so as it turns out here that is this these people also gave it another they took the whole query and gave it an intent as to is it it's a flight query it's something else query and so on which we're not going to you are you kidding me? I want to fly from Boston at 8:30 a.m. and arrive in Denver at 11 in the morning. What kind of ground transportation is available in Denver? What's the airport at Orlando? um how much has the limo service cost within Pittsburgh? Okay. And so on and so forth. So you get so you get the idea. It's a very wide range of queries that are in this data set. Um okay. So let's just ignore that for a sec. Um okay. So what we're now going to do is we're going to take only uh this column right the query column. That's going to be our input text. Okay. And then the slot filling column is going to be our dependent variable the output. So we'll just gather them all up uh here. Let it run. We'll do it for the training data and the test data. And so what we have done is that we have taken u the transformer related code in KAS and we have packaged into a little hard library for easy consumption. U and so that thing is here you can download it. Calling it a library is like overstating it. We literally just collected a bunch of code and stuck it in the file. Okay. So, and so what we'll do is from Hurdle we'll we'll import the transformer encoder and we'll import this positional embedding layer because what we're going to do is we going to take the input do the positional encoding business and then send it into the transformer. Okay. Um so but first let's vectorize the input uh queries that are coming in. So we'll define a thing here. The you this uh max query length is not defined. That's what happens when you don't run everything. All right. Okay. So now we have this thing here. So turns out that there are 888 tokens, right? 888 words in the input queries that we have in the data. Uh so take a look at the first few and you can see here you know there is ank uh and because the output mode here is you just want integers to come out not multihod encoding or anything because we're going to take those integers and then do embeddings from them. So it'll it'll create it'll reserve this empty string as the pad token. This should be familiar from last week and then the ank for unknown tokens and then two from flights. These are all some of the most frequent. Um, turns out Boston is actually the most frequent. I don't know what's up with that, but it is what it is. Then we'll do the same vectorization to the train and test data sets. Now, uh, we need to do STIE for the output side of the problem because the slots the the dependent variable here remember are all sentences as well with the B O things like that, right? So, we need to vectorize those. So, we or we need to do STI on them. So, let's take a look at some of these slots. And you can see here all the stuff is going on. Note, so now here's an example where you have to be very careful when you do the standardization. Typically standardization you will remove punctuation and you know do things like that and lower case, right? But here these things have a specific meaning. We can't just go in there and remove the period and the underscore and then take make the B into lower case B and stuff like that. That'll just harm it, right? We need to be able to preserve the nomenclature of the output in terms of all those tags. So um so we don't want the standardization to do all those out. So what we do is we say standardization none. Look at that. We tell Kas do not standardize this. Do not do your usual thing. Okay. Um so we do that for the output side. And then let's look at the vocabulary. Yeah. So this sounds pretty good. These are all the things that we would expect to see. These are the distinct tokens in the output strings. Um all right. Okay, we get it. So, we have 125 of them. In the in the lecture, I said there are 123 slots, possible slots. Why is it 125 here? Yes, uncanpad. Correct. Um, okay. Now, we'll set up a transformer encoder, right? This Oh, wait, wait, wait. I forgot about um doing this. My bad. All right. I just thought when I saw the slide that we should go to the collab without giving you a bit more background. No problem. So, so the way we're going to model this problem is that we're going to have something like this, right? Fly from Boston to Denver. That's the input that's coming in and that is the correct answer. 0 0 some B something or other. I mean O and then something else, right? That's the correct answer. That's the that's the input and that is the right answer. So what we'll do is we will create these positional input embeddings like we have discussed before. We will run it through a transformer. It gives us contextual embeddings. So if we send five in, it's going to send us five out except the color is now blue, right? And then what we do is we will run it through a relu. Okay, we'll run it through a relu. We will still have you know five vectors here. five vectors will come in and then for each of the things that comes in we will stick a 123way softmax. Okay, for each thing that comes out we'll have a 123 way softmax and that's the classification problem we're going to solve. Okay, so the weights in all these layers will get optimized by back prop. All these weights are going to get optimized. >> Uh yeah. position. >> Sorry. >> Are the positional embeddings important in the collab? >> No, the that's a layer. The weights in the layer will still need to be learned. >> It's sort of like the text vectorization layer. It's a bunch of code and then you actually run it on a particular corpus to adapt it and fill a vocabulary out of it. So it's like an empty shell that needs to get populated. Okay. Okay, so with the weights and all these things are going to get updated when we when we train the model by back prop uh and that's it. That's the setup. Does this make sense before I switch back to the collab in particular? Does this make sense? This part of it bunch of things come out and then for each one of those things we need to figure out a classification a 123 classification and that's why we stick a softmax in every one of those output nodes. >> Yeah. yellow vector layer. Is there a reason >> not three but like why it's changed from like four >> or is it just kind of random like >> it could be whatever or to put it another way it is your choice as the user as the modeler correct the thing is at this point with the blue stuff the transforms basically say my job is done it has given you these valuable contextual embeddings at some high level abstraction what you do with it depends on your particular And so that the best practice would be to take it and then maybe you know these weddings are embedded are really long maybe make them a little smaller right using a relu and using a rel is always a good idea because when in doubt throw in a bit nonlinearity right uh and then once you're done with that well at this point you need to actually classify it so you stick an output softmax on it okay so that's what we have Um, all right, back to this picture. So, what we're going to do is we we also get to decide how long are these embedding vectors, how long because here we're not going to use glove embeddings. We're just going to learn everything from scratch, right? We're going to learn everything from scratch. So, and we can decide how long these embedding vectors are. So, um, these embedding vectors I'm going to decide uh I have decided that I want them to be 512 long, right? I want these actually to be 512 long. So that's what I have here 512 and then inside the transformer remember when we concatenate everything and then we have something we run it through a final relu layer how big should that layer be that's what here what I mean by dense dem I want it to be 64 and then I you know for fun I'm going to use five attention heads because why not okay and then in the final thing here to go to Alina's question here these things are all 512 long as I mentioned earlier right these are all 512 but this thing here I'm going to make it just 128 okay that's what I mean by units here and so if you look at the actual model okay whatever comes in has a max query length of I think 30 if I recall uh actually let's just make sure of that what did I assume 30 correct max query length 30. So each sentence is 30. So if a sentence has 35 words in it, what's going to happen? The last five will get chopped, truncated. If it comes in at 22, we're going to pad it with eight more tokens with a pad token. Okay, that's how we make sure everything gets to 30. All right, so we come back here. So the input is still sentences which are 30 long, tokens which are 30 long, and then we run it through a positional embedding layer. Okay, this positional embedding layer has the the actual embedding for each word that table and it has the positional table position embedding table. So just to be clear, this positional embedding layer is basically it's basically this. So this table and this table together are packaged up into the positional encoding layer. But they are two distinct tables. They just have to be packaged up. So, so this what we have here and then we get a nice positional embedding out and then boom we run it through the transformer and you know this transformer encoder object. We have to tell it obviously hey this is the embedding dimension that's going to come out. This is the dense dimension you're going to use in that final feed forward layer inside each attention block and this is the number of attention heads I want you to use. That's it. It's very right. only three things have to be specified and then whatever comes out of the transform encoder or these blue vectors and then we are back into good old sort of you know traditional DNN stuff where we take this thing run it through a relu with 128 units we add a little dropout uh and then we run it through a dense layer which the the W cap size here is 125 which is the 125 way softmax okay activation softmax connect up everything into model input and output and boom That's the whole model. So that's what we have here. Okay. Now this for the you know after Wednesday's class for extra credit and for your personal edification try to work through this thing to come up with this number 53 million um sorry 5.3 million right uh and see if it matches this number here. It should match. Hand calculate the number of parameters inside the transformer. Okay, for fame and fortune that's an optional thing. So do it after Wednesday's class, not right now. And I have actually listed the exact math that goes into it here. Okay. All right. So by the way, you can peek into any layers weights using its weight attribute. This is the embedding uh the positional embedding thing we had. So we can click it and you can see here it has two tables. There is the first table which is just the embedding table which says there are 888 tokens in my vocabulary and each of those tokens is an embedding vector which is 512 long. That is the first table here. And then it has the second object which is the positional embedding and it says here well my sentences can be 30 long and for each position of the 30 long sentence I will have a 512 embedding. Both these tables as I mentioned earlier are packaged up inside and you can actually see what the weights are before you do any training. Okay. So all right so I'm going to stop here uh because the model it's going to take a few minutes to run and we are already at 9:55. Um so we will continue the journey on Wednesday. If some of it is not super clear don't worry about it. It'll become much clearer on Wednesday. All right. All right folks have a good couple of days. I'll see you on Wednesday.