And so next we have Susan. Um, >> you need the clicker. >> I do need the clicker. I don't need the pen. >> It's about the MIT project. Wow, that was fantastic. Uh, I also want to add my voice uh to this chorus, my voice and my colleagues voice. And to start by thanking uh Zenab and this incredible group that's joined here today and to say that you all are pioneers. You know, we've been I've been so moved by so much creative work by so many leaders in the field that have been brought together. It's truly remarkable. And so thank you. Uh I'm going to introduce to you the MIT thermal energy network or mitten plan for rapid costeffective decarbonization of MIT campus. Uh it is the work of MACA MIT campus group. MAC stands for MIT alumni for climate action in collaboration with GIO at MIT which is the student group that we've worked with. Maka was founded in 2018. The idea for a thermal energy network for MIT campus uh uh goes to Rick Clemensy, a colleague of uh uh Garen um Eubank, who we heard from earlier. Uh Rick and Judy uh won a climate collab competition uh that MIT sponsored in 2016. Um but it didn't go anywhere. MIT wasn't interested at the time in listening to that. Um we we picked that up at MIT. Uh the Maka group picked up that idea and have built on it for the past three years and we just introduced it formally in a class that I t taught um this past week uh and in an hourong presentation which has been reduced to 10 minutes for today. So, moving along, MIT's decarbonization challenge is that 97% of MIT's greenhouse gas emissions are from the operation of its buildings and 26% of all of Cambridge's greenhouse gases are from MIT. Um, MIT has had two climate action plans in 2016 and 2021 um which postponed significant investment in direct campus decarbonization until later. uh its emphasis in the early years 2020 up to 2040 and going on is uh power purchase agreements uh in the Midwest uh and um and mainly the power purchase agreements um but uh it it hopes for um some major breakthroughs uh in the future um and is going to put you know is is there there are voices uh among this chorus at MIT who would like to see um uh small nuclear reactors or deep geothermal uh at some future point when it becomes uh a reality. The MIT thermal energy decarbonization plan is an all electric campus fueled by carbon-f free power. It implements energy conservation measures including waste heat recovery from ventilation systems to reduce heating and cooling. We're installing high efficiency water source heat pumps in each building distributed um for heating and cooling. It repurposes the existing chiller loop to an ambient loop circulating 45 to 85 degree water year round to water source heat pumps in each building. It repurposes the oil tanks at the CUP central utilities plant for thermal storage. And there are energy transfer stations operated by the Cambridge Water Department exchanging heat with the ambient loop where possible and if not then looking to the MWR and and the wastewater sewage or drilling uh geothermal bore holes. The plan is the most cost-effective and energyefficient way to decarbonize the campus. It demonstrates MIT leadership. It leverages MIT's investment in existing infrastructure. It eliminates the cost impact of maintaining separate systems because the water source heat pumps uh provide both heating and cooling. It eliminates energy transmission losses, enables the capture of free energy where there is concurrent heating and cooling on campus and perhaps will tap into future um subsidies. Uh the Met building already demonstrates this uh and this that that demonstration is underway. How is the campus heated and cooled now? It has a central utilities plant with co-generation. It produces steam and hot water. It operates on a steamdriven chiller. It generates over 22 megawatts of electric power connected to steam distribution connected to chilled water distribution to most buildings and the cooling load is high and most affected by global warming. Decarbonization issues with the existing plant. The the grid decarbonization is rapidly reducing carbon once added for a combined heat and power. Fossil fuel backup is necessary. Efficiency of 50 to 55% source to output. Low turndown rate of about 30%. High thermal losses in the seam distribution system of 10 to 20%. nonzero losses in the chilled water system of 5 to 15% and also the hot water district system have losses also um and hot water is what MIT's administration is currently uh seeming to embrace for its uh favored uh geothermal um pathway pathway option. How would the mitten plan heat and cool the campus? Uh, distributed heat pumps connected to a network of sources and sinks. No one solution since the buildings range over a history of hundred years. Use of building tobuilding and building inbuilding sources and sinks. Use of thermal energy storage and ground coupling with as I've said Cambridge water, sewer or uh ground thermal exchanges. We consider this a fifth or sixth generation district HVAC decarbonization transition with an ambient loop, two-pipe system, exhaust recovery, distributed water source heat pumps, thermal storage, air source heat pumps and ground heat exchange, municipal water thermal and other uh and the chiller loop to the ambient loop conversion. uh we would use the same two pipes that exist already. Uh first of all the blue uh buildings have currently chiller loop. Uh oh and I didn't say we have um MIT administration uh provided us with a memorandum of understanding uh to test fit our idea to six buildings and those six buildings are uh here uh W20 is the student center and the rest are the athletic complex W31 to W35 and three of those buildings have the blue buildings have the Chillerloop loop uh but the other three do not. So our plan would for the test fit would require the chiller loop to be added to these three excuse me the ambient loop to be added to these three buildings as represented by the green dots were our our uh proposal for these buildings expanded to the whole campus. It's we would also need an ambient loop here. Uh those are the only two places that we would need to do work. And I meant to say uh that here are the six buildings um on a graph of the EUIs of a number of the buildings, not all the buildings, but most of the buildings. And MIT has very high EUIs with the lab build oops with the lab buildings being uh backwards. Uh the um the the worst the worst uh performing buildings. Uh and what's interesting is that these six buildings represent a quite uh the huge a huge span of uh the campus uh current u EUIS. So uh this is where uh in W33 the ambient loop would run and this is uh the cluster from above um uh on which uh the ambient loop that you just saw would be running uh from the uh chilled water loop uh connection through uh what you just saw and through this building and into this building and also into W20. We would also put uh solar collectors on these wonderful flat roofs that are uh hidden from view. Uh and we would um put on the roof of W20, the student center u multistack heat pump units where there's already space for that. We would put as one option multistacks in W34 as well. Uh perhaps another option would be the AON SA23 in W34. And then uh to compare um a central plant fourpipe distribution system as is being proposed. You can see uh that um MIT currently has uh installed hot water pipes in the Sloan complex. It represents about 15% of the campus. Um and the consultants plan would require hot water pipes uh with I believe 180 to they call it low temperature pipes but not so low. Um 180 to 240 I believe uh degrees Fahrenheit hot water in these pipes and all of this would need to be um uh installed. And of course that would need need steel pipes and insulated pipes uh as opposed to the ambient loop uh small areas here. The central thermal plant has heat losses in transmission. Uh it starts off with a lower CO cop uh and Mittens has uh limited um heat losses because of each heat pump being in the building itself. So to sum up uh a kind of topline comparison of approaches um both approaches meet building HVAC specs. Both approaches achieve zero emissions. uh our approach achieves those emissions by 2035 were we to start this year uh with a pilot on the existing six building complex. Uh ours is minimally disruptive as you saw with the ambient loop only needing to be extended in a few places. Uh we need a pilot to confirm our projections and to learn as the heat ever source uh demonstration has learned uh a tremendous amount. We need to do that learning on the MIT campus by a real project. It's easy to upgrade over time. It's fiscally responsible and it's unc clear whether MIT will seriously consider our our proposal. Uh our proposal we call a thermal transition um leapfrog and we'll take would go from the existing chiller plant to a distributed energy network. So finally, at the end of the day, the project is not just about public relations, but it should result in real progress. The central utility plant will play an important role in the mitten solution. Our plan is available now. We're using off-the-shelf equipment. It's cost-effective. It will eliminate carbon emissions and be minimally disruptive. We feel that we can show the world and demonstrate to other campuses not only in Boston area or across the North America but around the world that this is a an approach that is cost-effective, rapid and doable. um MIT's the world's leading research institute and should do something that's not just uh cut cookie cutter um that other campuses have already done um like Princeton or like Stanford um and um that is a centralized approach um and we need to do a pilot and advocate for that um for 2020 2025 so that we can get to net zero by 2035. And I'll close with uh words of Sally Cornblath at her inauguration. Climate change and its mounting consequence is the greatest scientific and societal challenge of this or any age. We need energy and expertise from every MIT school and college and from every lab and every center from every member of the faculty and from every one of you. Um so um thank you and uh I think I want to end really with this slide. We want to get there by 2035. And uh we're asking MIT when can we start