The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. The there's a reading the the new reading is on stellar. It's an excerpt from a textbook on dynamics by professor Jim Williams who recently who was in uh in the mechanical engineering department here at MIT and just recently retired. This reading is essentially a review of everything we've done in kinematics. So it gives you a different point of view. It's extremely well written. it. So it goes through things like derivatives of rotating vectors. It has three or four really terrific examples of problems that uh are solved using the techniques that we've used up to this point. So it's a good way to re review for the quiz which is coming up a week from Thursday on October 14th. That quiz will be here. closed book, one sheet of notes, piece of paper, both sides as your for reference material. Okay, survey results. So, you have pet set 4. It has uh I think five questions on it. We'll quickly take a look at the at the problems that you're working on right now. So, here's this uh yo-yo like thing, a spool. It's all There were some questions on NB. The inner piece doesn't rotate relative to the outer piece. It's all one solid spool, but it has two different radi that uh uh are in functioning in the problem. And the question is, will the spool roll to the left or to the right when the string is pulled to the right? So, we're going to come back to it. I'm just going to run through all the questions quickly. The second one was this somewhat familiar problem you've done uh done. Now the uh the question asks you about how fast it will be it has to go before the thing starts sliding up and this the survey question if the starting position of the spool is moved down the rod will the angular rate be higher when the spool begins to slide up the rod you have to go faster to get it to go okay next okay this is finding the equation of motion for a pendulum and everybody knows the natural frequency of a pendulum square root of G over L but this pendulum has a torsional spring added to it and the question is square root G over L doesn't involve the mass but will the natural frequency now that you put the torsional spring on it will it will it now involve the mass no reason you should know this you've probably never done this problem before and uh we'll come back to that next the fourth problem two degree freedom system and want you to uh come up with the equations of motion. But the survey question, if K1 didn't exist, this is just two masses coupled by a spring. It's no, this thing is no longer constrained in the X direction. There's no X constraints on the system. So if that if that's the case, this system still has two natural frequencies. An object that can a system that can vibrate essentially has as many natural frequencies as it does equations of motion. This one requires two equations of motion, but it will have one zero natural frequency and the other one greater than zero. In the second case, when it's greater than zero, this thing is oscillating somehow. It has no extra strength. What can you say about the position of the center of mass? So, let's look at the results. So this is the first one is the spool problem. So let's here's the spool. Here's the table. Here's the inner radius. It's got a string wrapped on it. You're pulling the string this way at V in the I direction. This will be O XY. And now the question is when you pull on this, which way will the spool go? And most of you said it'll go to the left. So I made this I made this up. We're going to do the experiment. So, I've wrapped Teflon tape on this spool. It's got a C battery in the center to give it a little bit of weight. And here's the experiment. And the guys in the booth, I hope, have a minute to be to zoom in on it. I'm going to let go. And now I'm going to start pulling. Whoops. I need to put a little more out here. Pull on the tape. You believe it? So, I've done the reverse of what's say there. I'm pulling that way, but it goes in the same direction as you pull it. So, the answer to this question is it would go to the right. Kind of unbelievable almost, right? Huh? How does it do that? Let's do it again. All right. Now, show you something else. If you that hasn't sort of boggled your mind, then what's it going to do if I pull straight up? How many think it's going to go that way? Raise your hand. way? Raise your hand. All right, sure enough. Now, that means it must be some angle in between in which it will do neither. It'll start to slip. Right about there. Okay. All right. Neat little problem. And now this you know doing this problem is all about computing velocities using concepts like so if we call this a b c I think it's the other way around in the in the problem excuse me a b c and E the key to this problem is being able to figure out what the velocity of this point C is. And the first thing to understand this is the velocity of the end of the tape in a an in a fixed reference frame. So every point on the tape moves at the same speed. That means where it touches right here is also moving at that speed. So the velocity of C with respect to O is V I. And that's kind of the key to the problem. So if that's also equal to the velocity of D with respect to O plus the velocity of C with respect to D and the velocity of D is this point of contact with the ground. What's that velocity? Zero. This is back to those instantaneous center of rotation things. zero there is what makes this equation easy. And then you have an you know how to compute the velocity of a rotating vector. This one's not changing length, but it is surely rotating about this point. And so there's going to be an omega cross r in here. And that'll allow you to solve for omega. And then once you know for omega, then you can solve for a, which is the real question that was asked. Okay, next one. This is the uh Oh yeah. So the starting position this is a spool. Here's the arm and here is that it's the question is at 0.25 m up here. And if you move it down to 0.15, will the system be able to go faster before it breaks loose or not? And your answer was most people said yes. And that basically that's true. What is it that's driving that thing providing the uh force that is trying to push it up the sleeve? So the the rod is as it going around is trying to drive that thing in a circle and therefore it is being accelerated in in this to the central point. So it has centripal acceleration and that requires forces and they come through the rod and that will develop normal forces and friction. So when you when you slide down the rod some to that new position is has that centrial acceleration gone up or down? R has gotten smaller. Centripal acceleration is r omega squared. Right? So you you might be speaking algebraically that so the magnitude of that centripal acceleration has gone up or down if you bring it closer to the axis down. Okay. So you can go faster to get up to the same uh level of acceleration where it'll break free. Next this is oh the natural frequency of the pendulum. Some of you said yes, some of you said no, some not sure. You're going to find out. you're going to figure out the equation of motion of the system and it includes that torsional spring and mass is definitely going to be in it. So look for an answer that includes ma uh that you'll see that mass is going to show up in a way that if you solve for the natural frequency it won't it won't be uh it won't leave the final equation. Okay. And So this is the one about the two masses. And if the spring were zero, the second natural frequency of the system, the first natural frequency, when you have a system that has what's called a rigid body degree of freedom, when this thing when there's no K1 spring, this system looks like two masses on wheels connected by a spring and a dash pot. And in the x direction there are no constraints. So if I set this system to vibrating, what can you say about the motion of its center of mass? So could you find the center of mass of that system? Got to give you the masses of it. But you have some m1 and an m2 and we'll give we'll call this the uh x in that direction. Could you determine the center of mass of the system? You know how to do that, right? It's going to be depend if they were equal in mass, it'd be right in the center. If this was bigger, it would be over here. Something like that. But so the we know that for a system of particles the sum of the external forces on the system is equal to the mass of the system times the acceleration of the what? Center of mass. What are the external forces in the horizontal direction? How big are they? Zero. Therefore, what can be the acceleration of the center of mass? Zero. This thing will actually in this second natural frequency it'll sit there and just oscillate back and forth. One mass going in one direction, one the other and but it center of mass won't move. The other degree of freedom and the other natural frequency, the one that has zero natural frequency is rigid body motion. No relative motion. Give this thing a little push, some initial momentum. It'll just sit there and roll forever. The mass is not moving relative to one another. It just rolls and rolls and rolls and rolls and never comes back. infinite period zero natural frequency. Okay, we're talking about fictitious forces the other day and um there are times when they are they're useful but they're sort of like giving a little kid a loaded gun. You know, you can really get yourself in trouble quickly. So, I'm not not advocating a lot of use of it, but it's good to have a little insight. One of one of the students when I after the lecture last time a student um mentioned to me he said the you know the way I was taught about fictitious forces is that we use them to patch up a problem when we're trying to work in a non-inertial frame. How can you make Newton's laws apply if you are in an in a non-inertial frame? Otherwise an accelerating reference frame. So, I just thought I would revisit a little bit of what we said the other day you with uh explaining things that way a little bit. So, it might just turn out to be familiar with you for you. And let's just look. This is go back quickly and revisit that elevator problem. So, you remember you're you're here. You got some mass m. You're standing on some scales. And I'm we want I want to know what the scales are going to read. Now, we did this one quickly the other day. I'm just going to revisit it. The uh and it's accelerating. This is point A. And here down here is O, my inertial frame. And the acceleration of A with respect to O is plus a quarter of G in the J hat direction. Okay. Now this thing when you think about this if you were want you're trying to do physics in the elevator but it's an accelerating frame. So Newton's laws don't apply. And in fact, so you're in the elevator, you can't see that you're accelerating, but you could measure your weight, for example. So, how do you fix up the equations so that you can predict the right answer? And to do that basically you have to add in a force a fictitious force that accounts for the additional forces you will feel in this system due to the acceleration. Okay. So remember the way we did this problem. If you do this problem just in the straightforward way, the summation of the external forces in the y direction is the mass times the acceleration a with respect to o. And we need a free body diagram. In the free body diagram of this just this mass here, you have an mg downwards and an n upwards. And so you'd say this is equal to n minus mg. Now if you are trying to do this experime you're doing this experiment inside you can measure this n that's going to be your weight and you would like to do this by fictitious forces you say that ah the uh summation of the external real forces minus this mass times the acceleration of A with respect to O has got to be equal to zero. And that's then N minus MG minus MG over 4. Here's your fictitious force. And that's as if then you've come over here and you've added a force an additional force on this free body diagram that looks like mg g over4. And now you say the sum of these forces this is the correction that's allowing you now to work in this accelerating frame. If you treat do this free body diagram and sum these up then you will find the uh this expression which you can solve for n and you'll get m 5 over 4 g. Okay, in fact if you stood in the scales that's what you get. All right. So, I want to I want to do this is example one. I want to do sort of example 1.5. The cable breaks on this elevator. Your free body diagram still has an mg on it. You're still inside. You're still measuring forces. And you want to use this idea of a fictitious force to help you sort out what forces will you feel inside that elevator. Okay? And so just just you know you know how to do the answer in the straightforward way. the ex sum of the external forces is minus mg and that's equal to the mass times the acceleration of a with respect to o and therefore acceleration of a with respect to o is just minus g right so mean and you could have told me that you know that's trivial that you drop the thing accelerates at the at acceleration of gravity. So, I want to think I want to know what's what's the how you're doing the experiment inside. You don't know that you're accelerating. All you're doing is measurements, but you've been you've been told how to correct it. So, let's put in the fictitious force, which is minus m a0. And that means mass times acceleration. This one the mass times the acceleration is downwards. So minus that the fictitious force is an mg g force upwards. And what do you feel? What do the scales read? Nothing. You feel absolutely nothing. Right? Okay. So just an aside kind of question. Because I know this is confused occasionally we all get confused around this is is gravity now in these pro problems that we do is gravity and acceleration. We all we say all the time I use the phrase the acceleration of gravity. How many times have you ever said that? Have you ever said that? The acceleration of gravity. What do we mean? What we mean is this is when you let something drop in freef fall, it'll accelerate at g. But the way we apply for when we're writing out equations of motion, we say the sum of the external forces is equal to mass times the acceleration. Where does gravity go? It's a force. So this is another thing not to let not to get confused by by is to think about gravity as being an acceleration. We spent a lot of time figuring out ways to write accelerations, right, in rotating, translating reference frames. Gravity never pops up in there. It always comes up on the force side of the equation. Okay. Ah. All right. So, one one last example from last time, but it's relevant to problem on the homework. So we have this shaft spinning. This is the Z-axis spinning at constant rate omega. And we'll use this is R hat and this is Z K hat. These are these two position. These are the length R hat direction and the height Z using cylindrical coordinates. And now I just want you to let's just use this notion of fictitious forces to figure out what the first what's the what's the fictitious force on this system. So we're trying to account you're out there remember this is now this notion of you're out there where this mass is you're riding with this mass and you're trying to say what are the forces what forces am I going to feel? You want to be able to predict it correctly. So you have to find a fictitious force that you can bring in that accounts for an acceleration. And what acceleration is are we feeling out there? Centripal, right? And the centripal acceleration the uh we want the sum of the external forces and this is going to be in the r hat direction minus m times the and now this is we need reference frames here. So you have a fixed frame O XY you have a rotating frame here A X prime Yprime Zprime and this is your point B up here. So the sum of the external forces minus the mass times the acceleration of B with respect to zero is got to be equal to zero. That's how that's what this how this fictitious force thing works. So what on the free body diagram of this thing, what are the actual forces on it? Well, this rod has to there's certainly a weight downwards. There must be some supporting force upwards because we'll put that in in the Z direction here because this thing certainly doesn't accelerate up and down. So, the rod's lifting it up somehow. The rod is also putting on some has potentially some radial component and I'm just drawing it in the positive direction. And those those are my forces. And we've in this problem omega dot theta dot equals zero and r dot and r dot were zero. So it's constant rotation rate. No geometry changes here. Okay. So we did we cranked cranked through this problem before. And now I want to make this correction. And I want to add this fictitious force in the acceleration is minus r omega^ 2 in the r hat direction. So minus m * that is a plus I get an m r omega squared and pointing outwards. Okay. And so the sum of the forces in the radial direction minus or sum of the forces in the radial direction now minus this m a b with respect to o. Well, what are the sum of the real forces? Just nr and this minus mass times the acceleration. That's your m r 2 m r omega squ and that's got to be zero. So you find out that this there is a all is zero. Therefore, solve for nr is minus m r omega^ 2. So that rod out here is pulling that constantly pulling it in to make it go around the circle. And but we've just done this now by this notion of a fictitious force. So let's go back to this problem now. Well, actually, I'll just take one final step. If that's the here's your now your um free body diagram touched up with this fictitious force so that we can work as if we're here. And by the way, if you could, you know, if you uh could measure, if you had a strain gauge or something, so you could measure the force that this rod is putting on that mass. If you can measure it out there, this would be what you would measure. Okay. Now, what about the torque that that creates around here? So you have an outward force m r omega squar that's cent c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c centrifugal force this fictitious force going pulling out up here what moment does that create down here what's the magnitude first and that'll be a torque around say in the theta direction. So what's the moment arm? The moment arm the moment arm Z. Okay. So then the torque is going to be for R cross F and it's going to be the uh M R Z omega^ 2 Okay. And it's trying to that centripal force is trying to bend it out. Therefore, the torque down here required to keep it from doing so is actually in the other direction. So the torque that this system must put on this bar is minus. Okay. So let's go to this problem. If this is the point about which we're computing the moments, then there's centrip centripal accelerations in this problem. But in what direction are they? Either one of those masses. Pardon? So each little mass like one of those the upper mass m over two it's spinning and it's shown in its as it's coming around the wheel. It's up at the top. What direction is the fictitious force that it's putting on that system? Radial outwards, right? And does it have any moment arm? That force going up with respect to that point in the center? No. So, it creates no moment. The bottom one by just symmetry doesn't either. This one over here, it also has a a fictitious force you can think of. which is outward m omega squar what's its moment arm with respect to that to our origin here zero again it produces no moment it produces an unbalanced force though right it's going around producing an unbalanced force uh this problem the upper one's the fictitious forces up the lower one which direction is it down it's perfectly balanced they're just equal and opposite just going around you'd feel no you'd feel nothing uncomfortable this one you'd feel this motorcycle trying to hop down the road. Okay, it really happens, right? But this one, what happens? Does this mass m over2, what direction is the centripal acceleration? I'll change the wording a little bit. The upper mass in case B, which direction is the centripal acceleration? Straight down, right? And the bottom mass, what direction? Straight up. Straight up. And the fictitious forces that are that reflect those two accelerations are the top one is up and the bottom one is down. But they produce a a net that do they have a moment arm that they act on with respect to that center. Yeah. This little distance here I think it's called B in the problem. So this thing m over two r omega^ 2* b is a torque about the x- axis. And this one down here is another m over 2 r omega^ 2. And it's another torque in the same direction. So this thing produces quite a strong moment. But the but the wheel as the wheel turns that moment goes starts off it's about the x axis here. But when that weight gets to 90 degrees, what direction is the moment switches to the all the way around to the the y axis? Okay, so it's going to be a moment. The answer to this problem is going to look in time is going to look something like m r omega^ 2 z sin or cosine omega t. So the moment in this around the x- axis is kind it's going to be trying to the bike's going to be trying to go back and forth like this. Okay. At ome with frequency omega. Okay. So let's um I was going to say that's it for fictitious forces but it's not. I got a great demo for you. All right, we have a slope. I've got a cart on wheels here. And I actually do Okay. And I'm going to put a box here. And in the box, I got the wrong color here, but I'll try colored chalk for the first time. In the box, I've got a fluid. Okay. And the box has a lid on it so I don't make a mess. Now, I'm going to I'm actually going to do this experiment. I brought my ramp. We're going to set up this ramp. This box is going to be rolling down this hill and basically not no losses, no friction holding it back. It's just going to be able to take off and accelerate down that hill. Um, and I want to know A, B, C. When it's rolling down that hill, will the level will the bo fluid in the box look like that? Look like that or like that. So, we're going to take our poll here. So, how many believe that when it's rolling down the hill, the fluid will stay level, parallel to the ground? Let's raise your hands if you think this I want everybody to make a guess here. Everybody get in. Raise them high if you think it's going to stay level. Okay, maybe a quarter of you. How many think it's going to do this? Okay, a few more. And how many think it's going to do this? All right, so I want you to, you know, get in natural little groups there of two or three people and talk about this for a couple of minutes and see if you can convince your neighbor that you're right. Figure this out. Stop and talk about it. And and let's set up to do the experiment. Actually, I think if we do it up here. Yeah. So, like that. So, you hold the ramp. Yeah. You come here. We'll just practice our setup here for a second. So, you're going to have to hold it quite a bit higher. Okay. And actually now when we get it ready to go. How sealed is that? Pardon? Very well sealed. So I'm going to have you also you hold it and you release it. Right. And that's about the right because I got to catch it so it doesn't uh All right. Now we're going to stop. We're not going to do it right away. I'm going to I'm going to get him to answer the question a second time. Good idea. All right. And I think that'll work just great. And we're not going to give it away. Okay. So, set it down and we'll do the thing. Just Just drop it. Okay. So, let's do the uh let's do the quiz again. I want to see if any of you convinced your neighbor to change their vote. So, how many believe that it's going to be A? H one or two. Interesting. That count went down. How many believe it's going to be B? A lot of people went up. How many think it's going to be C? Okay. Okay, still a couple hold outs. Let's do the experiment. So guys in the booth, can you get a good shot of this? I hope I want this. So it p All right. Move the chalk. Yep. And I'm going to have to catch it. All right. Let her rip. Which way? Yeah, let's do it again. Just make sure the guys in the booth got a good shot of this. Okay, once more. Pretty neat, huh? So, if you're if you're skiing downhill, you're going down the hill accelerating. Which way do you feel the forces on your body? You you feel forces pulling you down straight. You feel forces pulling you down the hill. field forces pulling you into the hill. So this is straightforward application of this. In order for this thing to have this, this slope of that liquid was parallel to the slope. So let's see if we I think I get my notes back out here. So let's do this just quickly do this problem rig sort of rigorously the way we would do it uh straight straightforward with accelerations and free body diagrams and so forth. We're going to have some normal force pushing up. There's no I said no friction. This thing's slippery surface. Just as if it was sliding down. Got to do do rollers in the classroom. Uh it's got an mg and there are no other external forces. Okay. And we know then that the summation of the external forces has got to be the mass times the acceleration. And I'm going to make this here. I'll call this point A in the center. And I'm going to make my inertial reference frame X down the hill, Y perpendicular to the hill. Okay. So the mass times the acceleration of A with respect to O is then equal and I can this is my then external forces. So this this is my X direction. So I'm going to break this G mg force force into two components. One down the hill. Guess I need an angle. Let's see. So if this is theta, then this is theta here. Okay. And the force down the hill is that component is mg sin theta. And the force this direction is then going to be and I'll just I'll give us some unit vectors here to keep things straight. This this force is minus mg cossine theta in the J hat direction. So the sum of the forces here all of them are mg sin theta ihat minus mg cosine theta j hat plus n in the jhat direction. So that's the total vector sum and that would be that's got to be equal to my mass times the acceleration of A with respect to O. And we know that's straight down the hill. So this is only going to be in the I. This one's only going to be in the ihat direction. We know the acceleration perpendicular to the hill has got to be zero. Okay. So if we just add up the components of this thing in the ihat direction just the x direction then I have only this term and that term and I find that the mg sin theta equals Right? And so the acceleration of A with respect to O is just g sin theta. Okay. Well, that's pretty trivial and it doesn't give us much insight about it. Actually, that doesn't give me much insight about why that's the answer. Okay. So actually this is a time when maybe thinking about a you're in that frame you're you're going down the hill you're skiing and you're now in an accelerating reference frame and you want to say I want to work from this frame what do I have to what fictitious force do I have to add to that free body diagram so I can account for my for my acceleration So remember this the fictitious force we want to deal deal with has to do with this guy. We're we're in the moving frame. We can't we can't judge this. We're just told that it exists and we need to correct for it. So we need a fictitious force that's minus m a with respect to o. So that would be minus mg sin theta and that would be in this direction. So dash lines here is my mg sin theta fictitious force in the other direction was the real force the component of gravity mg sin theta in this direction was my normal force and in this direction is my component of gravity that is my mg G cosine theta. Okay, it's a real force. So yeah, these these real forces and this fictitious force. But now we say the sum of these all these forces have to sum to zero. So we but look look what happens here. So what's the what ex what force do you feel in the reference frame? You're the skier going down the hill. What forces the net forces do you feel on you that are in the x direction down the hill zero it's exactly the reason I did that silly freef fall problem a minute ago when you drop something when you're weightless the scales are reading the cable broke in the elevator scales read zero the fictitious force was equal and opposite to the gravitational force you feel and the scales would show no force in the in the freef fall direction. In this case, you're not freef fall, but you're freef fall down a slope and the component down the slope, you have no net force in that direction. So, if you're in the reference frame of that moving cart, the only actual force you feel is N. You will feel a force on your feet equal to mg cosine theta. So if theta goes to 90° you're in freef fall and you feel it goes to zero. Theta is 0 degrees it's max and you would feel mg. Okay. So here just this this one this is an example for me where this notion of a fictitious force kind of helps me figure out what's going on. pretty amazing. Okay, so we're going to uh move on from this kind of discussion of fict fictitious forces and things. So let's it's been an hour. U we'll take a little break for a second. Also, if you got any questions about what we've covered up to this point, think about them and ask them in a minute. So just take a short break. So while I've been uh while you've been taking a break, a couple of people came up and asked questions. One of them was are fictitious forces real and the and the other is you know why does the water move? All right. So the answer to the answer to the first question if you want to be careful and do the problem rigorously don't mess with fictitious forces. The only real forces in the problem are the ones that you would put on a free body diagram such that that the sum of the external forces equals the mass times acceleration. And these forces are always real ones. They are gravity. They are normal forces. They're friction forces. They're spring forces. They're dash pot forces. They're all these mechanical things, but they're real forces. In the rod, that thing's spinning around. That rod since it's a rigid thing it can support bending. So it can put a she it has shear force. It can have axial forces. Those are real forces that it can put on the mass. Fictitious forces are not forces. They are minus a mass times a real what? Acceleration. So real forces real accelerations. We use this notion of a fictitious force as a convenience but it is a highly dangerous tool. Okay. But actually if once you get used to it a little bit it can give you some really quick insight. But I would always if I have doubts I'd always go back and just do the problem in a rigorous way and just check that your insight was right. But it could give you great insight to starting a problem. You know to expect a centrifugal term in your results. you know to expect a coriololis term. You just you know that they're going to be there because you you you sometimes you u you you know you feel them. The reason we like to use them is because you actually can feel them. They actually affect what you feel. So when you're in the uh when you're in that first in that first problem of the elevator problem the answer I didn't actually write it here it is the normal force that you feel that the scales weighs is 54g and it's the sum of gravity and that fictitious force It's mg plus m * a quart of a g. And so because you actually and and it's in this moving reference this accelerating reference frame inside an elevator where you can't directly measure the acceleration. All you can measure is the force but you you know what the acceleration is. It's given. So you stick it in as a fix and you find out that the real normal force that you measure actually has in it that piece that comes from the fictitious force. Okay. Why does the water move? Right? This this has to do this really the same discussion. The the up the hill and the real force down the hill exactly cancel. If you could, if you're standing on scales that actually can measure side force as well as normal force, you standing on the scales, you would feel no side forces up and down the hill. None. You measure a normal force and the normal force you measure will be mg cosine theta. So the force on any you know any object in that accelerating reference frame it essentially thinks that all forces are perpendic that it that you feel in that reference frame are perpendicular to the hill. So if why does water seek level because the force gravity is down and the surface of the water goes perpendicular to the gravitational force. That's just the nature of fluids. So if the force on all those fluid particles is is this angle, what's the fluid level going to do? So that the pressure on the surface is equal everywhere. And if you go a foot down, you'd have equal pressure everywhere in the fluid. So it it just see what so the water moves so that its surface will be perpendicular to what it thinks is it thinks that this is kind of being the local gravity. The local gravity is pointed in that direction. So the surface level seeks that level. If somebody else can say it better than that Tom Dave Matt anybody these are Yeah. Well, yeah. You're as if you you're on the body and you're trying to sum up all the forces you feel and accounting also for the fact that this is accelerating. And the fix it force is this fictitious force that's due to the body's acceleration. You have to know that you're accelerating to be able to put this term in. And all it comes from this equation gener thinking of this as a generic equation by taking this term and just moving it to this side and setting everything equal to zero. Lots of puzzlemen around this. This what happens if you make the angle of the ram like very steep very steep. So if it goes to 90° you're in freef fall you will measure the this cosine theta goes to zero and goes to zero. This term stays the same. This goes to mg that way. This goes mg that way. and it's in equilibrium and both then you're going to have very very small normal force. Okay. I couldn't hear the last comment. The water wouldn't go all the way to the side. Well, you know, the water unfortunately, I mean, it with the tiniest little bit of normal uh acceler normal force here, the water will seek that level, but when it gets to zero, it's kind of all the water is just going to be in freef fall. It's going to form surface tension takes over, right? Yeah. This argument that equal pressure is the same as it was just on a flat surface accelerating. Okay. If you were ah good question. If you're on a flat surface accelerating, if you were accelerating and this cart accelerates with a fluid on it and it's accelerating in that direction, what would the surface of the liquid do? stay level or change? Okay. Does it slope back or does it slope forward? I'm accelerating in that direction. There's a centrifugal not a fictitious force pushing back on it pushes it makes it pile up at the back. Okay, one more. You're in the elevator. You're accelerating a quarter of a g. You feel the scales tells you weigh, you know, 25% more than you used to. And you have a pendulum. And on before the elevator starts, it's got a 1se second natural period. And now the elevator gets going, does the period change? Higher or lower? Okay. The So the natural frequency of the pendulum, simple pendulum, square root of G over L. What do you what do you guess that the natural frequency is if you're going up at a quarter of a G? Say again. as if you have a higher or lower acceleration of gravity around. It's like you have a higher gravitational force is what you think you're feeling. Is that going to make put make the tension in this string higher? Is that going to make the weight of the pendulum feel greater? Yeah. By five for fours. And you'll find out you work out. It gets kind of messy to prove this uh rigorously, but it's going to look something like the square root of 54 G over L. Okay. Okay. All right. We got a little time left. I might not be able to completely finish this, but I do want to show you something. You had a Hold it up so they can see. It gets pretty violent, doesn't it? Pass it around. Okay. This this thing is shaking like crazy. All right. All right. I'll let you and I'll uh All right. In the absence of external forces, what can you say about the motion of its center of gravity? Do you think in the at least this direction? can't move right in the up up and down direction. It uh uh the center of gravity does move because I'm putting a force on it through the cord. Okay, this is there's this has a relation to a problem that you were had on problem set two. I wanted to go back and talk about it a little bit because this is that thing with a track in it and has a roller going around and it's going around at constant speed. And this has mass m this has mass the outside thing is just the mass of this block. Okay? And this there's an internal donut in here, a toid. And this mass is made to go running around around inside. And you were asked to figure out the acceleration of that guy. But this thing's on wheels. Now this problem and I I apologize for for posing this problem the way I did. I should have posed it in the following sense following way. These two problems are really equal to one another. I have a rod. I have a mass on the end. This radius here we said was E. This radius is E. The mass is the same. It's m. This was going around at omega. This is going around at omega. This is on wheels. Exactly. These two problems are identical because if the geometry is the same, the rotation rates the same, the masses are the same, the acceleration of this bead here, this roller is the same in this problem as it is in that problem. just that this problem is much easier to figure out the forces. This turned out to be kind of nasty. And I said last time that the solution to the B part, which is the normal force that this is put on this roller, I said that answer was wrong. I actually am wrong about that. I I was thinking of a different answer. I was thinking of this problem. uh the pro the answer that was given the normal force that is by the track places on the roller or the vice versa is actually what was given is correct. It wasn't what I actually was seeking when I wrote the problem. Sometimes you know you when you're making up problems you have an end result in mind and then you wrote it wrong. I wrote it wrong. So let's do this problem and I want to do I want this is partly re uh to review a couple of things for you. So I want to find the what I really want is I want to find the equation of motion in how do I draw my so here's my x yz inertial reference frame. I just lined it up here with the know the center of this thing to start with. Doesn't really matter. So I want to find an equation of motion in the x direction. And we don't have time to do this whole problem here. So I'm going to do the first piece of it is just to give you some review and exercise in figuring out degrees of freedom. How many I I I'm implying that I I can write one equation. It may take more than that. So the number of degrees of freedom we said is equal to the number of required can't write today independent coordinates. So the number of coordinates required to completely describe the motion and we came up with a little expression for that. It's six times the number of rigid bodies plus 3 * the number of particles. So this is rigid bodies. This is particles minus C and these are the constraints. So, let's figure that out for this problem. Oops. How many constraints? It's just a quick practice. So constraints and I'm going to start off with on the main block. Okay. So there's on the main block there's no Y motion. There's no Z motion. These rollers don't let it come in or out. So no Y or Z motion. So that's two constraints. Okay. What about rotations on the main block? How many constraints are we assuming here? Three. We're not allowing it to roll in the X, the Y, or the Z. So there's three more constraints. And now on the little mass. Okay, on the little mass there's no Z motion. That's out of the board. That's one more constraint. And then omega t is the angle that this thing that's theta. This is specified. It's a given in the problem. It's not unknown. It's just that's what's going that's what makes this thing do its thing. It's going round and round. And so this is not an unknown. And therefore you can say that the y motion of this particle is e sin omega t. And that's a constraint. And the X motion the motion of the main block to which it's attached plus an E cosine omega t. And that's another these are known. This is you've already accounted for this. That's that's the main masses motion. So this is something known. So these mount up each one of these. This gives you a constraint and this gives you a constraint. And so let's add them up. So two and three or five six 7 8. So you can actually completely describe the motion of this thing with one equation of motion. Okay. All right. So I'm seeking so I want to find the sum of the external forces on the main block in the x direction. Okay. And that's going to be we know that that's the mass of that block times x dot. So x is going to be the coordinate that describes the motion of that mass mb. So we need a free body diagram of MB. So here's the block. There'll be a normal force up. There's going to be m BG downwards. And the only other forces acting on this block are a force that's comes through this rod that's holding the that mass, the little mass. Okay. and and it's I'm just going to draw it at some arbitrary angle, not necessarily theta. It's going to be a force. I'm going to call that force on this main mass. And it's and it's a vector for the moment. It'll have two components in the x and y directions. So in order to write an equation so in the y direction it's trivial n is equal to you know uh mg mg in this direction we have to have to break this into two components. We need to know the component of this in the x direction and put it in here and we'll be and we'll be done. Okay. So now I'm going to use um third law. The force that that rod places on this body is equal and opposite to the force that the rod places on the mass going round and round. You agree with me? Okay. So, what we really what we need to do next is here's the mass up here going round and round and the forces on it is it has an mg downward and it has some force on it. That is the force on the little mass. And you're going to find that F on the little mass equals minus F on the big mass due to third law considerations. So all I have to do is then figure out the X component of this force, put a minus sign in front of it, and I'm basically done. And and to do that, I say F equals MA. I don't have time to finish that today. I'll show you it next time. and we'll figure out the uh equation of motion for this thing. Now, in in dragging all this stuff here today, I forgot to bring my muddy cards. So, you got a minute and if any of you have just a burning question you want to answer or something you really liked or if if you don't mind, just take a piece of paper, make a note on it, and drop it off on the way out. Thanks a lot. See you on Thursday.