The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu edu to describe the history of the spatial history of London in 45 minutes or uh is impossible. Um London has to be seen in the light of a number of number number of issues. It's the greatest open city in history. Um, I'm going to be interested in the spatial development of London from about 1750 onwards, the period which we've demarcated as being the advent of modernism. Um, sit down. London was first occupied by the Romans in 43 AD and they stayed in England until about 400 AD. A long period of time. London never built great walls. uh as I've said in a previous class, the walls in Europe are widest on the east and get distinctly less. Paris rebuilt the walls a number of times as late as the 19th century, but the British separated from continental Europe, never invested a great deal in protecting the city. The crossing of the river Tempames was towards the northeast that is towards what is now the city of London, the business and most protected original part of London. The period post Engles period and can be characterized by the application of the British of a number of contested arenas of social life and economic life. Already in 1838 the chartist movement agitated for the democratic use of the vote. The first labor unions were starting to be originated in the early 19th century. Child labor was um put out of business. The origins of public housing. The state or never built housing for people except if they were had to be housed under poverty conditions. Most of the cities in preish Europe relied on religious powers and charity to house people. there was no notion that the public had any responsibility for housing the population. So at least amongst the many innovations that this period uh endorses one would include the major major major organization of the state towards environmental improvement. Taking care of public sanitation, the origin of welfare, state health, building bylaws, the emergence of women's rights, racial laws against racial discrimination, and the emergence of the first, I would call the modern uh city planning organization. was London County Council 1889 to 1965. the most dramatic state organization to organize the application of spatial and social principles of London County Council. One of the problems about city planning is that you need an organization internal to the state or to the city to maintain the quality of work. Outside consultants are okay. They unlike architecture where outside consultants can build a building. City planning is a continuous process of adjustment, management of public wealth and private wealth. And uh one of the biggest problems of working in many parts of the world today for me is to adjust the level of work in relation to the level of the capacity of application. There's no point in using advanced levels of spatial control in a city which cannot maintain its application and adjustment. I am just at the moment engaged with the city of Abu Dhabi who want some help in making a new strategic plan. They want to do it without outside consultants. They want to do it through their own internal labor force. There's a real question as to whether they're going to be able to, but that's an ongoing discussion which I'm having with him. Um, London had already established an enormous number of characteristics of a cultured and open city. Shakespeare bought a house in London in 1613. He be he paid for it through the profits he made on theater audiences in central London. Um John Lockach in 1685 1689 perhaps published a paper arguing for the separation of church and state. that was already towards the end of the 17th century. Um, London has maintained itself as an open city. 2.6 million of the current current population of London are foreignb born. That's about 30% of the population of London today are foreign born. I think that's roughly equivalent to Los Angeles. I'm not sure about Los Angeles, but forgive me. I'm just guessing. I should know, but I don't know a great deal. I read from the New York Times, March the 4th, 2012, writing about London. Every month, some young bureaucrat in the Chinese state administration of foreign exchange reaches out reaches out to a trader in London and buys or sells billions of dollars worth of US Treasury bonds. London is the world's largest market for dollars. So if you think about all the money that's being paid by the Chinese government, it's paid to London. London has remained the central economic site for great deal of the international world. We start perhaps by looking at some of the spatial attributes from the two major disasters. The fire of 1666 and the plague epidemic of 1666. No city is modern city has ever been struck by two major con disasters so close to one another. The fire of London was the greatest fire the world had ever seen. On the 1st of September 1666, the wooden structures close to the river to the docks, exactly the same as Chicago, the Chicago fire 200 years later. The mayor was apparently unimpressed when first called to the scene. He expostated, "Pish, a woman might piss this out. He woke up the next day to find half the world around him destroyed. The fire interests us less than the fact that 5 days after the flames had been controlled, a young professor of anatomy called Christopher Ren, not yet widely known as an architect, approached the king with a plan. The plan took no account whatsoever of the medieval street plan. He superimposed his grandiose vision of wide avenues radiating in straight lines from the royal exchange. On 13th September Charles II, the king issued a proclamation assuring the city that quote though every man must not be suffered to erect whatever. No, I don't want to read the quote. Essentially, Ren assumed that you could socialize land and change the form of a city by imposing a new spatial pattern on it. The king said no. In England, we respect the ownership of private property even if it's a small even if it is of a small scale. And I will not endorse a plan which does not advocate the maintainance of the rights of my citizens to land. This is there was another plan by John Eivelyn which I'll show you. Ren built enormous amount of in the postfire era he built a number of churches in many of them are still there. Um he of course built St. Paul's Cathedral didn't to his clients didn't like it very much and as late as 1713 I think he was begging them to pay his income uh so much for Ren the principle that London would be not be subject to the powers of the state to change its spatial pattern has been central to the maintenance of the form of London. London doesn't have large avenues. It has one perhaps. Oxford Street is the old Roman road from the east to the west. It has no north south road except for regent street which we'll discuss a bit later is the imposition of a particular situation. The ep second epidemic of London was the plague. But before the plague, London River Tims had a an underclass of people who made a living out of the filth of this river. There were people called bone pickers, rare gatherers, pure finders, dredger men, mudlocks, sewer hunters, dustmen, night soilmen, bunters, tashers, shawmen. If they had all formed themselves into a union, this London underclass would have been the fifth largest elomeration of people in all of England. The consequences of the dis the consequences of the river's water being as polluted as was only established through the genius of a man called Jon Snow. Before that the outbreaks of kolera were generally assumed to be a condition of the air. The myasmic theory of cholera was prevalent. London's parliament had to shut down one summer because of the stench from the river. But Jon Snow, you must read the ghost map. Has anybody read the book the ghost map? Good for you. I'm really using London as an example of the transformation of a 19th century city under extraordinary levels of commitment and skill. Up till 1854 um cholera was seen as a disease born by the air. There hadd been many attempts to make the pro process of draining your body a little more elegant. A water flushing device had been invented in the late 16th century who installed a functioning version for his godmother, Queen Elizabeth. The device didn't take on until a watch maker called Albert Cummings uh impo designed an improved version of Harrington's design. At the great exhibition of 1851, an estimated 827,000 visitors used them. After that, the seated toilet became much more common in London. According to one estimate, the average London household used 160 gallons of water a day in 1850. By 1850 thinks, thanks to the runway success of the water closet, they were using 244 gallons per day. Snow transformed the world of Kora. You have to read the book to understand that shakes the Sherlock Holmes genius with which this man observed the situation which results in his finding that Kora was born was carried by basillus born by water. All of the improvement in the seated toilet seat simply meant that more and more feces were being poured into cess pools because there was no sewage system. Can you imagine a city where there's no sewage system where there are constant outbreaks of cholera until one modest general practitioner in the West End comes up with the notion that it's waterborn. Such is the genius of British endeavor at this time. It took only seven years. Yeah. The most advanced and elaborate sewage system in the entire world was largely operational by 1865. Joseph Basilgate, the engineer, in six years had constructed nearly 82 miles of sewage using over 300 million bricks and nearly a million cubic yards of concrete. The main news. All sewage flowed into the temps which either remained static or flowed eventually out to the sea. Basilgate built two in the north and one in the south. This intercepted this took all of sewage and water waste water and pumped all used elevation to export it out to the sea. Around central London, he built two embankments, the Chelsea and the Victoria embankment on the north and the Albert embankment on the south. This is the biggest one of the biggest industrial feats in human history. The extraordinary thing is that if you're in London and you walk on the embankment, you don't know anything about what it's doing. London advertises Big Ben because you can see it. The underground of cities is impal impalpable. This is an extraordinary example of the the genius Sir Joseph Paxton who designed the Crystal Palace. A gardener said, "We in Britain solve problems by common sense and technology, not bombast." I wonder what American what a city like Boston would build in six years. Hardly a sewage system. Next issue again starts with a disaster. We want to examine the transformation of land in central London. We start with a story. Alexander, the nephew of Mr. Hughley, died in the plague. Mr. Orudley was a lawyer, a great legend. He amassed a great legendary wealth through dealings with a court of wards. A court which aortioned lands forfeited to the crown when the owner couldn't pay the fees. Amongst his his uh property rights which he accumulated was the manner of Ebery which was swamps and farmsteads which ran from the Tins River as far north as the old Roman road to Bath Oxford Street. So the west end of London was a swamp. It acrewed into the hands of this family through a number of generations. It passed down to woman called Mary Davis. Mary Davis had needed money. She arranged a marriage to Lord Berkeley. These were rural establishments looking for land in the center of the city. Lord Berkeley Mary was only seven and a marriage arrangement was made with the Berkeley's 10year-old son. No, but there was no money. They couldn't erase an additional £3,000. The next marriage deal was with sir Thomas Groner at the age of 21. Mary now 12 was married in 1677. Mary developed mental illness became a fanatic critic a Catholic not a critic. I'm sure there's some mental slip from Catholic to critic. He's selecting a pope. I suppose that's on my mind. Um, Grovener died in 1700. Mary was swept off to Europe by a Roman Catholic priest called Father Fenwick. In Paris, Fenwick drugged her, married his married her to his elder brother, Edward Fenwick. In 173, a court resolved Fenwick versus Grovener. The court favored the Grovener family. His son, Sir Richard Governor, began to develop the estates of Mayfair, Belgravia, Pimico. Mary's land plus the Grovenous provincial estates produced the largest fortune in British hands, only second to the the royal family. You should really be able to answer this question. Why are there no railway stations on the west side of London? I've just told you the story. Crown crown crown. You can look at your diagram. The grove states the number five and these are number two as a block of land impeded the development of any railroad on the west. London is encircled by railroads in a four four mile by one and a half mile box. There's a subway line which runs along this box. What's it called? Who knows London? Come on, you must know something about the greatest city in the world. You're studying urbanism, aren't you? It's like me talking about a classic case of pneumonia and you don't know what the causes of pneumonia are. The circle line Houston Paddington Houston St. Pancress, King's Cross, Farington Street. I think that's the one. All linked to the industrial heartland of England. Victoria, cheering Cross, Waterloo, all linked to South Africa and India and the United States. Some of these stations on here linked to Europe there no stations on this ark. Now you know why the combination of land between the crown and the Westminster Duke of Westminster is probably the highest ranking in the British aristocracy. The growners became the Duke of Western. Okay, I made my point. It's a battle. It also advances the notion that the combination of rural land and urban land is required to produce great wealth. At least at this time it was. Raymond Williams is correct in his book, The Country and the City, in making the point that he is a combination of the two uh that produced the shape of contemporary England. The second land story deals with the fact that the center of London was consisted on the to the most part of land occupied by aristocracy. Large portions of land. The Bedfords, the Duke of Bedford, for instance, occupied large portions of land. What emerged as a result of economic growth was the emergence and Marx makes a classical reference to the emergence of the middle class or the bourgeoisi as major economic factors. So valuable did the land become that it had to be transformed into sales to the middle class or the upper middle class. So each of these estates were subdivided systematically. Where was the first? These subdivided estates characteristically have a residential or residential in nature. Have a central public public or semi-public or private square in the center. And this animates the whole spatial pattern of central London, at least most of it to the west of Regent Street. This is the only city in the world which has used residential construction to build its center. The city was always off to the east. This is land which was available just through the subdivision of property. Again, Rasmusen points out that these subdivisions generally were little towns in themselves. There was the Mana House which faced north. there's sometimes more than one man a house. Um the housing was generally occupied by one family per unit as opposed to the boulevard house of Paris where the floors every floor was a separate housing entity which again is one of the many reasons why London is about onethird of the density of Paris. The second has to do with the transportation system which we'll talk about in a minute. Why do you think the rest of the world never followed the British pattern of subdividing land uh in a systematic way for housing? Stupid. Why didn't Delhi why didn't the British impose a system of residential sequence of a system of residential spatial organization as interesting and as articulate as the British did for London? I don't know how to answer the question. ideas don't seem to spread all that well. Good ideas. And of course, there are many problems with the fact that you subdivising land only for another class of people who can pay the economic rent through the leaseold system of the subdivided estates. But the extraordinary notion of using of building there 151 residential squares in western London 77 between 1800 and 1850 but starting in 1631 with one which is famous for other reasons. reasons. It name is Covent Garden. Why is it called Covent Garden? But you know nothing about London. You need really to spend some time in London learning about how this great city got to put together. Henry VIII didn't like Catholicism. So he closed the convent. The convent which became Covent Garden was handed over to the Bedford's family who employed British the great British architect who was the greatest British architect in the 17th century. H Indigo Jones. Do you know the name Indigo Jones? You should know them if you've studied the history of architecture. Mind you, the history of architecture is so badly taught that I'm not surprised that nobody knows the name of Indigo Jones. Indigo Jones is an interesting man in his own right. Um, historians have often thought that he's the term indigo came from the fact that he was Welsh, but it turns out that recent history has found that he actually traveled to India and he was probably homosexual taken to India by one of the aristocracy and there are drawings of him done in India which make his life a little more complex and perhaps a little more interesting. Anyway, he built a kind of he built a church St. Martins's in the fields uh as the main component of the square. The rest of the square was empty. There was some residential accommodation and arcades which Jones designed but the center became a market. It became the famous market and developed into Covent Garden which the great opera house of Covent Garden. I don't know if there's any connection between an opera house and a agricultural market but the British seem to do these strange things. Perhaps the market produced a number of people who sang and became an opera company. Uh so history is adjacency perhaps produces. Um, what more can I say other than to look with you at some of these subdivisions I've given you. Um, in the handout on the first page, if I remember correctly, the land holdings are they numbered? Number five is the groa land and number two is the crown on the diagram above that. It's got a lot of stuff on it, rather complicated. But essentially, starting in 1631, Covent Garden, you see a slow growth of subdivisions of these big estates. And with a s John summer was called the great period in London building from about 1730 to 1800 and so the Georgian period. It's interesting that these buildings, there is new residential armatures to the squares were built according to strict rules. Um, one of the reasons for the careful m maintenance of these is the these estates, subdivided estates, is not only because of the land was expensive, but because of the one of the changes that the British land policy adopted, switching from freehold to desold. Royal land could never be sold. Freehold land was given by the king to a client who had served the king or queen admirably. No resolution of that was possible until parliament realizing the advantage economic advantages of this land and the emergence of an economic class of private buyers decided to pass a version which is called leaseold which meant that you were allowed as a royal aristocrat to subdivide your land over a and lease it to somebody for a long period of time. I mean 90 years, 100 years. Some I think argues that in order to maintain the quality of the property, attention had to be paid to the design of the buildings and the quality of the maintenance. I'm not sure about that. So it's a bit foggy as to whether the leaseold system doesn't automatically imply a good maintenance of property. The diagram below you can see now two which is where Buckingham Palace is now. Two stretching all the way to the river. two stretching up to Regent's Park, which we'll talk about in a minute, and number five stretching roughly from the river very close to number two all the way up to Oxford Street, which is well, I don't know if it's exactly Oxford Street, but in the proximity of Oxford Street, these diagrams show the subdivision of one of the two of the states. The matrix of comparative orders argument is from an MIT thesis which argues that West London suggests an indeter intermediate order the textual order such as Rome, Parma, Delhi, Paris and so on on the left and the intermediate order of West London and and monumental orders and intermediate order of another kind in bath and so on. You can read this and work it out yourself. The regent dental squares generally had gardens in the center space. Then first gardens were private gardens. You inserted in the center of the residential space a garden which was gated. This is a strange idea to insert in the public domain a private only use. The British never had large gardens of their own. So in some sense it was a formal substitution of a private garden into a communal private garden. A very interesting idea. Although as time passed this idea passed and the central squares became public, the later ones were 18 19th century ones were public generally. It's an extraordinary formal device. When we look at four examples of the residential squares, you'll see the subtle ways in which all of them try to play around with certain ideas. the use of the road, the use of monuments, the garden, the position of the mana house and so on. The muse of London were the servant quarters of these great estates. Do you know the word muse? Mws. They some of the most expensive real estate in London today. They were the servant quarters. It's only the wealthy who can afford to live in previous servant quarters. It's another rule which you might remember. If land becomes valuable enough, small space which is allocated appropriately to the workers, working class becomes wealthy enough to become the sole occupant, the sole proprie wealthy family. When we talk about Paris on Thursday, you'll see the use of the public square in Paris. uh the plus royale for instance the beginning of the 17th century now then later renamed the plus devog uh as really the anticidence antecedent of the covenant garden plan. The covent garden plan had an empty center which was then occupied by a market. The plus Royale was the house. The residential environment surrounding the plus Royale was for the French aristocracy and the royal court. The French never followed the residential subdivision of the British pattern. And many people including Ras Musen, London, the unique city, uh have commented on the fact that London has always been a series of small endeavors, short vistas. There's no main street in London. There's no no main avenue in London. There's no great avenue connecting major parts of the city as was the principle of subdivision or special organization in Paris. In the early part of the 19th century, the print regent uh and a very slick architect developer called John Nash hat etched a plan. the region the the crown owned regions park to the north and there was some notion that you might be able to connect the crown land with the crown land on the south. It took the making of a new street to enable to do that. Here you have a beginning of the sensibility of Paris. Louisie Napoleon who became the the French king and the patron of Baron Hman from 1848 to 1870 was in London at the time. He also spent time in Boston. Uh apparently made a drawing of the future of London in the one of the restaurants in Boston. Um um Regent Street has two major qualities about it. Number one, it was able to be the only spatial feature which was able to be made in London despite the edict that London property should remain in the hands of whoever owned it unless bought. You needed four qualities to build a new street. You needed an individual who had the energy to push the scheme through a good route, an act of parliament and about a million pounds. The prince regent and Nash had the authority and the money to do this. The merchants of the street is a phenomenon in itself. We will examine that a bit later in the class. Referring to the writing of David Freriedman on this subject uh was contrary to principle of land of division in in England. Um, and it was possible through the genius of Nash and his enormous energy. And there's an interesting aspect to this street. If you look between Oxford Street and Portland Place, there's something called All Souls Church. Do you see it? When you go to London, go and look at All Souls Church. It's piece of architecture which indicates a fundamental principle of urbanism. You cannot buy the property over here or over here. In order to make a street run straight through and you have to create a bypass, you design a circus in front of the church. A circus being a spherical space, open space in front of the church to carry the flow of the road through like this. Do you understand the principle? It's not a cosmic idea, but it's an idea. There aren't many cosmic ideas in not in England they small ideas London is according to somebody whom I quote I don't remember his name or her name London is a city of small realities is another significant feature of regent street. Between 1840 and 1916, a man called Charles Booth worked in London. He wrote a book called Life and Labor of the People of London, 12 volumes, published between 1889 and 1900. What did Booth do? He produced something for the first time which if you know something about urbanism would recognize immediately. He made a map of poverty. He made the first map showing income on a on on a plane. What? Uh, Oxford Street. Boo map indicates that there are more poor people living on this side of Regent Street than on this side. So what do you use new roads for? This is what Engles observed in Manchester. Roads can serve the purpose of subdividing property. Land on this side is much less valuable than on that side. This is where by the way Wes Snow did his experiments on cholera. So we learned a number of these B little micror attributes of urbanism. smallcale now things major revenues on one side major lack of revenue on another side region street is carefully modulated as Moses's highways were in relation to land values you can't build a public road straight through expensive property roads can be deviated Sometimes they create spatial avenues of great charm by virtue of them twisting around. But the basic motivation is not aesthetic, it's economic. The other great Have we got time? Okay. In the required reading for this class, there was a piece which I wrote about instruments of application in the 19th century. I won't have time to go through them. The first is the invention of the constant repayment advertised building loan. The second is the transformation of the building union building guilds into a permanent building society for the lending of money. The third is the transformation of the pre-industrial guild of builders into a 19th century organization started by Thomas Cubert at the age of 27. He could he employed a permanent year-long labor force as opposed to dayong labors provided by guild workers. He also could assume uh economic risks and forecast the value of property. He established what is called the contract in growth. In a in times of such enormous fluctuating economy, it's difficult for a large investor to predict the cost of what he would have to pay at the end of the project. Cuba revolutionized this by inventing the contract in gross by saying to the queen it doesn't matter what happens it's going to take 12 years to finish this project you have to pay 300 million pounds at the end of 12 years this is before I mean this isn't a time of economics well economics is a modern science only dates probably from about 1900 So we have Ricardo and Marx and people like that Mus who weren't much help in but Cubert understood that the profits he could make by maintaining a labor force again we have Marx's notion of surplus value by having a thousand workers you you reap a share of the their income and therefore you become very wealthy according to Marx anyway. And when you're very wealthy, you can take economic risks because you know what you can produce at what cost. Um I've mentioned the transformation from freehold to leaseold. The last of these trans policy implications is the introduction of invention of deficit spending which I'll elaborate on more when we talk about Paris. Paris was the first to assume that the right of the state to private land was great. Was large, significant only to be exceptionally reversed by private owners. Houseman's property development schemes were schemes based on the notion of deficit spending that the state could engage in large amounts of capital deficit on the grounds that it was improving the economic condition of the site and the site would over time pay back the fact that Houseman's borrowings only was paid back in 1928, some 75 years after Houseman spent the money. Um, is something we'll debate in next Thursday's class. Let's look very quickly at the idea of the railroad. London was the first to introduce a train system into the compact center of a city as urbanism. 1863, the first subway ran from on the north eastwards from Padding Paddington station past all of those stations to the last one on the bend Fington Street. These were cut and fill conditions. There was there was only a small indentation in the earth and the train ran without any ventilation except from the sky. It was enormously successful. There were million. It ran from 1873 to 1890 at 10 minute regularly at 10-minute intervals and I think it carried something like a million or 10 million people regularly. In 1890 the deep old tunnel was introduced largely by an American financia Mr. Sprag. uh and that set the pattern for the building of a complete subway system almost complete in 1900. U I saw an estimate of what it would cost for a contemporary city to build the London Underground system and there's no not enough money, not enough capital in the world to pay for it. Of course, that's an exaggeration. There is enough capital, but it would is beyond the reach of any living city. The British were very clever in investing in a sewage system in the public transportation system. They coupled the inner circumstances of with the various colored lines uh with a suburban system which connected to the outside as yet relatively unbuilt villages and towns. U there's a lot of details to be discussed around the building of the subway systems. There was enormous costs involved in uh in getting some of these station. For instance, one writer has suggested that it took Yeah. the London and Birmingham Railway from the Midlands to Lord Southampton's Houston station. The railroad failed to persuade the Bedford Estate to allow it any further. It took an army of 20,000 men to construct and was probably the largest public work ever to be undertaken in the whole history of man with the possible exception of the of Great Wall of China. Digging this underground tunnel in order that Houston could get to Maban High Road and be part of the central conccombination. 11 million passengers in the first year and so on. To leave us time to look at this, I'm going to shorten the last part of this investigation. Let's simply say one or two things. From the provision of housing for the poorer part of the population to the state accepting some role, a major role in its care. There was a variety of moves largely through charity and philanthropy. There was the Octavia Hill system. There was philanthropy for 5%. Everybody assumed that philanthropy had to provide a profit. Um there was the Octavia Hill system. Uh there were arguments that the poor needed resuscitation through avoiding alcohol, through temperance associations, through teaching in the Octavia Hill system, through teaching them how to behave properly, how to save money, how to be proficient with their time, in fact, how to be modern citizens. The British aristocracy assumed that it could do for Engles Manchester just through the gen its own generosity plus a 5% fee the Americans who invested in some of these philanthropic organizations. In 1889 the London County Council was established. The London County Council became the first state or city organization for the ma for the planning and maintenance of the built city. It was remarkable. It's it did it it employed the highest level of professional skill that it could find. People like great architects like James Sterling, others worked for the London County Council before branching off on their own. Uh the standard of public housing has not been challenged. Uh in 1965, the London County Council was abolished by Margaret Thatcher. uh and uh became the greater London Council with a different position. But the great years of the London County Council, uh, a very left-wing left-wing organization, one of the architects who worked, I remember flying from the far east with this gentleman who was a well-known architect in London who told me of his first week working in the London County Council and being taken to a pub on the Friday afternoon and asked whether he was a socialist or not and he had to pass the test by answering a kind of bunch of questions. Um, are there any questions about this incredibly brief uh survey of one of the world's great cities? I apologize for doing it in the only way I can think of doing it and that's to pick on some characteristics. The there are some very good books on London. Landlords through London is a good book. There are number of others um for those of you who want to examine this in in greater detail. But just let's discuss we're talking about 1824 1830 Engles writing a book in Manchester. We're talking about enclosure acts all of the penalties imposed on the emergent worker in class. Slowly the emergent working class gains a foothold in the British in the British democracy and sets in sets off 100 years. The 100 years produces all of these things. The first railway train underground. The first building bylaws rescuing transforming a city from a completely different environment in some respects from the conditions that Engles expressed in the condition of the working class. There was no central state. Well, there many things that the Soviet revolution offered which the British government didn't offer, but not a but a completely remarkable renaissance. And that with as I repeat only the killing of 11 or citizens over 104 25 years 123 years from Peteroo to bloody Sunday in Northern Ireland. I think it's a remarkable it's a remarkable story for those interested in the effects that good action and technology can take on a re on urban form. Here's the Roman crossing on the east towards what became the city of London. here the miserable for minimal fortifications. The monasteries located on the outside ring close to the walls in case there's uh some crisis the monastery can can send its people to maintain the wall. Next, the fire, the devastation of the eastern part of the city, rain's plan on the top, the diagonalization and the centralization of the Royal Exchange, Eivelyn scheme of Kathano scheme, neither of which gained much mileage. age. Next, five and two combine virtually the west of London. This is Mary Davis whom I spoke about. I don't know who took of her this picture of her. text. This is the pattern of estate subdivisions. You can see the big gap on the left is the crown regions park in the north is the crown. a figure ground pattern of the west of London indicating the black squares irrating this fabric and the condition of regions park as drawing the line from the regions park on the north region street finding its way down to the crown property on the west next. Okay, here are four examples. This is the original square 1631. The Truscan elevation of Indigo Jones and the proposed arcades and surrounding of the square. The square is empty is has a large empty center like the plus royale and uh uh it's indicated in the first of the four up on the left uh St. James Square on the right. You see the enclosed garden. The entrances are carefully selected. There's a monument to end the vista from two of the streets. Uh uh the square on the Bedford Square on the top right 1773 where you get the mana house in the center of the elevation. Uh here the street system is not so carefully considered in relation to the design of the square and here Belgrave square. Now an attempt to break the mold of the Georgian square by putting the mana houses outside the main elevation in the four corners. Uh opening the square. This is not a gated square. This is now a public square although tre uh secondary mana houses in the center of the facad. Next, Grovener Square on the right, the mana house with a gabled facade in the center facade. Next. Okay, we could have many more illustrations of these squares. The old idea of being able to link the crown property in Regent's Park systematically through to Green Green Park and Buckingham Palace. uh uh the number of intersecting roads and the degree of p the kind of difficulty of purchasing what was cheap land and property on either sides of the road. Next, this is looking up northwards to All Souls Church. What you see is that spin wheel of a arcade to turn you to the northeast northwest. Next booth's map. Here is regent street in the quadrant leading to pigodi circus. Look at the black and gray areas to the right of Regent Street and the ped almost totally dark red environment on the left. That's another one of Booth's mapping. That's of pubs. British deaths of jin until they stopped drinking jin and started drinking tea are regarded as cited in one of the demographies of London. Um, it's a startling map. It's a one of the first first attempts to connect social status with built form. Next, the 4x one and a half square. Sir Joseph Paxton after the Crystal Palace proposed a walking elevated walking route around the 4 by one and a half miles center of the city. You can see this all the railway lines from the north from Paddington to King's Cross uh serving the north industrial to north and the three stations on the south uh Waterloo Victoria and Chering Cross essentially serving and the British the subway system in the center moving outwards and then connecting to a suburban railroad system. A remarkable application of transport public transportation technology as early as the prior to the 20 century. Next building the Metropolitan line on the left, the upper one, crossing the river Temps with the train on the left, the embankment of the uh sewage system and the new sewer lines on the right. Next, Marabon and Houston Street being the facades of these great railway termini. Now, the railway termini were ambiguous in themselves. They were urban manifestations with pronounced facads and hotels and enormous formal energy expended in order that you should penetrate this railway station which after all is just a technological feat just a train and a railway line and some toilets and ticket booths. Uh he doesn't require this apparatus in the front. Um unless you're conscious of the city. I like a city which pays attention to places of public significance. Even if there's only a toilet behind. I wish our airports had some way of galvanizing their presence in the city. They are little technological nightmares. Next cheering cross and St. Pancress station being built. Next beyond behind this neocclassical Victorian facade lies the technological enterprise. This is Birmingham on the right which is the largest single span at the time in the world. Uh St. pancreas on the left. Next attempts to indulge in this internal space of this railway station with the same grander that the external facade on the street has next. Victoria station in England something of a market. Munich being a taking over of the center of the station as a market. Next, Victoria station in Mumbai designed with the same atmospheric aesthetic impulse to pronounce itself as a major monument in the city and then inside the social consequences of poverty uh displaying itself. These two images, this and the technological center are interesting in themselves. Next, here is another attribute of the charity world. This is a working a poor man's labor work workstation where people don't have work and are just left to be fed and looked after. What the equivalent would be today of a homeless shelter. On the right is a new charity inspired labor station. Now instead of the rough random allocation of people in space, everybody is now subdivided into poo booths and God is holy and God is right in the beams. The technology and theology are mixed together. If you can make a beautiful place, God must be able to be celebrated in it. It's making of poverty a religious artifact. Next and the greatest man manifestation of the technology the technology in the crystal palace is without any pertinence in the front. There's no attempt to make an entrance. This is just a space to for thousands of people to come and see what the British are doing in India. There are trees inside. Next modernism, modern inventions are portrayed. Uh, one wants to compare this to 1893 in Chicago. Um, this was 1851. 50 years later, the same attempt was attempted in Chicago. Uh, and we'll compare the two next. It's the story of London as briefly as I can explain