The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, let's get started. Today we have another data structures topic which is data structure augmentation. Uh the idea here is we're going to take some existing data structure and augment it to do extra cool things. So take some other data structure that we've covered. Uh typically that'll be a balanced search tree like an AVL tree or a 23 tree. And then we'll modify it to store extra information which will enable additional kinds of searches typically and sometimes to do updates better. And in 006 you've seen an example of this where you took AVL trees and augmented AVL trees so that every node knew the number of nodes in that rooted subree. Uh today we're going to see that example but also a bunch of other examples different types of augmentation you could do. And we'll start out with a very simple one which I call easy tree augmentation which will include subree size as a special case. So with easy tree augmentation uh the idea is you have a tree like an AVL tree or 23 tree or something like that and you'd like to store for every node x some function of the subree rooted at x such as the number of nodes in there or the sum of the weights of the nodes or the sum of the squares of the weights or uh the min or the max or the median maybe I'm not sure uh any some some function f of x which is a function of that maybe not f ofx but we want to compute store some function of that sub tree. Say the goal is to store f of the sub tree rooted at x uh at each node x in a field which I'll call x.f. So normally nodes have like a left child, right child, parent, but we're going to store an extra field x.f for some function that you define. This is not always possible. But here's a case where it is possible. That's going to be the easy case. Suppose X.F F can be computed uh locally using lower information lower nodes and we'll say let's suppose it can be computed in constant time from information in the node X uh from X's children and uh from the f value that's stored in the children. So I'll call that children.f, but really I mean left child.f, right child.f or if you have a two three tree, you have three children potentially and the f of each of them. Okay, so suppose that you can compute x.f uh sort of locally just using one level down in constant time. Then as you might expect you can update whenever a node needs whenever a node ends up changing. Uh so more formally if some set of nodes change call the set Yes. uh so uh I'm stating a very general theorem here. If there are some set of nodes which we change something about them, we change either their F field, uh we change some of the data that's in the node or we change we do rotation, move some nodes around, then we count the total number of ancestors of these nodes. So this uh subree those are the nodes that need to be updated because we're assuming we can compute x.f f just given the children data. So if these if this data is changing, we have to update its parents value of f because it depends on this child value. We have to update all those parents all the way up to the root. Okay, so however many nodes there are there, that's the total cost. Now luckily um in an AVL tree or 23 tree, most uh balanced search structures, the updates you do are very localized. Like when we do splits in a two3 tree, we only do it up a single path to the root. So the number of ancestors here is just going to be log n. Same thing with an AVL tree. If you look at the rotations you do, they're up a single uh leaftoroot path. And so the number of ancestors is that that need to be updated is always order login. Order login things change and there's an order login ancestors of them. So this is a little more general than we need but it's just to point out if we did login rotation spread out somewhere in the tree that would actually be bad because the total number of ancestors could be like log squared right but because in the structures we've seen we just work on a single path to the root we get log So, uh, in a little more detail here, whenever we do a rotation in an AVL tree, Uh let's say a b c x y remember rotations. It's been a while since we've done rotations. Uh so we've we've we haven't changed any of the nodes in ABC, but we have changed the nodes X and Y. Uh, so we're gonna we would have to trigger an update of Y. First, we'd want to update Y.F. and then we're going to trigger the update to X.F. And as long as this one can be computed from its children, then we compute Y.F, then we can compute X from its children. Right? So, a constant number of extra things we need to do whenever we do a rotation. And because the rotations lie in a single path uh total cost that that you know once we stop doing the rotations uh in AVL insert say then we still have to keep updating up to the root but there's only login at most login nodes to do that. Okay, same thing with uh with two three trees. We have a node split. So we have I guess three keys, four children. That's too many. So we split to uh two nodes and an extra node up here. Uh then we just trigger an update of this f value, an update of this fvalue, and an update of that fal. And because that just follows a single path, everything's login. Okay, so this is a general theorem about augmentation. Any function that's well behaved in this sense, we can maintain in AVL trees and 23 trees. And I'll remind you and state a little more generally what you did in 006, which are called order statistic trees in the textbook. So here um we're going to let me first tell you what we're trying to achieve. This is the abstract data type or the interface of the data structure. uh we want to do insert uh delete and uh say successor searches. It's the usual thing we want out of a binary search tree. Predecessor 2. Sure. Uh we want to do rank of a of a given key which is uh tell me what is the index of that key uh in the overall sorted order of the items of the keys. We've talked about rank a few times already in this class. Uh depends whether you start at zero or one. But uh let's say we start at one. Uh so if you say rank of the key that happens to be the minimum, you want to get one. If you say rank of the key that happens to be the median, you want to get n over two plus one. Uh and so on. Okay. So that's a natural thing you might want to find out. uh and the converse operation is select say of I which is give me the key of rank I. Okay, we've talked about uh select as an offline operation given an array uh find me the median or find me the n over 7th uh rank item and we can do that in linear time given no data structure here. We want a data structure so that we can find the median or the uh seventh item or the n over7th key uh whatever in login time. We want to do all of these in login per operation. Okay, so in particular rank of select of I should equal I, right? We're trying to find the item of that rank. So far so good. Uh and just to plug these two parts together, we have this data structure augmentation tool. We have this goal we want to achieve. We're going to achieve this goal by applying this technique where f is just the subree size, the number of nodes in that subree because that will let us compute rank. So, we're going to use uh easy tree augmentation with f of subree equal to the number of nodes in the subree. So in order for this to apply we need to check that given a node x uh we can compute x do just using its children. This is easy. Uh we just add everything up. So x do would be equal to 1 that's for x plus the sum of cf for every child c. I'll write this as a python interpolation so it looks a little more like an algorithm. Um I'm trying to be generic here. If it's a binary search tree you just do x.left.f f plus x.right.f. But this will work also for two three trees. Pick your favorite uh data structure. As long as there's a constant number of children, then uh this will take constant time. So we satisfy this condition. So we can do easy tree augmentation. And now we know we have subree sizes. So given any node, we know the number of children sorry the number of descendants below that node. So that's cool. It lets us compute rank and select. I'll just uh give you those algorithms quickly. We can check that they're log end time. Uh yeah, so the the the idea is pretty simple. You have some key. Let's think about binary trees uh now because it's a little bit easier. Um we have some item X. It has a left subree, a right subree. And now let's uh let's look up from X. Just keep calling uh X.parent. So sometimes the parent is to the right of us and sometimes the parent is to the left of us. Okay, I'm going to draw this in a kind of funny way, but this funny way has a very special property which is that the xcoordinate in this diagram is the key value or is the sorted order of the keys. Right? Everything in the left subree of X is has a value less than X. If we say all the keys are different, everything to the right of X has a value greater than X. If the parent if x was the left child of its parent that means this thing is also greater than x. Uh and if we follow a parent and it was and this was the right child of that parent that means this thing is less than x. So that's why I drew it all the way over to the left. This thing is also less than x because it was AI'll call it a left parent. Here we have a right parent. So that means this is something greater than x. And over here we have a left parent. So this is something less than x. Let's say that's the root. In general, there's going to be some left edges and some right edges. As we go up, these arrows will go either left or right in a binary tree. So the rank of x is just uh one plus the number of nodes that are less than x. Number of keys that are less than x. So there's these guys, there's these guys, and there's whatever is hanging off. Okay, here I've almost violated my x coordinate rule. If I make these really narrow, that's right. So all of these things uh all of these nodes in the left sub trees of these less than x nodes will also be less than x. If you think about these other sub trees, they're going to be bigger than x. So we don't really care about them. So we just want to count up all of these nodes and all of these nodes. So the algorithm to do that is pretty simple. Uh we're just going to uh start out with I'm going to switch from this f notation to size. That's a little more natural. In general, you might have many functions. So size is the usual notion for usual notation for subree size. Uh so we start out by counting up how many items are here. And if we want to start at a rank of one, if the min has rank one, then I should also do plus one for x itself. If you wanted to start at zero, you just emit that plus one. And then all I do is walk up from x to the root of the tree. And uh whenever we go left uh from say x to x prime. So that means we have an x prime. It's right child is x. And so when we went from x to its parent, we went to the left. Uh then we say uh rank plus equals uh x prime. left dots size uh plus one for x prime itself. Okay, maybe there maybe x x xp prime. size is zero. Maybe there's no nodes over there. But at the very least, we have to count those nodes that are to the left of us. And if there anything down here, we add up all those things. So that lets us compute rank. How long does it take? Well, we're just walking up one path from a leaf to root or not necessarily leaf but from some node x to the root. And as long as we're using a balanced structure like AVL trees, uh I guess I want binary here. So let's say AVL trees uh then this will take login time. So I'm spending constant work per step and there's login steps. Clear? So that's good old rank. Easy to do once you have subree size. Let's do select for fun. This may seem like review, but I drew out this picture explicitly because we're going to do it a lot today. We'll have pictures like this a bunch of times. really helps to think about where the nodes are, which ones are less than x, which ones are greater than x. Okay, let's do select first. This you may not have seen in 006. So, we're going to do the reverse. We're going to start at the root and we're going to walk down. Sounds easy enough. Uh, but now walking down is kind of like doing a search, but we don't have a key we're searching for. We have a rank we're searching for. So, uh what is that rank? Rank is I. Okay. So, uh on the other hand, we have the node X. We'd like to know the rank of X and compare that to I. That will tell us whether we should go left or go right or whether we happen to find the item. Now, one possibility is we call rank of X to find the rank of X. But that's dangerous. Uh because I'm going to have a a for loop here. And if and it's going to take log n iterations. If at every iteration I'm computing rank of x and rank cost log n then overall cost might be log squared n. So I can't afford to I want to know what the rank of x is but I can't afford to say rank open x because that recursive call will be too expensive. So what is the rank of X in this case? This is a little special. What's that? Number of left children plus one. Number of left or the size of the left subree plus one. Yeah. Plus one if we're counting starting at one. Very good. I'm slowly getting better. Um didn't hit anyone this time. Okay. So at least for the root, this is the rank and that only takes us constant time in this special case. We'll have to check that it still holds after I do the loop, but it will. Uh so cool. Now there are three cases. U if I equals rank, if the rank we're searching for is the rank that we happen to have, then we're done, right? We just return x. Okay, that's the easy case. more more likely is that I will be either less than or greater than the rank of X. Okay. Uh so if I is less than the rank, this is fairly easy. We just say uh X= X.ft. Uh did I get that right? Yeah. Um in this case the rank so here we have x it's at rank rank and then we have the left subree uh and the right subree and so if the rank we're searching for is less than rank that means we know it's in here so we should go left and if we just set x= x.ft uh you might ask well what rank are we searching for in here? Well exactly the same rank fine that's the easy case. uh in the other situation if we're searching in here we're searching for a rank greater than rank uh then I want to go right but the new rank that I'm searching for is local to this subree I'm searching for uh I minus this stuff this stuff is rank so I'm going to let I be I minus rank sure I don't have any off by one errors. Yeah, that's to be right. Okay. And then I do a loop. So I'll write repeat. Uh so then I'm going to go up here and say okay now relative to this thing what is the rank of the root of this subree? Uh well it's again going to be that node.left size plus one. And now I have the new rank I'm searching for I. And I just keep going. You could write this recursively if you like, but here's an iterative version. So it's actually very familiar to the select algorithm that we had uh like when we did deterministic linear time median finding or randomized median finding. U they had a very similar kind of recursion but in that case we're spending linear time to do the partition and that was expensive. Here we're just spending constant time at each node and so the overall cost is login. So that's nice. Any questions about that? Okay. Uh I have a note here. Subree size is obvious once you know that that's what you should do. Another natural thing to try to do would be to augment for each node what is the rank of that node because then rank is really easy to find. And then select would basically be a regular search. I just look at the rank of the root. I see whether the rank I'm looking for is too big or too small and I go left or right accordingly. What would be bad about augmenting with rank of a node? Updates. Why? What's a bad example for an update? Yeah. Right. Say we insert a new minimum element. Ah, good catch, cameraman. That was for the camera, obviously. Um, so, right, if we insert, uh, this is off to the side, but say we insert, I'll call it minus infinity, a new key that is smaller than all other keys, then the rank of every node changes. So, uh, that's bad. U, it means that easy tree augmentation in particular isn't going to apply. And furthermore, it would take linear time to do this. And you could keep inserting. If you insert keys in decreasing order from there, every time you do an insert, all the ranks increase by one. Maintaining that's going to cost linear time per update. So you have to be really careful that uh the the function you you want to store actually can be maintained. Be very careful about that. Say on the quiz coming up uh that when you're augmenting something, you can actually maintain it. For example, it's very hard to maintain the depths of nodes because when you do a rotation, a whole lot of depths change. If your depth is counting from the root, how deep am I? Uh when I do a rotation, then this entire subree went down by one. This entire subree went up by one in this picture. Uh but it's very easy to maintain heights. For example, height counting from the bottom is okay because I don't affect the height of A, B, and C. I affect it for X and Y but that's just two nodes that I can afford. Okay, so that's what you want to be careful of uh in the easy tree augmentation. So most of the time easy tree augmentation does the job. But uh in the remaining two examples I want to show you cooler examples of augmentation. These are things you probably wouldn't be expected to come up with on your own but they're cool. So and that let us do more sophisticated operations. So first one is uh called level linking and here we're going to do it in the context of two three trees partly for variety. Um so uh the idea of level linking is very simple. Let me draw a 23 tree. Not a very impressive 23 tree because I don't feel like drawing too much. Uh level linking is the idea of in addition to these child and parent pointers, we're going to add links on all the levels. Horizontal links you might call Okay, so that's nice. Uh, two questions. Can we do this? and what's it good for? So let's start with can we do this? Uh remember in two three trees all we have to think about are splits and merges. So in a split we have for a brief period let's say uh three keys four children that's too many. So, we change that to uh uh yeah, I'm going to change this in a moment, but for now, this is the split you know and love maybe at least know. And uh if we think about where the level link pointers are, we have one before. Uh and then we just need to distribute those pointers uh to the two resulting nodes. And then we have to create a new pointer between the nodes that we just created. This is of course easy to do. We're here. We're taking this node. We're splitting it in half. Uh so we have the nodes right in our hands. So just add pointers between them. And key thing is there's some node over here on the left. It used to point to this node. Now we have to change it to point to the left version, the left half of the node. And there's some node over on the right. We have to change it left pointer to point to uh this right half of the node. But that's it. Constant time. Okay. So this is this doesn't fall under the category of easy tree augmentation because this is not isolated to the subree. We're also dealing with its left and right sub trees. But still easy to do in constant time. uh merging nodes is going to be similar. Uh if we steal a node from our uh parent then or from our sibling, nothing happens in terms of level lengths. But if we have say an empty node and a node that cannot afford any stealing. So we have single child here two children and we merge it into uh we're taking something from our parent bringing it down and we have three children afterwards. Again we used to have these these uh level pointers. Now we just have these level pointers. It's easy to maintain. It's just a constant sized neighborhood. Because we have the level links, we can get to our left and right neighbors and change where the links point to. So easy to maintain in constant time. I'll call it constant overhead. Every time we do a splitter merge, we spend uh an additional constant time to do it. We're already spending constant time, so just changes everything by a constant factor. So far so good. Uh, now I'm going to have to tweak this data structure a little bit, but let me first tell you why. What am I trying to achieve with this data structure? What I'm trying to achieve is something called uh the finger search property this is uh so let's just think about the case where I'm doing uh a successful search. I'm searching for a key X and I find it in the data structure. I find it in the tree. Uh suppose I found one. I searched for X. I found it. And then I searched for another key Y. Actually, I think I'll do the reverse. I first I found Y. Now I'm searching for X. If X and Y are nearby in the tree, I want this to run especially fast. For example, if X is a successor of Y, I want this to take constant time. That would be nice. uh in the worst case x and y are very far away from me in the tree then I wanted to take login time. So how could I interpolate between uh constant time for finding the the successor and login time for finding the uh worstase search. So I'm going to call this search of X from Y. Meaning uh this is a little imprecise, but what I mean is when I call search, I tell it where I've already found Y. And here it is. Here's the node storing Y. And now I want to I'm given a key X and I want to find that key X given the node that stores key Y. So how long should this take? What would be a good way to interpolate between constant time at one extreme in the good case when x and y are basically neighbors in in the sorted order versus uh log n time in the worst case. Yeah, the distance along the graph distance along the graph that would be one reasonable definition. Um, so I me I have a tree which you can think of as a graph. Measure the shortest path length from X to Y or or we have a more sophisticated graph over here. Uh maybe that that length. The trouble with the distance in the graph that's a reasonable suggestion, but it's very data structure specific. If I use an AVL tree without level links, then the distance could be one thing. Whereas if I use a 23 tree, even without level lengths, it's going to be a different distance. If I use a 23 tree with level lengths, it's going to be yet another distance. So that's a little unsatisfying. Uh I want this to be an answer to a question. Uh I don't want to phrase the question in terms of that data structure. Yeah. Difference between ranks between X and Y. That's close. So, I'm going to look at rank of X and rank of Y. Let's say take the absolute difference. That's kind of how far away they are in sorted order. Do you want to add anything? Log. Yeah. Because uh in the worst case, the difference in ranks could be linear. So, uh I want to add a log out here to get log N in that worst case. add a big O for safety. That's how much time we want to achieve. So this would be the finger search property that you can solve this problem in this much time. So again difference in ranks is at most n. So this is at most log n. But if y is the successor of x, this will only be constant and this will be constant. So this is great if you're doing lots of searches and you're always you tend to search for things that are nearby but sometimes you search for things that are far away. This gives you a nice nice bound. Uh so um on the one hand we have this is our goal log difference of ranks. On the other hand we have the suggestion that what we can achieve is something like the distance in the graph. Uh but we have a problem with this. I used to think that data structure solved this problem but it doesn't. Um so let me just draw actually I have a tree right there and I use that one. Suppose uh x is here and y is here. Okay, this is a bit of a small tree, but if you think about it long enough, uh this node is the predecessor of this node. So their difference in rank should be one. But the the distance in the graph here is two. Okay, not very impressive. But in general, you have a tree of height log n. If you look at the root and the predecessor of the root, they will have a rank difference of one by definition of predecessor, but the graph distance will be log n. So that's bad news because if we're only following pointers, there's no way to get from here to there in constant time. So we're not quite there. Uh we're going to use a different another tweak on that data structure which is uh store the data in the leaves. I tried to find a data structure that didn't require this and still got finger search but as far as I know there is none no such data structure. So uh if if you've looked if you look at say Wikipedia about B trees you'll see there's a ton of variations of B trees B plus trees B star trees. This is one of those I think B+ trees. Um as you saw B trees are two three trees. Every node stored uh one or two keys and each key only existed in one spot. We're still only going to put each key in one spot kind of uh but it's only going to be the leaf spots. Okay, good news is most nodes are leaves, right? Constant fraction of the nodes are going to be leaves. So it doesn't change too much from an efficiency space efficiency standpoint if we just put data down here and don't put I'm not going to put any keys up here for now. Okay. Uh so this is a little weird. Let me draw an example of such a tree. So maybe we have two and five and seven and uh eight nine. Let's say uh let's put a one here. So I'm going to have a node here with three children, a node here with two children, and here's a node with two children. So I think this mimics this tree roughly. I got Oh no, I got it exactly right. So here I've taken this tree structure. I've redrawn it. There's now no keys in these nodes. But everything else is going to be the same. Every node is going to have zero children if it's a leaf or two or three children otherwise. Never have one child because then you wouldn't get logarithmic depth. All the leaves are going to be at the same depth. Uh and that's it. Okay, that is uh 23 tree with the data stored in the leaves. It's a useful trick to know. Uh now we're going to do a level linked 23 tree. So in addition to that picture, we're going to have links like this. Okay. And I should check that I can still do insert and delete into these structures. It's actually not too hard. Uh but let's think about it. Uh I think actually it might be easier. Let's let's see. Uh so if I want to do an insert uh okay I have to first search for where I'm inserting. Uh I haven't told you how to do search yet. Um okay so let's first think about search. What we're going to do is uh data structure augmentation. we have simple tree augmentation. Um, so I'm going to do it and at each node what the functions I'm going to store are the minimum key in the subree and the maximum key in the subree. There are there are many ways to do this but uh here I think this is kind of the simplest. So what that means is at this node I'm going to store one as the min and seven as the max. Uh and at this node it's going to be one at the min and nine at the max. And here we have eight is the min and nine as the max. Again, min and max of sub trees are easy to store. If I ever change a node, I can update it uh based on its children just by looking at the min of the leftmost child and the max of the rightmost child. Right? If I had to if I didn't know one and nine, I could just look at this min and that max and that's going to be the min and the max of the overall tree. So in constant time I can update the min and the max of a node given the min and the max of its children. Uh special case is at the leaves. Then you have to actually look at keys and compare them. But leaves only have at most two keys. So pretty easy to compare them. Uh constant time. Okay. So that's how I do the augmentation. Now how do I do a search? Well, if I'm at a node and I'm searching for a key uh well let's say I'm at this node. I'm searching for a key like uh eight. What I'm going to do is look at all of the children. In this case, there's two. In the worst case, there's three. I look at the min and max and I see where does eight fall. Well, it falls in this interval. If I was searching for seven and a half, I'd know it's not there. It's somewhere. It's going to be in between here. If I'm doing successor, uh then uh I'll go to the right. If I'm doing predecessor, I'll go to the left and then take the either the maximum item or the minimum item. If I'm searching for eight, I see, oh, eight falls in the interval between eight and nine. So, I should clearly take the right child among those two children. In general, there's three children, three intervals, constant time. I can find where my key falls in the interval. Okay, so search is going to take login time again, provided I have these mins and maxes. Okay, so it's it's you think stare at it long enough, this is pretty much the same thing as regular search in a 23 tree. Uh but I've put the data just one level down. Okay, good. That was regular search. Uh I still need to do finger search, but we'll get there. Uh now, if I want to do an insert into this data structure, uh what happens? Well, I search for the key. Let's say I'm inserting six. Uh so maybe I go here. I say oh six because six is in this interval. Uh six is in neither of these intervals. So uh but it's closest to the interval 25 or the interval 7. Let's say I go down to 25. And well to insert six I'll just add a six on there. Of course now that note is too big. So there's still going to be a split case at the leaves where I have uh let's say A B C too many keys. I'm going to split that into AB and C. This is different from before. It used to be I would promote B to the parent because the parent needed a key there. Now parents don't have keys. So I'm just going to split this thing roughly in half. It works. Uh it's still the case that whoever was the parent up here now has an additional child. One more child. So maybe that node now has four children, but it's supposed to be two or three. So if I have a node with four children, what I'm going to do supposed to use these fancy arrows. Uh what do I do in this case? I'm just going to split that into two nodes with two children. Okay. And again, this used to have a parent. Now that parent has an additional child, and that may cause another split. It's just like before. We'll just potentially split all the way up to the root. If we split the root, then we get an additional level. But uh we can do all this and we can still maintain our uh level links if we want, but everything will take login. I won't draw the delete case. It's uh delete is slightly more annoying, but I think in this case, you never have to worry about where's the key coming from. from your child or your your parent. You're just uh you're just merging nodes. So it's a little bit simpler, but you have to deal with the leaf case separately from the non-leaf case. Okay. So all this was to convince you that we can store data in the leaves. Two three trees still work fine. Now I claim that the graph distance in level link trees is within a constant factor of the finger search bound. So I claim I can get the finger search property in two three trees with data in the leaves with level links. Okay. So lots of changes here but in the end we're going to get a finger search bound. Let's go here. So, here's a finger search operation. Uh first thing I want to do is identify uh a node that I'm working with. I want to start from y's node. And we're so we're supposing that we're told the node a leaf uh that contains y. So I'm going to let uh v be that leaf. Okay? because we're supposing we've already found y and now all the data is in the leaf. So give me the leaf that contains y. So that should take constant time. That's just part of the input. Now I'm going to do a combination of going up and horizontal. So I'm starting at a leaf and uh the first thing I'm going to do is check does this leaf contain what I want. Does it contain the key I'm searching for which is x. So that's going to be the case at every node I store the min and the max. So if x happens to fall between the min and the max then I'm happy. Then I'm going to do uh a regular search uh in these subree. Okay, this seems weird in the case of a leaf. In the case of a leaf, this is just check the two keys that are there whe which one is x. Okay. But in general, uh I gave you this search algorithm which was uh if uh I decide which child to take according to the ranges, that's a downward search. So that's what I'm calling regular search here. Maybe downward would be a little better. This is the usual login time thing. Uh but we're going to claim a bet a bound better than login. If this is not the case, then I know X either falls before V do min or after V domax. So if X is less than V dot min, then I'm going to uh go left. V equals V dot uh I'll call it level left to be clear. You might say left is the left child, but there's no left child here, of course, but level left is clear. we take the horizontal left pointer uh and otherwise uh x is greater than v domax and in that case uh we'll go right that seems logical and in both cases we're going to uh go up x= x dot parent oops v= parent X is not changing here. X is a key we're searching for. V is the node. V for vertex. So we're always going to go up and then we're going to go either left or right. And we're going to keep doing that until we find a sub tree that contains X in terms of key range. Then we're going to stop this part and we're just going to do downward search. I should say uh return here or something. uh I'm going to do a downward search which was this regular algorithm and then whatever it finds that's what I return. Okay, I claim the algorithm should be clear. What's less clear is that it achieves the bound that we want. But I claim this will achieve the finger search property. Uh let me draw a picture of what this thing looks like kind of generically. on small examples, it's hard to see what's going on. So, I'm going to draw a piece of a large example. So, uh let's say we start here. This is where Y was. I'm searching for X. Let's suppose X is to the right just because otherwise I go to the other board. Um so X is to the right. I'll discover that the range, you know, with just this node, this node maybe contains one other key. I'll find that range is too uh small. So I'm going to go follow the level right pointer and I get to some other node. Then I'm going to go to the parent. Maybe the parent was the parent of those two ch children. So I'm going to draw it like that. Um maybe I find this range is still too too low. I need to go right to get to X. So I'm going to follow a level pointer to the right. Uh I find a new subree. U I'll go to its parent. uh maybe I find that this subree still the max is too small so I have to go to the right again and then I take the parent uh so this was an example of a rightward parent here's an example of a leftward parent this is maybe the parent of both of these two children uh then maybe this subree is still too small the max is still smaller than x so then I go right one more time uh then I follow the parent always alternating between right and parent until I find a node whose subree contains X. It might have actually X may be down here because I immediately went to the parent without checking whether I found where X is. But if I know that X is somewhere in here, then I will do a downward search. Uh it might go left and then down here or it might go right or there's actually plus potentially three children. one of these searches will find the key X that I'm looking for because uh I'm in the case where X is between V domin X doesn't exist but it's uh predecessor or successor is in there somewhere. uh and so one of these three sub trees will contain the x range and then I go follow that path and keep going down uh until I find x or its predecessor or successor. Once I find its predecessor, I can use a level right pointer to find its successor and so on. So that's kind of the general picture of what's going on. We keep going rightward and we keep going up. Now uh suppose we do k up steps. Let's look at this uh this last step here. Uh step k. How high am I in the tree? I started at the leaf level. Remember in a 23 tree all the leaves have the same level and I went up every step. Uh sorry. Uh I don't know what this is like the two-step dance uh where when I let's say every iteration of this loop I do one left or right step and then a parent step. So uh I should call this iteration K. I guess there's two K steps then to be clear. Uh so in iteration K that means I've gone up K times and I've gone either right or left K times. You can show if you start going right you'll keep going right. If you keep if you initially go left you'll keep going left. That doesn't matter too much. Um at iteration K I am at height K or K minus one or however you want to count. Okay but let's call it K. So when I do this right pointer here, I know that uh for example, I am skipping over all of these keys. All the keys down, the keys are in the leaves. So all these keys down here, I'm jumping over them. How many keys are down there? Can you tell me uh roughly how many keys I'm skipping over when I'm moving right at height K? It's not a unique answer, but you can give me some bounds. Say again. It's like the number number of children to the k power. Yeah, except we don't know the number of children, but it's between two and three. Sorry, cluster one should be easy, but uh I fail. Um so it's between two and three children. So there's uh the number if you look at a uh a height k tree, how many leaves does it have? It's going to be between 2 to the k and 3 to the k. because I have between two and three children at every node. And so it's exponential in K. That's all I'll need. And so, okay, when I'm at height K here, I'm skipping over a height k minus one tree or something. uh but it's going to be so in iteration k I'm I'm skipping uh at least some constant times 2 to the k maybe 2 the k minus one or 2 the k minus 2 I don't I'm being very sloppy it doesn't matter as long as it's exponential in k I'm happy because I'm supposing that x and y are somewhat close let's call this rank difference d then I claim the number of iterations I'll need to do in this loop is at most order log d because if uh when I get to the kth iteration I'm jumping over 2 to the k elements how how large does k have to be before 2 to the k is larger than uh d well log d log base 2 So uh the number of iterations is order log d where d is the rank difference. d is the absolute value between rank of x and rank of y. Okay, I'm being a little uh sloppy here. You probably want to use an induction. You need to show that they're really these items here that you're skipping over that are strictly between X and Y. But we know that there's only D items between X and Y. Actually, D minus one, I guess. So, uh as soon as we've skipped over all the items between X and Y, then we'll find a range that contains X and then we'll go do the downward search. Now, how long does the downward search cost? Whatever the height of the tree is. What's the height of the tree? That's the number of iterations. So, total cost, the downward search will cost the same as the rest of the search. And so, total cost is going to be order log d. Clear? Any questions about uh finger searching with level length data at the leaves? uh two three trees. Yeah. So I'm not sure what is I'm defining D to be the rank of X minus rank of Y. So then my goal is to achieve a log D bound and I'm claiming that because uh once I've skipped over D items then I'm done. Then I found X and that and in at step K I'm skipping over to the K items. So how big is K going to be? Log D. That's all. Yeah, that was just not I use D for notation here. Cool. So, uh finger searching it's nice especially if you're doing many consecutive searches that are all relatively close to each other. Uh but that was easy. Let's do a more difficult augmentation. Right. Uh so the last topic for today is range trees. This is probably the coolest example of augmentation at least that you'll see in this class. If you want to see more, you should take advanced data structure 6851. Uh, and range trees solve a problem called orthogonal range searching. Not orthogonal search ranging. Uh, orthogonal range search. So, uh, what's the problem? I'm going to give you a bunch of points. Draw them as fat dots so you can actually see them. Uh, in some dimension. So, here's this is, for example, a 2D point set. Okay. Over here, I will draw a 3D point set. You can tell the difference, I'm sure. there. Now it's a 3D point set. Uh, and this is a static point set. You could make this dynamic, but let's just think about the static case. Uh, don't want the 2D points and the 3D points to mix. So, um, now you get to pre-process this into a data structure. So, it's a static data structure problem. And now I'm going to come along with a whole bunch of queries. A query will be a box. Okay. In two dimensions, a box is a rectangle something like this. Axis aligned. So I give you an x min, an xmaxx, a y min, and a yax. I want to know what are the points inside. Maybe I want you to list them. There's a lot of them. It's going to take a long time to list them. Maybe I just want to know 10 of them as examples. You know, maybe this is a Google search or something. I just get the first 10 results on the first page. I hit next, then I want the next 10. that kind of thing. Uh, or maybe I want to know how many search results there are, number of points in the rectangle, bunch of different problems. In 3D, it's a a 3D box, which is a little harder to draw, but or can't really tell which points are inside the box. Let's say these three points are all inside the box. I give you an interval in X, an interval in Y, and an interval in Z. And I want to know what are the points inside. Count how many are there? List them all. List 10 of them. Whatever. Okay. Uh I want to do this in poly log time. Let's say I'm going to do I'm going to achieve today log squared for the 2D problem and log cubed for the 3D problem plus whatever the size of the output is. So let me just write that down. So the goal is to pre-process end points in dimensions. Uh so you get to spend a bunch of time pre-processing to support a query which is uh given a box axis aligned box uh find let's say the number of points in the box uh find k points in the box. I think that's good. That includes a special case of find all the points in the box. Uh so this of course we have to pay a penalty of order k for the output. Okay, no getting around that. Uh but I want the the rest of the time to be log to the d So we're going to achieve log to the dn plus size of the output and you get to control how big you want the output to be. So it's a pretty reasonable data structure in a certain sense. We will understand what the output is in log to the d time. If you actually want to list points well then you have to spend the time to do it. All right. So 2D and 3D are great but let's start with 1D first. We should understand 1D completely. Then we can generalize. 1D we already know how to do. But 1D I have a line. I have some points on the line. and I'm given as a query some interval and I want to know how many points are in the interval. Give me the points in the interval and so on. So how do I do this anyways? uh if d is one so I want to achieve log d sorry log n plus size of output I hear whispers yeah segment segment tree that's fancy we won't cover segment trees you probably probably segment tries do it but yeah we know lots of ways to do Yeah, sorted array is probably the simplest. If I store the items in a sorted array and I have two values here, I'll call them uh x1 and x2 because it's the like the x min and the xmaxx. Uh binary search for x1, binary search for x2, find the successor of x1 and the predecessor of x2. I'll find these two guys and then I know all the ones in between. That's the match. Okay, so that'll take login time to find those points and then we're good. Okay, so we could do a sorted array. Uh, of course sorted array is a little hard to generalize. Uh, I don't want to do a 2D array. That sounds bad. Uh, you could of course do a binary search tree like an AVL tree. Same thing because we have login search find successor predecessor. I guess you could use van deoas but that's hard to generalize to 2D. Um, you could use level linked. Here's a fancy version. Uh, we could use level linked uh two three trees with data in the leaves. Then once I find xmin, I find this point I can go to the successor in constant time because that's a finger search with a rank difference of one. And I could just keep calling successor and in constant time per item, I will find the next item. So we could do that easily with the sorted array. BST is not so great if because successor might cost login each time. Uh but if I have the level lengths then basically I'm just walking down the link list at the bottom of the tree. Okay. So actually level is even better. Uh BST would achieve something like uh log n plus k log n where k is the size of the output. If there are k or if I want k points in the box, I have to pay log n for each level linked. I'll only pay log n plus k. Here I actually only need the levels at at the leaves, but the level lengths. Okay. All all good. But I actually want to tell you a different way to do it uh that will generalize better. So, the pictures are going to look just like the pictures we've talked about. So because I'm uh so this these would actually work dynamically. Uh my goal here is just to achieve a static data structure. I'm gonna idealize uh this solution a little bit and just say uh suppose I have a perfect perfectly balanced binary search tree. That's going to be my data structure. Okay, so the data structure is not hard. Uh but what's interesting is how I do a range search. So if I do a range query of the interval, I'll call it AB. Then what I'm just what I'm going to do is do a binary search for A. Do a binary search for B. Uh trim the common prefix of those search paths. That's basically finding the lowest common ancestor of those of A and B and then I'm going to do some stuff. Let me draw the picture. So here is suppose here's the node that contains A. Here's the node that contains B. They may not be at the same depth. Who knows? U then I'm going to look at the parents of A. I mean I just came down from some path here. and some path down to B. I want to find this branching point where the paths to A and the paths to B diverge. So, uh let's just look at the parent of A. It could be a right parent. Uh I guess draw that like that in which case there's a sub tree here. It could be a left parent case sub tree here. Uh I'm going to follow my convention again that X coordinate corresponds roughly to key. So maybe something like this. Left parent here. Maybe right parent here. Okay. something like that. Uh okay, remember it's a perfect tree. So actually all the leaves will be at the same level. And roughly here x coordinate corresponds to key. So here was a and I want to return all the keys that are between a and b. So that's everything in this sweep line. Okay. The parents of the LCA don't matter because this parent is either going to be way over to the right or way over to the left. In both cases, it's outside the interval A to B. So what I've tried to highlight here and I will color it in blue is the relevant nodes for the search between A and B. So A is between A and B. Uh this subree is greater than A and less than B. Uh this node and these nodes, this node and these nodes, this node and these nodes. uh the common ancestor and then the corresponding thing over here. Okay, all the nodes in all these blue sub trees plus these individual nodes fall in the interval between A and B. And that's it. Okay, this should look super familiar. It's just like when we were computing rank. We were trying to figure out how many guys are to our left or to our right. We're basically doing a rightward rank from A and a leftward rank from B. And that finds all the nodes and and stopping when those two searches converge. And then we're finding all the nodes between A and B. Okay, I'm not going to write down the pseudo code. Same kind of thing. You look at right parents and left parents. Whenever you you just walk up from A. Whenever you get a right parent, then you want that node and the subtree to its right. And so that will highlight these nodes. Same for B, but you look at left parents. And then you stop when those two searches converge. So you're going to do them in lock step. You do one step for A and B, one step for A and B, and when they happen to hit the same node, then you're done. You you add that node to your list. And what you end up with is a bunch of nodes and rooted sub trees. The things I circled in blue is going to be my return value. So I'm going to return all of these nodes explicitly and I'm also going to return these sub trees. I'm not going to have to write them down. I'm just going to return the root of the sub tree and say hey look here's an entire subree that contains nodes points that are in the answer. I don't have to list them explicitly. I can just give you the tree. Then if I want to know how many results are in the answer, well just augment to store subree size at at the beginning. Then I can count how many nodes are down here, how many nodes are down here. Add that up for all the triangles and then also add one for each of the blue nodes. And then I've counted the number uh the size of the answer in how much time how many sub trees and how many nodes am I returning here log log nodes and log n rooted sub trees because at each step I'm going up by one for a and up by one for b. So it's like two login. Cool. So I would call this an implicit representation of the answer. From that implicit representation, you can do uh subree size augmentation to count the size of the answer. You can just start walking through one by one. Uh do an in order traversal of the trees and you'll get the first k points in the answer in order K time question. That's right. As I'm walking up the tree, if it's a right parent, then I take the right sub tree and include that in the answer. If it's a left parent, just forget about it. Don't do anything. Just keep following parents. Whenever I do right parent, then I also add that node and the right sub tree. If it's a left parent, I don't include the node. I don't include the left subree. I also don't include the right sub tree. That would have too much stuff. Yep. It's easy when you see the picture. If we write down the algorithm, it's clear. It's left versus right uh parents. Yeah, would you include the left subree of B as well? I would also think you I should color the left subree of B. I didn't apply symmetry perfectly. So we have the right subree of A and the left subree of B. Thanks. Uh I would also include B if it's a closed interval. Okay, slightly more general. If A and B are not in the tree, then this is really the successor of A and this is the predecessor of B. Okay, so then A and B don't have to be in there. This is still a well- definfined range search. Okay, now we really understand 1D. I claim we're we've almost solved all dimensions. All we need is a little bit of augmentation. So, let's do it. Let's start with uh 2D but then 3D and 4D and so on will be easy. Uh why do I care about 4D range trees? Because maybe I have a database. Each of these points is actually just a row in the database which has four columns, four values. And what I'm trying to do here is like find all the people in my database that have a salary between this and this and have an age between this and that and have a profession between this and this. I don't know what that means but uh number of degrees between this and this whatever you if you have some numerical data representing a person or a thing in your database then this is a typical kind of search you want to do and you want to know how many answers you've got and then list the first hundred of them or whatever. So this is a this is a practical thing in databases. It's what you might call an index in the database. Okay. But let's start. Suppose your data is just two dimensional. You have two fields for every item. What I'm going to do is store a 1D range tree on all points by X. So this this data structure makes sense if you fix a dimension. You say X is all I care about. Forget about Y. Still have my point set. Yeah. So what that corresponds to is projecting each of these points onto the X- axis. Okay. And now also projecting my query. So my new query is from here to here in X. And so this data structure will let me find all these points that match in X. Now that's not good because there's actually only two points that I want. But I find four points in this picture. Okay, but it's half of the answer. It's all the X matches forgetting about Y. Now, here's the fun part. So, when I do a search here, I get login nodes. Nodes are good because they have a single key in them. So, I'll just check for each of those login nodes. Do they also match in Y? If they do, add it to the answer. If they don't, forget about it. Okay. But the tricky part is I also get login sub trees representing parts of the answer. So potentially, you know, it could be that your search, this this rectangle only has like five points. But if you look at this whole vertical slab, there's a billion points. Now, luckily, those billion points are represented succinctly. There's just login subtree saying, well, there's half a billion here and a quarter billion here and an eighth of a billion here. Uh so can now for each of those that big chunk of output I want to very quickly find the ones that match in Y. How would I find the ones matching in Y? A range tree. Yeah. Okay. So here's what we're going to do. For each node uh let's call it X uh X X is overloaded. It's a coordinate so many things. Uh let's call it V. Uh in the this thing I'm going to call the X tree. So for every node in the x tree, I'm going to store another 1D range tree, but this time using the y-coordinate uh on all points in these rooted subree. Okay, at this point I really want to draw a diagram. So, uh, rough picture. Okay, forgive me for not drawing this perfectly. Uh this is roughly what the answer looks like for the 1D range search here. This is the X tree and here I've searched between this value and this value in the X coordinate. Basically I have login nodes. I'm going to check those separately. Then I also have these login sub trees. For each of those login subrees I'm going to have a pointer. This is the augmentation to uh another tree of exactly the same size on exactly the same data that's in here. It's also over here, but it's going to be sorted by Y. And it's a 1D range tree by Y. Tons of data duplication here. I took all these points and I copied them over here, but then built a 1D range tree in Y. This is all pre-processing, so I'm not I don't have to pay for this. It's polinomial time. Don't worry too much. Um, and then I'm going to search in here. What does the search in there look? Well, I'm going to get, you know, some more trees and a couple more nodes. Okay, but now those items, those points match in X and Y because this whole subree matched in X and I just did a Y search. So, I found things that matched in Y. So, I get here another login trees that are actually in my answer. And for each of these nodes, I have a corresponding other data structure where I find I do a little search and I get part of the answer. Okay, you get the idea. Everyone sounds huge. State structure sounds huge, but it's actually small. Uh, but one thing that's clear is it takes log squared n time because I have login triangles over here. For each of them I spend log n to find triangles over here. The total output is log squared nodes. For each of them I have to check manually plus uh and so over here I there's log n different searches I'm doing. Each one has size log n. So I get log squared little triangles that contain the results that match in x and y. How much space in this data structure? That's the remaining challenge. Uh actually it's it's not that hard because if you look at a key so look at some key in this X tree. Let's say look at a leaf because that's maybe the most interesting. I'm going to start start over here. Sorry. Here's the X tree. X tree has linear size just one tree. If I look at some key value, well, uh, you know, it lives in this subree. And so there's going to be a corresponding blue structure of that size that contains that key. And then there's the parent. So there's a structure here that has a corresponding blue triangle. And then its parent, that's another triangle that contains I'm looking at a key uh K here. All of these triangles contain the key K. And so key K will be duplicated all this many times. But how many how many sub trees is K in log N each key fundamental fact about uh binary balanced binary search trees. Each key lives in log sub trees namely all of its ancestors. Awesome. Because that means the total space is n login. There's n keys. Each of them is duplicated at most log n times. In general, log to the d minus one. So if you do it in 3D, each of the blue trees, every node in it has a corresponding pointer to a red tree that's sorted by Z. And you just keep doing this sort of nested searching. It's like super augmentation, but you're only losing a log factor each dimension you add.