The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. about a theorem that was quite powerful and applied to complex vector spaces for all V belonging to V complex vector space. This implied that the operator was zero and uh it's not true for real vector spaces and uh we gave a proof that made it clear that indeed u proof wouldn't work for a real vector space. I will ask you in the homework to do something that uh presumably would be the first thing you would do if you had to try to understand why this is true. take 2x two matrices and just see why it has to be zero in one case and it doesn't have to be zero in the other case and uh I think that will give you a a better perspective on why this happens and u then once you do it for 2x two and you see how it works you can do it for n byn um matrices and it will be clear as well so we'll use this theorem our immediate application of this theorem was application. a well-known result that uh you could prove now rigorously that t is equal to t dagger which is to say the operator is equal to the adjint and I still I think I will call this and in the notes you will see always the adjint as opposed to her mission conjugate and I will say whenever the operator is equal to the adjint that it is hermission. So a hermission operator is equivalent to saying that V TV is a real number for all V. And we prove that in other words physically her mission operators have real expectation values. This is an expectation value because as as you remember in the bracket notation vtv you could write it v t v it's the same thing. So it is an expectation value. So it's an important thing because we usually deal with hermission operators and we want expectation values of hermission operators to be real. Now now that we're talking about hermission operators, I will delay a complete discussion of u diagonalization and diagonalization of several operators simultaneously for the next lecture. Um today I want to move forward a bit and do some other things and uh this way we spread out a little more the math and uh we can begin to look more at u physical issues and how they apply here. But at any rate, we're just here already and we can prove two basic things that uh are the kind of things that an 805 student should be able to prove at any time. They're really very simple and uh it's a kind of proof that is very short couple of lines something you should be able to reproduce at any time. So the first theorem says the igen values of hermission operators. H is for her mission are real and of I will do a little bit of a notation in which I will start with an expression and evaluate it sort of to the left and to the right. So when you have an equation you start here and you start evaluating there. So I will start with this. consider v TV and I will box it as being the origin and I will start evaluating it. Now if V is an igon vector. So let V be an igon vector on vector vector. So that um TV is equal to lambda V and now we say consider that expression in the box and you try to evaluate it. So one way to evaluate it, I evaluate to the left and then evaluate to the right is the naive evaluation. T on V is lambda V. So substitute it there. V lambda V. We know it. And then by homogenity this lambda goes out and therefore it's lambda VV. On the other hand, we have that we can go to the right. And what is the way you move an operator to the first position? By putting a dagger. That's a definition. So this is by definition. By definition. Now we use that the operator is hermission. So this is equal to t v and this is by t hermission. Then you can apply again the equation of the igon value. So this is v and by conjugate homogeneity of the first input this is lambda star vv. So at the end of the day you have something on the extreme left something on the extreme right. V if it's if there is an igon vector V can be assumed to be non zero. Um the way we are saying things in a sense zero we also think of it as an igon vector but it's a trivial one but uh the fact that there's an igon value means there's a nonzero v that solves this equation. So we're using that nonzero v and therefore this is a number that is non zero. You bring one to the other side and you have lambda minus lambda star time v equals zero. This is different from zero. This is different from zero and therefore lambda is equal to lambda star. So it's a classic proof of relatively straightforward. The second theorem is as simple to prove and um it's already interesting and it states that different vectors of a hermission operator um well different values of hermission operators correspond to orthogonal functions or vectors. So different values of hermission ops correspond to orthogonal functions on vectors I'm sorry. So what are we saying here? We're saying that suppose you have a v1 that acted on t gives you a lambda 1 v1. It's one value. You have another one v2 is equal to lambda 2 v2 and lambda 1 is different from lambda 2. Now just focusing on a fact that is going to show up later and it's going to cause uh make life interesting is that some values may have a multiplicity of igon vectors. In other words, it's not, you know, if a vector V is an igon vector, minus V is an igon vector. Square root of 3 V is an igon vector, but that's a onedimensional subspace. But sometimes for a given value, there might be a higher dimensional subspace of vectors. That's a problem of degeneracy and it's very interesting. Makes life really interesting in quantum mechanics. So if you have degeneracy in that set of iggon vectors form a subspace and you can choose a basis and you could have several vectors here. Now what do you do in that case? The theorem doesn't say much. So it means choose anyone. If you had a basis there choose anyone. The fact remains that if these two igon values are different then you will be able to show that the igon vectors are orthogonal. So if you have some space of vectors a degenerate higher dimensional space of igon vectors one value and another space with another value any vector here is orthogonal to any vector there. So how do you show this? How do you show this property? Well, uh you have to involve V_sub_1 and V2. So you're never going to be using the property that T is her mission unless you have an inner product. So if you didn't have any idea how to prove that you presumably at some stage realize that you probably have to use an inner product and we should mix the vector. So maybe a V2 inner product with this. So we'll take a V2 inner product with TV1. And this is interesting because uh we can use the that TV1 is lambda 1 v1 to show that this is just lambda 1 v2 v1 and that already brings all kinds of good things. You're interested in this inner product. You want to show it zero so it shows up. So it's a good idea. So we've evaluated this and now you have to think of evaluating it in a different way. Again the operator is her mission. So it's asking you to move it to the other side and exploit that. So we'll move it to the other side a little quicker this time. Goes AST dagger but t dagger is equal to t because it's her mission. So this is equal to so this is the center of the equation. We go one way we go the other way. this time down. So we'll put t v2 v1 and this is equal to lambda let let me go a little slow here. uh lambda 2 v2 v1. Uh your impulse should be oh it goes out as lambda 2 star but the igon values are already real. So it goes out as lambda 2 v2 v1 because the operator is hermission. So at this moment you have these two equations. You bring say this to the right hand side and you get lambda 1 minus lambda 2 vub1 v2 is equal to zero. And since the igen values are supposed to be different you conclude that v1 inner product with v2 is zero. So that's the end of the proof. And uh and those are the two properties that are very quickly proven with rather little effort. So what do we go? Where do we go from now? Well, there's one more class of operators that are crucial in the physics. They're perhaps the as important as the hermission operators if not more. They are some operators that are called unitary operators. And the way I will introduce them is as follows. So I will say and it's an economical way to introduce them. So we'll talk about unitary operators. See if S is unitary and mathematicians call it an isometry. If you find that s acting on any vector, if you take the norm, it's equal to the norm of the vector for all u in the vector space. So let's follow this and uh make a couple of comments. An example, a trivial example. This operator lambda times the identity. Lambda times the identity acts on vectors. What does it do? Lambda times the identity. The identity does nothing on the vector. and lambda stretches it. So lambda in order not to change the length of an iggon ve of any vector should be kind of one. Well, in fact, this suffices is unitary if the absolute value of lambda is equal to one because then lambda is a phase and it just rotates the vector. Or in other words, you know that the norm of AV is equal to the absolute value of A times the norm of V where this is a number. And remember these two norms are different. This is the norm of a vector. This is the norm of a complex number. And therefore if you take lambda I lambda I u norm is lambda u is equal absolute value of lambda u and absolute value of lambda is equal to one is the answer. So that's a simple unitary operator but a important one. Another observation um what are the vectors annihilated by this operator u zero is the only vector because any other vector is non zero has some length so it's not killed so it kills only zero so um the null space of S is equal to zero vector. So this operator has no kernel. Nothing non-trivial is put to zero. It's an invertible operator. So s is invertible. Vertible. So that's a few things that you get very cheaply. Now from this equation s u= u. If you square that equation you would have s u s u is equal to u u. Maybe I should call it v. I don't know why I call it u but let's stick to you. Now remember that we can move operators from one side to the other. So I'll move this one to that side. If you move an S here, you would put an S dagger. But since the dagger of uh of an S dagger is S, you can move also the S to that side as an S dagger. So U S dagger S U. You see that if you want to move this one, you can move it by putting another dagger and you get that one. And this is u u and therefore you get dagger s minus the identity acting on u is equal to zero for all u. So for every vector this is true because this is true. We just squared it. And now you have our favorite theorem that says if this is true in a complex vector space this is zero. And therefore you've shown that s dagger s is equal to one. So that's another property of uh unitary operators. In fact that's the way it's many times defined. Unitary operators sometimes are said to be operators whose inverse is s dagger. I will not go into the subtleties of whether what steps in all these things I'm saying are true or not true for infinite dimensional operators um infinite dimensional vector spaces. So I will assume and it will be true in our examples that if s dagger is an inverse from the left it's also an inverse from the right and perhaps um everything is true for infinite dimensional operator vector spaces but I'm not 100% positive. So s dagger is the inverse dagger is the inverse of s and u that's pretty important thing. So one last comment has to do unitary operators has to do with bases. So suppose you have an orthonormal basis E1 E up to E N. Now you can define another basis um fi equal I'll I'll change to a letter u ei where u is unitary so it's like the s in fact most books in physics call u for unitary So maybe I should have changed that letter there too as well. So suppose you change bases, you put oh there was something else I wanted to say before. Thanks to this equation, consider now the following thing. S U SV S U SV. You can move this S for example to the other side is S dagger S U V and S dagger S is equal to one and it's UV. So this is a pretty nice property. We started from the fact that it preserved the norm of a single vector of all vectors and now you see that in fact it preserves the inner product. So if you have two vectors to compute their inner product compute them after action with u or before action with u and it doesn't make a difference. So suppose you define a second basis here. You have one orthonormal basis. You define basis vectors like this. Then the claim is that the f_sub_1 up to fn is orthonormal. And for that you simply do the following. Just check fi fj is equal to u ei u ej by this property you can delete both u's and therefore this is e i ej and that's delta j. So the new basis is orthonormal. If you play with these things, it's easy to get uh some extra curious fact here. Let's think of the matrix representation of um of the operator U. U well we know how these things are and let's think of this in the basis E basis so U KI is equal to E K U U E EI that's the definition of U in the basis E the matrix elements of U. You can try to figure out what is UKI in the F basis. How does the operator U look in the F basis? Well, let's just do it without thinking. Um so in the f basis I would put f k u fi. Well but f k is u e k. So I'll put u e k u fi. Now I can delete both U's and it's E K FI and I can remember what FI was which is E U EI and it's just the same as the one we had there. So the operator unitary operator looks the same in both bases. Now, that might seem strange or a coincidence, but it's not. So, I leave it to you to think about that and visualize why did that happen? What's what's the reason? So the bracket notation we've been using it here and there and uh I will ask you to please read the notes. The notes will be posted this afternoon and they will have not maybe all we've done today but they will have some of what we'll do today and all of what we've been doing. And the way it's done is first done in the sort of inner product language and then things are done in the bracket language and it's a little repetitious and I'm trying to take out some things here and there so it's less repetitious but um at this moment it's probably worth reading it and reading it again. Yes. Uh is that true in reverse as well? If you have two orthonormal bases is the transformation necessarily unitary. Yes. Yes. All right. So, so as I was saying, we're going to go into the dra notation again. And here is an example of a place where everybody I think tends to use direct notation. And the reason is a a little curious and uh you will appreciate it quite fast. Um so this will be the case of where we return to X and P operators and uh nondenuable bases non denuablerable bases. So uh we're going to try to do X and P. Now this is the classic of dra notation. It's probably as I said the place where everybody likes to use direct notation and the reason it's efficient is because it prevents you from confusing two things. So what was the you know I I've written in the notes that we have all these V's that belong to the vector space and then we put this and we still say it belongs to the vector space and this is just a decoration that doesn't do much and we can play with this. Now in the non-denuable bases the catch and the possible confusion is that the label is not quite a vector in the vector space. So that that is the reason why the notation is helpful because it helps you and helps you distinguish two things that you could confuse. So here here we go. We're going to talk about coordinates X and the X operator and the states. Well, this is a state space. So, what kind of states do we have here? Well, we've talked about wave functions as we could give the value of the wave function at different places. We're going to go for a more intrinsic definition. We're going to try to introduce position states and position states will be called this x. Now what is the meaning of this position state? We should think of this intuitively as a particle at X. Now, here is how you can go wrong with this thing. If you stop thinking for a second, what is then ax? Is it a x? a being a number. Is it the same thing? No, not at all. This is a particle at the coordinate ax and this is a particle at x with some different amplitude. Very different. So this is not true. Typical mistake. This is not uh minus x. That that's totally different. So there's no such thing as this either linear. It doesn't mean anything. And the reason is that these things are not our vectors. Our vector is this whole thing that says a particle at X. Maybe to make the the a clearer impression, imagine you're in three dimensions and you have an X vector. So then you have the K. This this is the cat particle at x. X is now a vector but it's a three-dimensional vector. This is a vector but it's a vector in an infinite dimensional space because a particle can be anywhere. So this is a vector in quantum mechanics. This is a complex vector space. This is a real vector space and it's the label here. So again min - x is not minus x vector. It it's not the vector. The addition of the bra has moved you from vectors that you're familiar with to states that are a little more abstract. So the reason this notation is quite good is because this is a number but this is or this is a coordinate and this is a vector already. So these are going to be our basis states and they're non-denuable basis states. And here you can have that all x must belong to the real numbers because we have particles in a line. While this thing can be changed by real numbers, the states can be multiplied by complex numbers because we're doing quantum mechanics. So if you want to define a vector space now this is all infinite dimensional it's a little worse in the sense the basis is non-enuable. If I use this basis I cannot make a list of all the basis vectors. So for the inner product we will take the following. We will take x with y to be delta of x - y. That will be our inner product. And it has all the properties of the inner product um that we may want. And uh what else? Well, at this moment we can try to this this is physically sensible. Let me say because if you have a particle at one point and a particle at another point, the amplitude that this particle at one point is at this other point is zero. And these states are not normalizable. They correspond to a particle at a point. So once you try to normalize them, you get infinity and you can't do much. But what you can do here is uh state more of the properties and learn how to manipulate this. So remember we had one was the sum of all ei the unit operator was that well let's try to write a similar one. The unit operator will be the sum over all x's. And uh you could say, well, looks reasonable, but maybe there's a 1/2 in here or some factor. Well, no factor is needed. You can check that that you've defined this thing properly. So, let me do it. So act on this so-called resolution of the identity with the vector y. So one on y is equal to y. And now let's act on the right. x x y. This is delta of x - y. And then when you integrate you get y. So we're fine. So this looks a little too abstract, but it's not abstract if you now introduce wave functions. So let's do wave functions. So um you have a particle a state of a particle pi. Time would be irrelevant. So I will put just this pi like that without the bottom line. And uh let's look at it. Oh, I want to say one more thing. Um the x operator acts on the x states to give x. So these are states of the x operator. We declare them to be igon states of the x operator with iggon value x. That's their physical interpretation. I probably should have said that before. Now if we have a pi as a state or a vector, how do we get the wave function? Well, in this language, the wave function which we call p of x is defined to be the overlap of x with pi. And that makes sense because this overlap is a function of this label here where the particle is and therefore the result is a complex number that is dependent on x. So this belongs to the complex numbers because inner products can have complex numbers. Now I didn't put any complex number here but when you form states you can superpose states with complex numbers. So this pi of x will come out this way. And now you can now that you're armed with that you can even think of this in a nicer way. The state p is equal to 1 * p and then use the res this formula. So this is integral dx x x x and again the bracket notation is quite nice because the brow already meets the k. This is a number and this is dx x s of x. This equation has a nice interpretation. It says that the state is a superposition of the basis states the position states and the component of your original state along the basis state x is precisely the value of the wave function at x. So the wave function at x is giving you the weight of the state x as it enters into the sum. So one can compute more things. Uh you will get practice on this type of computations. They're just limited type of variations that you can do. So uh it's not that um complicated. Basically you can introduce resolutions of the identity wherever you need them. And uh if you introduce too many you waste time but um you typically get the answer anyway. Um so it's it's not too serious. Um so suppose you want to understand what is the inner product of two states. Put a resolution of the identity in between. So put five and then put the integral dx x x. Well, the integral goes out and you get five x xi and uh remember if x psi is s of x 5x is the complex conjugate. So it's phi star of x and that's what you know you knew that if you have two wave functions and you want to compute their overlap you integrate the complex conjugate of one against the other. So this notation is doing all what you want from this. You want to compute a matrix element of X. Well, put another resolution of the identity here. So this would be integral dx fi the x hat is here and then you put x the x hat on x is x that's what this operator does. So you get integral dx of um I'll put 5x x pi which is what you expect it to be integral of x 5 star of x pi of x. Now we can do exactly the same thing with momentum states. So I don't want to bore you. So I just list the properties. Basis states are momenta where the momenta is real. P prime p is equal delta of p minus p prime. 1 is the integral DP of P P and P hat P is equal to P P. So these are the momentum basis is exactly analogous. So all what we've done for X is true. the completeness and normalization are well work well together like we check there and everything is true. The only thing that you need to make this more interesting is a relation between the x basis and the p basis and that's where physics comes in. Anybody can define this too. But then a physical assumption as to what you really mean by momentum um is necessary. And what we've said is that the wave function of a particle with momentum P is e to the ip x over h bar over square of 2 pih. convenient normalization but uh but that was it. That was our physical interpretation of the wave function of a particle with some momentum. And therefore if this is a wave function that's XP a state of momentum P has this wave function. So we write this Okay. Uh there are checks you can do and please read the notes but uh let's do a little computation. Suppose you want to compute what is p on pi and you can say well I don't know why why would I want to do something with that looks simple enough. Well, it's simple enough, but you could say, I want to see it in terms of wave functions, coordinate space wave functions. Well, if you want to see them in terms of coordinate space wave functions, you have to introduce a complete set of states. So, introduce P XI. Then you have this wave function and oh, this is sort of known because it's the complex conjugate of this. So it's integral dx px / h bar square of 2 pi h bar time p s of x and this was the fia transform what we call the fia transform of the wave function. So we can call it sit tilda of p just to distinguish it. Uh because we call pi with x p s p s p s p s p s p s p s p s p s p s p of x. So if I didn't put a tilda, you might think it's the same functional form, but it's the momentum space wave function. So uh here is the wave function in the p basis. It's the FIA transform of the wave function in the x basis. One last computation and then we change subjects again. It's the classic computation that you have now a mixed situation in which you have the momentum operator states and a coordinate um bra. So what is is the following expression um x p hat s. Okay. What is your temptation? Your temptation is to say look this is like the momentum operator acting on the wave function in the x basis. It can only be har over i dx of s of x. That's probably what it means. Um but the notation is clear enough so we can check if that is exactly what it is. We we can manipulate things already. So let's do it. So for that I first have to try to get rid of this operator. Now the only way I know how to get rid of this operator P is because it has state. So it suggests very strongly that we should introduce momentum states completeness. So I'll put DP X P hat P S P S P S P S P S P S P S P S P S P S P and now I can evaluate a little because P hat and P is little P or P without the hat. So this is P XP P Now you can uh look at that and and think carefully what should you do and there's one thing that you can do is uh look at the equation on top and this is a way to avoid working very hard. So look at the equation on top. XP is equal to that. How do I get a P to multiply this? I can get a P to multiply this XP by doing H bar over I ddx of XP. Because if I see it there, I see that differentiating by h by ddx brings down an ip over h bar. So if I multiply by h bar over i, I get that. So let's do this. Now I claim we can take the h over i dx out of this uh integral and the reason is that first is not an x integral it's a p integral and nothing else except this factor depends on x. So if I take it out and they want to bring it back, it will only act on this because this is not X dependent. So you should think of S. S doesn't have an X dependence. P S is a state and here is P doesn't have an X dependence. No, it does. It looks here. No, but it doesn't have it that has been integrated. It really doesn't have X dependence. So we can take this out. And we'll have h over i dx. And now we have dp x pi. And now by completeness this is just one. So this becomes xi. So h bar over i dx of xi which is what we claimed it would be. So uh this is rigorous rigorous derivation as you know there's u no guessing uh you can introduce complete states until you can see how things act and basically but the moral is here that you shouldn't have to go through this more than once in your life or practice it but once you see something like that you think you're using x representation and you're talking about the operator P. It cannot be anything like that. If you want to practice something different, show that the analog P Xhat pi is equal I H bar DDP of PI tilda of P. So it's the opposite relation. All right, questions. Yes. So, how is one supposed to? So, what it appears is happening is you're basically taking some state like S and you're basically writing in terms of some basis, correct? And then you're basically using the L2 norm on the coordinates of this thing. But the question is what does the this basis actually look like? Like what are these vectors? Because if you put them in their own coordinates, they're just infinite. Yeah, they're not even delta. I mean, they are delta functions. Uh these vectors are delta functions because if you have a state that has this as the position state of a particle, you find the wave function by doing x on it. That's our definition of a wave function. And it's uh infinite. So uh you know it's there's not too much one can say about this. You know if people want to work more ma mathematically in a more comfortable way what you do is instead of taking infinite things you put everything on a big circle and then you have a furious series and the transform is sums and everything goes into sums but there's no real need. These operations are safe and uh we managed to do them and we're okay with them. Other questions? Yes. So infinite basis are these rules for any probably not. You know infinite bases are delicate. Um you know Hilbert spaces are infinite dimensional vector spaces and uh they not every infinite dimensional space is a Hilbert space. Not you know the most important thing of a Hilbert space is this norm this inner product but um the other important thing is some convergence facts about sequences of vectors that converge to points that are on the space. So it's delicate. Infinite dimensional spaces can be pretty bad. A banana space is not a Hilbert space and it's more comp only for Hilbert spaces. and and basically you know this this problem of a particle on a line or a particle in three space is sufficiently well known that we're totally comfortable with this somewhat uh singular operations. So the operator X or the operator P may not be what mathematicians like them to be bounded operators and Hbert spaces but but we know how to not to make mistakes with them. And uh if you have a very subtle problem one day you probably have to be more careful but for the problems we're interested now we don't. So, our last topic today um is uncertainties and uncertainty relations. Um I probably won't get through all of it, but um we'll get started and um and so we'll have uncertainties. necessarily these and uh we will talk about operators and uh permission operators. So here is the question basically if you have a state we know the result of a measurement of an observable is the value of a hermission operator. Now if the state is an iggon state of the hermission operator, you measure the observable and out comes the iggon value and there's no uncertainty in the measured observable because the measured observable is an igon value and the state is an iggon state. The problem arises when the state that you're trying to measure this property is not an iggon state of the observable. So you know that the interpretation of quantum mechanics is there's a probabilistic distribution. You sometimes get one thing, sometimes get another thing depending on the amplitudes of the states to be in in those particular states. But there's an uncertainty at this time. you don't know what the measured value will be. So we'll define the uncertainty associated to a hermission operator and uh we want to define this answer. So a will be a hermission operator operator and you were talking about the uncertainty. Now the uncertainty of that operator the first thing that you should remember is you cannot talk about the uncertainty of the operator unless you give me a state. So all the formulas we're going to write for uncertainties are uncertainties of operators in some state. So let's call the state s and time will not be relevant. So maybe I should delete the the well the I'll leave that bar there um just in case. So we're going to try to define uncertainty. But uh before we do that, let's try to define another thing. The expectation value. Well, the expectation value, you know it, the expectation value of a. And you could put a pi here if you wish to remind you that it depends on on the state is well pi api that's what we call expectation value in the inner product notation would be apai and one thing you know that this thing is real because the expectation values of permission operators is real. That's something we reviewed at the beginning of the lecture today. So now comes the question um what can I do to define an uncertainty of an operator and an uncertainty now we've said already something I wish to define an uncertainty that is such that the uncertainty is zero if the operator if the state is an iggon state and the uncertainty is different from zero if it's not an igen state. In fact, I wish that the uncertainty is zero if and only if the state is an iggon state. So actually we can achieve that and uh and we sort of in some sense I think the most intuitive definition is the one that I will show here is that we define the uncertainty delta a and I'll put the pi here. So this is called the uncertainty of a in the state p. So we'll define it a simple way. What else do we want? We said this should be zero if and only if the state is an iggon state. Second I want this thing to be a real number. in fact a positive number. What function do we know in quantum mechanics that can do that magic? Well, it's a norm. The norm function is always real and positive. So this will try to set it equal to a norm. So claim is the norm of the state a minus expectation value of a * 1 acting on s. This will be our definition of the uncertainty. So it's the norm of this vector. Now let's look at this uh suppose the norm uncertainty is zero and if the uncertainty is zero this vector must be zero. So a minus expectation value of a on s is zero or a pi is equal to expectation value of a on pi. The one doesn't do much. Many people don't write the one. I could get tired and stop writing it. uh you should um probably it's good manners to write the I but uh it's not all that necessary. You don't get that confused. If there's an operator and uh a number here, there must be a identity matrix. So if the uncertainty is zero, the vector is zero and this is true. Now you say well this equation looks kind of funny but it's it says that pi is an igen state of a because this is a number you know it looks a little funny because we're accustom a pi lambda pi but this is a number and in fact let me show you one thing if you have a pi equal lambda pi oh I should say here that pi is normalized. You know if pi would not be normalize you change the normalization you change the uh uncertainty. So it should be normalized. And look at this. If you have a pi equal lambda, do the inner product with a um no do the inner product with pi s, a pi would be equal to lambda because pi inner product with pi is one. But what is this? This is the expectation value of a. So, so actually given our definition the value of some operator uh on the state is the expectation value of the operator in the state. So back to the argument if the uncertainty is zero the state is an enig value happens to be the expectation value that is if the uncertainty is zero. On the other hand, if you're in an igen state, you're here, then lambda is a and this equation shows that this vector is zero and therefore you get zero. So you've shown that this expecta this norm or this uncertainty is zero if and only if the state is an igen state. And that's a very powerful statement. the the statement that is always known by everybody is that um if you have an iggon state yes no uncertainty but if there's no uncertainty you must have an iggon state that's the second part and uses the fact that the only vector with zero norm is the zero vector a thing that we use over and over again. So let me make um couple more comments on how you compute this. Um so that's the uncertainty so far. So the uncertainty vanishes in that case. Now we can square this equation to find a formula that is perhaps more familiar not necessarily more useful but also good for computations is pretty good. Delta a of pi which is real we square it. Well, the norm square is the inner product of this a - a s a - a s norm squared is the inner product of these two vectors. Now the thing that we like to do is to move this factor to that side. How do you move a factor on the first input to the other input? You take the adjint. So I should move it with an adjint. So what do I get? S and then I get the adjint and this factor again. Now I should put a dagger here but let me not put it because a is her mission and moreover expectation value of a is real her. So no need for the dagger. So you can put the dagger and then explain that this is her mission and this is real or just not put it. And now look at this. This is a typical calculation. You'll do it many many times. You just spread out the things. So let me just do it once. U here you get a squared minus a expectation value of a minus expectation value of a a plus expectation value of a squared. Sigh. So I multiplied everything but you shouldn't be all that. I should put a one here probably. Um shouldn't worry about this much. This is a number and an a number and an a. The order doesn't matter. These two terms are really the same. Well let me go slowly on this once. Um what is the first term? It's pi a^2 pi. So it's the expectation value of squared. Now what is this term? Well, you have a number here which is real goes out of whatever you're doing and you have pi api. So this is expectation value of a and from the leftover pi api you get another expectation value of a. So this is a a here the same thing the number goes out and you're left with a pi a pi which is another expectation value of a so you get minus a and you have a plus expectation value of a squared and I don't need the i anymore because uh the expectation values have been taken and this always happens And there's a minus here, a minus here, and a plus here. So there's just one minus at the end of the day. One minus at the end of the day. And the familiar or famous formula comes out that delta of a on squared is equal to expectation value of a^ 2 minus expectation value of a squared which shows something uh quite powerful. This is has connections of course with statistical mechanics and standard deviations. Um is the probabilistic interpretation of this formula. But one fact that this has allowed us to prove is that the expectation value of a squared is always greater or equal than that because this number is positive because it's the square of a real positive number. So that's a slightly non-trivial thing and it's good to know it. Now and this formula of course is very well known. Now I'm going to give now a a funny geometrical interpretation of the uncertainty. Maybe you will find it illuminating in some way is turning into pictures all the calculations we've done. I think it actually adds value to it and uh I don't think it's very well known. Um or you know it's kind of funny because it's nice not be very well known but maybe people don't find it that suggestive but I I kind of find it suggestive. So here is what I want to say. Um geometrically you have this vector space and you have a vector pi. Then you come along and you act with the operator a. Now the fact that this thing is not an igen state means that the after you act with a you don't keep in the same direction. you go in different direction. So here is apesai. So what can we say here? Well actually here is this thing. Think of this vector space spanned by pi. Let's call it UPI. So it's that line there. You can project this in here orthogonally. Here is the first claim. The vector that you get up to here, this vector is nothing else but expectation value of a times pi. And that makes sense because it's a number time pi. But precisely the orthogonal projection is this. And here you get an orthogonal vector that we'll call it pi. And the funny thing about this piper is that its length is precisely the uncertainty. So all these you could trans prove I'm going to do it. Uh I'm going to show you all these things are true. But it gives you a bit of an insight. You have a vector a moves you out. What is the uncertainty is the this vertical projection vertical thing is the uncertainty. If you down there you get nothing. So uh how do we prove that? Well um let's construct a projector down to the space up which is just pi s. This is a projector just like any E1. E1 is a projector into the direction of one. Well, you know, take your first basis vector to be pi and that's a projection to the pi. So let's see what it it's a projection to pi. So now let's see what it gives you when it acts on a pi. This projector acting on a pi is equal to pi p si a pi and again the usefulness of bracket notation is kind of nice here. So what is this the expectation value of a. So indeed s expectation value of a is what you get when you project this down. So then the rest is sort of simple. So if you take pi and subtract from s um well I'll subtract from s u s times expectation value of a um you can I'm sorry I was saying it wrong. If you take the original vector a pi and subtract from it what we took out which is s time expectation value of a the projected thing. This is some vector but the main thing is that this vector is orthogonal to pi. Why? If you take a pi on the left, this is orthogonal to pi and how do you see it? Put up from the left and what do you get here? P a pi which is expectation value of a pi which is one and expectation value of a is zero. So this is a vector PIP per and this is of course a minus expectation value of a acting on the state pi. Well precisely the norm of piper is the norm of this but that's what we define to be the uncertainty. So of indeed the norm of psy is delta a of pi. So our ideas of projectors and orthogonal projectors allow you to understand better what is the uncertainty more pictorially. You have a a pictures of vectors and orthogonal projections and you want to make the uncertainty zero. You have to push the a pi into pi. You have to be an ien state and you're there. Now the last thing I'll use the last five minutes to motivate the uncertainty the famous uncertainty theorem. Uncertainty theorem. And typically the uncertainty theorem is useful for A and B to her mission operators. And it relates the uncertainty in A on the state side to the uncertainty in B of Sing it must be bigger than or equal that some number. Now, if you look at that and you think of all the bath we've been talking about, you maybe know exactly how you're supposed to prove the theorem. Well, what does this remind you of? Ky Schwarz. Uh, Schwarz inequality. I'm sorry, not Ky Schwartz. Why? Because and for Schwarz inequality you have norm of u norm of v is greater than or equal than the norm of the inner product of u and v absolute value of the inner product of u and v. Remember in this thing this is norm of a vector norm of a vector and this is value of a scalar and our uncertainties are norms. So it better be that that inequality is the only inequality that can possibly give you the answer. So uh how would you set this up? You would say define as we'll say f equal a min - a acting on pi and g is equal to b - b acting on pi and then f or ff is delta a squared F G F G is delta B squared and uh you just need to compute the inner product of FG because you need the mix one. So if you want to have fun, try it. We'll do it next time anyway. All right, that's it for