thefollowingcontent isprovidedunderA creativecommons Licenseyoursupport willhelpMITOpen coursewareContinue tofferHighQuality educational resourcesforfreeto makeadonationorView additionalmaterials fromhundredsofMIT coursesvisitMITOpen coursewareatocwdmit deduallrightSoIam really happytosay thatweGotsweardoyou goswearorswe65S pleaseswearS65 TwitterTwitterYesso developervisiUSfrom JapanvisitingForThe VideoGame OrchestraIsheinthe roomNowthereheisis organizingthat OrchestraThey playing tomorrowWetheCode forthatPleaseif interestedining PleaseDoattendthat bereallyfunbe playingandprevGames hemadeincludeSPY fictionDeadly premonitionandthe Deadlypremonition directors CUTandafew othersfromNamBand thoseGamessohemadeA BUNCHofdifferent typesofGamesWe ReallyLikeattheLAB Wereallyenjoyde premonition GAMEOpenWORLD simulationGAMEThats than youbeWelause  L'A recent Xbox Connect WE TECH issues I'll speak in Japanese, nice to meet you [laughter] I know, so I'll use it [music] You know it, right? Now a lot of D4 songs will be playing [music] and from the PlayStation 2 era [music] and Gundam, too [ music] Yes, thank you [applause] So, I've been making games for about 20 years, and today I'd like to explain game design using Kinect, based on the latest game, D4. Do you proceed by clicking? Yes, is this okay? Yes, so how do you proceed? Like this. Today, we'll start by looking at the slides, and if the video is fixed, I'd like to play D4 a little and then talk with you all at the end. D4 is, well, I think some of you might not know, so I'll explain, but it's an action-adventure game developed for Xbox One that you can play using Kinect, from the very beginning all the way.  To the very end of ACTION Adventure kind of, as you all know, the Kinect device for Xbox 1 is a device that allows you to play hands-free, and the sensors that are attached to it are like this. The sensors on the Xbox 1, simply put, use infrared to scan your body, then take skeleton information, take the shape of your bones, and detect the position of your hands, and it is a device that allows you to control things in the game. It has various sensors inside, including infrared, and of course it also has a camera, a microphone, and various other sensors. The Kinect sensors are like this. The camera sensors are lined up like this, and it can take open, closed, and last hand tracking, and face tracking, and so on, and so on, and it has a microphone too. To put it simply it is like this ONE roughsketch isPRall thesensors incorporated into The xbxSENSasyoucansee I do n't know what it is used for, but hand tracking and what mega [laughs] Lucky Make  There are also things like this, and so is the kinematics. There have been various inputs in video games up to this point. And so, the history of game input devices goes from the beginning to 2014, and so many devices have been made up until now. For example, in the beginning there were devices with only a few buttons, and then the number of buttons gradually increased, and at the very bottom there is the Contra for the Family Computer. It has evolved in this way. What is interesting is that there were eyes from the very beginning in the 70s, which is an interesting point. You can tell from this that they like singing. And then in the 90s and 2000s, it became more complex, and each one evolved in the form of a controller, and then a controller. And around this time there are keyboards and things with a special gameplay, so it is the era when real keyboard controllers come out. Pian Keyboard up TOP so use like All different kinds of medium to play games Since 2000, in the 21st century, it has evolved even further Roughly speaking, Xbox control and PS control are around here, but above that there is guitar control, and most people use these control, and this image of being the student type is now solidifying, and have these of BASIC has some screen panel ATT and have and DRUM and Things are here, I think they are at the edge below this mark, this is the subjective opinion of the person who made it, but Under whoever made SL I think most people play games using a gamepad like this, but when have something hold Well, I think it is keyboard and mouse, and I think most people play like this, but separately from that, when playing special things like guitar, I think it is the current general style to use these  Okay, so is it a student-oriented device like a gamepad you play with, or a special device like a guitar? I think it's orthodox [laughs]. Some people think it's a slightly different alternative device. Yes, so is it student-oriented or special? My opinion is this, this, in my categorization, a controller that fixes the game design is special, but a controller that doesn't fix the game design is an extension of the traditional, that's my categorization. Once again, game design is about what kind of game you make, and a controller that decides that is special, but a device that lets you make the game you want is not like that. There and not traditional, a game would be something that does. Not design, the game based on it. Something that limits game design, for example, a guitar controller, a game of guitar, a game of music, something that has to do with it, music not going to be like. So why did you position Kinect as an orthodox device this time?  Let me explain what it is. The history of EXP games is about directly symbolizing the input of actions and results and having the player input them. For example, pressing a button is a symbol for the act of firing a missile. In D4, instead of actually having the user make a gesture, we used arrows to symbolize the actions they take. This shows how easily we can symbolize the act of opening a door. Beyond D4, there are devices like iMan and Mighty Report, which are not the OS or anything that restricts the contents of the app. They are not the finished product, but can be thought of as devices in the middle of that process. Connect kind of Half Using Apple Products the OS iOS in order to make the so if you look at the device and think of it as something special with a restrictive concept, the game you design will become small, so I think it's better not to think that way. If of really focus in to make a special game or a general game and you narrow your vision, the game is going to become small. In his opinion, he thinks that what I did with this was of course a game  The design is great, but we're also challenging ourselves to design the way players play and their playstyle. We want to change the way people play, and we think this device is designed from that perspective. I'm a little interested now, and I don't like it, but I'm starting to get a little interested, so I think people will think that there are a lot of different types of games that can be designed with this device. But actually, Kinect is really honest and only does what it's told to do, so it's not easy to use. There's a knack to it, and you have to get the hang of it. I got it. For example, when designing Kinect, in D4 there's an operation called swiping. You hold your hand outside the screen and shake it inwards to change the camera's direction. But when I tried to wave my hand from right to left with this device, it didn't work. To put it simply, if I tried to swipe to the right multiple times, it would react as right, left, right, left.  。 English: As the first proposed fix for SECOND, I tried adding a feature where the camera would react when you swung it quickly, but not when you moved it slowly. However, when people get excited while playing the game, they might quickly move their hands back, and for example, elderly people might only be able to move slowly, so it didn't work at all [laughs]. Next, I added a time limit, so I tried adding a setting where the camera would not move for a while after moving once, though. But this didn't work either. The response time dropped significantly, and after that certain period, it would eventually return to its original position, so it wasn't the answer in the end. The second time, well, no matter how much waiting time you set, after that waiting time it will react to the opposite side, so in the end, I've put in all these settings just for swiping. And at the same time as swiping, there's a specification where if you grab your hand with D4 it's confirmed, so we also need processing that prevents the grab and swipe from happening at the same time. So even just taking one action, it becomes this much input. ingameD Orderhavebackorder gra Some people graworkPER even up to what I'm trying to say is that the important thing is  What I mean is, the K device isn't very good, and for example, there's a reputation for it being good, but there are a lot of developers who can't use Kinect well. But it can be solved with software. If game designers don't think that it can be solved with software if they try hard enough, then it ends up being the other way around, with the hardware designing the game, so I think we have to be careful about that when we make games. Think about making software and actually only concentrate on hardware version of then going have going to have make a game specific DESIGN towards the hardware. How to make it playable comfortably, that's not determined by the hardware, but by the software and idea design. I want to strongly emphasize that. US Hard Hard, let's play D4. Are you ready? workD. Yes, after listening to this lecture, has anyone become a little interested and want to try D4? Any have a name that starts with D? [Music] If your name moves, then... [Laughs] any. It's a strange game, so I think there are a lot of people who haven't played it, but if you try it, I think you'll understand that the games you've been playing are a little different. Nice TGS version launched. If there is n't a dark white background, it's completely unreadable. [music] Get a small monitor ready. After this, let's do a Q&A and take a break. Or we'll do some Kiwado and then, um, if anyone wants to do it separately, is that impossible? When you press this, this screen should appear. Tell him that the white screen has to turn into that white screen image. [laughter] So we actually try to do this one more time we have about five or ten minutes while they figure out the technical aspects but anyone has any question now that I said earlier, we did a lot of things just by changing this, but is that something that can be easily changed? Software changes are easy, but it took three years to come up with the idea and make the adjustments to create D. think about How IT Could Be Better Like Why BUGGY What could be better What could make It's more than just a matter of order. Even making it take years, like coming up with all the different things that could possibly be wrong is more of an issue. How did you fix the problem with the swipe speed, um, um, how did you overcome that? The settings, like the ones we just mentioned, there are so many of these settings, and we tried them one by one, and repeated the process until we got a result, like user testing, and in the case of Kinect, body type is also a factor, so when developing in Japan, um, people from other countries have different heights and body types, so we went to America and did user testing and did all sorts of things to get results. A little bit smaller GoToAmerica European people tend to be a little bit bigger so kind you. He has to like GoToAll These different countries and have playtested one at their specific countries in order to adjust for physical problems. Do [laughs] It feels like a really challenging task. With Kinect, you can use body movements as symbols.  It was a lot of trouble to symbolize it, so I understand that when we designers try to symbolize what we're thinking in our heads, we have to be much further ahead of what the users are thinking, so it will be a lot of trouble. In design, even if the answer is D4, if an arrow appears, people understand in their daily lives that they trace, so I think that by using some kind of symbol, we can make the brain computer play games. AR people humans We to automatically follow the arrow anyway if there is an ARROW in just Follow the arrow so perhaps there is away to actually have it so that we can do The Brain because existing M recn generales OP For example, the difference I was talking about earlier, for example, when you're playing StarCraft, it's better to use a keyboard, but with a normal game console, you can't hold it in your hand, so I'd like to hear your opinion, but to put it in extreme terms, I still think that the device doesn't determine the game design, so I think that you can make the game you want to make.  On the other hand, I think it's a designer's right to choose the optimal device. Better as work hand and of up designer. I'm not saying you should use Kinect this time either. I just thought that if you use a device like Kinect in a clicky adventure, you can create something that feels more immersive, so I'm just recreating that. Having one, how make user more like are. She mentioned how you talk about how you talk about differ of you just about having to care about use is there about the CONDET that youth ink contribute to the atmosphere of the game little, maybe more that feel like Because I use the Connect I Really Got To Do. But this question is about using Kinect, like, using this and that was good, or this and that was good, but it's not about game design or anything like that, but if you can use this, you can do other things, like Kinect functions, sensors, or something, I don't know, like, when you're playing a game, you feel like, uh, this is definitely because it's Kinect, and that's the best thing. With point-and-click, if you're using a mouse, you move the mouse to move the arrow, or if you're using a controller, you move the stick to move the point, but with Kinect, you can reach out and select it directly, which I think is the biggest difference. With the design, you want to use the mouse and you can follow the mouse with the arrows or use the arrow around with your hand. Also, point-and-click games tend to be very monotonous, but by using Kinect to incorporate QT (Quick Time) events, you can suddenly get excited at that moment, right? I found it to be a very easy device to use for controlling the player's emotions. With controllers and keyboards, if you want to make a game difficult or exciting, you can only really do a lot of things, or press buttons quickly, but that's about it. With Kinect, things that you normally do slowly can suddenly become very fast, so I think that's a huge advantage. There are other ways, but for the most part, we increase speed with Connect you actually physically have to likeemotionally like TV came yeah EXabout For example, like the old lady I mentioned earlier, can you set that at the beginning? You can set it [laughs] Yes, we made it so you can set it, but in the end we tuned it so most people can play without setting it people [music] Like the chairs and the distance they set, it works well any [laughs] yeah, so how much does it cost to produce a game? Oh many It's a bit complicated to put it in monetary terms, but do you know what a man-month is? It's like how many people work in a month, so in D4 it's about 600 man-months, so 600 people, um, so if you make it next it's 600 people, 600 man-months, so yes yes yes, if you make it with 20 people it's 30 months yes yes yes, that's the feeling I'm trying to explain, 20 people for 30 months diff People PeopleMON fin is on that scale so we can control it properly, but with big game companies it's really 300 people a month or several months to make it が動して、ちょっともごちゃってかな English: When you bring out the chair that moves, you bring the chair, so let's do it with the lever, move it back, and in front of the sensor, we'll do it while looking at the sensor, so it's better to hold it in front of the sensor, facing away from us, you can wave your hand from behind, it's a little high, the sensor is high, what should we do, can we do this? [laughs] Well, move it, and choose one, and confirm with grab, let's start from Shin, it's easy, this is the trial version that was shown at TGS, you can increase the version [ music] turn up the volume on the TV [ music], so I don't know the volume, it's playing from this speaker [music] [laughs] [music] When I did it I turned the volume up really high, yeah, this is fun, ART Action [applause] [music] [music] Ke [music] [music ] [music] P [music] [ music] [applause] DET Although it wasn't actually here, Kinect can also be used to include scenes where you shout using a microphone, so well we don't have time, so I'll do Adventure, everyone's laughing [laughs] Thank you, Rod, there's nothing we can do about the time に Okay, let's skip the serious scenes and move on to the action. Also, there are a lot of things to touch inside the house, which can be confusing, so when that happens, you can use this kind of assistance. Turn SHOW Normally, when you play with a controller, you would use special buttons like the Y button, but with Kine, we intentionally have you do special gestures to emphasize those parts and give it a special feel. [music] [ music] [music] It can be annoying to have to do gestures like this every time, but by putting them in at key points, you can use them effectively. [music] It's a vision of my dead wife. [music] Let's move on. dosisviolent name dark story. [music] So let's look it up. [ [music] I wonder if I should fail this one. [ can That's all. [music] Well, you might not have many chances to do this, but if you're interested, give it a try. I hope that you were able to understand what I was talking about in today's lesson. Thank you very much. JA