The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So today what what I want to do is as as as pro as requested and and uh promised uh uh last week today we'll spend some time just reviewing some of the things we've talked about up until now and some of the concepts that you might find uh questions around on the quiz. Okay. So maybe I'll I'll I'll ask you guys just to make sure you understand each of the the kind of key concepts. Um I'll also as part of this review, we'll we'll look at a couple of questions a couple more questions from last year. Okay. Uh from the quiz last year. Um you have a practice quiz and in solutions and that would be a good idea to look at. Those are posted on stellar as well. That's not uh to say that that's exactly what you're going to get, but you might get, you know, in terms of topics, those are good ones. But what's not in the practice quiz are is sort of any pictures of a density of states or a band structure. Um I I can almost guarantee you you'll have sort of one of each of those, right, on the real quiz. So you'll have a a band structure that we'll ask I'll ask you some questions about as well as a doss plot. All right? All right. So, so, so we're sort of supposed to be here, but we're and I still hope to get to solar cells and, uh, we have time. Uh, so, so we're going to talk about solar cells. Um, but I know that since the quiz is Thursday, we want to take a good chunk of today and just make sure that we, uh, have a good sense of what to expect and and and do do a review. But I hope to get to our beginning of talking about modeling solar cells today as well. Okay? and we'll pick up on that after the quiz. Are there any questions just about the quiz which is Thursday? It's open book, open notes, no phones, PDAs. Yeah. Somewhere like definitely no more than a hundred and kidding. Uh 10. I don't know. Does that sound about right? Something like that. Yeah. 12. Okay. So, there we are. Now, I I I do want to since since Lynn already made a little announcements about part two, I wanted to start today. Um so, that's what we're going to do. I wanted to just even though I just postponed the piece. Oh, that was I'm gonna have an office hour tomorrow um at 4. Is that what I said? Four to five or did I say 5 to 6? 4 to 5, I think. And but if anybody has questions, as always, send me an email and I'm happy to answer electronically or set up a time to meet that um works uh you know, on on your side. Okay. So that that's that's very good. And how many of you have looked at problem three? Couple of you. Okay. So um so are there any questions that anybody has about problem three right now who've who've looked at it? Go ahead. That's a good question. That's a really good question. Um, anything more specific? Like you know that maximum efficiency is going to be related to the energy going in versus the energy going out. But how do you determine I guess the energy going out? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, so let me let me talk a little bit about this problem to make sure that we kind of know where to go with it. Okay. Um, and the key the key setup here is actually really part A in a way. It seems pretty simple. Um, but it's kind of the core piece of information that that you need to understand. Okay. And I'm going to use this yellow chalk that's actually white to draw. Let's let's not forget what it is that we're talking about, which is um basically an energy landscape. Remember, in in capturing the sun's energy, what we're trying to what we're doing and in in many energy technologies, what we're doing is we're pumping something up an energy hill, right? Um, and in this case, we pump an electron, we shine light on it, okay? and the the molecule is in the trans state and then it gets excited because the light the electrons from the the photons from the light excite electrons in the molecule. So that's that pumping action that's happening. You're pumping electrons within this molecule up to a higher level. When you do that, the molecule is allowed to go to here just from that energy from the light. Okay? So the light's energy is being converted into creating electrons that are higher in energy and that allows the molecule to go from this structure to this structure and that's allowing you to store this much energy. So don't forget this picture as you think about you know this homework because that's really this homework is all about this um this picture. Now, um, who can tell me, we we talked about this in in in class already when we talked about this, uh, this whole solar thermal fuel concept. Who can tell me why? Who can tell me the answer to part A? Let's just see if we can do that together. Yeah. energy between the transis energy. Okay. So, so, so here I'm going I'm shining light and I I shined light of this energy or if you want to think about it as HC over lambda, right, of that amount of energy just going between wavelength and frequency. And I I shine light on this trans state and I only shine light with this amount kentite of energy. Can it possibly be converted to here? Right? It can't because you you got to you don't we can't now some of you took 3012 and you know we don't violate the laws of thermodynamics. Those are untouchable. You can't get something for nothing, right? So, you're not going to get to store this much energy if you only put in this much, right? I That kind of makes sense, right? You can't put it up in some shelf of energy, some chemical shelf, which is a way of thinking about this if you haven't given it enough to get up there, right? Unless you use a lot of thermal vibrations, but that's not what we're doing here. You could use heat you, but you can't get it with just input less than output. Okay, so that's sort of what part A is asking. Does everybody see that? Ah, now here comes the fun part. But you see, it's not just this is the molecule sort of going about its business. This is the happygo lucky molecule. But then we have the sun. We have this part. Where did this come from? Right? Well, this is the sun, you see? And that has its thing that it does. And its thing that it does is it has intensity that comes in as a function of this has probably nothing to do with the real curve but it's my I draw the sun's intensity different every time I draw it but this would be say well this could be energy or wavelength or frequency let's call it energy and so you have a dependence of intensity of the sunlight that strikes the Earth or the atmosphere, those are different on the energy that you get. Okay? So, there's some energies of light that are have a lot of intensity and some that have very little. Now, what's the key connection here between these two? Who remembers which is really what part two is about, question two is about. What's the key connection here between this curve and this picture? Yeah. So only photons with a sufficient energy will be able to excite your molecule from the trans to cy states. So only some part of that curve with energy greater than or equal to delta h will be able to uh to do that. So it can only capture that much of the sun's total energy. Yeah. Exactly right. So so there and and there's something else too. But that's exactly what we need for problem three. That's exactly it. Okay. So, what I've told you, what we did in in what we did already is we said, well, you can't get more energy out than you put in. So, you got to have at least delta H minimum of sun's energy is delta H. That's the absolute minimum you have to put into this to get delta H stored, right? So, uh, sorry, that's kind of hard to read. I'm not liking this yellow colored white chalk because it's too thick. So, the minimum sun's energy is that's better. Okay, is delta H. But you see there's also now what happens is so let's say I can uh let's say that delta H is somewhere here I don't know call it one electron volt okay well what I've just said in part a is that anything below that anything below one electron volt cannot be used to store energy. So any sunlight energy that's below that is is is wasted, right? It's not going to do anything to charge that fuel because it's below this amount. On the other hand, everything above that will charge the fuel. Okay. But is it it but now here's where the this question of efficiency comes in because is it really I mean what what would I really like to do here in terms of charging this fuel? Somebody tell me the difference between a photon of sunlight energy that's here that charges the fuel versus one that's out here that also charges the fuel. Somebody tell me what's different or similar between those two parts of the spectrum. Both of which convert my fuel. Yeah. Like the one that's higher energy, it just has like less part of that energy be wasted. It's not like delta H is constant. So once you get above it, the more above it you get the less. Exactly. Exactly. So, I I can charge the fuel now because I said I can't have less than how much I'm storing. That's a rule. Um, but I can charge it with anything above that except for one thing that I'm going to tell you about in a second or you're going to tell me because I know somebody knows this. But, but if I use this amount of energy from the sun, well, I still only stored that. That's my delta H. So, that means I wasted a whole lot. And that's where that's what I want you to to tell me. What's the efficiency? Right? You know, so if I if I'm all the way down here, you can say, well, this is what we talked about in the lecture. If I'm all the way down here, then I can absorb all this light and use it to convert. But light up here is really wasted. It's super wasted, right? The further you get up in energy. So, where is the sweet spot? Right? There's going to be a sweet spot. And I' I'd like that's what I want you to tell me in part B. Okay? Now, there's something I'm not telling you which is really important here that's not part of that question. Okay? But there's something else that matters a lot that's part of part B. Uh part number two, question number two. What am what have we not considered yet? And in particular, what about it? The band gap, the gap or the gap of the molecule. And you see because that's the other component here, right? So these are problem three is talking about theoretical limits based on how much the molecule stores and how much sunlight shines on it. But there's this other thing that problem two talks about which is the fact that the molecule will not absorb any light lower than its gap. Right? And that's why those two problems are very I think complimentary to one another. Right? So all of that comes into play. So even if I say, well, it stores an EV, so theoretically it could absorb all of this, actually if its gap is 2 EV, it's only absorbing this, right? But we're not talking about the gap in problem number three. Okay. All right. It's fun. This is fun, right? Any questions? We're integrating the sun. Any questions about that uh problem? Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean it seems to me like so you you figured out in um the earlier problem how to figure out right that if you integrated this you would get like how much of the sun's energy that molecule is absorbing and you use the band gap as the cutoff but now it seems like maybe you want to use delta h as in a similar way because you're looking at sort of a a theoretical efficiency and ignoring the gap okay now then what what is the efficiency Well, it's how much energy that molecule can take in from the sun, right? Um, you know, divided by that the amount that is stored. Did I answer your question or did I dance around it? Was that good? Was that helpful? Ah, but that's what you you chose it. You just picked it. You said, "I'm going to say it stores one EV because that was delta H per molecule per per molecule is the way to think about it, right? So then there's and then there's um so that's how much energy you're storing in each molecule and then each molecule is getting how much energy from the sun, right? And between those you have an efficiency. It's basically one divided by the other and you know which one to divide by the other because if you divide it and it's more than one, you should do it the other way. That's a hint. But um no, but seriously, I mean, are there does that make sense enough? Okay. Now question C is a little bit taking that a little bit further. Okay. But if you have u but it's that same exact concept that you know. Yeah. Okay. Any questions? Yeah. I'm just a little confused like um so when we calculate the band gap that's like the amount of energy needed for it to absorb energy from the sun but then how does that relate to the delta H are those yeah that's a great great question and that really is you know it it it's I want you to think about them separately okay uh for this problem So they they really are of course intertwined in in fairly complicated ways. Um but here what I want you to do is suppose you could just make the gap at any delta h you could just make it equal to delta h. That's really what you're doing here because you're taking a kind of theoretical limit exercise in this. Um that's not the case. It's not as tunable as that. Although you can tune the gap in these materials to quite an extent. But here I'm saying suppose that the amount it absorbs is in fact set not by the gap but by this other constraint that is part a of this question which is that you just can't convert it unless you have as much as delta H. That's just you know that there's no way around right you can't tune around that. That's just it. You can't get to here unless enough energy from the sun is is this or more. Right? So that's really ignoring the gap. But in reality, um it's going to only absorb photons at the gap or higher. But if you found it, now if you were h if you were to happen to do 3B and get a maximum in a curve, let's suppose, right? and that maximum occurred at a certain delta H, then you might say, well, that's where I I should try to get my gap to that point. Okay, that might be some guidance. Of course, that's not actually what you want to do. But as we ignore the gap, you know, you can think about it that way. It provides some guidance into where you might, you know, look at, you know, these kinds of exercises in in theoretical efficiencies can always be useful for those reasons. Okay. Um, does that answer your question? Definitely. I I'm very happy to talk about this more. Office hours tomorrow at 4. Um, and also by request. So, just send me an email or if you I think a lot of you know if you send me an email, I'll try to write back, you know, pretty quickly. So, if you have questions, I'm happy to answer. We feeling good. Yeah. Okay. No, we're not going to look at a recommendation letter together. Um, that wouldn't be appropriate. Uh, so wait a second. There was but there was Yeah, let's get that out of there. And there was a uh Aha. Here we go. Ah, what did you do? Now, this is not this year's quiz. Um, but this is last year's quiz and I'll do this first because then then we can review. So, here's a couple of questions from last year's quiz. Let's just focus on this one. Okay. Oh, what are basis functions and how do you know if you have enough of them? Somebody answer that for me first. What are basis functions and how do you know if you have enough? Yeah. So basis functions are a set of functions which you can take combinations of to create an approximation what the exactly function should be and you know you have enough of them if whatever you're trying to calculate you use a basis set and then a uh I guess more refined basis set you know and do this a little bit and it sort of you know converges to some value right exactly now and and and there's a really important part of that. So that that is basis functions are mathematical functions. Gaussians, exponents, plane waves, wavelets. Don't use wavelets, but they're kind of funny. They're neat functions, but it can be anything. Uh it's just a function. Yeah. And um and you just use them. You use a series of them, usually a sequence of them that you add together to make up the complexity that is Sai, which is the wave function, the wave function that we're after in this part of the course. Okay? So, it's just a representation, but it's one that you don't find in classical simulations that you did in the first part, but you do find it here. And it's really important to know when you're converged. And say that part again. When are you converged? Uh, when you uh use when when you know you take whatever you're trying to calculate. Stop right there. That's it. Whatever you're trying to calculate, what are you trying to calculate? Give me an example. Um total energy of a system. Total energy of the system. Now give me another example. Uh homolyo gap. Homolimo gap. I love it. We could go on like this, but I won't. But now are the number of basis functions you need to converge the the representation of your wave function the same for the total energy or the homolumo gap it depends is always a good answer you can always write that don't put it for your name but you can put it for but well I don't know maybe you do need the same number of functions for those properties but you need to look at them on a property by property uh basis, no pun intended. Okay, so very good. Now, without solving any equations, which electron do you think would require more basis functions to describe well the 2p electron in carbon or the 3p electron in silicon? Who can tell me what they think? Yeah. Well, you need now hang on. You'd need more basis functions for 3p. Tell me why. Well, what is it that makes you need more basis functions? What is it that makes you need more basis functions? Okay. So if the wave function, if the wave function is looks like this versus say a wave function that looks like that, which one do you think I'm going to need more functions for? I'm going to need more basis functions, right? for this one, right? Does everybody see that now? And then the question is, okay, so that if you put that down, you're already doing really well, right? because that you know on these questions what I'm looking for isn't even if you didn't know the answer to what 2P carbon or 3P silicon which one is more wiggly but you knew that you needed to know that to answer the question that's already you know that's in my opinion four out of five points okay u because that's the key the key is what I'm trying to just get at you know the key things you need to know in computational quantum mechanics some of key ingredients. And that's the key is that you need more basis functions if the if the electrons wave function wiggles more, right? Or wiggles more quickly. Okay. Um wiggle's more for carbon because the um you see you it's what you said actually you have more screening in silicon and so the outer electrons um they're further out and they actually uh wiggle less. They're more smooth. Now that's not always true but between silicon and carbon that's true. I think I talked about that in lecture two. Um and and it's part of why carbon can make such strong bonds. So carbon has no p electrons in the core. Silicon does. So the screening is very different. A p electron in carbon sees no p electrons in the core. But a p electron in silicon does sees two p electrons in the core. So that that screening that shielding makes a huge difference in the kind of bonding that these two atoms can do. Okay? It's why we're made of carbon and not silicon. But that's not that's not the question. And let's do another one. Materials are composed of nuclei and electrons. When the cone sham equation is solved, solutions only for electrons are obtained. Why do we not care about nuclei? Come on. That's a good one, right Sam? Right. And do do you remember what that's called? It's that guy's back. The tattoo born openenheimer. See, that's going to be it. You're always going to remember that guy's tattoo on his back. You're going to think Borne Openheimer. It's effective. Um, okay. And then we'll do one more. Um, what does kpoint sampling refer to? Below are the band structures computed for two different materials. Which one requires more K points to converge? And you know what I'm looking for here is not a long essay. It's really just a sentence, right, to explain the reasoning. So somebody tell me which of these might need more K points. Which band structure would need more K points? Uh I see this. Yes. Why? There's more variations, more wiggles within it. So you need more points to get capture those changes. Okay, it's the same. You see these are uh same this also just a convergence question. Okay. Um does everybody see that? It's another convergence question. I mean you're not going to just get convergence questions, but those two those two were okay. And then we did this one. Does anybody is did everybody see this last time? Okay. This is that band structure that you got, but your your advisor spilled coffee on it and this is the only copy you have. And so I'm not you won't have a coffee spilled. Well, you might have a coffee spilled band structure because it's kind of a fun way to ask questions, but you you'll definitely have a question about band structures. Okay? And so don't don't you know um so make sure you kind of are comfortable with the concepts that I'm going to we'll review right now with band structures. Okay. So those are a couple nice uh examples of the kinds of problems you might get. You can see a coffee stand in the example. Don't ask for because you put in there. Yeah. We're gonna actually use real coffee this time. Okay. Uh okay. Okay. Good. So, what we're going to do now, so any questions? The questions are great. It's really helpful. Questions on the pet, questions on um those those questions. Questions on the questions? Questions about what is that? The Celtics. They're going to wrap it up. Yeah. Tonight. Anyway. Um Okay. I just like sharing a little something like this each time. Everybody seen this one? With great power comes great responsibility. Vision without action is a dream. Action without vision is a nightmare. So this is uh you know when you do calc this is my my reminder. When you do calculations you this is what counts most, right? Okay. Don't just start computing. Think about what you're doing. Okay, I'm going to take you through a little bit of uh a tour of some of the key concepts that I think would be important to know about that you might get questions on. Okay. Um you might get a question on and I think there's a practice quiz question or two on some of these um you know concepts of what led to uh you know quantum mechanics which we talked about in the first lecture. So why did we need a new physics? Why did we need something new? Um and uh you know the the fact that you have um uh you know as a result of of of a lot of research in that time what came out of it was that matter has both wave and particle character. Okay. And so we've talked about this experiment we've talked about that experiment. So you would know like if I asked a question about those experiments maybe um one of them and and we found that um that uh actually uh light can behave like a particle and matter can behave like a wave and it it would have a wave vector K that's related to its momentum and uh a frequency and and that's kind of really cool. And so if I asked you what the wavelength of a baseball was, right? I don't know. I think that might have been on the practice quiz, then that's something you could compute, right? For example, um I won't ask you that, but you kind of could could compute the wavelength of something. And then that took us to um uh well, okay, so you have to represent matter now with waves. So we're going to have this function to do that. Okay. So that took us to this function. We said there's going to be this function. It's a wave function. Well, that's a creative name. It's a function that represents waves, right? Okay, that's good. And we also said we didn't really explain this much but we said but you know you can't we don't actually know much about the physical meaning of this function but we do know that when you square it or since it's complex you multiply it by its complex conjugate that you get the density of this quantum mechanical particle. Right? And we we said this is it. This is what we need. We need this function because in quantum mechanics that function tells you where uh electrons are right the probability density of the electrons and so that's the thing we need because if you know that then you get all these other properties see once you have this that's what the doss comes from that's what the band structure comes from right it came from solving for that okay and then the question is well what are you solving and so what we needed there was the f equals ma of quantum mechanics, right? We needed the equation that governs the behavior of this wave function. And that's the shortinger equation. That's it. Okay. And um and we this is it, right? So we have the function that we need which when we solve it, we get all these properties that we really care about that we can use to make solar cells and solar fuels and lots of other things. Um there is an equation we need to solve to get that wave function and that equation is a shortinger equation and we took time out because we don't like time just complicates things and so we uh we we did it for the stationary solution. Um and the shortinger equation is hi equals ei where h is the the total energy right so it's the kinetic energy plus the potential energy um and when you write these out uh you you write out the kinetic energy as this second derivative and the potential well okay that depends on what we're talking about but if we're talking about say an electron uh in a hydrogen atom then it's it's E^2 R that's your potential the potential that that charge particle feels so that's the hydrogen atom right that's the electron in the hydrogen atom um okay I'm going through this quickly because I think we kind of are all feeling okay about this but if anyone has questions please raise your hand please because you know if you have a question it's very likely someone else has the same question. Any questions? Okay. Now you can solve this equation um actually very easily. Uh we did this I think in the second lecture maybe and uh um and you get solutions for that wave function and we talked about how the one of the key results here is that you get um quantization of the energies of the wave function. And what that means is that the energies can only have certain values, nothing in between. And we talked about the magic of that and and why and how that that explains these spectral lines that were observed long before um it finally explained those, right? So I don't know like calculating the energy differences here or how much energy it takes for an electron to move from one level to another. That sounds like a good problem to me. Um right okay okay now okay and units so forth now the other piece of ingredient that was really important is that actually electrons are they have this angular moment they have this spin okay and it was observed by putting them shooting them through a big magnet and basically finding that so so what was observed what was observed wasn't just that they had spin but that they only had one of two kinds of spin. So instead of getting a spread, you would think you would be applying a force on these electrons which are magnetic um since they're spinning, you would you would but they're not. But that's how we like to think of them in our classical minds. Um you would think that you would get a a nice continuous spread of of force acting on them causing them to separate, but instead you only get two spots, right? Those are that was really important because it told us that these uh there's another kind of quantum mechanical um number which is the spin number which can be up or down right only up or down. Okay. And then um you put that together and you put together your solution for the shortinger equation and uh voila you get essentially uh uh oh you add on a little bit of pi you put in some pi exclusion just a little bit you don't want to over pi anyway never mind um which just says that okay we got these quantum numbers you know n l mm and now the spin and no two electrons can have the same set, which results in the fact that you cannot put more than two electrons in one of these energy levels. And remember, these energy levels are kind of like the key ingredient we're after in in this class. Okay, it's really one of the key ingredients we're after. Where do those electrons want to sit? Because it tells us so much about um properties of materials that that are interesting. Okay, now that it really allows you to go to a description of of the whole periodic table. The problem is that that was a a description based on one electron and one proton. We solved for that. We could solve for that. And so we did and we got the levels and that was really neat. And then we had rules about how to fill them and that was really neat. And then you can actually explain a lot of chemistry that way, right? you get your S and your P and your D orbitals and you fill them. The problem is that actually when you have anything but hydrogen, you have more than one electron. Okay? And so that really requires going back to the shortinger equation and adding in the interactions between electrons that was not in the original hydrogen atom. And that's hard. That's the hard part. Hard stuff. And so we turn to computation. Okay, that's really hard to do analytically and it gets much much worse the more electrons you have. Okay, any questions up to this point, right? So how do we do that? Well, you got to So we're using computation, but you can't just throw this onto a grid or throw this into mat lab. It still isn't isn't doable. And so there's sort of two branches in computational quantum mechanics. One that loosely is labeled quantum chemistry and the other kind of more solid state physics density functional theory. And both of them make approximations. We talked about those approximations. What they're approximating is the shortinger equation. They're simplifying it because even as simple as that may look, just throw that into mat lab. It doesn't happen. You can't solve it when you have more than a couple of electrons. Five electrons, I don't know, six, that won't be on the quiz, but you just can't solve it exactly on a computer unless you have the age of the universe. And even then, it's too hard. So, we got to simplify this equation. And you know, mostly in the quantum chemistry world, what you do is you simplify this. We talked about using basis sets, right? Basis functions to represent this. Well, you can restrict the degrees of freedom in that function as well, right? And that makes that equation much easier. And the other thing you can do is you can actually change so that's changing this part. And the other thing is you could change this part, right? And that's what that's what uh physicists mostly did. And now everyone holds hands and sings kumbaya and everyone's happy. Back then there was a lot of uh two fields, you know, physicists versus chemists, all that. But it's we're all happy together now. Everyone's and so so chemists do density functional theory. Physicists don't mind wave functionbased methods as they're called. Okay. The result and this is a this is this was one of my sort of red flag key results here is that what you've done when you do this is you you have taken a problem that involved all of these interactions remember one over r12 meant taking into account the interaction between electron one and electron 2 and that just gets really painful and hard and so what you've done in both sense both categories is you've completely changed the picture into what's called a meanfield picture So each electron is only now really solved in the context of a an average field of the other electrons. Okay, that's the simplification key. That's the key simplification. So the the mean field methods are really what enable us to do computational quantum mechanics for large systems, right? Um I don't really think I need to review this too much, but uh because I I did just review this I think a week ago. Um but the density uh is a nice thing to work with because unlike the wave function with sort of if you wanted a grid to represent each a grid of points um even as the number of atoms in the system grows the density grid is is just the same. So the number of points you need to represent the density is constant while the number of points you would need to represent SI grows exponentially. So it's a really hard problem in in in in in the context of scaling with size for the wave function, but the density offers this really nice scaling. And so that's what density functional theory is. Is it's it's a it's a method that relates it it shows that the density can be related um to the wave function and then you just work with the density and you throw out the wave function. You bring it back in later. But that's basically what the theory does. Um the problem is that it pushes out it has this sort of term uh that you you talked about in lecture three or four um that you have to kind of approximate this exchange correlation potential and um we talked about that uh and the exchange correlation potential let's get to that is not known. If you knew it, it would be actually an exact method, but it's not. And so you make approximations. And these are actually two of the approximations that you have as um as as options in the nano hub tools. Now what these approximations are is not part of this class. Okay? That gets into kind of, you know, more complicated um you know, more complicated equations that we would have to cover that I don't want to do. But what I want you to pull out from this is that we are still we are not solving the shortinger equation exactly right we are making approximations and those approximations need to be checked so you see there's two kinds of convergence here that's the key right and and this is where I come with responsibility right one kind of convergence is is k points basis sets right but another kind of convergence is where are you in accuracy space where are you do you know right because you are making approximations when you pull down that option on the toolkit to say gg or lda what you're doing is you're changing the form of this which one is right you're still not solving the equations exactly so how do you know if you're right. Throw that out there as a question. Find an experimentalist. Find an experimentalist. Father them. Say, "Can you measure this?" And they say, "No. Are you crazy? My my adviser just told me to work 90 hours a week on something else." So then what do you do? Because it's not in the literature. Yeah. Try a bunch of different approximations. Okay. Any of them are great. see if any of them agree. Let's suppose half of them agree and half of them disagree. Say I had 10 functionals to choose from. What else could you do? Or or are you done? Is that good enough? Run one more. The tiebreaker. I love it. Sadly, there are papers in the literature that kind of take that approach. Um, it's a little too loosey goosey, but it's it was a good idea. Okay, what else? What? Well, is it good enough? I mean, if if I had 10 functionals, by the way, there are hundreds of functionals now to choose from in density functional theory. If I had 10 and half of them agreed, but the other half didn't, what do I do? Okay. Why? like a whole different whole different theory. Good. Okay. Go to a different theory for quantum mechanics. See what that agrees with. But see, that may have its own whole it does have its own own whole world of approximations, right? But that's the right that's sort of the right, you know, way to think about it because there are theories that are more accurate and less accurate in how they solve for how they simplify the shinger equation. So you can try to go to more accurate or what are known to be better accurate theories. Now there's one other thing to do. I told you that um in this particular case it's a solar fuel that you just calculated. You think it's going to be revolutionary, right? Um but only only by one functional. The other functional says it's really bad. Um, you went to an experimentalist, they said no and you can't do higher level theory. Anything else you can do? Take a poll of your like your group members. That's good. I like that. Computational people people computing. What else? What is that? I said request more funding. Request more funding. You're talking like a like a professor. So um what else? Anything else? There is something else you can do. So the key is I said that the experiment for that fuel hasn't been done but okay use the same level of theory on a system that has been done that's related that's closely related. Right? Well, I modified aobenzene to make a good fuel. That hasn't been made yet, but a benzene has. Did my theory work well for all of the data I can get my hands on that's relevant to what I'm simulating for that material? This is validation. Okay, this is validation. It's it's it's not the same as convergence. I said, you know, sort of two kinds of convergence. This kind is called validation and it is critical in computation. It is a critical part of computation. Please uh don't go away from this class without you know remembering that part. Know where you are. Test your test your calculations. Be confident in them because you validated them. Okay. All right. Too much computation goes on that's uh that doesn't have that and and and it's a lot of wasted time. Okay. Computer time but also people time. All right. Okay. Now um you know so we can get a lot of properties um we can get properties of uh you know I've talked about lots of different properties you can get I won't ask you anything on the test about properties you haven't we haven't actually really talked about in class okay so um but you can you can calculate a lot of things we just talked about this the one thing okay did you exit the SCF at the right loop don't worry about that because the code just sort of does that for you was my basis big enough we talked about That right. Convergence for molecules. Was my box big enough? Now, why do I have a box for molecules? What does that even mean? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So if I have so you know a lot of these codes especially plane wave codes were originally developed for solids but they work fine for molecules. Okay actually siesta is not even a plane wave code. It uses a different kind of basis. Okay. It uses a more Gaussian like localized functions basis but it's still a a periodic box. It's based on a periodic box. And so that means that when you input right when you input something like an atom if I want to simulate that one atom then uh I need to make sure that I leave enough space so that it's um not going to feel its periodic image in all directions. Right? one new molecule. Is my box big enough means leaving vacuum between the the molecules. Okay. Um and then we talked about solids and that's certainly fair game for the quiz even though we haven't had a homework problem on the solar cells. Certainly, you know, I wouldn't talk about that. I won't talk about solar cells on the quiz or I should rephrase that. I won't I won't ask you questions that we haven't talked about in lecture but like I mean you know the band structure of a solar cell well I mean you know band structures we've talked about a lot right so um now the way we built up our our solids part is we said well okay now we're talking not about some molecule that can have some shape and then gets repeated heated like this. But we're actually talking now about a crystal that goes on forever and ever. And so it needs to have, you know, a kind of lattice. And you know, we talked about how you can define that just like you we defined it in uh class uh and you seen it in other classes. You define it in a computer. Okay. And then we talked about the inverse lattice. And I'm not going to go through this again, but we built this up. Why did we build up the inverse lattice? The understanding of that where does that come in? Why do you need to know about inverse size? Yeah. Good. Okay. And why does K space matter? Yeah. So, so that's exactly right. So the inverse lattice is a is the reciprocal lattice of our real lattice. Um you know it's really important in crystalallography. So I think a lot of you have seen this. Um and and you can define by just drawing these perpendiculars to the nearest neighbors. You define the first broan zone which is where the energy levels those precious energy levels of this molecule that I want that first bruan zone is is where in the inverse lattice see this now becomes inverse space also known as ksp case that becomes a degree of freedom. And so that makes these guys move. They can even move and cross one another, right? And that is the difference between a solid computational quantum mechanics on a solid what you can get out in a molecule. Um and the brewan zone is the playground of this space that matters. See, because as we showed from blocks theorem, if you go outside of the bruan zone, you can just wrap it and get back exactly to where you were. So your wave function and your energies won't change. So all that matters is to know and understand and compute, which is what the code does, the variation inside this brillan zone. That's why we defined it because we just don't need any other zone. Okay. And you know we got here by looking at uh periodic potential and the result of solving the Schroinger equation in the presence of a periodic potential is that you get this new constraint on the wave function. And the key here the key here is that okay so this is just saying you can go one lattice vector away and get back the same thing. That's what I just said about only the buran zone mattering. But the key result of blocks theorem is not here. Huh? But the key result of blocks theorem is that you have this K in the first place. The key result is that you have a new index just like the quantum numbers came out of the hydrogen atom. You have a new index that can vary. And as it varies, it changes your levels. And we spent some time talking about this. So, please let me know if you have any questions about this. I just talked right into the mic. Let me know if you have any Oh, sorry. So, any uh So, does everybody understand that by putting by mapping quantum mechanics and all of our machinery Schroinger equation approximations to it? But remember, HSI equals EI. H has V and by having V be the same everywhere in space we got this new degree of freedom this new thing that's critical okay and this new thing is what is what makes a band structure so if I you know so if I showed you a band structure like this what am I simulating What is that? Forget these other ones. Just look at those. Yeah, it's a non-periodic system, right? If it's if the bands are flat, you don't have this variation in Kspace. And if you don't have the variation in kspace, well, at least to within what the system can feel, it's not a crystal. It's not a periodic periodically repeating potential. It may be, right? Or it may be really close like what if you had a molecular crystal, right, which exists many there are many molecular crystals, but they're really far spaced apart. These molecules are weakly interacting. Well, you might get then something, you know, you might just start to see this, and we played with this in the computer. You might just start to see some little wiggles, feeling that effect of the variation in case, but you won't see very much, right? And then as the interactions or as the potential that's periodic gets stronger, well, then this variation can get very high, right? Okay, any questions about any of that. So that's that's kind of the key the key point there. And we talked about the kinds of things you can get. And we also talked about how what so this is density functional theory. We talked about how when you solve for the band structure, you first converge the density. That's a separate calculation. And then what am I doing here? How do I get this? I mean the the third point is sort of silly. You plot but point two. What am I doing? Somebody explain point 2. Yeah. Yeah. you well you find yeah you find the band gaps you find the energy levels at each point now but as we said as you just said you're doing this for lines in the buran zone how do you choose which lines my choice but I need to choose Sam highm yeah it's the high symmetry parts Right. We talked about that because why nature likes symmetry? Well, that's a good answer. This is always a good answer. Nature does like symmetry. It's a beautiful thing. But does that but is that really why that's what I do for my band structure? What does that mean? pretty much that's where the variation that could happen in the energy levels is going to happen and that's what you want to capture. Right? So a band structure is a is a simple two-dimensional way of of cruising through this kind of complex three-dimensional bruan zone where things are varying any point I go. But if I go just along the high symmetry points, then I get the variation that's usually most important. Okay. Okay. You know, we talked about how you fill these up to the firmy energy. Um, is the firmy energy always at zero? Yeah. So if I if I didn't tell you where the firmy energy is and I asked you to tell me if it's a metal or an insulator, could you would it even be possible? Why why or why not? Yeah. And so if I leave that piece of information out, which I did last year, then and I give you a a band structure that you know looks like this. And then let's say you have bands up here. Well, everybody is really excited to call this an insulator. I'd be I'm excited to do it. I can hardly hold back. This is an insulator. But hang on. If I didn't tell you where the firmy energy is, what if the firmy energy is here? You got to have all the information to answer the questions, right? Um, so know what information you need if you're asked a question about a metal insulator, right? And you know, yeah, typically at zero, it's only because it's sort of uh there's there's no good reason except that it's convenient. you know. Okay. So, usually it's just like it's just nice to shift them so they're always at the same place. Okay. Right. And then we can compare things more easily. Yeah. Yeah. the um why is this definitely going to be a metal if I have an odd number of electrons. Okay, there's a little discussion there. I want to know what you guys are saying. Confirming. You're validating. I love it. Using the group uh consensus. Yeah, crowd sourcing is very powerful. Anyway, don't use it for computing. Why? That's exactly right. Why? That's it. Do everybody get that? Firmeni energy is the energy that you fill the electrons to. So if the if you have an odd number of electrons, well, how many electrons go in each one of these bands? Two. So if I have an odd number of electrons, one of them is only going to be half filled. That means my firmy energy has to cut it. It's got to cut it somewhere, which means I have a band crossing the firmy energy, which means it's a metal, right? Has to be. So you you know I mean you could think about the same for an atom except that atoms aren't metals. But most atoms have that case. They have half or partially filled levels, right? you don't fill all the p electrons in carbon. Um but we don't think of the carbon atom as a metal because atoms and molecules don't really have this kind of behavior, right? Okay. But it's the same idea. You're partially filling levels. Okay. We talked about um how how are we feeling about direct versus indirect gaps? Good. Okay. Talked about that. Yeah, liking that. That could be a good question. And we talked about other things um uh that you can calculate vibrational properties. Um we did talk about magnetization, right? Now, this is not uh sorry, this is actually from a um a different code we used to use. Um so just ignore this. We used to use a different code than Siesta, but um and and that was the input for it. But um but you know and this is showing that you know you can do uh calculations of say different phases of a magnetic material like iron. And how would I calculate the magnetization of those materials? This was in uh lecture something number of days ago. Yeah. magnetic field. You absolutely could and that would be really hard there. But you could do that actually and we do do that but um that's a hard calculation. What is the magnetization of a material? What's it due to anyway? What part of the material is it due to? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's due to electrons. It's due to the spin of the electrons, right? And that's what gave us the Stern Gorlock experiments. It was the magnetization possible of the spins of the electrons, right? It was the the fact that a magnetic field could exert a force on those. Now we said that in your material you have you know spin up electrons and spin down electrons the precious things that we're computing this whole second half right and you fill those up and you fill them up according to the pi exclusion principle you fill the levels up with these electrons right um but when you get to a solid or even in atoms um you don't always necessarily have the same uh up and down electrons. You can have differences. Okay? And when you have differences between them, you can have a net magnetic moment. And we talked about that before. And then we say, well, okay, if I if I had an atom, then you can have a net magnetic moment just count the number of up electrons minus the number of down electrons. But in a solid you in in a crystal you don't you know you you now have these electrons in these in these bands you need to use something else and that's where you need to use the density of states and so right and so if you have sort of the density of states now remember versus say energy and this is something you're all now familiar with from the the homework but we talked about this also how it relates to magnetism Right? And that in the Siesta tool, you could plot, for example, the spin up electrons. So let's say these are the spin up electrons. And then you could plot the spin down electrons. And that's a little hard to see because there's three curves with one color. But the main point is that the up electrons and down electrons could be very different in in where they are in energy, which translates into what where the peaks are in the doss. Now you see what matters though is is not the difference across the whole DOSs curve. What's going to matter? It's not the whole DOSs that matters. It's only part of it. Which part? Yeah, it's the part up until up until the firmy level. What are the differences in where I filled the electrons between the ones that would be up and the ones that would be down? Right? So, um, now and that got us to talking about this spin polarized thing that we talked about last time. Okay. What's so and and that's a little button on your on your simulation tool that you can check or uncheck. So if something has spin polarized, it allows the up and down electrons to be different to have different energies. So you know I just I just told you that that difference is what gives you magnetization. So if you don't allow it to be spin polarized, then you won't get magnetization, right? Yeah. Ah very good question and um that is exactly what spin polarized does. You see, so this is what you're talking about. You're saying, well, aren't these don't these aren't this isn't this just in one level, right? But it actually, it turns out that that's what's called um a restricted uh uh you can say restricted closed shell or restricted open shell formalism that is valid for many many materials and molecules where in fact there's no difference. But in reality, in reality, even when it's restricted, you still should write these as a sort of one spin channel and another. You could call it like alpha is spin up and beta spin down. And each one of those has its own set of orbitals and wave functions. Okay? So in reality, that's what that's what you solve for. Now in many materials it turns out alpha and beta electrons do have the exact same energy level but not always and and actually um in in exactly what you were talking about when I apply a magnetic field even to a material that's not very magnetic you can cause big shifts in these okay you can depends yeah it depends on the material but when you apply external perturbations to the system you can split these so that Actually, you do have this picture where the energy of the spin up channel for that um you know for that energy level is different than the spin down channel. And that's exactly what spin polarized does. It allows those energies to be different. Without that you you can't really um study magnetism correctly. Okay. It's a good question. Okay. And so we talked about uh some other things. We did talk about how you could calculate um electrical connectivity. So that's fair game, right? From the band structure. There's an equation in the lecture uh from last week on that. We didn't talk about thermal conductivity. We've talked about optical properties and magnetization. That looks like it's just repeating the first and fourth bullets which is interesting to me. Um uh but these are the kinds of things we can calculate using the band structure and the doss. Okay. Which is what we've focused on a lot in the last three four lectures. Okay. So, so that that's certainly what I would think you you should know about you know how to get just you know some of the key properties from the band structure and dos from uh in these first four excluding thermal which we didn't talk about. Okay. any uh okay and with the with the convergence questions we got to have a convergence question right you just you got to you would feel you would feel cheated if you didn't have one right and I don't want you to have that feeling um you know when you have a solid k points now becomes a convergence parameter Okay, so that's kind of our review. Um, any any questions? Any questions about that at all? Any thoughts or um comments? Any other questions? We're good. Any questions about the the quiz? Okay, let let me just take five minutes to do a little stuff. Get it out of the way so that after the quiz we can dive into um or do or do you guys just kind of want to maybe we stop here, huh? Should we stop here? Have five minutes on solar right before a right before a quiz. Yeah. I'll tell you what. I'll do I'll do my little my little energy slides and then we'll start solar because this isn't really uh solar but it's related and I don't think I showed these before. Did I show these before when I was motivating research and energy? You know, I I really like this. You know, we talk a lot about global warming and um and I I think that's a really important topic. Um and and I you know there's some really great um work and and unfortunately not enough understanding I think um but uh on I don't even know where to begin. You know the polls show that half of this country still doesn't uh think that there's any um evidence uh that it's anthropogenically linked. But anyway um uh okay. So, let's say we don't talk about that and we and we ignore these sort of really hard scientific facts. Um, there are other reasons other reasons to think about renewable energy. Okay. Um, and and I like this one. I mean, I I don't know how many of you have seen something like this, but this is the the United Nations puts these out. This is the human development index, right? What does that mean? Well, I feel pretty developed. I mean, does that just mean I can go to like Starbucks and get a latte, right, when I want? No. Right. This means healthcare, education, you know, it means I can read. Um, it means I could maybe have a light on at night to read, but it's primarily some sort of key indices um that that talk about sort of the well-being of a person. And that you can see is incredibly uh strongly correlated with how much energy a country gets. Right? So this is the amount of per capita electricity use and that's this human development. It's basically a well-being index. Okay? As you can see some people get surprised that Canada beats us. So how did they beat us? It's cold. It's cold. It's really cold up there, right? Um and but you know you can just see the strong correlation. Okay. Um you know the question is when they turn see there's enough fossil fuels for everybody here probably certainly if you if you go with coal um there's a whole lot of energy in fossil fuels and we could lift a lot of these people up the curve. Question is is that really how we want to do it? Okay. Um, now the other point I want to make and this will be, you know, the other intro point just so you have in your minds when you're talking to people about energy. It's not just about global warming, right? Um, and this is a this was a great experiment that was run accidentally when 256 power plants went offline in the Eastern Corridor. This is one of these stories where, you know, one plant goes off because a mouse chewed through a wire or something and then the whole country feels it. But it was a great test bed because they were offline for quite a lot. All these things shut down. Everything had to shut down. And so people took planes up and and did testing and published these results, right, of the air quality. And it's incredible to look at the data, right? You look at all kinds of stuff that affect what we breathe, what we see, how we live, who has asthma, right? A lot of that stuff goes down instantly, right? Um, so, you know, there there there are different reasons than just global warming. Um, and and I like this map. I don't know if I showed this to you, but this is how much we consume scaled by scaled by consumption. This is the country, the world map. We're pretty big. right? Pretty big. There are some places that are pretty small. Okay. So, you scale it by by country. Um, yeah. I mean, one question that comes up and gets modified is, you know, how much energy do we really need, right? Um, or power. In 2002, we burned energy at a rate of three and a half terowatts. What's it going to be in 2050? Well, if you make some assumptions about how many people there are um and if you use if everybody use energy like us, which is really inefficiently, then we'd need a 100 terowatts in 2050. Okay, we only have 13 now, 14 now. We need a whole lot. And we like to think that people are going to be more efficient. Um and so that becomes the target. You know, 30 terowatts, 30 to 50 terowatts is what we're going to need. How do we generate that? Well, this is um you know, and this is all just again building up to solar, which we'll start next week. This is how we've generated it so far. Okay, you know, we we burned a lot of wood and that was kind of dirty. So, we burned coal that was really dirty. Um but there's so much coal and it's so cheap, right? Um and then we found oil, which is this magnificent energy carrier. It's a solar resource, right? All of these are solar resources by the way, right? Including hydro. Um uh and uh um now uh natural gas, you know, with fracking, this is going to go from this, it's going to go like this and just sort of take over this this chart, right? Natural gas is is fracking in the last few years has done more for energy than anything has in in many decades. Okay. Um, but that's not that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about this green sliver, which is what where I like to sit. Um, and uh we separate out hydro because uh at least onshore hydro is is fairly tapped out. Um, and then you've got that green sliver. And you know the thing is that if you want you know if you look at global warming curve CO2 emissions people talk about wanting half of all the energy to come from that green sliver by 2050. So you back the numbers out. We need 30 terowatts in 2050. Right? That's how much the world needs if we're really good at how we use it. 100 if we're like us. And you want half of that to come from a green sliver which isn't really expanding much. And notice it's sitting on a slope like this. Right? this slope is still, you know, could go even much higher, much faster. So, it's a really tall challenge. This is the the the challenge that um that that I like to think about is how how can we actually do that? And solar PV, I think, is is a a and and I I'll end on this slide. Okay. Um so, we'll start we'll we'll pick up from here on the technology part and the science part next week. Um, you know, we we use about 15 terowatts today. Does anybody know how much we get from the sun? I think I did talk about that. What's the number we get from the sun? We use 15 terowatts a year, right? How much do we get from the sun per year? 40,000. Roughly 40,000, right? So, it's just a whole lot of energy that comes from the sun. Um, right. The energy released by an earthquake is we get from that from the sun in a second. You've probably heard this. Every year we get that amount of energy in an hour from the sun. Here's one I like. You may not have heard the total resource of of oil including the two trillion we barrels we've used roughly, right? And the trillion more that we're going to use for sure. Um that amount of energy resource you get from the sun in two days, right? So, you know, it's an incredible resource, right? And but, you know, apart from just painting a barrel black and heating water with it, we really don't use it much. And even there, we don't use it much at all. Um, solar photovoltaics is an extremely appealing way of trying to capture this resource and and really change that that green sliver. Okay? And so, that's that's what I want to talk about next um after the quiz. Okay? So, uh, see you all Thursday. Office hours tomorrow. Any questions at all, please send me an email.