Um, so let's start with a quick review. Last week we looked at BERT, how BERT was created, and we learned about this technique called masking, which is a kind of self-supervised learning. And the idea of masking was very simple. We asked ourselves the question we have seen ways in which people can take images and pre-train models like restnet on a vast you know vast uh body of images but then for each image somebody had to go and label them right so for text we asked the question well what does it mean to label a piece of text when we don't actually have a clearly defined end goal in mind except the general goal of pre-training things right and then we said oh well what we can do is we can actually replace some some of the words in every sentence with a what you call like a mask token and then we just train the network to recover the blanks to fill in the blanks right and this technique which is one of many ways of doing what's called self-supervised learning is called masking and we and we described how if you essentially take all of Wikipedia and for every sentence you mask it like this and then train a network to recover to fill in the blanks the resulting network becomes really good at doing all kinds of interesting things and that in fact the first such network or one of the first such networks was called BERT u and in fact in your homework you've been you've been looking at BERT and so on and so forth right that's masking now we're going to switch gears and talk about a different kind of self-s supervised learning which is different from masking which turns out to be weirdly more interesting and powerful okay so we are going to look at another technique and this technique is called next word prediction so now it is actually in some some sense a special case of masking where you're basically saying take a sentence and instead of randomly picking a word and and making it a blank. You're saying, "I'm just going to take the last word and make it a blank." Okay? And then you send the sentence in and then you have the the machine just fill in the blank on the last word. Predict the next word. Okay? And you don't have to use full sentences for it. You can use parts of sentences for it. Sentence fragments as well. So if you take the same sentences before the mission of the MI loan school, you can literally divide it into well you can give the and ask it to predict mission. If you can give it the mission and ask it to predict off. You give it the mission of ask to predict the you get the idea. So every sentence fragment you can take and literally just give it the first few and then predict the next one. First few next one first few next one. Okay. So this is next word prediction. And so the let's what we're going to do now is we're going to actually take the transformer encoder architecture that we used to build bird in the last class and we're going to try to use it to solve next word prediction to build a model that can do next word prediction. Okay. So this is what [clears throat] we have. So what we're going to do is uh if you take the phrase the cat sat on the mat. So the phrase was let's say the cat sat on the mat. So what you might want to do is to say okay this is the input output the cat. Then maybe you have the cat then the output is sat. The cat sat on and so on. Right, you get the idea. And then finally, we have the cat sat the mat. Right, this is basically what we have all these inputs and outputs. But we're going to very compactly express it as if it's just coming in through as as one sort of data point in one batch. And that's what we're doing here. So what we're going to do is we're going to stack it up like this where we have the cat sat on the on the left meaning everything but the last word and then we're going to take that same sentence and just shift it to the left one right so the cat sat on the mat we cut off the mat right and that becomes the input then we cut off the first word and that becomes the output so when you look at it that way you can see here right the you will want the to be used to predict cat you will want the to be used to predict SAT and so on and so forth. Okay, so this is just a little sort of manipulation so that we don't have to have you know like dozens of sentences or sentence examples just for one starting sentence. So if you have something like this, what you can do is you can run it through positional input embeddings like we have done before with BERT. Uh then we can run it through a whole bunch of transformers, right? It's like a transformer stack. Then we get these contextual embeddings. Then we run them through maybe one or more ReLUs if you want because it's always a good idea to stick some ReLUS at the very end. U and then we basically attach a softmax to every one of the things that are coming out. Okay. And then that soft max is actually going to be a soft max whose range is the entire vocabulary. Okay. For now, let's assume that the vocabulary is just a vocabulary of words, not tokens. We'll get into tokens a bit later on in the class. For now, just assume it's words. And roughly speaking, let's say there are 50,000 words in our vocabulary. So each of these soft maxes, and this is exactly what we did for BERT, by the way. Each of these soft maxes is like A-50,000 way soft max. Okay. But what we're going to do is here when we look at it this way since we are fundamentally bothered about next word prediction as you will see later on we are actually going to ignore all these predictions because who cares? We are only going to look at the last one to figure out okay what is the last prediction? What is it? Because the last prediction is going to be based on everything that came before it here. So this is really the next word that's actually being predicted. All the things before we don't care so much. Okay. And all this will become slightly clearer because you're going to make a couple of passes through it. Yeah. >> How do we >> uh so um the notion of a sentence has disappeared at this point. What we're going to do is when we look at how we tokenize the input for these kinds of models, we're actually going to take punctuation into account. So we're going to take periods into account, exclamation marks into account and so on and so forth. And that that'll answer your question and we'll come back to that. U okay so this what we have. So um all right. So just to be clear the embedding that's coming out of the final dense layer is passed through its own softmax with the number of softmax categories equal to the cap size. Okay. All right. Um okay. So first of all, s let's say we train models a model like this with a lots of inputs and outputs. Okay, this just looks like bird, right? It's not that different except that there's no notion of a mask. Do you notice any problems with the way this thing has been set up? Uh >> like for some words like the you're going to have a lot of potential output pairs that come out of that. >> True. Which means that if you have a word like the the next word >> hard to predict. >> It's true. So some words may be hard to predict depending on the last word of the sentence that was the input. Right. That's what you're getting at. Yeah. U concerns. So I want you Yeah. Uh >> since you're using contextual like the output of the first word is going to have access to the second word and so it's kind of like cheating. >> Bingo. So remember for bingo is a technical term in deep learning which means great. So um so if you go to this right as she points out if you look at the self attention layer note remember the self attention layer is the key building block of the transformer block right and so in the self attention layer every word we calculate its contextual embedding by waiting weighted averaging of its relationship to all other words in the sentence. So the last word can see the first word, the first word can see the last word and so on and so forth, right? But when you're doing next word prediction, this feels problematic because you're peeking into the future, right? So so let's say that you want to predict the next word. If you look at this architecture, what it can simply do, it can simply copy it from the input because it can see the whole sentence. So if I tell you, hey, the cat sat on the mat. If I just gave you the cat sat on the can you predict the the next word for me? You'll be like yeah duh it's cat it's Matt. The whole thing becomes challenging only if I say the cat sat on the dash. Now predict the dash. So to put it another way let's say that you want to predict right you have fed in the first two words and you want to predict this. This is the right answer for the prediction. The network should only use the first two. However, but because self attention can see SAT, it can see this next word, it'll trivially learn to predict the next word to be SAT, right? There is no challenge for it. So, this is the key problem, right? This is the key problem. We're just using the transformer as is. >> What's our loss function here? >> The loss function in all these things is actually the same as before, which is that for every output that's coming out. So imagine you have just a traditional classification problem uh in which you have one output uh let's say dividing you're classifying things to uh 10 categories like we did with the fashion mnest right 10 digits so you have 10 outputs right and that goes through a softmax and then you have 10 probabilities and there we use cross entropy right so here for every one of these things we use cross entropy so we take this output and there's a cross entropy for just for that plus cross entropy for that and so on and so forth So we we minimize still cross entropy but the sum of all these cross entropies. >> And does it get complicated at all by the fact we have a large vocabulary size now? >> I mean it it gets complicated just because there are more things to worry about compute and so on and so forth. But conceptually no difference whether you have 10 or 50,000 it's the same thing. It's just that instead of classifying an input into one of 10 categories you're take the inputs themselves are as long as the number of words in your sentence. So each word that comes into your sentence is being classified in one of 50,000 ways, right? So essentially you have as many classification problems as you have number of words in a sentence. But at the end of the day, the loss function is just a sum of all those things or to be more precise, the average of all those things. Actually, I think I may have a slide about this which I may have hidden because I wasn't sure if I would have time. Uh let's unhide it. and B I did not agree ahead of time that we're going to set this up like this. Okay. So, all right. So, yeah. So, we still use the cross cross entropy cross cross entropy loss function. So, each word that comes in. So, the cross entropy is actually minus log probability of the right answer. And you may recall this from earlier in the class. So, we just do the same thing for for cat sat on the everything. And then we just take the average 1 / 7. Boom. That's it. So let's so to go back to this problem. So this is the issue. The issue is that we can't allow words to be predicted knowing the future. They should only know about the past words. Okay. So what do we do? Right? We have to make a change to the transformer to make it work for next word prediction. So what we're going to do is when we are calculating the contextual embedding for a word, remember the contextual embedding for a word is going to be a weighted average of all the other words embeddings. We will simply give zero weight to future words. If you give zero weight to future words, it's almost as if they don't exist. Okay? And this will become clear in a second. So imagine that this is the the thing we are going to calculate. These are all for every word in the sentence we are calculating the uh the pair-wise attention weight and you will remember I went through this you know with like an iPad thing last week we calculate all the weights. So for example to find the um so all these weights in every row will add up to one and so you take the contextual embeddings of the cat sat on the multiply them by the respective weights that add up to one which is the first row of this table and that gives you the contextual embedding for the word the and so on and so forth. And since we can't look at the future words all we do is we go take this table and we just zero everything out in red. Okay, we just zero everything here out and then we renormalize so that the remaining cells the nonzero dot cells will still add up to one in each row. So what that means is that if you're actually only looking at the only this thing is going to play a role for cat only this thing is going to play a role. So let's let's let's give an example. So um to calculate to predict uh on you'll only look at the words for the cat sat. Okay. The rest of it will not be considered at all. Now the effect of doing all this is that by the way this is called causal self attention. This tweak is called causal self attention. Uh is also called masked self attention. Right? Just different labels for the same thing. And so what that means is that when you're looking at the input for the only the is going to be used to predict cat. When you look the cat only these two are going to be used to predict sat and so on and so on and so forth. Okay. So this thing here this so all we do is we go into a transformer and we just change each attention head to be a causal attention head and the way it's actually done under the hood is actually very elegant for computational efficiency purposes but I won't get into it because it gets a bit you know involved but the key idea is replace basic plain vanilla attention with causal attention aka pay mass attention and you do that boom suddenly it it starts you know working for an expert prediction it can't cheat anymore and when we do that we get the transformer causal encoder and by the way the word causal here there's no connection to causality so it's just a it's just a term so if you look at the original transformer paper um it was created for translation for machine translation you know English to German right those kinds of use cases so it had something called an encoder which we are very familiar with from last week and then it had something called a decoder right and it is called the encoder decoder architecture and we are not going to cover the encoder decoder architecture because we are not covering machine translation in this class but I'm mentioning this because the this part of the the architecture is called a decoder because it uses see here there is a masked attention business going on here because it is using this masked attention it's called a decoder so the transformer causal encoder is also referred to sometimes as a transformer decoder but the word decoder has two meanings right it's a synonym for the causal encoder like we have seen today it's also used to refer to sequencetosequence translation problems for the second part of its architecture so you just have keep it it'll become clear from context what we're talking about in this course of course there is no confusion because we're not going to be looking at translation right we may say decoder causal encoder it's the same thing so I thought there were some transformers that use birectional package like is it different from >> no the um the birectional all all birectional means is that I can see everything so the encoder we looked at last week the the basic self attention thing is birectional Basically all it means is I can look at both in both directions to see what other words are there in causal. You're not using the one in the future. Correct. All right. So, so in to summarize where we are. This is what we looked at last week for BERT and this is a transformer encoder and we take the same thing and instead of multi-head retention we would do causal multi retention. We get the decoder aka causal encoder. Okay. And we use the left for masked prediction. We use the right for next word prediction. All right. So now if you have instead of having an encoder, if you have a causal encoder, a TCE here, now we can train models for expert prediction using the same exact approach as before, right? We set up the inputs and the outputs like I described earlier. We run it through a bunch of stacks, a stack of causal encoders, dens, relu, softmax and so on and so forth, right? Otherwise the details don't change but the all important changes go into the attention layer and make it masked or causal. Any questions so far? >> Uh yeah, this would only apply when we're training the model, not when we're validating and testing, right? Uh so if I if you give me a sentence after training right the final prediction is only is the only thing you care about and by definition the final prediction will use everything that came before it. So we are okay. Was that your question? No, I think the fact that we're uh we're zeroing out the weights in the future words I thought would apply more when we're training the model and we're trying to minimize the loss as opposed to when we're as a chance to the next set >> right but the point is when we actually use them what is the objective like what do we want to do when we actually use them for inference once we finish training our objective is given a particular string get me the next word right and to find the next word you can in fact use everything that came before it >> and therefore without any change to this model it'll just work for your intended purpose you don't have to go in there and change it to you don't have to unmask it for inference because you don't need to >> yes >> uh I have one question is regarding like when we do the puzzle transformers we are putting certain weights to zero for the words which are to be predicted and then we >> no word the the words that are in the future >> future Yeah. >> And then we normalize it. >> Correct. >> And we have trained a transformer earlier on the all the words packed all the words together. So won't there be difference in weights between both the things >> between the two ways of training? The weights are going to be very different and they are two different models. Bert is used for certain things and this kind of model which is the basis of GPT is going to be used for other things. >> We are training it as well like that. I mean with while putting the by moving some of the rates to >> correct correct. So what I'm talking about here is the what we're trying to do here is to say let's say that we want to do next word prediction as the as the task as a self-supervised learning task and and we want to train such a model on a vast amount of text data right well we can't just use what we did last week because it's not going to work because of the fact it can see the future therefore we make a tweak and then we build this model now the question becomes okay what can you do with this such a model right we have basically trained two different kinds of models that the one that can see everything Bert and that one that can't see the future which is actually GPT. So what can you do with it? And we're going to come to that. Okay. U all right. So now once you train such a model u right given any input sentence um let's say that the sentence is it was a dark and it was a dark and right it goes through all these things. And remember what I said earlier the fact that it's predicting something after just seeing it. We don't really care. All what we're really curious about is what is the next thing it's going to say? And the next thing it's going to say is going to be is basically going to be what's coming out of this softmax. Does it make sense? We don't care about anything that went before it because we already have like a half form sentence and we want to just find the next thing here. So we only care about this. We I mean these things will come out of the of the architecture of the model, but we don't we throw them out. We don't even pay any attention to them. Okay, we only look at what's coming out in this one here. And what comes out of the soft max, remember, is A-50,000 way table of probabilities. That's what a soft max is, right? It's a whole bunch of probabilities that add up to one. And so it's going to and let's say, for example, that you know you have starting with oddwark all the way to zebra, right? Right? And these are the probabilities. So it was a dark and you know just for kicks I put star me as the most highest probability number but these numbers will add up to one. We have this table. Okay. And then what we do is we choose a token from this table. We get we get to choose right. There's a whole bunch of numbers in this table that we we get to choose a token. the the simplest thing one can think of is just choose the the word that is the most likely, right? And we choose the word that's most likely here. And we we're going to have a whole section on how to choose these things coming up. Okay, for now let's go with the simple option. We're going to just choose the one that's most likely 6. And then we we attach it to the input. So now the input has become it was a dark and stormy. We run it through and we again we only care about the last one softmax. Okay, we do that. We get another table and this table turns out the table keeps changing because the softmax is different for each time you run it through because the input has changed. So you get a new table and it turns out the most likely one is knight. Okay. And then we attach so night comes out the other end. We and we attach knight here and we keep on going right. We can keep on going maybe till we basically we tell the model okay generate up to 100 tokens and stop. It might stop after 100 or you or it might decide the model may decide in fact that when it sees a punctuation like a period or exclamation mark or something it's going to stop. Okay. And we have control over this when it stops and how it stops. But this is this is sort of the the basic process and you folks are all very used to it because you've all been playing with chat GPT and the like right? So the but the basic building block is next word prediction feed it back to the input next word prediction keep on doing it right you keep on doing it and suddenly you know it's writing entire novels for you um yeah >> that mean that the longer the initial input is better you get a better prediction >> um it depends on your objective so fundamentally you have some task you want the thing to do for you right and that task may and you need to give it all the information it can puzzle we find useful. Yeah. So the long the the more helpful the input the better. Maybe that's how I would say it. Uh yeah. >> Would this also apply to something like Google search? Uh or does they also do next letter prediction too? But would this just be a deeper >> Yeah. So the Google autocomplete for example, I don't know if they actually use uh this kind of model under the hood or not. I just don't know. Um these things tend to be kept tightly under wraps. uh you know if they were to do if they were using it you know my guess is that they so I don't know if you folks have seen recently over the last few months they have there is there is a generative AI panel that opens up when you do a Google search that panel I suspect uses this uh but I don't know if the default Google autocomplete actually uses it or not because it's very compute heavy right so I don't know what they do um so yeah this is what you do other questions on this on the mechanics of Yeah, >> for our vocabulary list, I'm assuming it's static. >> Yeah, correct. Uh, and as you will see here, it's not really a word vocabulary. It's a token vocabulary, but yes, it is static for a given model. >> And so for I guess I'm assuming for Google or any other sort of like search engine that wouldn't necessarily be static. And so when it comes to I guess I guess I'll leave it like because the model would be different sort of thinking about uh what happens to like new words and things that are formed and how does it handle it if the vocabulary is static. There's a very elegant solution that's coming up. Okay. Um all right. So now in other words we have learned how to do sequence generation. We already saw that we can do classification with BERT. We can do labeling with BERT B like models which are trained on mass prediction. And for generating sequences now we know how to do it. We just need to use a transformer cosal encoder. Okay. Now these kind of models, sequence generation models trained on text sequences using next word prediction are called auto reggressive language models or causal language models. Okay. And of course the GPD family is perhaps the most well-known uh example of an auto reggressive co language model. auto reggressive because people who have done econometrics and some regression know the notion of auto reggression means that you predict something and then you you use sort of you know the past predictions as inputs into the next time you predict right so this is the notion of auto reggression you feed you predict you feed the prediction back get the next prediction and keep on cycling through yes >> so when you you're kind of putting an input into GPT for example and it has that um you know it shows you like the next words as as it's coming. Is that an indication of it doing this recalculation that you described here? >> Correct. That's exactly what's going on. Uh in fact, if you use the API, there is the thing called the streaming API where it'll actually stream each token that's coming out through the through every pass and you can actually see everything very clearly. But when you actually work with the web interface and you see the thing almost as if it's typing like a human, what I've heard from people, I don't know if this is true, what I've heard from people is that they can actually do it much faster. They slow it down intentionally to give you the feeling that it's actually coming from a human. So it's like a UX trick to slow it down to make it feel as if someone is actually typing something on the other end. So when you're interacting with a chatbot, for example, sometimes you see it actually typing like slowly you can see the bubble and you can see the typing. It's actually intentionally slowed down. Uh because you know it's a bot otherwise, right? So there's a little bit of UX creepiness maybe going on. Uh I don't know to what extent this is 100% true and how pervasive it is, but folks who work in the field have told me that this actually is not uncommon. So okay, so that's what's going on here. These are language models and of course GPD3 is an auto reggressive language model and the reason why we have an L in front of the LM because it was trained on lots of data with lots of parameters right some someone does this at some point it's not a small language model anymore it's a large language model so yeah so it's LLM nothing more momentous than that so so as it turns out uh GPT3 uses 96 transformer blocks 96 blocks and each block has 96 six causal attention heads. Okay. And you can see you can read the GPD3 paper. It gives you all the details of the architecture. That is interesting because GPD4 they didn't publish the architecture from GPD3 after GPD3 everything became closed. So we actually don't know what the architecture is even though there's a lot of speculation on Twitter. So uh but GP3 we know exactly what happened right 96 blocks each has 96 causal attention heads. Um and then the data was actually they scraped 30 billion sentences um from a whole bunch of sources, web text, Wikipedia, a bunch of book databases. Um and um and then they basically just took those 30 billion sentences and just trained it exactly next word. That's it. Now when they trained GBD3, I think it cost them a lot of money um because things were not as we hadn't figured out how to do as efficiently as we know now. uh but it was still pretty amazing and I'll talk about you know what is so special about GBD3 in just a minute or two. So, so this is what we have here and as you folks have seen the notion of generating text right is very powerful right uh because we can obviously generate text but we can also generate code because code is just text uh we can generate documentation for code we can summarize text we can answer questions we can do chat I mean the list goes on all the excitement we see around genai from the time chat GBD came out is precisely because the simple idea of text in text out is just so flexible It's so versatile. It can handle all sorts of use cases. That's why there's so much excitement. Um, by the way, um, if you're really curious, I would actually recommend seeing this video where this this guy Andre Karpathi builds GPT from scratch. Okay, it's a fantastic video. If you if you have even like a little bit of curiosity about how these things are actually built, I would strongly recommend checking it out. Um and there's also a little blog post where this person you know basically if you know numpy you can actually create GPD3 GPD using numpy without any using any frameworks and things like that. So um I I found it super interesting and helpful to understand what exactly is going on. So if you would like to do this. Okay. So now we're going to talk about um decoding sampling strategies which is I said that when we produce uh when when when we come up with the softmax for that last token right we have 50,000 choices. What do we pick right as it turns out to actually get really good performance out of uh genai systems like charge you need to be quite thoughtful about the how to decode right how to actually sample from that table. So we'll talk about that for a bit. So, so the first of all definition the process of choosing a token from the probability distribution from the coming out of the softmax right I'm sticking this table right here this is the softmax right this process of choosing it is called decoding that's a technical term for it right we have to we get this table we have to decode meaning we have to pick something from this table okay that's called decoding now there are two sort of extreme cases of very highly simple ways to do The first thing of course is just pick the one just pick the word with the highest probability. This is called greedy decoding. Okay. So in this case for example if stommy is 6 the highest probability in this whole table we just pick stommy. Okay. So that is the obvious extreme simple case. The other thing we can do which is also super simple is that because we have a probability table here, we can just reach into the table and sample a word out of it, right? In proportion to its probability, which means that if you if if you have this table and you're sampling from it, if you sample from it 100 times, 60 times you probably get Stormy because the probability is 6. But some small fraction of the time you may get strange things like oddwark and zebra and so on and so forth, right? you're just literally doing random sampling. That's a fine way to do it too, right? There's nothing wrong with that. So these these are both options. So the key thing you need to remember is that the which one you pick and there are some variations on it which we'll get to in a moment. What you pick, which way to decode you pick really depends on what your task is, what you're trying to use the the system for, right? The LLM for. So the the the broad thing to remember is that if you're working on questions for which the factual accuracy of the response is really important and or you want the output to be deterministic meaning every time you ask it a particular question you really want the same answer back right you can imagine a customer call support agent where there two different customers ask the same question and they get different answers right you don't want that so you want determinist IC outputs. So in those situations, you should use greedy decoding is a good starting point because you will get you know you won't get any random stuff because for any given input sentence the softmax that comes out of that table is not going to change. It's the same table and if you're always picking the highest number in the table that's not going to change either. So guaranteed determinism and I found that for reasoning questions and things where you know you're asking questions, math questions, reasoning questions, logic questions, you should really sort of keep it as sort of greedy as possible in my experience. Okay. Now there are other situations where random sampling is actually a better option. If you're doing creative things, right? write a poem, write a highQ, write a screenplay, things like that. You do want a lot of creativity in which case you actually randomness is your friend, right? You get a lot of different varieties of responses, diversity of responses, all that is really good. The price you pay for it is that you lose determinist determinism. The outputs are going to be stoastic. They're going to be random. They're going to vary from the same question. The answer is going to vary again and again. But in many cases, maybe it's okay. You don't care. Okay, so that's sort of how roughly how you think about. Other one I want to say is that the diversity of response also important because you if you imagine a chatbot um if you ask questions if the chatbot always responds in the same stilted robotic fashion right it kind it starts to get annoying you want some variation in the output right because a human will never give you the same thing back though I must say that when I interact with call center agents I think they're just cutting and pasting from a text library so it does look kind of robotic u so maybe we are already kind of used to this but anyway Okay, so those are some of the things to keep in mind. Yeah, >> if you're using random sampling, do you end up with a better estimation of the uncertainty and probability are more calibrated in the sense that the table that you end up at the end is the real probability that you observe from the words in your corpus. >> The table doesn't change regardless of how you sample it. The table is a starting point for sampling. The all of all decoding is about what token from the table you're going to pull out. >> Oh, so it doesn't impact the loss function. >> No. >> Yeah. It's all those things are fixed. You literally get the table and then you literally can forget how you got the table and now decoding starts. >> Is there a reason why would generate a different answer given the same prompt if we run it again and again? Because they are using random sampling. >> Correct. That's exactly why. And we'll see I'll see do a demo of it very very shortly because you can actually manipulate it. Uh >> if you do the prediction word by word, is there a way to make it resilient to mistakes? Like if you say the night was dark and hard work, that can mess up the next word, right? >> It can totally mess it up. >> So how does it can it get itself back on track? >> It cannot. And so great question. And we'll look at an example of things going off the rails in just a second. Yep. Is this how Bing works where you can slide between being more creative, more accurate? >> Yeah, exactly. So, Bing has creative, balanced, precise something, right? Uh they're basically under the hood, they're manipulating some of the par we're going to look at some of those parameters in just a moment. They're just manipulating it for you. But if you use the API, you can manipulate it directly. Okay. Um All right. So, so here's sort of the basic thing to remember about random sampling. So, our hope is that the, you know, for any given sentence, we think that there is probably some set of good answers for the next word and a whole bunch of bad answers, right? Intuitively. So, we want the probability of the good stuff, right? We we want like a you can imagine a distribution is going like that. There is the head of the distribution, the first few words in the distribution. if you sort them from high to low probability and then there's all the long tale of you know kind of you know inappropriate not inappropriate irrelevant words right so our hope is that the model is so good that for any given input phrase it it basically concentrates the output probability in the softmax to just a few good words and sort of kind of zeros out everything else that is the ideal scenario because in that scenario if you do random sampling you by definition you'll pick something from the high quality head of the distribution and life is good. Okay. Now, we want random sampling to sample from the head and not from the tail, right? That's the key point. And what do I mean by head and tail? Let's be very clear. So, um imagine you have take the table that we looked at the softax table which went from whatever oddwalk to zebra right and let's say we sort the table based on high to low probabilities. So maybe what's going to happen is that star me is going to have a probability of I don't know 6 and I think if I remember right a knight had a probability of.3 and then a there was a whole bunch of other words all the way to the 50,000th word right from highest low probability so this is what I so this is you can think of this as like a probability distribution okay and So basically what we are saying here is that these this is the head of the distribution while this long tail is the tail of the distribution and we want our system to grab something from the head and not from the tail because the head is the stuff that's actually the relevant useful good stuff. Okay, that's really what we're trying to do here. Does it make sense? Okay. So, so to come back to this um and here is like the most important point to remember about this slide. While the probability of choosing any individual word in this long tail is pretty small. For any one word, it's pretty small. The probability of choosing some word from the tail is high. Some word from the tail is high. So to go back to this thing here. Yeah. Uh so in this particular example 6 +.3 there is a 0.9 probability it's going to be either stormy or night but there is a 10% probability it's going to be one of these words and who knows what that word might it's going to be it might be some random nonsense word right so what that means is and this goes to um this goes to point from before if the LLM happens to sample a token from the tail which is not good it won't be able to recover from its mistake it'll just go off the rails Which is why every word that gets generated is really important to get it right because book it can't recover very often. >> Is there a technical way to define the difference between the head and the tail? No, it's sort of like this common thing people use and the reason why it's not is because uh it's so problem dependent as to what like the you know like basically you're saying that for any particular problem I think depending on the question the right number of words is probably 20 for the same for a different question maybe it's 40 for a totally different model for the same question maybe 10 so because of that variability we just can't figure it out okay so um all All right. So, and I'll show you this how to do this in just a moment. So, just for kicks, um I went in to GPD 3.5 U and then I said students at the MIT Sloan School of Management are and I said predict the next word. Okay, so it turns out invited is the most likely next word followed by given, expected, required and able. These are the top five words. Okay. And the probability is 3% 2% you see the you know pretty small probabilities but then the words that are below it right the remaining whatever 50,000 odd words are even lower. Okay. So here the most likely word is invited. So what I did is I went in there and said okay let me try again now with students of this loan school of management or invited. And now autocomplete that find me the next thing. So it comes back with see now this is my new prompt. student the M school invited to submit their original white papers to the annual MIT something. It seems reasonable. Doesn't seem bad, right? It seems reasonable. Okay. Now, let's mess it up a bit. So now I go in there and I noticed that the word masters and the word spending were much lower probability than these top five words. Right? I just mucked around till I found these things. So this is only 0.05%. This is.1%. So these are clearly in the tail, right? They're not the most likely. So I said, what's going to happen if I actually force it to use masters and then I force it to use spending? Okay, this is what I what you get. Students MID school of management are masters of chaos. They routinely blow past deadlines fracture and then I couldn't take it anymore. I stopped it. a single word and then I said students school of management or spending which is the other unlikely word the semester learning life skills so far it looks promising through knitting socks I'm not making this stuff up but this is GP3.5 so yes it will go off the rails you have to be super careful um and so so the way we sort of tame random sampling to make it work for us uh Do you think that these sentences refers like the past like the master of chaos blow past deadline like is something that it was in the training sense? >> Yeah. I mean that is the thing is it's basically doing rough it's doing some very rough and approximate pattern matching from all the training data it was trained on. So it doesn't mean for example that on on the mit.edu edu website right on the collection of sites that actually there were text saying that yeah MIT Sloan students were doing all this crazy stuff it's probably more like a whole bunch of you know u college university websites probably had some content like that maybe there was a bunch of Reddit people posting stuff like that so you're just doing some rough pattern matching it's basically looking the thing is you have to remember always with large language models what it's trying to give you it's giving you a response that is not implausible There is no guarantee of correctness. There's no accuracy. Nothing like that. It's giving you a probabilistically plausible response. That's it. Okay. Now, usies being Sloan, uh we look at stuff like this and we get offended. So, we are we are imputing our values onto its generation, but it doesn't know and it doesn't care. So in fact if I when I typed in something like list all the awards that professor Ramak Krishna has won it gave me an amazing list of awards apparently I won this and I won that I won none of it is true to which a student said not yet. So I had the tea I made a note of that fine person's name. So [laughter] >> so yeah so that's what's going on. Yeah >> I get the sense like Maybe there's >> Could you use the microphone, please? >> I get the sense that maybe there's some sort of sliding window that's somehow waning later words more strongly than earlier words given how far out because I feel like the context of students at MIT, right, should have steered in a certain direction even with the presence of the word masters. So, is there something like that happening? >> No, it is just the thing is think about the training process, right? In the training process, uh, we gave it sentence fragments and we asked it to predict the next word. Now, clearly the more you know about the input that's coming and the longer the input, the more clues you have to figure out what the right next prediction is going to be. Right? If I say the capital uh the capital of you'll be like, I don't know, it's got to be a country, I guess, or a state, but I don't know anything more than that. But if you if I say the capital of France is dramatic narrowing of the cone of uncertainty. So that's basically what's going on. And in fact some there's a very beautiful expression I've heard which is that what what the LMS do they call it subtractive sculpting. So what I mean by that is it's sort of like when you start it's like this big block of marble and then every word chips away at the marble and then when you're done it's kind of pretty clear it's David inside the marble. Right? That's sort of what's going on. All right. So to come back to this, uh what can we do? We can there are three ways in which you can tune random sampling to make it work for you. The first way and and the the idea of all these things is that you have some probability distribution. We are now going to sort of manually focus on the head and then we're going to kill everything else and only focus on the head and sample from that head. Okay, which immediately begs the question, how will you decide what the head is? Right? And that was sort of Alina's question from before. How will you decide what the head is? So, one way we do that is to say, you know what, I know we have 50,000 words in the vocabulary. I don't care. Each time, I'm only going to pick the top K words, right? K could be 10, 20, 30, 40, 50. This very problem dependent. I'm going to pick the top 20 words and I'm going to ignore everything else and only sample from the top 10 or the top 20. That's called top K sampling. And so the way it works is that let's say this is your whole distribution and I just stopped at wet instead of going all the way to 50,000, right? And then you see and you decide let's say that you want k to be two. So you just grab the top two words k equals 2 and then you reormalize the probability so they add up to one. So 6 and2 reormalize it becomes 75 and 0.25. And now just imagine that this is the new softmax table that you're sampling from and you grab a number from I'm sorry a word from here and you're done. Okay, that's this called top K sampling very commonly used but there's it has a small shortcoming which is that it basically assumes that this K that you have come up with let's say 20 every input sentence the right number of words in the head is 20 which seems obviously it's not a you know well supported assumption it's just an assumption so then the question becomes can we do better right because what you really want is you want the words that you pick to have the bulk of the probabilities, right? As much probability as possible. You don't really care how many words are inside it as long as together they have a lot of probability. Which brings us to something called top p sampling also called nucleus sampling where instead of deciding on the number of words we're going to pick every time, we decide you know what we're just going to choose all the words such that the probability of such words that we have chosen is at least P. Sometimes it may be just two words. Sometimes it may be 20 words. We don't care. And then we sample from it. Okay. So here, same thing here. Let's say you go with P equ= 0.9. So you 6 +2.8 plus.1.9. Boom. We have hit 0.9. We stop and then we grab these three words and then we renormalize them to get this thing and then boom, we sample from it. So this actually is even more effective in my opinion because it sort of it fluctuates. It doesn't hardcode the number of words you think is important. Uh was there a question? Yeah. >> What if like let's say 0.9 ended up like if foggy was 0.12 will it only take 0.1 from foggy? >> Yeah. What it does is it so you give it a give it a 0.9. What it's going to do is it's going to keep adding words till it just crosses that number. >> Yeah. I was thinking, can't you just set a threshold for the word slap? Don't pick a word below probability. This top B, what if was like 0.89 and then the other one is just 0.1. So you pick two words. >> Yeah, you can do that. Um and in fact in what you can do is you can always say I want to pick a word which is the most likely word, right? You can do that. But if you say I want a word um I want only consider words whose probabilities are at least something then basically what you're saying is that I'm just going to keep on doing and then we draw a line here right but the problem is you don't know how many words have crept over your threshold right you might for example find that to to go to your example maybe you said 0.9 as a threshold may maybe there are a whole bunch of there was a word at 089 that you just missed because you didn't make the threshold you'll be like oh no I should have made it 089 so there's No right answer unfortunately. But these are exactly the this is exactly the kind of thinking that brought us these kinds of ways to tune these things all sort of you know the foundation here is that the realization that we cannot pro sort of a priority decide what the right number of words is. So we have to find huristics to try to do do these things. So in practice people try all these methods. In fact you can do both. You can do you can set up so that you can do top p and top k at the same time. Basically you're saying grab words uh till you cross the probability uh or you cross k whichever is earlier. Okay. So those are two methods people use heavily. The third method is called distribution. I'm sorry temperature. And the idea of temperature is that in top K and top P, it sort of we have to decide on a number up front K or P and then we just draw the line and look at the words that pass the threshold. Temperature is like a softer way to do the same thing. It it's a softer way to emphasize the head more than the tail. So um I think iPad. All right. So the idea of temperature is remember uh when we have this um oops soft max. So you know oddwark all the way to zebra you have all these probabilities right now remember where did we get these probabilities these properties came from a softmax. So what is a softmax? We basically had you know all these nodes say 50,000 nodes in some output layer and these were just numbers let's just call them a1 through A-50,000 and then we ran it through a softmax function and what did it do it basically did e ra to a1 e ra to a2 all the way to e ra to a let's call it n and then we it divided it by the sum of all these things to get the probabilities. So this number became e ra to a1 divided by the sum of all the e ra to a okay so e ra to a divided by e ra to a1 plus e to a2 and so on and so forth. So this how softmax works. I'm just refreshing your memory from a few weeks ago. Okay. Now what temperature does is that let me just write it a little easier. So e ra to a1 plus e ra to a2 is all the way and what it does is it introduces a new parameter here called temperature which is that we divide everything here by t. And the effect of adding this little knob called temperature here, right, is very interesting. So let's assume for a second that t is a very very small number. Assume that t is pretty close to zero, very small number. So if t is close to zero, what's going to happen is that since it's in the denominator here, all these numbers, all these numbers are going to become really big because t is really small. Right? If if a1 happens to be a positive number, it's going to become really big. If a1 is a negative number, it's going to be a really really small negative number. Okay? Now in particular, what's going to happen is the biggest of all the a numbers, it was already big. Now it's going to get massive which means that its probability is going to dominate everything else because you're taking a really big number and doing e ra to that number. So what's going to happen is that wait what what did this okay so if t is close to zero the biggest a Uh, hold on. The word corresponding to the biggest A will have a probability of one or close to one. And since all the probabilities have to add up to zero, which means that everything else is going to be zero. So the biggest A will have a probability of one. Everything else is going to have zero. So reducing temperature close to zero means that the probability distribution is going to peak at the biggest word and everything is going to become zero. So in practice what that means is that if you look at something like this if you apply um temperature here what's going to happen is that stormiest thing is going to get something like.999 and everything else right it's going to get wiped out right it's going to get really small it's going to get even smaller and so on and so forth and so when t is exactly zero basically what that means is that this is going to be exactly nine uh one and everything was going to just get zero. So when one of them is one and everything else is zero when you do sampling from it you're just picking the the big number right which means it sort it becomes greedy decoding. So that is the value of having temperature as a knob. Conversely, if you take temperature T and make it bigger and bigger, right, as opposed to smaller and smaller, this distribution is going to become flat. Meaning all the words are going to have the same probability. So a any one of these words becomes equally likely. So t close to zero, the biggest biggest word gets picked. T close to say exceeds one goes to 1.52 any word becomes likely. It becomes truly random. So that is the effect of temperature. And this knob, you can actually tune it. Um, all right. So, uh, this is called, uh, I'm at platform.openai.com. It's called the OpenAI playground. And in this playground, you can actually put in all the sentences you want. You can choose the model and then you can it'll actually tell you what the softmax output is. Okay, it's very handy. So this is where I said oh so here are a few things I want to draw your attention to. The first one is you see temperature here the default is one. If you make it zero it becomes greedy decoding but you can make it more than one if you want. It'll give you all kinds of crazy stuff as you will see in a second. Okay. Um and then they don't have top K. They don't have support for top K openai but they do have support for top P. You can put P here in this thing. And I'll ignore these things. You can read the documentation uh to understand those things. But you can actually ask it to show the probabilities. So I'm going to ask it to show all the probabilities. I'm also going to tell it um don't go nuts. Just give me like a few outputs. Let's just call it 30. Okay. And now I'm going to enter some sentences for us to see what's going on. So let's enter the same sentence as before. students at the MIT Sloan School of Management or I think that's what we had right so submit so okay this is what it's filling out now you go click on this word you get all the probabilities pretty cool right so you can see invited given expected these are all some of the things we had u and so what you can do is you can go in and say here clearly uh aching. What is that? That's very weird. So I'm going to again I'm just going to check to make sure that I use the same sentence as before. It's very brittle. Students MD school management are okay. Uh are oh I know what it is. Okay. Okay. So, let's try that again. Okay. So, invited 3.18. That's what we had, right? Invited 3.19. 3.8. Okay. Close enough. So, this is what we have. And now, if you wanted to force it to choose invited here, you just go in there and make the temperature zero. Temperature zero means it's always going to pick the best one. Greedy recording. So, you can hit it again. And it better give you invited. See it has given you invited. So that's how you manipulate it using temperature. Um you can also ask it you can also manipulate top P. You can do all these things right but so it's a it's a people actually use it very heavily for debugging right and for when they're playing with a bunch of data with a model for that particular use case. You just play with it to get a sense for what kinds of probability distributions you see and then you can fine-tune it using that using that knowledge. Um so yeah check this out. Oh, uh, I I said that if the temperature goes above one to a higher number, every word in the 50,000 becomes sort of equally likely, which means it's going to produce garbage, right? So, let's actually see garbage production in action. So, all right, let's just nuke this. Okay, and I'm going to take the temperature and max it. I'm going to call it two. Okay, which means that literally anything is possible. Submit. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a modern large language model. Isn't it like shocking >> because when we work with these language models we have, we always when we see it doing some smart things, we always ascribe some level of, you know, interesting abilities and intelligence and so on and then you realize all I had to go in go in there and change one parameter and it's garbage. So you can see the amount of garbage right it's showing just by twiddling one parameter. So you have to be in production use cases when you're building applications on top of these large language models you got to be very very careful with these parameters. So pay attention. All right. So um what did I have next? Okay. So that brings us to the uh sort of the end of the decoding section. Oh, see now I'm going to switch gears and talk about tokenization, right? which is that um when so far in all the the the things we have done including the homeworks and so on we looked at this tokenization the standard process right for taking a bunch of text and vectorizing it which was the stie process standardize tokenize um index right and then encode and the standardization I had mentioned earlier uh strips out punctuation lower cases everything uh sometimes removes stop words like a and the things like that it also does these things called stemming But turns out if you actually work with uh something like GPT, you know that it hasn't stripped out punctuation. The punctuation is really good, right? It uses case, uppercase, and lower case. And in fact, even better, you can actually make up a word as part of your question and it'll use the word consistently in the output. So just for fun, um I made up a word. I just did this yesterday, a day before. I said, here's a new word and it definition. The word is relo backwards. I said the definition a student who understands deep learning backwards please use his word in a sentence. And here is a sentence it's coming up with. Um I was like a little shocked during the advanced neural network seminar. It became evident that Jane was a true relo effortlessly explaining even the most complex deep learning concepts in reverse order. Okay. So it clearly knows how to use anything you may make up with. Right? So it has the ability to compose things from scratch as opposed to just looking up stuff. So where is the thing coming from? Right? That's the question. And the answer is this very beautiful thing called bite pair encoding which we'll look at next. So all right. So what here um when we look at this process the adv disadvantages are some of the things we have discussed which is that we want to be able to preserve punctuation. We want to be able to preserve case. We want to be able to handle new words and so on and so forth. So uh the new like the the sort of the modern models like BERT and so on they use different tokenization schemes. They don't actually do the STIE thing and the GPD family uses bite pair encoding BPE. Uh BERT uses something called wordpiece. All of these ways of encoding, the fundamental idea is to say, well, you know what? Why don't whatever language you're working with, why don't we start first of all with all the individual characters? Because if you could actually work with individual characters, you can clearly compose any word that comes up, right? Reo is just R E L D O H, right? Six tokens. If you're working with characters at the character level, but working only with characters is not great, right? because that means that the model you're giving it no information about the world. It has to learn every word from scratch, what the word means and so on and so forth. So we it would be nice if we can actually give it words as well. But we don't we don't want to give it infrequent words because infrequent words by definition are not worth adding to your vocabulary. We're just going to you know take up another embedding vector and things like that. For infrequent words, we'll just make we'll just compose them. we'll we'll actually construct them on the fly because we can always use characters. Okay, so we don't want to put every word in there. We only want to put frequent words. But to give this thing the ability to compose new words and not always have to go to characters, we will give it parts of words. These are called subwords. So the key idea is that let's come up with a way to build a vocabulary which has characters full words that are frequent enough to be worth adding and subwords or word fragments that occur frequently enough to be worth adding. So for example the word standardize right normalize standardize and so on and so forth. I is going to show up a lot in many places. So you don't want to have standardize and normalize and so on. You just want to have eyes. you can just attach it to all kinds of words, right? And make it all work, right? So that's the basic idea of all these tokenization schemes. And BP is one such way to figure out how to actually construct this vocabulary from a training corpus, right? And by the way, when I say characters, this will include not just you know uppercase lowerase alphabets and numbers, it may it will also include punctuation. So that all these things just become atomic units. All right. So uh so what we're going to the way BP works is that uh we're going to uh start with each character as a token and I'll talk about the rest of the thing on the page in just a moment. Don't worry about it. We'll start with each character as a token. So let's say that your training corpus is just a single sentence. The cat sat on the mat. Okay. And even though GPT does not actually do any lower casing, it'll just actually use like TH uppercase is different than TH lowerase. Uh just for simplicity, I'm just going to standardize it here. So it just becomes a cat sat on the mat. And then I'm going to write it in this form where I basically put a comma after every word and then I put a little underscore to show the space between the words. Okay, I'm going to write it in this format. And it'll become clear why I'm writing it in just a second. Okay. Now my starting vocabulary is just all the individual letters in the training corpus. So the starting is just whatever all these letters. Okay, that's it. And this is a starting point. And now what we do and this is the key step. We merge tokens that most frequently occur right next to each other. So if two characters or two tokens are occurring right next to each other a lot, let's just merge them because they seem to be occurring a lot together, right? May as well merge them. And so here, for example, I've I've listed the frequency of the adjacent token. So for example, if you look at th shows up right after each other here, it also shows up here. So therefore, it shows up twice. Now H E again is showing up here. It's also showing up here. So that also shows up twice. CA on the other hand is only showing up here. It's not showing up anywhere else. So it shows up once. A shows up three times in Matt, SAT, and in CAT and so on and so forth. You get the idea. So you're just looking at pair-wise adjacent tokens. And you pick the most frequent one that's showing up, which in this case happens to be a t. And then you take a and t and you merge them. So it becomes 80. Okay. So when you do that when you when you you merge them and then you add that new token that you've just literally created to your vocabulary list and then you update the corpus to reflect the merge you've just did. So now the corpus becomes the cat sat on the mat. But in this case there is no a and t separately. There is just the at combo com combo token here. Are we good with this step so far? take the most frequent things and merge them. It's a way to compress the data. In fact, the algorithm came from someone trying to figure out a way to compress data. You know, think of it this way, right? Suppose I tell you uh I'm I want you to compress a message I'm going to send to you and then you look at all the past messages you've had to deal with and it turns out you're finding that u certain characters are occurring next to each other all the time right maybe just for argument let's say ABC shows up ridiculously often in the messaging and then you'll be like you know what's if it's always showing up all the time together why treat it as three things let me just call it one thing ABC that's it you send a single token called ABC every time you send need ABC not a B C that's the basic idea. So here if you come here that's what we have and then what we do is now we do again this calculation of adjacency tokens on this updated corpus and you can see here th shows up once TH shows up here twice so you get two every H shows up twice everything else shows up once and yeah when many things are showing up with equal frequency just pick one randomly from this. So we pick up th right and we merge that which means that we add th to our vocabulary and once we do that we update the corpus and now we have th is now one thing fused together along with the previous thing 80 that had been fused together that is a corpus after the second merge and then we do the same thing we find the frequency adjacent tokens turns out th and e are showing up twice everything else is showing up once so we take th merge it to get the boom the and now we have the cat sat on the mat. So this process continues till we reach a predefined limit for our vocabulary. Now as it turns out when they built GPT2 and GPT let me just see I think I did some digging around on this thing. Yeah. So GPT2 and 3 they set the vocabulary size to be roughly 50,000. So it basically kept on doing this till it hit a limit of 50,000 then it stopped. GPD4 on the other hand actually went goes all the way to 100,000 vocabulary size. Okay, so this is BP in action. U and so what's going to happen is once you finish all this thing and you have vocabulary and you have all these things that you have merged when a new piece of text comes in right the merges remember here we merged a to get a this th became this and so on. When a new piece of text arrives the tokenization apply the merges in the exact same order. So if the new text that comes in is the rat, it's first going to apply the 80 to 80 to become fuse this here and then going to fuse th to get this and then it's going to fuse th and e to get that. And the final list of tokens that goes in to your model is going to be the token for the the token for space and the token for r and the token for at. So let's see this in action. uh GP I mean OpenAI has a has its own thing but I found this uh site to be really good. So let's uh tokenize hands-on deep learning. So you can see here look at this. So H uppercase H is its own token. It's token number 39 and it's it own token. dash is its own token on is its own token and then space deep is its token and space learning is its token okay note one thing suppose you had said let's just say you just had deep deep deep learning deep has a different token than space deep okay what they have realized is that most words are actually going to show up after the space after a space right much more likely so having a space attached to the beginning of the word saves you a lot of sort of you know saves you a lot of compute and so on and so forth because they will in fact arrive almost all the time with the space before it right that's why they have attached the space to the word itself um and note that deep learning deep and uh deep actually let's call it this way so deep and deep are different right there is deep there is so clearly it's taking case into account then I put an exclamation here. Boom. That and so ultimately what goes in when you have have a phrase like um sat on the mat. So the cat sat on the mat. And you can see here uppercase the um and then let's just do another thing here. So uppercase the with a space is 383. lowerase the is 262. Uh and then that's distinct from just the without any space. That's a different thing. So these are all the tokens. Now um let's try something. Let's try Jane. So Jane is one token which is great and is another token. Let's see. Rama. Ah darn. My name wasn't worthy enough to be its own token. Okay. But strangely enough this I was very surprised by this. So if I put Rama in lower case is its own token. I have no idea what they were scraping which websites. Uh and if I put Jane here now J has become its token with space and A has become different. So the tokenization is like very it's a very interesting thing and it works in very interesting ways. But that's the basic idea of what's going on under the hood. I would encourage you to like check out your names to see if it's actually been tokenized. So all right, I'm done. Thanks folks. I'll see you on Wednesday.