So, so there are a couple challenges that you need to to think about when you're using this approach. One is it's important to explain to the students what's going on. Uh if you just start doing this and say this is what we're going to do and don't tell the students why you're going to do it, u that's problematic. Um I think it's important to think of the students as partners. Um explain what's going on. They're much more likely to u buy into it and and um u and maybe get used to the new approach. One of the things I do is I present some data um because it's MIT and students are persuaded by data and what the data says is that generally the more active a learning exercise the more that students learn. And there's there's some really good data in the literature uh that shows that. So um I explain to students that the reason I'm doing this uh is to increase their level of understanding especially at the conceptual level uh as a as opposed to the uh analytic level of just doing a problem using the the equations. I've never had a restation like this before actually working on problems with everybody else and kind of going through it and struggling through it. Um but eventually understanding a lot better what was done in lecture through I guess a more hands-on approach. Do the students like this? Well, I I have a little bit of feedback. I I do think that initially they're apprehensive. Um they're not used to being so uh exposed uh in the classroom. They can hide. Usually, they don't want to answer a question. They don't raise their hands. Uh but in a situation like this, everyone's answer is visible. So, initially I do think they're a little bit um uncomfortable. I think they get comfortable very quickly and get um used to it. Um at the end of the day, at the end of the class, uh when they evaluate it, um I've found that students really like uh this approach that they like this sort of recitation uh much more than conventional recitations and um often comment about that uh in the course evaluation. So uh even though there might be a little bit of initial reluctance uh I think uh most students would really like this approach.