Hi everyone and welcome to the AI and open education and initiative speaker series. Again, you are here at professional education and the judicious use of AI which is part of the AI and open education initiative speaker series. Welcome. My name is Sher Seagull and I am the collaborations and engagement manager at MIT Open Courseware. I am also one of the planning committee members of the AI and open education initiative at MIT Open Learning. In order to meet the moment of remarkable growth of artificial intelligence and to examine its benefits and challenges to the field of open education, last summer, MIT Open Learning solicited rapid response papers from stakeholders around the world to articulate how generative AI might accelerate or hinder the promise of open education. An international jury of AI and open education experts reviewed 147 submissions and published nine thought-provoking papers by 32 researchers on the open platform pub which you can find via the link in the chat. This initiative and today's speaker series webinar is generously funded by the William and Flora Hulet Foundation. We want to thank Huelet for their ongoing support. Today's session is the first of two webinars in the initiative speaker series. Today's topic is professional education and the judicious use of AI. Our next webinar on May 12th is on AI literacies and evaluation and we'll put the registration link for that in the Please note that today's session is being recorded and will be openly licensed as an open educational resource that will be openly available to people around the world. We invite you to shape the narrative we are having about AI and open education and help us navigate the terrain for new directions and new questions. So, please add your voice and let your critiques, concerns, and enthusiasm be heard. You can do so through the Q&A function throughout today's session. Put your ideas in the Q&A as you have them. Rest assured that we will circle back to your comments and questions later in this session. You're welcome to let us know your name, role, or affiliation in your comments. If you do not want your name referenced in today's recording, you can post your questions anonymously. An overview of today's structure is as follows. First, I will briefly introduce today's speakers. Then our respondent will contextualize this moment for us. Third, the authors of the two spotlighted papers will provide a high-level overview of each of their papers. This will be followed by a discussion with the authors led by our respondent. And finally, we will open the discussion for your comments and questions. I'm thrilled to introduce today's speakers and papers. Clint Loland is today's respondent and he is the director of open education at BC campus. BC Campus is a government-f funed nonprofit organization that provides teaching, learning, educational technology, and open ed support for the 25 publicly funded postsecondary institutions of British Columbia. In 2013, Clint was instrumental in the launch of the BC open textbook project and currently oversees the operations of the provincial open textbook repository and their open publishing platform. The author of our first featured paper is Dr. Aarim Aya Sheili Bakova. She is an associate professor of strategy and the founding director of the center for teaching excellence at University Canada West. She's also a PhD candidate in edtech and learning design, pursuing her second PhD at Simon Frasier University. She's a multilingual educator from Kazakhstan whose research focuses on AI powered instructional design, inclusive faculty development, and knowledge mobilization in diverse linguistic contexts. She's the author and editor of numerous policy papers and four books. The links will be in the chat. Her paper is addressing challenges in faculty professional development UDL training through AI enhanced OEER in a non-English context. One of the co-authors of today's second featured paper is Dr. Royce Kimmons. He's an associate professor of instructional psychology and technology at Brigham Young University. In his work, he seeks to end the effects of socioeconomic divides on educational opportunities through open education and transformative technology use. He is also the founder of edtechbooks.org and other sites focused on providing free highquality learning resources to all. The other co-author of today's second featured paper is Dr. Tori Trust. She's a professor of learning technology at University of Massachusetts Ammerst. Her work centers on the critical examination of the relationship between teaching, learning, and technology, and how technology can support teachers in designing contexts that enhance student learning. She has written and designed several open educational resources, many of which have had millions of views. She is also the author of five books published on the edtechbooks.org site, and we'll put those links in the chat for you. Now I'll pass the baton to our respondent Clint Loland to contextualize this moment for us. >> Thank you very much Sherah and thank you for inviting me to participate in this event today. Uh I am joining you from the traditional territories of the Lquangan speaking peoples of the Songhes and Esquyimal nations also known colonally colonially as Vancouver uh island Victoria British Columbia to be exact. Uh thank you also to MIT open learning uh for sparking these discussions and launching the rapid response papers looking at the emerging relationship between open education and generative AI. Uh as Sarah Schwetman says in her preface for the collection of responses we are at a moment where quote AI is entering the public consciousness in a big way and reshaping how we learn, communicate and collaborate. Uh end quote. Uh and as with any new technology, there is both a promise and a peril. Or as media theorist Neil Postman famously said, every technology is both a burden and a blessing. Not an eitheror but a this and that. And this means for every advantage that a new technology offers, there's always a corresponding disadvantage. Uh the disadvantage may exceed the importance of the advantage or the advantage may well be worth the cost. Generative AI may be a new technology, but the reality is it's no different in this regard. There are both burdens and blessings, promises and perils. Uh which is what the rapid response papers address. Uh in the papers we can see both the promise and the peril, the the fouian bargain of technology as Postman calls it at play once again. uh and it's this tension that we're hoping to explore a bit today uh and in this speaker series in our discussion of the papers. The collection of papers is also quite unique in that they specifically speak to Gen AI within the context of open education. And now there's been a lot of discussion about AI and education in general, but there's been maybe less so looking at the specifics of AI within the context of the unique affordances and consideration of open education and open educational practices. Um so for those of us who are deeply committed to open education and open educational practices uh uh and and the values that are embedded in those practices things like fairness and equity social justice access autonomy for both students and faculty uh critical digital pedagogy collaborative practices knowledge construction and co-construction I think these papers are are very welcome and I think a much needed addition to our field. Uh, and if you haven't done so already, uh, I would urge you to take some time to explore all the papers in the collection. Uh, I'm going to hand it back to Shar. I'm going to be back after the authors have done their presentations and facilitate a Q&A with the authors and I hope you enjoy the next hour. >> Fantastic. Thank you so much, Clint. So, I will now pass the baton to Dr. Sheili Beova uh to discuss her paper um addressing challenges in faculty professional development UDL training through AI enhanced OEER in a non-English context. >> Thank you. Hi everyone. Thank you Shira for a kind introduction and Clint. It's great to have you as our respondent. Um and warm thank you to the MIT open learning team Sarah Hansen and Sarah Schwedman and to the HLET Foundation for supporting this initiative. Um, it's been a quite a learning process for me. Before I begin, I want to acknowledge that I'm joining you today from the traditional and unseated territories of Seyamu First Nations here in White Rock, beautiful British Columbia and grateful to be here. Uh, today I'm presenting a paper that actually grew into the core of my doctoral research. uh a localized AI enhanced UDL based open educational resource created for non English Kazak speaking educa educators. When my daughter heard this title for the first time, she was like mom what a coded language you are talking what is UDL o so many abbreviations we'll talk about that today. Uh next slide please. Um this work began through the reach project. So I want to contextualize um a bit. Um it's a multi-country initiative led by Dr. Robert Williamson at Simon Fraser University. It was funded by Canada's Sherk and a reach focused on inclusive education for displaced and refugee children with disabilities particularly in Jordan, Turkey, Canada and Kazakhstan. uh Kazakhstan joined from the start this project but not because of a formal uh refugee population they had but because of this unique humanitarian situation. Um back in 2019, Kazakhstan government launched a humanitarian Jusan operation that repatriated around 600 citizens including 413 children from former ISIS controlled territories and refugee camps in Syria. and um 19 of those children were resettled in the western Kazakhstan Ataro region. Um although I had moved to Canada back then, I remained closely connected to Atrao State University faculty and colleagues where I had previously served as vice president for strategic planning and international relations. And earlier in that capacity I initiated this um platform kids university a community-based open learning uh for rural uh children like from rural regions and uh it became a sort of an early form for me um of localized open education grounded more in social connection and institutional support. I had to study different experience of different kids universities around the world and try to localize those practices. So when this reintegration of repatriated children, displaced children from Syria, that support was needed, the faculty, the team at at university naturally turned to this space to kids university because it was safe, it was working, it was trusted and we included them into the reach project to support that inclusion um to the um children with disabilities. But as the reach project progressed, it became clear that the real challenge wasn't the children in the first place, but was the readiness of the people trying to help them. Faculty were committed um but lacked some training, digital fluency, um no English language skills to be using the resources in English. So there were no resources, open resources in Kazak. So um I began offering some fragmented workshops mostly around UDL framework and um artsbased strategies but I saw that we needed more of sustainable um solutions. Next slide please. So that's when the idea took shape. We saw that well we've developed a UDL based open resource asynchronous course in Kazak that would educators learn from about inclusion and how to um adapt it. So um a resource that they could use flexibly in their own language and at that stage there was no AI. I was translating myself using sometimes Google translate to help but it was not really helpful. So we had to adapt um again culturally pedagogically uh considering Kazak traditions of pedagogy as well. I reflected in my paper that much of the global literature on UTL and open education is in English and embedded in western assumption about technology and access and that disconnect made localization not just important but essential and critical. Next slide please. So in early 2024 I began exploring generative AI tools a bit cautiously. Um and actually the main excitement was could they help accelerate that localization um save my time with translation uh generating some visuals um but with cultural care. So I experimented with Chad Gupt for drafting D for um visuals. Yes chat there was a Kazak GPT chatbot that saved a lot of time as well. I was inspired partially by the Ludia it's UDL plus AI chatbot also and I saw the potential there to make it more accessible. So um this re overall the course uh that uh we've I've designed and um piloted with Ataro University was not generated by AI but it was designed with this instructional design model successive approximation model um and SAM as its author Michael Allen reminds us is not just about speed being fast being reiterative it's about listening so um that's what this project became became uh a sort of act of pedagogical listening through language design and response. Next slide please. So we chose UDL and um I just quickly want to share the anecdotal part about translating actual concept into English universal design for learning. Um and it proved a bit difficult. It's always tricky with those concepts. Um so machine translation gave us ambabo and here ambab which is more of convenience store type of universality and uh balao is more about um to pro projecting um or outlining or drafting. So after consultation we had with some of the doctor in philology at that state university. Um I we made decisions. So I I kind of was my decision but um I relied in on the feedback as well to keep uh universal part univers as it's an international term and also design part because we also have that term in Kazak. So uh universal design uh but yet as you see uh I kept UDL in English abbreviation in brackets in English and that also another was um another strategic decision here. Hard one um because um I thought that it would be a hybrid that preserved um both local clarity but also global recognizability. So faculty could recognize it in English language, conferences, resources or books UDL and um use AI tools to translate those resources because they now know that it's about UDL. So uh I would call it conceptual bilingualism, the way to build both sort of familiarity and fluency across that academic scholarly context. Next slide, please. I will probably skip it. is just another example of the translation and localization. U it was quite a challenging part as well. Another resource that we used was this again Kazak GPT that saved so much time because I started designing my own Kazak Jet GPT and then thought well let me check maybe some other smart people already done it before me. So uh and voila there was this free resource. Next slide please. So uh the course had 95 completion rate uh among 25 faculty and um it was unusually high to be honest. I was surprised um for asynchronous professional development which is um like nobody really tracks the progress. Uh so far we had the precourse survey and after course survey anonymously and knowledge scores again we've seen increased 60% were those faculty who attended my previous fragmented workshops during the reach project so they knew something about UDL that was really also um like rewarding to see that uh and the increase was to 85%. And so there is a lot more to work on and faculty actually shared that it reflected their realities. They felt that it was not translated or decoded from other language. So here I felt like localization doesn't just increase access but it's also about connection or um to the content. Finally, next slide please. The lessons I drew actually a lot more but I I thought the most important ones I would share today is that localization is um foundational um not optional. It's important that we um start with the design uh on mind and it shouldn't be an afterthought. Um second AI integration requires critical human guidance. Yes. Um AI accelerates, it supports localization but it cannot lead it. And finally inclusive design requires institutional support. Um I mean we had to get support from the um Atra State University's um administrative level also to have access to their IT resources so that it is hosted on their platform as they helped us with the access to articulate rice platform where we designed the first interactive uh elements of this course and um it's important that professional development isn't only inclusive but also available and institutional support is the key. And last slide, please. Um, so that was a rapid response paper. It's still going on. Uh, it was my first pilot project I was excited about. At the moment we have two more uh universities in Kazakhstan who are interested in hosting this uh course and uh I assume for my doctoral dissertation I would want to have a larger sample of respondents and so um look forward to include more but this time um the platform sustainability is um challenging and it's quite expensive sometimes in those areas so we are exploring now simpler tools like Moodle maybe or Google sites uh to keep resources open and replicable and in future I hope uh it will grow into sort of community of practice among Kazak educators whose this course actually um brought together and thank you for your time and listening to me if there is one takeaway from my talk today it's this inclusive design does not begin with AI or frameworks it begins with the people and the language we choose to design for and if open education is truly to open then AI must serve as a bridge not a gatekeeper uh enabling educators to build resources not just in many formats but in many voices as well. Thank you so much. >> Beautiful. Thank you so much. Uh we really appreciate it. As you um are thinking of your questions and comments um and ideas, please do put them in the Q&A and we will come back to them near the end of this session. Uh so I would like to pass the baton now to Dr. Kimmons and Dr. trust who will talk about judicious AI use to improve existing OEER. >> Thank you Shar and I'm delighted to be here today and what an incredible first presentation by Ya that I really enjoyed. I am presenting alongside uh my co-author Dr. Royce Kimmons and on behalf of our other co-author Dr. George Valencianos today and let's go ahead and jump in. Next slide please. So, generative AI technologies are powerful tools, but they come with significant costs in terms of financial costs. Just last week, a CEO of Open AI said using nicities like please and thank you, cost the company upwards of tens of millions of dollars. and thinking about the environmental costs of these tools, which are quite substantial. Unfortunately, many of the developers of AI technologies aren't very transparent or clear about the environmental impact of these tools. However, when looking at Google's 2024 sustainability reports, it showed that there was a 13% increase year-over-year in greenhouse gas emissions since totaling 48% uh since 2019. and they attributed that to increase in um data centers and need for power in those. The same report also noted there was a 17% increase in water use uh totaling 6.1 billion gallons of water which is more than 9,000 Olympic size swimming pools um and water in that case is often used to cool down data centers. Some researchers have also tried to make some estimates about the environmental cost of these tools. One group of researchers found that generating an AI image, one or two AI images, takes as much electricity as charging your smartphone. Another group of researchers found that getting AI to provide medium length responses, about 10 to 50 of them, takes about 16 ounces of water, which may not seem like a lot, but then when you multiply that by the hundreds of millions of users of these tools data daily, it's a quite a significant cost. and also the fact that many of these data centers are housed in towns that they are now taking electricity and water and other resources from the residential supply. Uh these tools also have several other ethical issues in terms of their accuracy um you know hallucinating information and have exacerbated the digital divide um between those who have access to these tools and know how to use them and know how to think critically about them and those who do not. So, I'm gonna hand it over to my co-author here, uh, Dr. Royce Kimmans to talk more about judicious uses of AI. >> Thank you. So, um, as has already been mentioned, AI came into kind of this critical consciousness of everyone or um, for the vast majority of people with the advent of specifically chat GPT um, but chat bots specifically as an as a type of AI. And for that reason, whenever we talk about AI, whenever you hear a new presentation about AI, most of the time, uh, it's going to be about chat bots. And that's true in education, it's true in every field. Um, and so the kind of knee-jerk reaction that we've had to AI and across lots of disciplines is, oh, we can use AI now to do some exciting things. Let's throw chat bots at our problems and see what happens. Um, the problem though, well, one of the problems is that chat bots require a high level of literacy as Tori mentioned. They also require a lot of energy. um more than a lot of the other kinds of AI or uses of AI that we often deal with. And so what we what I would what we would refer to as a non-judicious use of AI um specifically when it comes to OAR is to um embed a chatbot or to throw a chatbot at a learner and just expect the chatbot or the learner to be able to interact with the chatbot in a way that is beneficial to the learner. Like going back to Ya's example, um giving a learner a chatbot and asking them to localize OAR for themselves, right? Um, now there are other options or other ways of thinking about this. And so what we're framing here is what we refer to as a judicious use of AI. And what this means is that instead of putting the a having the user or the learner interact directly with the AI, are there high value things that we can have AI do that we then store, we save the results of what the AI has done and then we distribute those to learners at scale. So this requires three steps. First, we identify impactful improvements to existing OEER that can be accomplished with AI. And I'll sh share some examples in a second. Then we use AI to enact and store those improvements in a finite typically one-time manner. So if we use AI to localize some content, we store that. And then the third step, we release what we have done under a new as OAR themselves. So we efficiently serve those improved materials to learners at scale as OEAR. Next, next slide, please. So our context for doing this is um edtechbooks which is an open textbook publishing platform. Um just a couple of a little bit of information about the background for this. So this system um is very intentionally open. It's very intentionally available to everybody. Um there are no log in or access walls. Currently we serve our content to over one and a half million users across the world every year. Um we have over 200 published books about 8,000 published chapters. All content is automatically converted into PDFs and Microsoft Word documents as well. So they can be accessed offline and all content is also converted to high-quality audio books using AI. Um and that audio is stored so that people throughout the world can access um audio versions of these this content as well. And so when thinking about how can we use AI to improve this kind of an OAR resource, well, if we have one and a half million users accessing our content, we don't want one and a half million users using chat bots to to get content that they need. Why can't we just figure out what our users want, use AI to to create that and then re-release that to them as OEER in a way that is more efficient and more sustainable. Next slide, please. So we'll give uh four examples of of how this plays out. So one is simple glossery. So if we want learners to be able to define terms that they come across, we can use AI so if someone clicks on a term, AI will define it. But what we don't want is AI to have to define this term a million times. So if a million people don't know what an abduction is, for instance, we don't want AI to be called upon a million times to define this. Instead, what we can do is we have the author decide what they want defined. So they create a glossery. They use AI to create an initial um an initial definition for this. And then we serve that definition up to all users. So that makes it more sustainable, makes it lower cost and also allows the human so in this case the author to have control over uh have a quality assurance control over that definition. So that uh for instance we've come into we've had examples in the past and you've seen many papers written about this about hey how AI is biased, how AI replicates even things like racism and sexism in and what it in what it provides to people. So by allowing a humanin this case the author to come between the what the AI generates in terms of the definition and what is provided to the learner it allows the the author to take control of that and to ensure that content that is being provided is unbiased and and so forth. Next slide please. Another example is in the form of learning checks. So um we can have an AI go through content and maybe after every couple of paragraphs it it discerns what is the core content of this paragraph and it creates a multiple choice learning check that then is stored as static HTML and with some JavaScript layered on top that is then efficiently served to all learners. So you don't have to have an AI to ask so that every learner doesn't have to ask an AI to help me find what are the key points of this of this content. We do it once and then we provide that to all learners so that all learners can can benefit from that learning check whether or not they have access to an AI. Next slide please. Um the audiobook example that I already mentioned audiobooks doing high quality audio with an AI actually takes a ton of energy um and it takes a a lot of time even with a high-powered machine. So if you were to have uh a learner for instance in the Philippines click on an click on a chapter and have AI translate it into audio for them that would be hugely expensive, use a ton of bandwidth and um just not be sustainable. Um so what we do with audio is whenever a book uh a book a chapter is edited or updated we have AI go through and create a an audio version of that. And some of these chapters the audio ends up being um an hour and a half long. Like these are huge audio files. Uh it takes a ton of energy to create. But we generate this once we store it in efficient storage with like Amazon S3 that then can be um mirrored across multiple sites across the world so that it can be easily accessed um at multiple points across the world. Um and so we're generating it once but we're able to deliver it to thousands or millions of learners at scale. And next slide please. And one final example is translation. Um, so instead of having learners have to have like a an account with chatgpt or something like that to translate content for them that they come across in an OEER, why can't we bake that into the o the the system itself so that in our case we're translating all of our content into English, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, and then those are made available to all learners who come to the content. So it's translated once by AI and that initial translation is costly but once you scale it across thousands of us owners who are accessing it the cost per user is is negligible it the and so the return on investment is is it approaches infinity because at some point you create this resource and then it's available to everybody and then last slide. So um to compare these two, non-judicious use tends to be very expensive to scale versus judicious use is inexpensive. Um judicious use uses less energy um and has resulting in much lower economic or ecological and economic impact because learner AI interaction is visible. Uh so like in like the case of the glossery, the author can see what the AI is providing before it's provided to the the learner. So the author can step in and make do quality assurance on it. The so AI responses can be audited, verified and checked for quality. Those AI responses are available to everyone. So it's there isn't an there's no equity concern where only some people have access to enhanced resources because they have licenses with specific AI tools. No, because the AI uh results are generated and stored and then shared with everyone. They're equitably available to everyone and it requires low bandwidth and can be made available offline. And so if we create like for instance an audiobook version of a chapter or um generate other like translations of chapters, learners can download those and access them offline without having to have persistent access to like chat GPT for instance. >> Fantastic. Thank you so much. Um so I'd now like to invite Clint to have a larger conversation with ya Royce and Tori. Um and that will last probably 10 15 minutes or or so 15 minutes and then we will um come back to your questions. So do make use of that Q&A function uh and let us know what questions or comments you have as you are thinking them. >> Great. Thank you Shar. And I I uh I want to start with you and your project because uh the localization work that you did reminds me a lot of the localization work that we did in the early days of the BC open textbook project way back in 2013. Uh one of the one of the challenges we had when we started our open textbook project here in British Columbia was taking US-based textbooks and contextualizing them and localizing them for a Canadian context. And I can tell you it was difficult work and I really wish we had access to some of the tools that you did when doing this kind of uh local localization work. But I you know as you note um using AI was not without its challenges to do localization. And the one I want to hone in on is the linguistic barriers with AI translation as I think this might be a good example of a type of uh cultural bias that we might find in AI tools. uh in your paper you noted that um translating resources while preserving pedagogical integrity requires more than direct translation. I wonder if you can expand on that a little bit. Why was the direct translation inadequate and how did you work around that? >> Yeah, thank you so much Clint. I really appreciate you naming that experience with textbooks localization. It resonates deeply with what we encountered. But we had AI and all those tools that supported this process that made it way easier even fun. Sometimes we were um juggling with different dialects and terms um and um in sort of educating and training AI as well. So one of the most consistent challenges we faced was um not just linguistic really. It was more cultural um and um AI and machine translation tools. Um Google translate that was the first thing they used. It was uh more familiar to faculty uh involved. Um they often carried more of that implicit cultural assumptions already embedded in the source material whatever they were using. So as I mentioned in my um today's talk um universal design itself like seemingly neutral brought up some unintended associations with translated directly into Kazak like ambib which more used like in my childhood we would say ambib store which is universal store uh convenience store. So technically it worked but culturally it undermined the integrity of the concept. Um that wasn't also the translation issue exactly as you said um around the cultural bias the idea that uh what is neutral in English may carry different weight in other or tone or authority in another language when it translated um directly. So all these biases um um magnified by this machine translation at the same time uh if used without reflection or review from um human judgment um may lead to sort of um not even confusion but misrepresentation or worse unintentional um reinforcement of cultural hierarchies, right? what we call through this geese of open access but yet we wanted really to that it sounded natural, respectful and pedagogically coherent. So educators do not learn something new but rather review what they have been doing with these new tools or new approaches. So we brought really I've involved um a lot of feedback from uh faculty at at university. I'm very grateful to them here. Um uh we even asked some of the educators from different regions of Kazakhstan where we would have some dialect. So we wanted the term would resonate with someone in western Kazakhstan as well as in south Kazakhstan where I'm from. So we uh wanted to we had to actually to think about those uh pecularities there and it was not only about clarity. I think for me it was more about credibility. Thanks. So to get around some of what you were finding, it sounds like you definitely had humans in the loop kind of reviewing the work that was coming out and the importance of having people still involved checking the work I think is something that I also picked up on in uh Royce and Tori's paper too. The importance of humans in the loop and having oversight. I think you mentioned uh human quality assurance is essential to correct AI hallucinations, errors and misinformation. And so Tori and Roy, I want to bring you into the conversation here and just maybe tell us some of the ways that you're thinking about how to address this in your work to ensure that there are humans in the loop. I can start briefly just from an author perspective. So I have written several books on the edtech books platform which are open educational resources OEARS and along the way Royce has been adding in a lot of different features which I always love to try out in my books. Um, and at one point there was like an AI generated abstract and I'm talking one of my books has like 700 pages cuz I have a co-author who just loves to write nonstop. Um, and so, you know, I don't have time to go through and write an abstract for every single one of those chapters. But when I had the AI generated version, I was like, ooh, this is not like fully capturing what happened in this chapter. Um, but it's a starting point. And so for me, I found it helpful that it like it put text on paper for me then to work around and revise and figure out what is the most important part of this chapter I want to include in this abstract rather than starting from a blank page. Uh, and I do think that helped speed up the ability to include abstracts. And um but I do think there had to be a humanin the loop in that process because the AI I don't think ever created an abstract that was fully accurate and correct for any of the chapters um its very first try. And that's we know how these tools work. They're they're predictability machines guessing which words go together. Um so you have to have that human aspect and that's what Royce has really built into the edtechbooks platform. >> Yeah, just to build on that. So it's it's it's accuracy, it's quality, it's speed, but it's also contextualization too. Um that's one of the things that AI struggles with a bit. Um I mean if you especially if you're not providing it with deep understanding of the context. So if I'm writing to elementary school teachers for instance, that context is going to be very different from writing to a group of professional engineers and and what I convey, how I convey it. And so, um, allowing the a using the AI to create kind of a boilerplate or a beginning, uh, kind of outline of what this looks like. Just getting something on the page is really, I don't know, encouraging as an author because then it's easier to edit. It's easier to go and adjust than it is to just stare at a blank page. And so, that that applies to abstracts. It applies to like glossery terms. Um, and and and even beyond that too, that to things that are more strictly created entirely by the AI like audio books. um you know just being able to go and listen to it and make sure that you know you're you're happy with the way that it sounds um is is an important step. And I guess translations as well translations are a bit tricky because um if when we like for instance if I translate my content into 10 different languages I I don't know all 10 of those languages. So um we have built in the ability for the author to go in and edit what the the AI has generated and is now providing in those different languages. But unless I also collaborate with people who speak those languages or that can help me um uh engage in quality assurance with those languages um then even though I I'm there as the author I'm not able to do much or I don't even know what to do. So so there is so part of it is how we structure our relationships with the AI by by putting the author between the AI and the learner but part of it too is thinking about what resources and literacies are needed to the author so they can can actually engage in quality assurance. the AI has generated results. >> I want to circle back to that literacy piece in just a moment here, but first I want to I want to talk a little bit about the environmental aspects uh in your paper uh and the environmental cost of using generative AI because your paper raises the environmental cost as really being a serious social justice issue. Uh and I think there's a real tension especially for us in education. I mean we're feeling this pressure to perhaps use these tools. we're seeing some of the benefits of using these tools, but we know that there there are steep costs to actually using them. And and this is kind of a big question, but I mean, how do you think we go about reconciling that tension between the benefits of generative AI and the environmental costs that you talk about? >> Well, I think Tori brought brought to my attention just uh recent research on even how youth are using AI, right? So, they use it for information seeking primarily. So, for instance, if they don't know what the word abduction means, they'll go to chat GPT to ask it what abduction is. Well, doing that using a a chatbot, specifically like the the newest versions of the chatbot, like if you're using a 4.1 or something like that, you're going to use more 10 times more energy than if you did a Google search, which is going to use 10 or 100 times more energy than if you just went to Mariam Webster and did it and actually typed it in there. So, um, or had had a dictionary in your operating system that you're using. Um, so I mean, super easy. I'm I'm on a Mac. Just hit command space and type in a word and it uses the built-in dictionary to define it for you. But youth do not know how to do that. So, that's a literacy question which we can talk more about later. But I think part of what it speaks to is just that we don't understand what our tools are good for and what they're efficient at and what is like because there's cost associated with everything that we do with them. We don't know what is what is a legitimate cost. Is it it's is it really um desirable to use this much energy to define a word that I could just easily find a definition to a different way? And so I think so much of it is, you know, there's the literacy aspect, but there's also just like for those of us who are creating tools or in positions to um provide resources to people. Hopefully, we're not falling into that same trap where we're not just throwing a you know, oh, I need to define terms. Let me throw the newest version of chat GPT at it which I know is going to be super resource intensive. Um there are lots of different large language models out there. Lots of them are more efficient than others. So for instance in our current onet books in our current use of the glossery and the abstract feature we're using llama 3 point I think it's 3.2 but we're using the the three billion or the three billion parameter model which is much more efficient than than the the the kind of flagship llama is 70 billion. And I and I don't know know what the chat GPT model current GPT models are right now. If you're not an AI person, what that just basically means is a three billion parameter model, you can run it even like on a pretty, you know, mid-range like laptop. Um, if you wanted to, it's not a super intensive model to run versus if you're running cutting edge models, uh, you need a super high performing machine that it's going to use a ton of energy. Um, I actually have a super high performing Mac Studio uh under my desk here right now that is constantly running stuff in the background because I'm analyzing data and I can feel the heat coming off of it. Um, uh, and so I have to have the air up higher in my office. So, I'm creating an ecological concern here within my office just using how I'm using how I'm using AI. But, um, but using more efficient models and I think using models that are that are kind of that are designed for the kinds of things that we're after. I don't need to throw a 70 billion parameter model at a simple definition task. Um, and by not doing that, I'm I'm drastically saving cost. I'm drastically saving um ecological impacts. >> It's interesting that you mentioned that. I mean, one of the things I I use a large language model, but I've been working on a locally hosted large language model. So, I've been using a tool called LM Studio and running models just on my desktop because that's one of the ways that I kind of feel okay about the environmental impact of of using large language models is if I can at least run it locally on my laptop, then I'm not, you know, relying on huge data centers uh to power the the work that I'm doing. And it has been it has been one of the ways that I've been kind of managing that environmental concern and I think maybe holds out a little bit of hope for uh uh for you know the the sort of more basic queries that we tend to do or that that as you mentioned youth tend to do on uh on the large language models. Um, I want to stick on the technology piece a bit and just talk a little bit and and I know uh Rory, you talked Royce, you talked a little bit about um, Lama and I I do want to come back to that, but I mean the I want to talk about the technology choices you made for both of your projects because I think the technology choices kind of do paint a complex and really a very realistic picture of the kind of mix of open and proprietary tools that we often have to use in open education projects. So a let me start with you here. Can you talk through some of the rationale for your technology choices for your project and and is there anything that you think you might have done differently with your technology choices? >> Um yeah that was the tricky part. Of course the easiest one was chachi as uh our colleagues at other university also had started experimenting that um but let's say for translation like Google translate was the first um intuitive way like to go exactly for English the ma matching the um terms. So when um I started to explore AI tools, I think um I looked for those who had free access in the first place. So uh faculty back in uh Kazakhstan context wouldn't or university wouldn't have burden like to pay for those things. Um I didn't have special funding for that. So it was all voluntary pro uh like a volunteering project for us. So um it it should be free uh at least for a trial period for a couple of weeks or months that even would be helpful and uh because it was a very um speedy process we wanted to be fast and um prototype fast based on this SAM model that I followed for instructional design. So and a technology that um at that moment was mainly accessible uh was through the open AI platform definitely uh we've tested with PO uh another platform where we looked specifically for um their like approaches what kind of data um they use or how they process it um in that context what's interesting um not the um like ethical or privacy issues they pop up later on with the faculty as they started to learn more about the technology. So um and we didn't have a clear criteria for which would be the best or how even to access or assess that uh technology um uh I think uh the start was the very simple like free accessible easy to use in any language um and helpful. So >> wonderful. Um, if I may interject, there's a handful of really juicy questions in the Q&A. Um, so we're going to go ahead and start with Vikram Singh who asks how to use judicious AI in the case of dynamic content. >> Yeah. So it's a great question. Um, the short answer is we have to build systems that allow us to do it. And it's similar to uh just modern web approaches. So, um, if, uh, so, so going back in time to when we first did when I first built the the alpha version of edtech books, I had nonAI tools that I built that would generate PDFs of all the content on the platform. And so, the issue was, yeah, dynamic content like authors are adjusting content continually, but we want to provide a static version of it as a PDF. And so, my brilliant thought was, let me just have the the web server generate the PDF every time someone wants to access it. But the problem is the amount of energy to generate a PDF out of that dynamic content is it's really heavy. And so when you have a hundred people try to do it at the exact same time, your server fails very quickly. Um and so but it's a similar kind of thing with AI in the sense that yeah, you have dynamic content, you want to create like static snapshots of it at different times um that then you provide efficiently to people. But so you just have to figure out when is it appropriate to take one of those snapshots. You don't want to create a snapshot every single time. Like say someone wants a translation of your chapter. You don't want to create a snapshot every single time someone asks for a translation. Maybe when you when you edit the content, you make a significant edit, then you flag it, and then it creates um then it creates a snapshot of it that is that the AI uses as to create a translation that it efficiently serves up. Um but you have to create kind of what those milestone stones are. Decide how much of a change to the dynamic content uh merits regeneration with the AI or or or re reinvolving the AI. Um, so that's always challenging. Yeah. So like in terms of like the audio like very concrete example in terms of like the audiobooks that we generate, if someone goes on and corrects a typo, I'm probably not going to regenerate the entire audio book for that for that chapter just because a typo is changed in the text. But if paragraphs are added or something like that, then yeah, we'll we'll initiate a rebuild. >> Wonderful. Thank you. Our next question comes from Muhammad Sed and the question is in the context of professional education, how can institutions ensure that AI tools used for assessment and feedback are fair, transparent and free from bias, especially when serving diverse learner populations? >> Yeah, thank you Muhammad. Um that's um really critical question um especially in the context of professional education definitely where assessment shapes often shapes access to opportunity and if institutions want to ensure that uh AI tools used for um assessment and feedback are fair and transparent especially for diverse learning uh population the first step at least what we've learned and observed from our experience igrants is to recognize that bias is not a technical error there and it's often a reflection of uh whose language norms um learning behaviors uh the system was trained on. And one of the lessons um that specifically um stood out uh for my colleagues um there is that fairness requires human context. We discussed that um specifically at the level of design um and it's not enough to translate just rubrics or adapt instructions um institutions here we really wanted to um prompt them to think were these models trained with us in mind right um no obviously in the beginning so um we recognize that culturally relevant let's say expression of knowledge that's something that um even The feedback when the feedback was given um the um we we we should be aware that the feedback was maybe um based on western assump academic writing conventions or unfamiliar terminology or a different logic of argumentation that is um alien to that cultural or context. Right? So um and that feedback will not be actionable. So therefore um for us um was to get the feedback and again translate it quote unquote to the um management of the university who were observing the project in a way that um it also um supports that learning and helps them to improve. So um here that building human uh in the loop validation I think it's very important um being able to interpret AI uh behavior or make AI behavior interpretable. So faculty and um staff should be able to see that what's the model is evaluating or and why. So the clear explanation reasoning um is important and um have a feedback again not as a design opportunity not just a measurement output if it's a good project or a good course or a good um so uh we need to u not to guide learning across uh context um like not only through that direct feedback again so for institutions to be aware of that it's important Beautiful. Thank you. >> Um, our next I just want to get as many questions in as possible, but please Rice, go ahead. >> Um, I just want to mention just auditability is super important for this. So, one of the big problems with AI is that you put in your input and then you get output and there's just this huge black box. You have no idea what happened, right? Um, and so one of the ways to help alleviate that, so like I'm in a former life, I was a a high school English teacher. So, if I wanted a AI to give me feedback according to my rubric that I've created for student essays, if I say, "Here's the rubric. Here's a student essay. Give me feedback." Well, the essay has lots of different components to it, right? And so, the feedback I'm going to get is, you know, it's just this really messy black box. I don't know why it's saying what it's saying in all these different ways. It may not even remember all the criteria that I gave it. Um, and it just gets lost very quickly. Um, and so one of the kind of the general best practices that that I've uh uh come to realize is that when you're working with AI, it's better to be it's best to be as discreet as possible and what you're asking it to do. Um, so instead of asking it like one omnibus prompt like do this thing and it does this huge kind of blackbox thing in the background and you get the results and you have no idea where this came from. Ask it more discreet things. Ask okay instead of like feeding in my entire rubric, feed it one element of my rubric. how did it rubric how did it do on this specific thing and then you get that feedback because it's easier to audit on very specific small black boxes than on a huge black box right and so by separating it out like that it allows you to audit and to do quality assurance more effectively >> ties into some of the other questions I think the next question is from Jessica Glla and her question is I appreciate the examples of judicious use could you recommend where to find data on learner interactions with AI to help anticipate learner needs and preferences and support the judicious use of AI with open educational resources. Um, I'll just say most of what we do comes out of um kind of op priori assumptions that we're making about learners based upon instructional design. Um, so like what do we already know students going to want? So that's one way. Another way is using learning analytics um and and just UX um like gorilla research with with our learners. So um as learners uh read through a chapter we have a quality assurance rating at the at the bottom where they can rate this in five stars or one to five stars and then we get feedback from them like what what would they want or as authors request things what would they want um so there's no like single place to go but I think that yeah looking to UX research on like what what are high impact things we can do for learners to help them looking at instructional design research to do that as well but then also having some kind of a mechanism for feedback back to help us to know what is it that our learners wish that they had or maybe our learners are going through all of our OEER and copy pasting all of it into chat GBT to get a cliffnotes version of it. Even just knowing that they're doing that is super valuable because then we know okay that's a use case that would be use that that we should be able to provide to them that would um eliminate a lot of this waste and redundancy of if if we have multiple users doing this. >> Fantastic. Thank you. Um, I think we have time for one more question and it's actually from another one of the authors from the rapid response papers and I'm not going to pronounce their name correctly but I will do my best. Um, Joel Alberto Arantes do Amaral asks, "The environmental impact is one of the unintended consequences of AI use that is largely overlooked today. How can we make these impacts more visible?" So, this is this always continues to surprise me, I guess, because I'm in the the AI and education world and early on learned about the environmental impacts. And so, when I talked to someone about it who said, "I had no idea." I was just talking to a reporter last week. It was like, "I had no idea there was environmental impact." Um, and then on the other side, there's people who literally won't use AI because of the environmental impact, and there's everyone in between trying to figure this all out. I want to contextualize this really quickly in the last minute or so. um right now like the you know global impact of of data energies um data center energy uses is like 1.5% of the global energy. So it is a it is an impact and it's expected to double but it's not like um massively huge in destructing our environment just yet. Um, I do think though it is something we need to pay attention to and I would love for chat GPT to say before you prompt this might take this much water, this much energy. I don't think any of these companies will do that because that will ruin their profit margins. Um, but maybe an an AI tool will come out. Um, just like you know Eosia for internet searches can show you how much like trees it's planting or carbon dioxide it's reducing from the environment. So, I would love to see that more, but right now I think it comes down to AI literacy. A lot of this comes down to AI literacy and preparing people who use AI to think critically about what are the unintended consequences of these tools. Um, because that's really important impact on society. >> Well, that's the perfect transition for me to thank you all because our next webinar is actually about AI literacy and AI evaluation. So, um, deep appreciation and thanks to all of our speakers today, uh, for joining us, for writing your papers, for doing your work, and for having this public conversation. Um, we're really eager to continue the conversation. Um, and thank everyone for I just want to thank everyone for attending today. This is really exciting. Um, and you can sign up for um, for updates of the initiative. And, uh, and we'll sign off uh, here at 3:00. So, thanks so much everyone and we'll see you next time. >> Thank you. >> Thank you, Shar. Thank you everyone.