Okay. Um, so can I begin with a few words about the big picture of solving differential equations? Um, so if that was a nonlinear equation, we would go to computer solutions. And, uh, Cleave Mhler is making a parallel video series about the mat lab suite of codes for solving equations. Then when that equation is linear as it is here with constant coefficients as like the 1 minus 3 and the 2, we can always get a formula for the answer involves an integral. There's still one integral to do involving the impulse response and you'll see that. But there are a few the most beautiful the most simple equations when the right hand side has a special form and that's one possibility t or t ^2 we could deal with or e to the t. We'll see all those. Then we we know what the solution looks like. For example, we first of all we know the null solutions of course that that's when this is zero. Then then I just look for e to the st and I find s could be one or s could be two. Those are two solutions with right side zero. So we can match initial conditions but we need a particular solution and that's where this one is especially simple. So the idea is to try the form we know the solution will have. So I'm going to try Now a particular solution when I see a t there I I'll I'll want a t in the particular solution but I also need the constant term. So I'll try a + b t. What I mean by try is put that into the equation match the left side and the right side and we have a solution. and I'll just go ahead and do that. So there are several this video is mostly about the list of possible nice functions and that's one of them. Okay. So if I put that into the equation the second derivative is zero for that. So I have min -3 the first derivative is just b then I have + 2 * y itself which is a + bt. So the left side of the equation is just this much and it has to equal 4t and that we can make happen. I see 2 BT and 4T here. So I want B equal to 2. And so when B is 2, then that I have 4 T matching 4 T. And then I have min - 3 B + 2 A should be zero. - 3 B + 2 A. The constant part there we don't want. So that should be zero. We already know B is 2. So that's -6 + 2 a a is 3 a is 3. Now that's perfectly satisfied by b = 2 a= 3 and that's the answer. Correct answer is b was 2, a was 3 and we don't have to say try anymore. We got it done. What other right hand side once you get a a nice one like this? You look for more. If it was t ^2, we would assume what would we assume if it was a 4t ^2 there? We would assume a + b t + ct ^2. We want to get uh to match the right hand side. Now a different type of right hand side. We we know already what if this was e to the say e to the 3t or e to the s t. Let me let me put any any exponent there for the moment. So now we have a different right hand side a very nice function the best function of differential equations. And now what we will try with this right hand side e to the st. We've seen it before. The particular solution is just y e to the st. The undetermined coefficients were a and b in the first time. Here the undetermined coefficient is capital y. I'm just going to plug that into the equation and match the left side and right side and I'll discover I'll determine this coefficient capital y. So what happens when I put that into the equation? I get second derivative brings down an s squared and first derivative we have a minus3. The first derivative brings down an s and I have plus two. All that is y e to the s t. Right? I put that I put in y e to the s t. The derivatives brought down this familiar polomial and it's all supposed to match e to the st. We can do that. That that's a perfect match. The left side has the same form as the right side. I can cancel the e to the st and I discover that y is 1 over s^2 - 3 s + 2. Good. That's the coefficient one over that. Let's see. I have to make two comments. One comment is that S we're totally golden if that S is imaginary. If S is I omega that will or minus I omega or both both possibilities that those will give us s and cosine. So we'll add those to the nice functions. So the nice functions are t polomials e to the s t exponentials ss and cosiness and you see this worked perfectly well perfectly except we have to be sure that we don't have 1 / zero when would we have 1 / 0? If s is 1, this would be 1 - 3 + 2. That would be 1 / 0. s I can't deal with s= 1 uh with with that assumption doesn't work. Also s= 2. Why? What's special about s= 1 and s= 2? Those make that zero. They give the null solutions. And I know that if this happened to be e to the t and a null solution was also e to the t, I have to fix the particular solution by giving it an extra factor t. Let let me do that at the end of the lecture. That's the resonance idea where my null solution is the same as my as what I hope for the particular solution. So I have to change that particular solution with an extra factor t. Let me keep going here to to be sure we get all the possibilities. Again, we're getting a very small set of nice functions, but fortunately, they appear quite often in applications, constants, linear like 4t, exponentials like e to the 5t, e to the oscillation like e to the i omega t. So I'll make let me make a list. So polomials like the the forcing function could be t could be one constant that would be like a ramp that would be like a um step function. it they could be e to the s t but not s = 1 and 2 in this problem. They could be e to the i omega t and e to the minus i omega t which leads me directly to cosine of omega t and sine of omega t. I'm I'm creating here a list of the nice functions exponentials cosine and sign because those come from exponentials and finally I can multiply these. I could I could have for example t e to the st. I could allow that. And now all I have to do is tell you what do I assume? What what form do I try to plug in? The form will have undetermined coefficients. I'll substitute in the equation and I'll determine the coefficients. So here we saw a + bt. That was good. That was the y. Here we saw y e to the s t. That was good. Here what will I have? I will have I need if I have cosine I need the sign there also. So I'll have I'll have to allow a combination of those say m of this plus n of that. If I tried to do cosiness alone I would be in danger of taking the derivative getting a sign and and having nothing to match. So I I'll take that. Now final question or next question is if I multiply two of these the product rule is still going to tell me that derivatives of that have the same form as that derivatives of this t e to the s t have the same they also involve t or e to the s t with factors s from the product rule. So what do I assume here? Well, when I see t there, I have to include as I did up there also constants. And if I saw t ^2, I would go up to t ^2. I'd have three coefficients. Now, that e to the st I can I'll keep. So, what I've put on the right hand side is the right form to assume. It's just like good advice. put that into the differential equation when this is the right hand side match left side with right side that will tell you a and b and you have the answer you have the particular solution you have a particular solution and that's what you wanted okay and and if this if I had t cosine omega t do you want to see the whole business if I had t cosine omega t. Oh dear, it's getting a little messy. I'd need an a t a + bt to deal with the t and I'd need a cosine to deal with the cosine. And then just to make the problem a little messier, can't be helped, I need the sign. So, I need aromasin omega t and I'm going to need a c + d t there. Okay, I'm up to four coefficients to determine by plugging in. It It uses more ink, but it doesn't use more thinking. You just put it in, match all the all terms, and you discover A, B, C, and D. Finally, I have to say that word about resonance that I mentioned earlier. The possibility that that uh that if s happened to be one or two on the right hand side, that's also a null solution. This method would give me one over zero infinite answer. No good. And we know what to do. We know how to deal with resonance. So with resonance, so could I just finally complete the whole story? Resonance in this example s= 1 or or two. What would I do with f of t equals e to the t? If that was the right hand side, that would give me resonance. It's got the exponent s= 1, which is also in the null solution e to the t. So what do I try? So I try everybody knows what happens when when there's resonance, when you have this doubling up, you need an extra factor t to rescue. So you would try y of t Why? This is the particular solution I'm looking for. You would try t e to the t with a with a y and you would discover you would plug that in. You would find the right number for capital y and you'd have the particular solution. only I think doing a few examples of this you get the knack of assume the right form put it into the equation match left side with right side and that reveals the undetermined coefficients it tells you what a and b and capital y and c and d tells you what they all have to be so this is a really good method that applies to really nice right hand sides Good. Thanks.