Let's boil the 3,000year history of work down to 3 minutes. First, there were hunters and gatherers. Everyone contributed, and their business was basically to survive. Eventually, people began to tame plants and animals, allowing for larger and larger settlements. This opened up new kinds of work, and if you were lucky, leisure. In these agricultural civilizations, powerful ruling classes emerged for the first time. In some cultures, hard work was seen as undignified, so it was outsourced to slaves, servants, and serfs, even though hard work made those rich lifestyles possible. In other places, hard work was seen as a virtue, one that signified a person's contribution to society, promoted group harmony, or pleased the gods. For some, working hard became synonymous with doing good and repenting for one's sins. Where land was cheap and plentiful, families could establish their own farms. Working the land took on a sense of community. All family members pitched in, depended on each other, and their work was never done. In many parts of the world, agricultural improvements enabled surplus crops to feed more and more artisans living in cities and towns. And so came the craft stage of work like shoemakers and carpenters all very skilled and specialized. Then industrial and capitalist revolutions changed everything and brought with them mass production. New kinds of factories demanded new kinds of workers all eager to earn a living however they could in a rapidly changing world. Some workers banded together and took historic stands for humane work conditions and demanded all kinds of fundamental rights, including the 40-hour work week. The development of computers, the worldwide web, and widespread education ushered us into the knowledge-based economy. While new opportunities are available for some, globalization and other forces are leaving other workers behind, feeling like they can't get ahead, no matter how hard they try. As fewer people and fewer hours are needed to do the work of yesterday, people are adapting again. So, here we are. Is this the end of work's evolution? No. How you live and work will invent the future. You will work in order to eat. You'll eat by outsourcing food production to other workers. You'll tap into a deep human drive to work on something and to make a genuine difference doing it. You'll rely on your networks and connections to help you out. and you'll help others, too. Maybe you'll specialize in something no one has thought of before using technology no one's seen before. Maybe you'll make your voice heard among those who find themselves excluded from today's economy. So, keep on working, creating, and inventing the future of work.