The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So today, what we want to do is we want to talk about um this idea of autoregulation, right? So what happens when a gene regulates its own expression? And I think that this is um a really nice topic because it really encapsulates several of the big themes that we're going to be seeing throughout the semester. Right? So first there's this idea of a network motif. All right? So this uh this motif, it's the simplest possible motif where a gene regulates itself. It occurs more frequently than you expect by chance. We'll kind of explain what we mean by that. And um and then possibly an evolutionary explanation is that this thing may be advantageous in one way or another. Okay. Now there are two basic kinds of negative autoregulation uh or sorry two basic kinds of autoregulation. There's negative and positive. All right. So negative means that uh that protein represses its own expression. Positive autoregulation would mean that it is activating or upregulating its own expression. Okay. So down here is positive autoregulation. All right. And these things have very different uh very different possible purposes. All right. We'll see that there are going to basically two things that negative autoregulation might do for us. first is that it speeds the on time relative to simple sort of no regulation. Um but the other thing is kind of an interesting thing which is that the uh protein concentration uh is somehow robust. All right we uh and robust means that it's uh comparatively nonsensitive or insensitive to something. In particular, this means protein concentration is robust to uh to say fluctuations in the uh production rate. And in various contexts, we're going to see how uh this how robustness is an important goal that uh biology might have a cell might have. And that you would like this protein concentration to be robust to a wide range of things. But in this case, anytime you talk about robustness, you have to say, all right, it's robust. You know, what is it that's robust against what? In this case, it's protein concentration is robust to fluctuations in the production rate. Right? Now, positive autoregulation on the other hand in some ways makes these two things um worse in you know we'll we'll kind of discuss what we mean by that but it it perhaps uh performs some other functions in particular it allows for the possibility of bstability and hence memory and we'll kind of explain how memory uh appears in this process. Okay, but before we get into autoregulation, I just want to do a quick review of this uh thing about u sort of getting intuition about biochemical binding, binding of activators for example to the promoter, but also how we can use this thing about sequestration in order to generate what we call this ultra sensitive response. Okay. Now, when we when we talk about this, we're often thinking about a question that we'd like the the rate of expression of some uh of some gene to be uh sensitive or be ultra sensitive to the concentration of something, right? So if you have say a X activating Y then you know what you might like in many cases is for there to be an essentially digital response where if you think about the production rate of Y you as a function of this input X you might like it to just be very sharp right to be essentially zero quickly to come up and then saturated at some level beta maybe. Now the question is how is it that you can how is it that you can do that? And one uh one thing that we discussed that could get you something kind of like this uh does anybody remember what what the the base solution might be? Cooperative regulation, right? Cooperative regulation. Right? So if it's the case that you have for example a tetrimer of X that is somehow activating Y then you can get something looks maybe not this sharp but um but much sharper than what you would get which is the simple Mikuel Metton type looking curve if you just had a single monomer of X activating Y right so one solution is indeed cooperivity but I think that there's uh there's another interesting one that is this um well second solution is uh is this this idea of molecular titration. Okay. And I kind of explained the basic idea at the end of the lecture uh on uh on Tuesday but then I what we want to do is try to get a sense of what the requirements might be for the kind of the bindings in order to generate this effect. Right? Right. So what what we have is a situation where we have again just X is regulating Y. Okay. But it's a little bit more complicated because this protein X in addition to binding the promoter and activating an activating expression of Y, we also have the possibility that X can bind to something else. In particular, there might be some other protein maybe W which can bind reversibly into some complex wx. Okay. Now for some situations in particular if this is uh if we describe this by some KW and this by some KD right we can ask in what regime will this generate an ultra sensitive response where as a function of the total concentration of X right so we might want to if we we might want to for example call that X total just to be clear right we'd like it that there's very little expression of Y but then all of a sudden to that uh kind of maximal if you like expression of y. The question is well what do we need in terms of these kw kds and so forth. Okay. All right. So there are going to be three different conditions that we're going to kind of play with. All right. First might be the relationship between this KD. All right. the affinity of binding of that transcription factor to the promoter um as compared to this KW. All right, I will uh write some options but as always you should start thinking you don't need to watch me write don't know again. So I'll give you uh just 30 seconds to think about. Yes. Right. So it's it's the it's the guy that has units of concentration, right? So uh lower in both these cases corresponds to tighter binding. And I'll let you Yeah. think for 20 seconds maybe. All right. Do you need more time? And it's okay if you haven't are not 100% convinced of something. It's useful to just make a guess and then we can we can discuss. Shall we go for it? All right. Every everybody have your tools in front of you. All right. Ready? Uh, three, two, one. Okay. All right. So, we have uh I'd say a fair fair amount of disagreement actually. I'd say we got some A's, B's, C's. Um, everybody, well, not every I don't know. There might be one or two D's. All right. Yes. Why don't we go ahead and turn to a neighbor there? You should definitely be able to find a neighbor that disagrees with you. All right. So, uh, and try to convince them that you Yeah. All right. So, Oh, yeah. Sorry. Okay. No, no, no, no. The Right. So, the question is um what conditions do these things need in order to have an ultra sensitive response where the rate of production of what? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. So that all of the Witch is All right, why don't we go ahead and reconvene uh and maybe I'll just get a sense of um of of what your uh the state of your thinking is right now. All right. So once again the question is uh we want to know what relationship between all these binding affinities concentrations has to be in order to get an ultra sensitive response where it's a function of the total amount of X you uh you start you kind of add X at first you don't get really much of any expression of all of a sudden you get a lot. Okay. And first we want to know the relationship between KD and KW. Okay. Let's go ahead and vote. Ready? Uh, three, two, one. Oh, I'm sorry. What? What? We're still on this one. So, yeah, you can ignore these. It's just it takes me time to write, you know? So, I I I wanted to you take advantage of your discussion. Uh, yeah. No, we're still on this one. Do Do you guys understand what I'm trying to ask? Okay. All right. Ready? All right. Three, two, one. All right. I'm going to cover this so nobody gets confused. All right. All right. So, uh, we have a fair pocket of C's back there, but then, um, a fair, you know, some other distributions. All right. So, or we got some discussion over here. So, maybe somebody can, uh, can offer their, uh, their insight. Yeah. What did your neighbor think? My neighbor thought that at first there X. Okay. All right. So, all right. So, you're arguing that you want KW to be much smaller than KD here because as you add X, you want it initially for them all to be sequestered by uh by molecule W. Is that okay? All right. So does somebody else want you know somebody's neighbor thought it should instead be B. Could you want to offer their argument everybody's neighbor is now convinced that that C is is okay. All right. So I'm going to I'm going to side with that. Right. So what you the idea here is that what you'd really like is principle if that kw is perfect and that that corresponds to going to zero right then that means that if you if you plot the free x as a function of x total then uh what what does it what does it uh start out being if if if kw is zero zero right all right and and when thinking about the concentration of 3x. Do we have to think about or worry about how much X is bound to the promoter? No. I we'll say that you know that so long as you have any reasonable concentration of X, then the one X that binds to that promoter, binds to that DNA is not going to affect the concentration of of 3X, right? So, we really just have to worry about how much is bound to W. Okay. All right. So, it's going to be zero. And this is this is in the limit of uh KW going to zero. Right. And all right. So when is it that something starts happening? Right? So it's it's when you get and and is it the concentration of W or is it maybe we can be a little bit more precise? What should I actually write here? Should I just write W or should I write W total? I think right because uh you know the free W is changing all the time. Uh and indeed at as you approach here the free W goes to zero. Right? So over here the free w is equal to wt, but then it decreases linearly until you get here. And now there's no free w. And it's at that stage that this uh free x is going to go up with a slope of what? One, right? Right. Exactly. All the x that you add is just turns into free x. Right. So this goes up with slope one. Okay. Okay, so this is uh this is the idea behind this mechanism, right? This is what I'm drawing is the case of perfect sequestration, right? And in this case, what happens is if you look at the uh uh the production rate of Y, all right, as a function again of X total, all right, the production rate in here is going to be equal to what? zero, right? Until you get to this WT and then it's going to come up. And how is it going to come up? Does it does it immediately come all the way up to maximum? No. So, what determines how how rapidly that's going to happen? The concentration free X and we actually know what the concentration of free X is here now, right? All right. So it's the KD of the binding, right? So this is going to be some All right. So this is again a McKennel Metton looking kind of curve, right? Where the half maximal here is just going to be this WT plus that KD. Okay. Right. So this is there's a sense that this is uh ultra sensitive because initially you don't get much of any expression then all of a sudden you start getting kind of significant amounts. Okay. All right. Are there any questions about the basic the intuition here? I mean, we still have to kind of come back and think a little bit more carefully kind of quantitatively about what this mechanism means for the other comparisons. But at least based on this this uh idea of of the perfect situation where the sequestration uh of of W with X is complete, then this is kind of the idea of what's going on. All right. Is it clear right now? Yeah. Which direction? Yeah. In in in what I'm drawing here or what you drew there. This one. Yeah. Oh, okay. So, um right. Uh right. Well, the definition of KW is going to be that uh KW and this is a definition, right? It's it has units of concentration. So that means we have to put up um this is the concentration of w concentration of x concentration of wx right. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions about this? Okay. Right. So this is what we were saying is that um there's just one copy of this gene right so you know so given that there might be you know in this case this might be a thousand of these protein you know then it's just not a significant yeah in the back okay so in this class u whenever possible at least in the lectures I yeah so we'll always try try to stick with the dissociation constant which is the the guy that has units of concentration. Um you can also talk about the association constant and then you know they also use K for that horribly confusing right um so um yeah so whenever possible I will just I'll I'll be referring to the dissociation constant oh that's right no I um it's a good thing that my K's are so clearly big K's that there's no possible source for confusion there right um yes But you know if you're ever confused about which K or what not I'm referring to please just ask. Okay. All right. Any any other questions about the basing mechanism? Yeah. Just just to clarify. So if we take the other limit for KD going to zero would it be the same? So free X versus X total would it be the same slope but starting from zero? Shift left. Oh okay. Oh the other limit of KD going to zero. Yeah. So all right this is an interesting point. Um right. So I think um this plot is sort of independent of KD because uh binding to that promoter doesn't affect the free concentration of X anyways, right? Um it does affect this though, right? Because if KD kind of gets smaller and smaller then this curve actually gets more and more steep. Okay. Um does that answer your question? Okay. Right. Right. Okay. Yes. Yes. Okay, that's a good point. Um, right. So that's question of but now you're taking two limits of things going to zero. So we have to be a little bit careful, right? I mean because it still maybe depends on what you know the relationship between those two as they as they go to zero. Yeah. So we'll maybe um Yes. Okay. So um I Yeah. No, that's fair. Um but the idea is that if if if you're in this other limit then you end up not having uh significant sequestration in the sense that as you start adding uh as you start adding X you start getting expression of that protein early on and so then this the whole mechanism doesn't work right so it's true that in principle that thing is steep but it was never inhibited to begin with right because the moment you started adding X you start getting expression of of um from the gene Okay, are there other questions about that? Let's try out uh this next one. All right. Uh now this is question of K um right? So this is the binding affinity of um X to that sequester as compared to the total amount of of that um W. All right. So what's going to be the requirement there? So we'll go ahead and give you 30 seconds to kind of Excuse me. already have what they wanted like what's this more specific question right okay so here this is the case where w went to zero or k sorry kw went to zero right so that's um and indeed this works and the question is um in general I mean kw is not actually going to be equal to zero so the question is does um no and it might be relevant for this question still but yeah but it's um yeah because I mean in some ways This is the idealized version and any real real thing is going to have just some numbers for these things. The question is will those numbers work right? Um All right. Do you need more time? All right. Let's go ahead and make our best guess. All right. In order to get ultra sensitivity in response to uh of Y to concentration of X, what is it that you need here? All right. Ready? Three, two, one. All right. So, we got some A's, some B's, some D's. C is not very popular. Uh, okay. All right. Okay. So, it seems like um Okay. Well, yeah. Why don't we Yeah, let's go ahead and spend 30 seconds. Turn to your neighbor. You should be able to find someone that disagrees with you. All you're doing is you're moving the other Okay. Yeah. Okay. Why don't we go ahead and reconvene and uh you can uh give your argument to the group. Um all right. Uh, does somebody want to volunteer an explanation? Yeah, I haven't had time to test this. That's just fine. Well, you know, your neighbor will appreciate. Um, so I was thinking that the time scale of like that is set by how quickly that slope the curving slope rises. Okay. So time scale I'm a little bit worried about scale. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. How quickly that curve second rises once you go above zero. Okay. That's sort of the only feature on on that graph. Okay. And that should be in like sense determined by K K. Which one? Which K? Oh the K of the uh K D. Yes. Oh no. Okay. Right. So I think I I think I I like everything you're saying although I think you're you're about to answer the next one. Yes. Um although the next one I think is in some ways the hardest one. So So you're you're ready. Right. Um which we've determined should be a lot more than KW. Right. So we we know that KD should be more than a lot more than KW. And I think that this should be a decent amount less than or sorry. So, I think the KD should be a decent amount smaller than WT. All right. So, you think KD should be a decent amount smaller than W2? Okay. So, you really are answering the next question. All right. But no, I think that this is important. Oh, no. I I agree it's important. You know, it's uh but I think Well, anyway, but but it's just that basically basically speaking, you know, if you let WT become too small, then in comparison to everything else all the all the relevant quantities then this feature which is really determining the ultra sensitivity shrinks to zero size okay that's what I wanted to say um okay yeah no I I um I very much like that explanation um and and since we have it on tape we can now play it again in in a few minutes and then no um right uh yeah okay I um I think that you're saying you're making a very nice argument and actually I um we'll we'll go ahead and even um does anybody want to argue Yeah. So, so what he's arguing is that what you Right. Um, yeah. So, he's actually arguing that it's this over here, which is that what sets the scale that this thing increases by is the KD, right? And you you want um, you know, and you want this thing to kind of come up quickly relative to this other scale, which is the total W, right? All right. So if total W is just like too small here, then it's not like you get any ultra sensitive response, right? Because you want it to be kind of like low low and then come up kind of quickly. So there's some sense that you want this scale to be of order this scale or maybe even a bit shorter. Is that I mean was that Yeah. Um and I I um I agree that this is actually one that that generates a lot of argument and discussion in general uh because it's you know because I think you know reasonable people can disagree, right? But um but I yeah no I think that this is actually um I I will side with you on this. Okay. Um but does any uh but uh uh All right. But yeah. So uh yeah but what about what about this comparison because you you haven't said anything about KW, right? So I think combining combining one. Okay. Okay. Fine. That's why I was I was trying to Okay. No, no, no. You're okay. Fair enough. But you're um but it's just too many logical leaps. Okay. No, I think it's true. And there's a reason that I ordered the questions in this way so that so that this one you could you know otherwise I agree that if you combine these things you do get and which one do you get? I think a is that is that what other people got? Yes. Okay. And all right and is there okay I agree that actually you can get to A here from the combination of C and B here but it's a little bit crazy. Can someone I mean is there is there another a more direct explanation we can give? Um yeah go ahead. Well, if you don't have a lot of W, then your binding is is too sensitive. You'll add a little bit of X and the binding will all be used up and you'll be making immediately. Yes. You want a lot of W to be able to Right. You want Yeah. And and I guess Okay. Yeah. Go. And maybe in the back. So, that just makes it But still it doesn't necessarily I mean you have more sensitive fluctuations if you have a loweration capacity but it doesn't really change. Sure. Okay. Yeah. So I think that this is actually subtle. All right. Because there are two ways that having more of this WT helps, right? One is that it pushes this boundary further to the right, but the other is that it makes it kind of a better sequestering agent because there are just more of these W's to bind. And if you go and you you do the calculation, I encourage you to to do it, what what you actually find is that the concentration of free X um is given approximately by X total divided by W T over K subW. Okay. So what you see is that um the free concentration of X um and this is this is in the region this is for um uh for X total less than and maybe significantly less than W total. Okay. um right but the idea is that when you're in this sequestering regime we see is the concentration of X um it's going to increase linearly with a total X but it's going to be kind of you know sort of suppressed by this amount here okay where this ratio is much larger than one right because what you want to be much larger than one wt T over KW right and this is kind of telling you how good of a sequester this guy this W is because you want to buy entirely the end you need to have kind of enough to to keep the free concentration of X from growing. Okay. All right. All right. Yes. Yes. All right. So this is a very important point which is that um you you need it needs to be possible for the cell to make enough X to overcome the W right I mean if if you if if there's so much of this sequestering protein that that you cannot even get beyond that then you're never I mean it's true that you might have a nice ultra sensitive switch out there but you could just can't get there right so yeah so this is uh certainly uh certainly relevant as All right. So incidentally if um if you plot free x as a function of xt on a log log scale okay the question is what um you know what is it going to look like right and that we know that on a linear scale it looks something like that right so if it's on a log log scale question is Um and log log is nice because you can really get the full dynamic range of what's going on. Right? So if you this is if you plot x and this is free x, right? As a function of x total in this regime, right? For um for large x and x total, what is it going to end up looking like? It's a straight line. Okay. Um and eventually it's going to be straight line with slope one actually, right? Because they're just uh linear related to each other. Now down um and in the low regime, what is it going to look like for small, you know, below well below this region of WT? Yeah. With with what slope Okay. So, this is uh does everybody agree? No, we have we have a we have a a disagreeable uh you know. No. All right. So, wait. What's the uh I think it's going to be also slope one but just Yeah. Okay. Right. So, it's actually also slope one but has a lower. All right. So this is um this is dangerous. I mean this is why I brought this up just because it's really easy to kind of look at these things and think that yeah because still they're still linearly related to each other. So when you take the logs it just affects the the level. Okay. So you still get the same slope but it's going to be kind of down here somewhere and then in this regime you kind of get this ultra you know this thing where it goes up suddenly. One thing that I I strongly encourage everyone to do is in these sorts of problems it's wonderful to spend time to um oh sorry this is log xt and sorry log of freex log of xt right um it's just uh it's really very valuable uh to plot things in multiple different ways by hand or by the computer or both or whatnot just to make sure that you're keeping track of of what's going on because often uh what you see and what you think is very different depending on what you plot and um and you'd like to be able to see your problem from as many different angles as possible. Okay. All right. Uh I think that we've probably spent about as much time on this as we ought to. Uh but are there are there any other questions about about how this is going to um how this is going to come about? Yes. Okay. Uh, that's an interesting question. Although we have to be careful about um you if you really wanted to be more switch like you'd probably use positive autoregulation. Um, and um I'm not aware of cases where they they this has been combined although I yeah I yeah I it's likely that there are some I just don't know them. Okay. Okay. Um All right. So you I want to switch gears to this um autoregulation which is something of course that you guys just read about and it looked like your understanding of it was was solid. Um but um we want to move through these different ideas. First this idea of a network motif, right? Um and this is just the simplest example of a network motif and and it's so simple we you know often don't even call it a network motif. Um but the idea here is that we have some uh some network all right and it has maybe um nodes and e edges and the example that they give that UI gives in his book um n was uh 420 and e was 520. All right. Now uh there's a basic question that if you have an a network with nodes and then you have directed edges all right these are edges that have an arrow pointing you know on one end okay now uh in that case and if you allow self-directed uh uh edges how many um how many possible edges are there does uh anybody remember kind of what this looks like right what's possible, right? I mean and not even in terms of the actual number I mean just in terms of n for example self total self-directed or sorry not so sorry total uh total directed edges total num total number of possible directed edges if we include self edges I guess it's n squ right and uh you can think about this in multiple ways uh one is just that well you can start at any of the nodes and you can end any of the nodes and that gives you n^ squ right um but there's another way that you could uh this is e max right it's indeed n squ you could also think about this if you like as just uh saying well you know as they point out there's sort of um uh 12 n * n minus one is the total number of pairs in the network right and then for each of the pairs you could have an edge pointing either direction. So that gives you a two. Right? Plus you can have n south edges. Right. Right. And so this is um and of course these are just different ways of counting n squ. But it's it's useful to just think about it in different ways to make sure that you're comfortable with the the combinators of it in particular because um next u next week or the week after that we're going to be talking about network motifs in more detail. particular the feed forward loop and then we really have to keep track of these sorts of combinatorics better. All right. Right. So the the the way that that he thinks about this is he says all right well we're going to uh invoke this uh null model of a network this erdo ready network right where we uh we just simply say we're going to assign the the e edges randomly across the e max possible right so of all possible edges we're going to place the uh the edges randomly and then and then generate some random network. Okay. All right. So, this is um this is basically what we typically call a random network. Um and and that's going to allow us to define some null model, right? That if everything were random, we can ask for example, how many self edges do we expect to get, right? Well, one way to construct this erosion network. Yeah. But how do you know you don't have other kind of constraints you know in this system? How do you know that you know transcription might require in some cases you know auto regulation? Okay. Although one of the answers that was given as a good answer was um was that evolution is the only thing that can that you know if you find any network that you do evolution. Okay. So, so that's the argument that that URI makes and you're maybe saying maybe that's a not a good argument, right? And that um what what is saying is well um you know if you see these networks more frequently than you'd expect by chance and of course you can define what you mean by chance then um then you can say oh maybe it was maybe it was selected for it was evolved right and I think that in the case of this auto regulation case I think the results are not very sensitive um but I think that this question of what the right null model is uh is much much more you know is a real issue especially when you're talking about um about some of these other networks and what we'll see for the feed forward loop is that you have to decide um well well one thing we're going to see is an era reeni random network is very much not an accurate description of um of real transcription networks right so then you could say well that's not a good null model to use and so yeah we'll definitely uh we'll definitely spend some more time thinking about this all right so in the context of the Erdos ready network though one way that you can kind of generated it is that for each of the emacs kind of possible each of these total number of edges you just say Right? There's some probability that you're going to actually place a real edge there. And that probability is just E over N^2. E is the number of edges. N square is the number of possible edges. Right? So if you just uh if you just create a random network in that way, then uh this is a manifestation of a random network that has at least the the basic properties, you know, the number of the same number of edges as our as our real network. Okay? Right? And so from this you say well you know how many how many self edges would you expect in this in this world right and well you can say well in that case there there are two way two ways of thinking about this right so you can either say all right we're going to take for each of the n edges there's one possible kind of self directed arrow, right? And for each of those cases, we can just multiply this by P, right? And this gives us E over N, right? Uh you could also think about it as um well, yeah, we'll just there are multiple ways to do the counting, but um right, so this in an EOS training network, you would say, all right, you would expect to get roughly E over N um autoregulatory loops. Okay. And this is of order one, right? So this was 1.2 in the case of the network that analyzes in in his in his book or his paper. Right. Right. Whereas how how many were actually observed in the network that he he studied? There were 40. Right. So so in the observed transcriptional network, this was an E.coli. he found that there were 40, right? And and the basic statement here is that 40 is just much larger than 1.2. Okay? And you can quantify this a little bit better because um you it's really you expect 1.2 plus or minus the square root of this. All right? Given in in a random network like this, but that means you'd expect kind of 0, one, two, maybe three, right? So 40 is definitely not what you would expect based on an early for any network. So this is the sense in which it's a network motif. is that the observed network is just doesn't look like a random network in this very particular sense. Okay. And of these 40, does anybody remember kind of uh the distribution between um negative autoregulation and positive autoreulation? Yeah, I think it was like 34 and six was my recollection. I didn't write this down. So most of these guys had the form of X inhibiting X but some had the form of X activating X. Right? So this was something like 34 and six. Okay. What you would say then is that negative autoregulation is a very strong network motif whereas positive autoregulation is a weaker network network motif but still something that occurs perhaps more than you would expect by chance. Okay. Are there any questions about that? You know, where that argument came from uh other concerns about it. All right. All right. So then from this and says, "Okay, well maybe these things evolved for a reason, right?" And uh so what we'll do over the next half hour is just argue or discuss um what you know what possible evolutionary um ad advantages such such a network motif might have. Yeah. Can you really like propose like explanations like that? Oh, you can always you can propose whatever you want. Yeah. But like having much like value like how it's unfable, you know, like you can't No, I would say that this is a major issue in a lot of evolutionary arguments and I would say that the purpose of ideas and hypotheses is to get you to go and make new measurements, right? And so right now we're at the stage okay well maybe these things are occurring more frequently you'd expect by chance. So now we can just sit down and think oh why might you know what advantage might it give and then we can go and try to experimentally ask whether that those advantages are at least manifest in real systems doesn't prove that that's why they evolved but it makes you more comfortable with the argument right I you know you know ultimately we assign some you know we have some Beijian probability somewhere in our brain and and and the more evidence that we accumulate that's consistent with these ideas the the um the more likely that we we think it is but you in general you don't prove things in this sort of evolutionary space the way you prove things in many other fields. Yeah. Isn't it? I don't know. I feel like it's hard to call this an argument. It feels more like just an observation. Which thing is an argument versus sub? I I guess like the thing is like well it should be evolutionary advantageous. That's an argument. But essentially the whole thing is an observation and then there's a little bit of an argument in the end. Yeah. I will let each person decide what fraction observation argument. I I don't um yeah I don't feel especially strongly about it. I I do um my guess is that it did evolve for you know because it provides some useful function uh and and therefore I think it's valuable to uh explore what those useful functions might be but um but for example it's very hard to know u which of these explanation you know the the you know this thing about respon you know increasing the response time or sorry increasing the response rate as compared to um increasing robustness uh how do you decide which one's more important I mean this gets you know you can you know then I I think once again reasonable people can disagree about these things here. All right. Um so there were um so so first negative autoregulation because this is the one that is the stronger network motif. All right. Um I think that the book does a nice you know kind of a nice explanation of why it it decreases the response time. Uh but let's maybe okay we can just ask okay um okay response time and this is for negative autoregulation response time goes down. Okay. And does is this for running on, off, both? Maybe neither or e, don't know. Now, I'll give you just 10 seconds to think about this. Uh, it's nice if you just remember it, but it's also maybe even better if you can figure it out, right? because you know in uh in a week you're probably not going to just have it memorized but you should be able to think through the logic of it and understand why this this is going to be what it is. All right. So the question is um negative auto regulation maybe it does something maybe it decreases the response time but does it decrease the response time for turning a gene on for turning it off for both neither or don't know and when you say turning it off what exactly the process you're imagining uh I I'm imagining a process where uh the expression turns off immediately right so there's a signal that just stops of what transcription right so Then it's just um the I chop up all the plyases and no more expression which you know so a signal comes and tells the pyraces to stop making. Yeah. All right. So do you need more time? No. All right. Ready? Three, two, one. All right. So, okay. We actually are all over the place on this. Um, okay. Turn to your neighbor. Uh, and you you should be able to explain one way or the other why this is why what's going on. definitely doesn't I thought for sure but I wasn't sure about I don't think I think It looks like the maximum volume. I guess it's just very goes down normally like I guess I thought most of the system let's go ahead and uh and reconvene and I just want to remind everybody that when I say simple regulation I mean uh that there's no um autoregulation right so it's just it's just responding to a signal right that for a stable protein the time for to to kind of get to say for example half saturating concentration here is defined by the cell generation time and that's true for turning on and for turning off right and what was the strategy that you could use if you wanted to uh decrease the response time in this in this situation right so you could increase the degradation rate right and does that affect the on off or both both Okay, but there's a cost which was what increase, right? You have to make a bunch of protein and then you're just going to chop it up right after you make it, right? So that's so this is a you know there's one there is a reasonable you know there is a way to uh make things faster but there's a significant cost. The question is if you have negative autoregulation okay so in this case right once again you have X that is repressing itself you know what is it that it's going to uh do all right so is it going to affect the on time off time or both? Let's just see where we are. Ready? Three, two, one. Okay, so we're um It's interesting. I mean, we're I Okay, we're moving towards C, it seems. Um Okay, so can somebody give me an explanation for C? Did we read the chapter? I mean, the chapter doesn't discuss the the effect of negative auto regulation on turning off. I don't think it does. Well, it's a good thing that good good thing we're doing that here then. Right. All right. All right. So, first of all, yeah, somebody give the explanation. I mean, does t on go up, down, or sideways? Yeah. So, T on it's if it's time that it goes down. I always get this confused, right? So, time is what goes down. So, the rate goes up, right? Okay. So, it's negative auto regulation. It's faster turning on. We decided, right? Okay. Uh and and does somebody want to give the explanation for why this is your equilibrium your equilibrium level is lower but yeah there's a right the initial Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. So this is actually surprisingly difficult to explain even though it's not a deep concept but somehow right but the idea is that you start out expressing a lot so that if you had kept on expressing at that high level you would have done some exponential and it would have taken a cell generation time to come way up here right but instead what happens is that you shoot on up but then once you get up here you repress expression so then you get you know you get an effective thing where the time it takes you to get half of your equilibrium that that goes down. Okay. So, T on here is shorter than here. Yes. So, in negative auto regulation, we're increasing what the book calls beta to have the same steady state. That's right. So uh the the sort of initial beta the rate that maximal rate of expression that that goes up in the case of non negative auto regulation but then you you start repressing expression once your concentration of of X here starts is gets to some reasonable level right so this is um right so now we're just talking about um production rate um of X and that's as a function of X right and in And this this logic approximation is when it just is maximal until it gets to some K and then and then is completely repressed. So real versions will be much smoother. But this is just useful to kind of start getting the intuition and and the idea is that you shoot up to this K and then you stop expressing. Right? So in this in this limit actually it's it's not even a it's not even a it go it's there's a kink here because it just shoots up and then it turns around right but you know any real system will be smoother right yes question to get the same level you would need a stronger promoter yes yeah you want a stronger promoter because you because you really want to have high expression initially and then and then and then later uh repress that okay so uh negative auto regulation in uh allows you to um speed up turning on. So T on goes down without increasing the problem which is a good thing because your cell would die if you produce too much. Okay. Okay. So yeah this is yeah yes yes um this is this is uh a very important point which I was about to get to right which is that um you know this is something that was done um but we we could have done that without negative auto regulation right but by by increasing the degradation rate right so the question that we're bringing up here is is there is there that same cost that we were referring to before of these this feudal expression of protein at equilibrium. So there's it's actually not and that's that's um and I think this is a this is a um a subtle point. you start out expressing a lot but then later you you you actually bring down your um rate of expression and in any case the uh the the rate of there doesn't there's no degradation in this in this right the only effect of degradation is due to uh the dilution the growth of the cell right so given you have the if you have the same concentration then actually you have to make you don't make any more protein than you did here if you have the same uh same concentration in equilibrium right so this is uh this is neat because this speeds stop the response when you're turning on without the the associated cost of making that protein then degrading it. Any questions about that statement? Okay. So now what about off? Does the is the off time the same as the on time here? All right. So what sets how fast should the off time be slower because you have a you have less degradation right and in principle is there any active degradation that we've invoked right on this no we I mean of course we could have both negative autoreation and and active degradation but in principle right now you can have the negative autoregulation without any active degradation right in that case how long does it take for that uh concentration to go away when you stop expressing cell generation scale. So again, a cell generation guy, right? So this thing actually looks the exact same as this, right? Okay. So the these guys are the same whereas this this one is is faster than that one because the idea is that the best that you can I mean unless you're going to actively degrade it, right? All you can do is you can shut off expression, right? But then if you turn off expression on the negative auto regulation, it's the exact same thing as turning off expression in the absence of the ne I mean either case you're just you just stop making protein. Right? So the concentration just uh goes down because it's being diluted away during cell growth. Okay? Right? So this is saying that the respon response time goes down only when turning on in the case of um of negative autoregulation. Are there any questions about that idea? Yes. Correct. Yeah. Right. So the idea is that um this beta um might be you know so this is the beta beta of negative autoregulation. It could be much larger than the beta of simple regulation in order to get to the same equilibrium. Yeah. Um all right actually I don't want to. Okay. So what about this idea of robustness? Okay. Well, here we have uh this is production rate and uh and then degradation rate. Okay. So, this is an alpha x. Oops. And so my question here is um I told you that robustness you have to say something as robust as something else. Yeah. Question. So my question is in this case you're saying that the means disappear. Okay. T off is u is this idea of the it's the T one half. So this is the time that it takes for the protein concentration to reach half of u to go from halfway the distance from where you were to where you're going to end up. What the signal not disappear but like to half of the original signal. Okay. Right. So yeah. So the signal could do a range of different things and it could be that the signal just changes so that instead of going down to zero you go down to some other value. Is that what you're imagining? Yes. Right. So in that case you still go exponentially to this new value. And so actually the t that the response time there is still actually the cell generation time. So it doesn't matter in the in the absence of any of these of for example autoregulation the time the characteristic time scale is always uh is always the cell generation time. It's a stable protein. Doesn't matter whether you're going up, down, or you know um all the way to zero or not or all right. So the question here is uh okay X equilibrium is uh is robust to what? Okay. Uh to um and this is to small changes in what? All right, it's going to be our a alpha. All right. So, this is going to be our first example of um an advanced use of our cards. Okay. So, the way that it works is that you can choose more than one. Okay. Now, this requires some manual dexterity. All right? So, what you have to do is if you think that the answer is more than one of these things, then what you have to do is show me more than one card. Okay? Um, right. These cards are amazing, right? You know, you can do so many different combinations. All right. I'll give you 20 seconds to think about it. What do those things mean? Okay. Um the question is all right. The equilibrium concentration of protein X is robust means it does not change right in response to small changes in what quantities right. So if I change the degradation rate does it change if I change the beta and this is the and I'm asking about this case here perfect negative autoregulation. All right just so that we can try to establish our intuition here. All right. K is this repression threshold. None means it's not robust to any of these things. DK always means don't know. Actually, I'll give you an extra 30 seconds. This might be a And so this one's the production rate. This one's the degradation rate. Um this figure might be useful to you. Sorry. K. Yeah. So um so K is the concentration of the protein X at which this super effective repression kicks in. Right? So we're assuming perfect negative autoregulation. So there's this um beta is the rate of expression for low concentrations. Then the moment that you get to concentration K um you get perfect repression. So no more expression. All right. Do you need more time? No. Question. Um, by saying that X equal to 3 is robust, do you mean that uh when you change these parameters, X equilibrium stays exactly the same or yes, we'll say X equilibrium for for now we'll say yeah for what what we'll mean right now is that a small change in this parameter leads to no change in X equilibrium. Now for any real example what we'll typically mean is we it's going to be some sort of sensitivity analysis for example where you'll say oh you know a 1% change in a parameter leads to a less than 1% change in you know for example but this is a it's in this case there's there's going to be no change I'll tell you and you know just so you know just so we can get um get the intuition clear here. All right do do you need more time? All right let's go ahead and vote. Remember you can vote for more than one thing if you like. Ready? Three, two, one. All right, we got um All right, some people are using our more than one, you know, and of course I can give you a, you know, a hint. The reason that I'm letting you vote more than once is because more than one thing is going to be um all right. So I it's a majority of the group has got this, but um not everyone. So let's discuss, but can somebody give an explanation for why both alpha and beta are going to work here? So the Equ the equilibrium is basically when degradation equals production. All right. So the equ I want make sure okay the equilibrium is when the production rate is equal to the degradation rate. All right. So this is a very important thing to make sure we're on top of. And in this case you we have a very sharp kind of this production term. Right. Okay. So then yeah. So then what happens? Well I mean the solution is the intersection right? So in this case the what is the equilibrium concentration is equal to K. All right. Now I strongly encourage you whenever possible to draw things out because this is a problem that when you have the drawing is reasonable to do and if you don't have the drawing you're going to get yourself tied up into weird knots. Okay. Right. And indeed what you can see is that we can ch if we change alpha what happens in this plot right changes the slope right and you can see that if we change the slope by small amounts we get no change in the in where this crossing point is right and even for a real system you know if it kind of came around you'd see that it's going to end up being a less than proportional change in the equilibrium right okay then what about uh what about beta that just raises and lowers Right? And again that doesn't change the equilibrium. All right? Of course if we change K then we get a one one change. Right? So a 10% change in K leads to a 10% change in the equilibrium concentration of X. Right? So this is the sense in which the equilibrium concentration in negative autoregulation is robust to changes in both they often in the book they say oh the production rate but it's actually also in principle the degradation rate over some range right um and this could be useful because there are lots of things that are going to affect the production rate of um of of a protein and also the degradation rate for that matter right the division rate changes it whereas It may be that K is subject to less severe changes because that's determined by for example the the bi the kinetics of binding of this protein to this promoter right and and that is perhaps less subject to changes. It could still change depending upon the pH and so forth of uh of the you know the interior of the cell but at least it's probably not subject to the the big changes uh that alpha and beta are are going to be going to experience right so the argument that URI makes for why it is that we see so much negative autoregulation in the cell is because uh it both increases the um the rate that the cell can respond to changes in the on direction at least uh but also that it makes the concentration of the protein more robust to changes in several of the parameters that govern uh the uh the equilibrium concentration. Okay? You know, and once again, you know, you can argue about which one of these is more important. Um but but I think they're they're both uh likely playing a significant role in different cases. All right, I'm going to want to move on, but I will tell you that only over some range of these parameters, alpha, beta, k will this thing be robust. Okay, so for example, if this comes up too high, we're going to lose this phenomenon of robustness. Okay, so I expect you to be able to tell me in some later date the conditions in which that might happen. Okay. And I'm gonna I'm available for the next half hour after class. So if you do not know what I'm talking about right there, please hang out with me after and I'll tell you the solution to that question on the exam. Okay. All right. Um All right. But I do want to talk about uh positive autoregulation because this is another um interesting beast. Right. So if negative autoregulation has those nice properties, then you can imagine that positive autoregulation will have some drawbacks. in the same kind of ways. All right. But um but it leads to some other uh very I think interesting just qualitative features. Okay. All right. So pos this is positive positive autoregulation. All right. Right? So we have some X that is activating itself and often we think about cases where it's activating its own expression in a cooperative fashion. Right? In particular, we might assume that x dot is equal to for example some beta kn plus some beta 1 of some cooperative thing here where n might be 2 3 4 right and then again minus alpha x right um now if you just look at this you might think oh I don't know what this is going to do and so forth but you got to draw things out right once you draw it then you'll see that it's pretty straightforward. forward. All right. So again, this is the production and the degradation rates, right? So that's production and degradation for example might look like this. All right? So this is the production. This is the degradation. Right? So that's the alpha x term, right? One question would be how many fixed points does this system have? So fixed point means that if you started right there and in the absence of any noise you would stay right there. Okay? So including both stable and unstable fixed points. Uh, can you read that? I'll give you 15 seconds to count them. All right. Ready? Three, two, one. All right. It seems like we have pretty good agreement that there are indeed three fixed points. All right. Once again, the fixed point is where um is where these these curves cross. Okay. So, we have one right here. One here and one here. All right. Now, um, how many how many are stable? We're going to do this verbally. Ready? Three, two, one. Two. All right. Let's try it again. Ready? Three, two, one. Two. Yeah. See, you get so used to the um cards, it's hard to see. Yeah. Okay. Um, right. So, and Right. So, the there are the ones on the ends are the stable ones, right? uh and you can just see here that around this point the production rate over here is more than the degradation rate. That means that if you leave that fixed point you're going to get pushed away. So it's very nice to draw these little arrows here that make one happy. Okay. All right. So this thing here is stable unstable and again stable. Right. Now uh the reason we call this bstability is because there are two stable fixed points right this is um but this is important because uh this is the bas this phenomena is the basic um the basic dynamical system origin of uh of memory. Okay. Now it's not obvious um how memory comes from this. So um so memory is in general this idea that that the gene network or the cell can retain a memory of its past state. Okay. And um and we're going to see examples of this over the next um over the next few weeks. But uh just to be clear if for example we imagine a situation where um the alpha changes okay it could be division rate um for example high food low food environments. What we can do is we can plot um well you know often you plot for example equilibrium but that's a little bit trickier. So I'm just going to plot the production rate um as a function of alpha. Okay. Now um the question is if we change alpha what's going to happen right now for a fixed alpha you can see already that there are two different production rates that are stable at this in this case right but what happens if we increase alpha so we increase the growth rate so it goes like this right is that going to can that change the number of fixed points right and indeed what you can see is that as this line gets steeper here eventually that you only have a single fixed point and it's stable, right? That's known as a bifurcation in the dynamics of the system. Okay, so this is for a large alpha you end up okay and just to be clear this is beta KN down here and then up here is a beta is the beta 1, right? So what we can do is we know that beta kn is where we get for large alpha. All right. Now for small alpha do we end up getting another right we get another bifurcification. So actually there's only again one stable point up here at small alpha right and what what we're going to get is is what's known as a fold bifurcation where solid lines denote uh stable points stable fixed points dash lines represent unstable fixed points. Okay, this is a stable um and and the dashed is unstable. There's some region of alpha conditions where the system is bstable but then outside of that it's just monostable. Okay, can somebody explain why this thing why I would why I might make the argument that this thing displays memory? Uh maybe no maybe a new well I mean one of those two is fine but any any new people want to uh ma explain my thought process? No. All right. Maybe you Okay. Well, so depending on whether we had high degradation or low degradation rates in the past, we'll be on the lower or the upper range of that if we return to normal. That's right. So the argument here is that let's say that this is some you know normal condition you know so you know you're this is where you are right now for example I don't know now depending upon whether you're sitting here or here that's perhaps giving you some information about the past state of the cell right because if you were here that means oh maybe in the past you were out at at high degradation rates whereas if you were here maybe you were at low and in particular you could reset things right if you start here then uh you can reset this memory module by coming over here. You'll then once you get to this point here, that's the bifurcation in the dynamics. It's a fold bifurcation. Then you come up, you come up here and now you'll retain this state in principle until you get over here. Of course, there could be stoastic switching dynamics. We're going to talk a lot about that in uh in the coming weeks. But at least uh in the limit of of low rates of stoastic switching, then this is this represents some sort of memory module kind of the simplest version of it. I'd say that in the cell most examples of such memory modules involve not just positive feedback of of one protein activating itself although this happens but often through a whole network where the one protein activates another activates another and that you come back or could be a repressing repressing and that you know two knots is a you know two negatives is a positive right just like three lefts as a right okay um right okay so are there any questions about in what the sense in which this thing can can serve as as a as basic memory module. And this thing is maybe not the most interesting example of it because alpha is such a global parameter. But you can also get similar dynamics as a function of for example the galactose in the concentration of some sugar in your media. Right? Um so given that different um different small molecules such as food sources can act as inputs into these gene networks, you can also get these sorts of dynamics as a function of what you might call um you know really you know some simple external uh molecule right which is nice because that means that you can have such you know memory modules that are really uh independent of all the other memory modules that are going on in your cell. Whereas if you had to vary alpha then this this changes everything right? Whereas if it's just if it's just concentration of some sugar outside, then you can imagine that that that could be very useful to retain a memory of of what the cell has encountered in the past. All right. So today what we've been able to do is uh is analyze something about possible uh evolutionary explanations for why uh autoregulation is as uh commonly observed as it is. Right? So negative autoregulation is the one that's observed perhaps most frequently. Uh and that I think has some very clear purposes. And this this idea of uh the concentration being robust to to other um to other biochemical parameters I think is is a big idea. We're going to see this idea of robustness crop up multiple times over the course of the semester. And I think that it's nice to think about robustness in this case because it's perhaps the simplest example of how robustness and that as an approach can be uh can be useful as a way of thinking about a problem. Uh we're later going to be thinking about robustness in the context of um of perfect adaptation in chemotaxis where where bacteria try to find food and there I think everything's more subtle because already the base phenomenon that is robust is a kind of a form of robustness and you know so it kind of gets you uh gets you mixed up. So I think that it's it's good to be very clear about what robustness means here so that we can use that to think about robustness in other biological uh functions. All right, with that u have a good weekend, good luck on the problem set and I'll see you on Tuesday.