The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. A classic application of Amper's integral law is to the prediction of the magnetic field of a line current. Ampier's integral law states that the integral of the magnetic field intensity around the closed contour C is equal to the net current conduction plus displacement that passes through the surface S that is enclosed. The integral of the magnetic field intensity around a closed contour C is equal to the net current that passes through the surface S that is enclosed. In this demonstration, the current density and associated fields are at 60 hertz. Because this frequency is low, the time rate of change is relatively small. As a result, the displacement current contribution to Amper's law is negligible. In this demonstration, a line current essentially extends to minus and plus infinity. This line current passes through a surface S and closed by this contour C. Ampia's law says that there is an integral of H around the contour C. Symmetry requires that only the azimuthal component of h be non zero and that this component only depend on the radial position r. The line integral is simply the product of hi and the circumference 2 pi r. The surface integral is the total current i. H5 is inversely proportional to r. h5 is proportional to i. In our experiment, the wire is horizontal. Here is the wire. Amper's law predicts the magnetic field intensity as it depends on R. H subi is inversely proportional to R. This Hall effect probe measures the magnetic field intensity. The top trace on the oscilloscope is a measure of the probe output. The lower trace measures the wire current. The wire current is measured by measuring the voltage drop across a series 1 ohm resistor. We measure 6 volts peak. So the current is 6 ampers peak. This probe measures magnetic field intensities perpendicular to its flat surface. When aligned in this direction, it measures the Z component of magnetic field about zero. When aligned in this position, it measures the radial component of magnetic field. Again, about zero. When aligned in this position, it measures the phi component of the magnetic field, which seems to be the only nonzero component of magnetic field. For a current of 6 amps, ampere's integral law predicts this one over r dependence for h subi. Our measurements are limited to distances are small compared to the distances to the end of the wires or to the return wires below. Because the Hall effect probe fundamentally exploits the Lorent force law, it measures the flux density mu naut H. A common unit for flux density is the Gaus. We have to take this into account in evaluating Ampere's law. For conversion of units, 10,000 g equal one Tesla where the Tesla is the SI unit. With the probe at 1 cm, the measured flux density is 1.2 2 g peak I is 6 amps R is 1 cm so we calculate mun not H5 to be 1.2 two Gaus. Here is the data point on our plot. Here are some other measured values. We have demonstrated the relationship between current through a surface S and magnetic field intensity integrated around the contour C given by Amper's integral law.