The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. And uh before we get into the topic which is educational teaching with educational technology um I just want to go back to some of the previous assignments a little bit of logistics etc. So you should have feedback on all the assignments that can be given that can you can be given feedback on uh the the assignment where you gave a presentation to a um a friend uh I can't really give you feedback on. I I looked over it. You all made nice observations uh good pointed observations. And I hope um that you can see how and I think I made this comment on the wiki that you can see how just your just your presence uh and the choice of words that you make can have a big effect. Um and that was the whole point of that assignment. So, so that's my feedback on that assignment. Um the previous one, the last one that I can that I feel like I can give you substantive feedback on is the active learning. How to incorporate active learning. As I mentioned last time, um you guys did such a great job of incorporating active learning in the first time you'd submitted that where it was just creating a course outline that there wasn't a lot extra to add, but I added whenever I added comments whenever possible. One thing that I commented on on at least two people's um homework uh the one about active learning was the idea uh you mentioned do you doing demos? So there's a very uh interesting piece of work out of Eric Mazzour's group at Harvard about the use of demos and that paper is called the crouch and mazzour paper and it's the it's a optional reading in the um I believe it's the active learning session. So if you look, so this is um the active learning class which is class five, right? Am I right about that? Or six? Six. Six. Yes. Six. Oh, okay. So, it's five. Um yeah so um that's a really interesting paper because I think sometimes we say I'm going to do a demo op priori a demo isn't active I mean it's active for you you're doing the demo but it's not necessarily active for students and if we enter into the enterprise of doing a demo thinking we're being well thinking they're being active um they might not be and crouch did an interesting um study where they looked at they were doing mechanics freshman mechanics class and they had, you know, masses on an air track, you know, when you have like a mass of 2M and you slam into it with a mass of M. What happens to the mass of 2M? What happens to this mass of M that was coming in? That kind of stuff. And so they would show the students these demos. Oh, look what happens. Here comes the mass of M at a velocity d. And then when they ask students like in the same class at the end of the same class period to say what happens when a mass of M collides with a mass of 2 mass of M going X miles an hour um collides with a mass of 2M what happens? Students got it wrong. They had just seen the demo. They had just seen the demo and they still got it wrong. So what they found was um and that's I think that's a really profound finding because as experts we think of course they're going to see this it's going to be emlazed into their brain they'll never forget it but they never learn it basically. So it's more evidence for the for active learning for sure. But what they found out was they forced students to make a prediction to discuss that prediction with somebody else before they saw the demo. And when they did that, the the scores on these sort of post demo uh quizzes, if you will, u went way up. So, it's a small tweak, but it's a profound one because you might really just be wasting your time. Um, if you show a lot of demos and you don't ask students to make these predictions beforehand, this goes back to the mathematician uh George Pia who who wrote in the 50s about asking people to make predictions before you gave them the answer. Um, I'm not sure he had any data for it, but this was his thing. Um, this is pretty good data suggesting that you really should um should ask students to make predictions before showing the demo. So, that was uh just one a couple people brought that up. I I um and I wanted to make sure everybody heard that. Okay. If you can't find this reference um let me know. It might be hiding somewhere else. I'm pretty sure it's in in this um it is. Oh, great. Okay. Um so, that was that. But, but overall, great job on that assignment. Um, and then I briefly looked over the assignment that was due today or whenever um, uh, using moving, uh, creating prompts at various levels of Bloom's taxonomy or a taxonomy of your choosing. Again, I thought you did a great you did a great job. Um, I'd like to hear a little bit of reactions to that assignment. Was it difficult? Was it easy? Do you see how it could be useful? Does it seem like a waste of time? I think was very, very useful. Yeah, just uh um it lets you see what the students will go through when you mark that thing otherwise because it's like you are solving it too. So you kind of feel and see how what level to take them to. Yes. So it's very good. Great. Otherwise you wouldn't know you just said and then you don't know how much dream it really gives them. Exactly. And I think that happens. I mean it's happened to me when I first started teaching um intro materials. you know, you're just like, "Okay, they'll calculate the the, you know, the the stress on this plane and blah blah blah." And you're like, "Well, why are they doing that? What is that getting them?" Um, and it's just this reality check for you so that you don't go off into the weeds sort of. So, yeah, Tesla. Yeah, I think it's really very interesting. And what I noticed that by trying to set standard questions at those level of learning, you push yourself also to have a limit. You want to bring a question student yourself. That's number one. Number two, what I say is that most of very good questions that test high level of communicative learning is not may not test just one level. I'm setting very good questions. I might test almost all the level in just a simple question. Yes. Understand? You may have a remembering part and then you might have an application part. So for instance, what I did, I put some questions actually tested more than just one tested about three at the same time. So I think it's really very good. gas, right? and also to to make sure you're aware of that and then also decide well if they don't remember the value of the universal gas constant in this these units but they do the apply part fine they just use the so it's important you know we always have to think about that when we grade questions but but I think by by parsing it out like that it makes you more cognizant of those issues that might come up in terms of how the students um respond to the the question I thought it was actually difficult to make a question that only satisfied one of the criteria like apply had to be stumped for like 15 minutes because everything I was asking that to try to apply was also analyzed or you know like it was it was so I tried to I mean I guess I could have just made one that did both but I was sitting there and I was like no okay not this one okay that really I was I almost I almost left it blank and said I'm stuck possible I finally came with something that I think just answers the fly But it was interesting to think about. Right. Right. And and you don't and you know in real life in real life you don't have to you know just have one you know you can embed them together but you know recall and apply or whatever. Um but and I think in some for some topics it might be easier to to siloize it a little bit. Um you know given the data construct a whatever. So that that that's more of an apply. I mean, but there might be classes or subjects where that doesn't really you can't really do that quite the same way. Um, other reactions? I was also thinking of it in terms of grading like if you have a have a rubric and or you have, you know, assigning the number of points based on which level you were asking, right? like as opposed to saying okay five points for each question to say like okay you get one point for the remembering and then you get you know 10 points for the creative or you know right right I would be careful I mean I think that's a fine idea I would be careful to make sure that students know that so they don't kill themselves memorizing you know pi out to 25 digits or something right um um so if there are if you do have these sort of this is what I think is important you need to you'll need to specify that I mean and that a rubric could incorporate that for sure. But you do want to make sure students know what your logic is. I think also there are some questions you said uh that you give formulas the formula in the equation uh just to make sure that student won't spend all of their time to cram the equations. Yes. Yes. Right. And that in most classes that's totally reasonable. Right. I mean, um, you know, the joke I make about, you know, it's rare the real life that somebody comes in and says, "I need this answer right now. Don't look up anything." Right? I mean, it's kind of a weird um pretense. So, most most I mean, it's usually reasonable to just put the equations at the bottom or write it in the problem statement. Anything else on that? Okay. So, uh, today we're going to talk about teaching with educational technology. Um, if you I had written on the website to bring a web enabled device. If you didn't, I have an extra laptop and and we can share. It's not a it's not it shouldn't be a problem. Um, as part of this, um, I hope that you'll be able to identify appropriate educational technologies to, um, advance an intended learning outcome. And I want to get back to that in just a second. and maybe describe best practices and potential pitfalls of particular educational technologies. So somewhat modest uh modest goals. I think it's a really interesting thing to think about technology is so and I I didn't make this up. I heard this at a at a conference. So, they said, "When you walk into Home Depot or one of these big home improvement stores, um what is the if if you happen to be blessed by having an employee come up to you?" Because sometimes it's hard to find an employee in those stores. Um what do they ask you? Um everything okay? Is there anything I can help you with today? Right. Okay. Is there anything I can help you with? Um if and you say, "Yeah, yeah, you can." And then they say, What do you usually it's what are you working on, right? What are you trying to do? They don't say what tool do you want. I mean, they might, but if they're good, they don't. And that's a kind of an I think that's a a word to the wise when we think about educational technology. It's not what looks really cool and fun and what do I want? You know, what tool do I want? It's what am I trying to build? What do I want my students to build? What am I trying to build? What am I trying to accomplish? And then I can step back and say, which of these technologies is going to help me do it? And it's easy to get wrapped up. I mean, you know, we're all kind of techy geeky. I mean, that is a compliment. Um, but um, you know, it's kind of fun like, "Oh, cool. Look what this can do." And then we go walking around looking for something to do with it. Um, and that might be okay, but you have to check your assumption. You have to check your assumptions about wh why you're doing it. Are you doing it just to be cool or are you doing it because it's really going to help student learning or it's going to help some aspect of your advance a learning outcome? Um, and that's true. You know, I we can we can use educational technology as some kind of a scapegoat, but that's true for anything. It's true for that amazing exam question that you thought up in the shower like I know what I'll do. I'll do this and do that and blah blah. Like maybe it's cool but maybe it's not getting you any going to get you anywhere or maybe it's not consistent with your learning outcomes. So it doesn't have to be technology but often technology is kind of pretty shiny and um we tend to like gravitate toward it but it's remembering that we're using it to advance some particular learning outcome. Okay. So what you guys did the readings what what are educational technologies? What's what what is that? What does it mean? Can we come up with the definition? Yeah, I think I from what I can understand an educational technology uh is a tool. Now I didn't want to use that word is a tool which helps the student and also help the the teacher. So that means something that can enable uh intercommunication between the teacher and the student. Okay. And then the student and the student. Okay. So we have a lot of ideas in that statement. Um so it's a tool. Yeah. So so a tool. Um you said it enables communication. Yeah. Student student and then the Um, and I think you had something else in there. Did you or No, did Something else is a education technology is like a tool to enhance students learning, enhancement of student learning and uh enhancement of instructors teaching as well. The technology part is like a electronic device. So it has to have electricity. Has to involve electrons. No, that's everything. Wait, let's let Michelle What? What should we say about that? I think that's kind of correct to say it has to be an electronic device, right? Like if it's a clicker or if it's a web must be electronic. It sounds so like 1950s. Um I think we had Yeah, Gordon. Yeah. Um I'll just adjust a little bit and add in front of the two productivity is kind of a kind of two that create a community of l that will not be constrained or restricted by time or place. So it uh lends itself to asynchronicity. Yes. Anything else? I think it's also enhancer is easier is use of materials or is facilitates um materials um it helps to I can give the same material to um students at the same time right a distribution aids distribution yeah learning materials can be easily accessed Did I hear something else? Is it that is efficient? Efficient. That's a loaded word. Anybody have anything else or do you want to make a somebody want to make a comment on this collection of attributes? It prepared the student to be continuous learners. I don't think I have any cynics in this. Well, the cynics haven't said anything. I think all of the comments are positive things like if you're doing it well what should happen but they aren't necessarily what actually happens because most of the time it's probably not done well using a technology is not optimal. Okay, that's one observation. And it's sort of um you know that rhyme. There was a little girl who had a little curl right in the middle of her forehead. And when she was good, she was very very good. And when she was bad, she was horrid. So it's a little bit like this, right? When it's good, it's very very good. And when it's bad, maybe it's even worse than if you hadn't bothered. But um uh Alex, you had something to say. No. Well, on the side of cynics, I I thought of the comment that students are often disinterested when they don't see the point or don't see them using it later, but um it's not necessarily a definition of it. Right. Right. No, but that's a very good point. And somebody had quoted um this idea of an app that if if an app doesn't load in something like seven seconds, people stop using it. Like if you try to get an app to open on your phone and you're like, "What's going on here? Come on. 1 2 3 4. Okay, forget it." Um and that's a similar idea that if you if you if it doesn't look like it's going to help you, um and whatever that means, help you. It's self self-defined help. But if it doesn't look like it's going to help you, you're not going to buy into it. Um, some other thoughts about this list. I don't think I mean personally I don't think that that to be an uh educational technology has to meet all these criteria at once right I mean that's an important thing to note that it might you know it might improve productivity I mean a learning management system the old old school learning management systems that just put up you put up problem sets and you put up the the gradebook was in one place and that kind of thing that might help your prod productivity. You're not looking around for stuff, but it's not necessarily promoting learning at any level. It's a delivery system, a materials delivery system. So, it kind of does this and it does this, but it might not really be part of the learning enterprise. It's a store. It's a repository. And that's fine. I mean, there's nothing wrong with that, but that's that's one type. Um, if you're saying that it's um, you know, it enables communication, well, that might be part of this, but it might be something else, right? If I say, "All right, you know, I want you guys to read everybody's it's a wiki and I want you guys to read what everybody else wrote and to make a comment on at least one other person's posting." Well, I facilitated communication between you in an asynchronous way. I I didn't tell everybody to do it at, you know, noon on on the 29th of October. Um, but but it it does facilitate it facilitates communication. Um, I think this one is the is a loaded one for sure and it gets to Michelle's comment about when it if you did it right, it would do that. Um, but if you did it wrong, it probably wouldn't do that at all. I mean, it's likely to not do that at all. Um, so these are attributes that could could um that you could use to describe some educational technologies. Um I do have a definition from the reading but before I put that up um any any other thing you want to add? It's interesting to think about it like does it have to be electronic? So I have had classes in the past where people argue okay well a blackboard is an electronic is a educational technology right I mean you couldn't do that without some sort of human-made product and without it I would have to be walking around you know speaking very slowly and hoping you took notes or walking around with I don't know a piece of paper or a that I wrote on and sharing it with you or something. So, so it does it certainly does a blackboard does fit a lot of these categories, right? It it it's an efficient delivery system. Um, at some level it enables communication. Um, it's uh aids distribution of learning materials. Um, so so we want to think about whether we really if if it means it has to be electronic. Um, but that's a and you may have guessed by now there is not a de single definition. That's the other issue comment. Yes, just a comment. What about um if it's not well moderated ser the efficient one that you know we've all gotten sucked into websites or or sucked into perhaps an online discussion or or commenting on something and it might be interesting. You might learn, but it it may not be efficient at all. Or you might just be on the, you know, the screed end of things where you're just people are just either ranting or they're not they're reinforcing kind of misconceptions or or whatever. So yeah, you do have to you do have to kind of make sure people are using it carefully, but that's true for virtually anything you do, right? Any other comments? And I I think as well that um the the fact that uh this tool is available. I mean the student can you know decide to stay home you know in the bad weather start stay at home since he knows this is available then he can go and then I mean that could that that could uh it could be good and bad because the students would continue to learn on his own and become a good you know student and then he could miss out on uh critical points as well. Right. Right. So So that and but that implies some sort of like web um housed delivered um repository of content or of lecture video lectures or whatever. We don't have to only have I mean that you could have a course that used clickers let's say that didn't even have a website but they used clickers. So that course might be using educational technology pro maybe in a very very good way in the classroom but they don't even bother with a website. So in that case the student has to come to class if they want to experience that particular use of technology. Um, I think you're right that that if you do have a website or you do have lectures online or you do have rich content online, then then it does sort of perhaps make learn make being in the classroom a little bit less necessary. I will say if you employ active learning methods in class, group discussions, etc. um that being in the classroom is certainly I would argue is value added for the student. So it's not the same ex it's not a replacement experience but it might be better than nothing let's say it might not. Yes. Go ahead. Yeah. I found something in the reading very interesting. Um where they said that if you use clickers, I mean I I I I would love to do that. I mean to take the attendance of the students that it might discourage the students from using technology but I don't know I mean in some environments it might actually be good to have technology that you can use nonvasively to find out if the students coming to you. Yeah, matter. It's true. One person will come with five friends clickers and click them all. No, but if if you have like RFID technology or something like that that you can use to um authenticate first when you come to the class to know that okay this person is the one using this particular thumb print or something like that. I mean scam then nobody's going to register for your class. Yeah. my in my in my country the classes are composed and what I mean is you don't have the option of choosing like over here to it's not just I don't want to do this you just have to do all so certain courses you have to do yeah you must do them you have to show up yeah you must yeah you should show up but then the size is too big it's difficult to take the attendance and if you have this wonderful way of getting the students actually love. I think something shed more light on when does it become problem? Something that promotes independent learning. When does it become problem? Well, I'm I don't know if there's an answer to that. I mean, for some students, it's never a problem. For some students, it's awesome. For some students, they it's just more information and it's just another path and they're learning and they're learning and they're learning and it's supplementing what they're learning in the class. Um because it kind of depends on attendance that Dr. is talking about. Well, I so is will it be necessary? Well, yeah. And actually that's a any problem. Uh that's a uh important point is that I think I showed these slides about clicker use um in 511 showed it when we did the clicker when we did active learning. Um, and what the first year they used them, they actually did they used them more or less to take attendance. And students figured that out pretty quickly. Um, they did all sorts of things, sharing clickers, clicking and then leaving, right? Um, or coming in at the end and clicking, um, but not being there the whole time. Uh, and if you ask students, well, what do you think about the clickers? They're like, I don't this is this is crappy. You know, this didn't help me. This was terrible. and probably it didn't. I mean, there's an attitudinal thing that says at some point if you think it's not helping, it's not helping. Um, so the next year they made it a point to really incorporate it into the class to ask good questions, rich questions, questions that had um um interesting distra interesting and and informative distractors. So the wrong answers told the instructors what what the problems and misconceptions were. And um this was made clear to the students and in that way the if you ask students what they thought about the clickers they they were they were not at all resentful of the use of clickers and they did not see them as a way of just taking attendance. They didn't think they were sort of you know baby or whatever. Um and they were more they were therefore more effective. Um Rachel you had a comment. Yeah, I was just gonna say when I took 802 that's the ENM electricity magnetism freshman year the class I took and it was piloted. So we did all the online course and then the idea was come to class and we just like learn for two hours from the teacher using like group discussions and all these different things and it was one of the worst classes I've ever professor wasn't prepared to do these like these twoour discussions and like group discussions and like group work and all these like different things that like you could tell he just like wasn't used to doing and like it was a giant mess because of it. So, it's just like I think they're really useful tools, but it also requires the professor to like really like put something into it for the students to get something out of it. Right. Right. And that's a that's a consideration. I mean, for some things you can adopt them. There's kind of a low bar for adoption and a low bar for for solid use, right? Maybe not innovative, maybe not groundbreaking, but solid pedagogical use. Um, for others, if you're going to use them effectively in the classroom, you're going to have to spend some time engaging with the technology, making sure you understand it, making sure you understand what what you can do with it. Um, otherwise, it's not going to work. Um, a couple stories. One is, um, the idea of Well, maybe I'll hold that one. I'll hold that one. Any other I'll bring it up later. Remind me. Um any other comments about this? So this is a definition that I got um that in I think from one of the reasons. So technological processes and resources that are used, created or managed for learning and or improving performance. So that's crazy broad. Um, and then in that definition, there's this technological which gets around the electronic, but brings back the idea, well, a blackboard is probably a technology at some level, or at least it was at some point. So, it's a it's it's admittedly an incredibly um incredibly difficult concept to pin down. And maybe at some point, you don't necessarily have to, you have to decide which slice of it you want to deal with. Uh and um so the other important thing is that it's and it doesn't have to be but it can be an integral part or it should it's well be well integrated if not an integral it should be well integrated within the course. Um uh and and or it could be a supplemental learning aid. So it could be a way of delivering content outside of class or kind of the idea of an enrichment an enrichment of the material and it could be something like hardware really just just like hardware. Um I'm going to come back to how we parse how we chop this up in just a second. Remember that we don't want to do anything. This is the idea about walking into Home Depot. We don't want to do anything without thinking first about our intended learning outcomes. What intended learning outcome is the technology going to advance? Not what am I going to do with this technology? And um so in terms of categorization um this is something that I came up with just after grappling with things. So this is just my thing um and we're going to talk more about different ways to think about it. So this is just one slice of it. You could think about technologies that you use in the classroom. So that would be, you know, clickers, that would be using some sort of projection system, using a Smartboard, using some sort of, uh, simulations that you show students, um, etc. like, uh, virtual demos. Um, it could be a way for students to engage with the content, with the content and with other students outside of the classroom. So it could be some sort of a a a wiki, some other collaboration tool. Um or and or it could be something that delivers the content to the student outside of class. Um and that and there may be an overlap, right? You may show a simulation in class and then decide students should have access to it outside of class. So they're not mutually exclusive. Um and so this the engagement with the content can co uh include these collaboration tools, extra materials, content enrichment materials. Um and then the third one might be um student assignments. So the idea maybe you're going to use a technology say to the students okay I want you to create a website for a company that you're going to create and this is this parameters and you want to make sure you you you're explicit about what the company sells and how you deal with customers or whatever the assignment involves the technology. go out and make an audio recording of of people using a particular technology or interview interview people in the community. If you're going to design something for use in some community, interview the people in the community and submit this audio recording. So, it could be the technology could be used in the student assignments and that and you could back that all the way up to online problems, you know, as they use in edex and MITx. Um and then for assessment and feedback, the idea that um uh you can either use clicker questions, which would be for the formative feedback, or you can use you can use it as some sort of a a quiz, an online quiz or um some other way of giving feedback to the students. So that gets to the summitative and the formative idea. Um and then the idea of just using a learning management system just to administrator administrate the course. That's one slice. Um, there's another very interesting couple other very interesting ways to slice this up and I have a hand out here because these are woefully tiny these schematics. So, if you could just take one and pass it along. One is called the sections framework and the other is called um the backwards edte tool flowchart. So these are different these are not mine and these are different ways oh sorry different ways of um thinking about thinking about technology so let me so the first one is this edtech chart and I know you can't read that here so that's why you have the handout um and I like it because it it it kind of starts with the the activity that you want students to use. So it starts with this what do you want students to do and that's what the purple box are the student tasks and then it kind of creates these sort of guiding questions that sort of rerout route you um and then it gives you a suggestion for a tech tool. So I'm going to just let you I'm going to give you a few minutes just to parse that um just to engage with it a little bit. It's very beautiful. It's it I like this one. I like this one. I I think it's very It's very useful. Um any other any comments or thoughts about it? Yeah. Gordon, I don't get it. Okay. Uh Gordon doesn't get it. Somebody want to uh maybe nobody gets it, but do you want to explain it a little bit out loud, David, please? Yeah. For example, um but can you explain to everybody? You might let's say first I'll just take the first um could you go to the slide oh sure okay say what you want students to do okay then if you take the extreme to the left to create analyze data that's what I want the students to do and so doing that what you find out is it kind of a sol you want them to apply to it if it is Yes, then you can create forms so that they can carry out the survey. If it is not, you find out is it a group effort that you want them to use. Now if it is a yes, then again there no greater you know. So that's one branch of that. So similarly then you can use other keys on top, blue, orange and green and then you see that actually it's certainly not exclusive. I mean, it's certainly not it doesn't have everything on here, but it kind of gives you, I think, a way of thinking about, okay, I start with what I want students to do, which most of us have a pretty good handle on. Um, and then it helps you just think backwards to the technology. Um, Teslim, yes, I just want to add that it's all about what do you want to do and how do you how can you do it? Yes, that's that's what it's all about. And secondly, it it actually looks at the the levels of person as well. For instance, collect analyze data. That's an part. If you don't go to the right parts, you see memorize and repetition. So you have all the levels of toning there. So how do you want them to do it? What do you want them to do? And how do you how do you help them doing it? That's that's what Yeah. Yeah. No, it's it is great. Um, uh, other other thoughts and yeah, we're going to get back to the idea of the taxonomy shortly. Other other thoughts? Um, let's see. There's a second one, um, which is on the other side of your handout. It's the And so, these are just I know you can't see this. That's why you have the handout. Um, these are just ideas. Again, there there's no rules really, but it's just it depending on what you're trying to do. It just may help you start to think about how to get the right tool for the job. Um, so it's called sections because each of the bo each of those boxes with the red outline, S E C T I O Ns, the S is student characteristics, the E is ease of use, C is cost, teaching and learning, interse um interaction to promote active learning, organization, novelty, and speed. Um, and this chart I think just I'm going to let you engage with it for just a minute, but it brings up the idea of the the learning curve for the instructor, which you don't want to lose sight of that you want to factor that into your choices about what technologies to use. So, again, I'm going to shut up for a minute or so. So, you can look at this This is just the choices of selecting L technologies which depends on the student the ease of use of that technology. Then what the posifications are and then what kind of teaching or learning environment or kind of that will be and then what is the interaction know so those are properties that determines the technologies that we want to choose right right but what's the difference between this one and I mean there's many differences obviously but what's a kind of a use definition a utility definition utility difference. One's one one's a flowchart that points you to the answer. So it asks the yes or no questions. The other just gives you the then you have to select from a doesn't guide you directly. Right. It kind of it exactly it it kind of helps you think about it. Oh my gosh, I have, you know, I have no money. Right. So that's certainly that's going to rule out a whole c a whole, you know, set of of uh options for you. Um but it doesn't say oh you have no money. uh think about these right I mean it doesn't um it doesn't it's not a flowchart it doesn't point you to to an end result but it it if you if you went through this exercise and answered these questions I think you would have a better you'd be in a better place with respect to choosing the particular technology yeah also I think that the second one is not aimed at directing you towards any type of choice it doesn't aim that at all for instance if you want to use the Then you see the properties of when it comes to money you can think about because if you don't think about everything you might end up missing some of it just such you know right it's it's some things to just keep in your head when you're making these choices. it's not necessarily a formalism for making a choice. Um, so one other slice of all this technology is is this um it's kind of a classic I I would say classic model which is called the Samur model. SAM R. I know I'm throwing a lot of models at you but but you have to kind of find the slice that that works for you. Um the samur model I think is very is very useful to keep in mind when you're deciding why you're using a techn why you're gravitating to a particular technology and it's this idea of um of it being is the is the technology just a substitution. So back in the day when when everybody said oh courses need web pages you have to have a course web page. Well what was a course web page? It was an electronic version of your syllabus basically. I mean it was sort of it had the name of the course. It had some picture and then it was there was a link and you could click on it and the students got the syllabus. They got a like a you know a text version of the syllabus. I mean a soft copy of the syllabus that then they printed out and brought to class. So it was really it was a onetoone substitution. Instead of seeing the syllabus uh in a in a piece of paper they see it online. It was complete substitution. it didn't do anything extra except maybe made it a little easier for students not to lose the syllabus but it didn't really have any functional difference. Um then the next level that's the S the A is that it it's a there's an augmentation. So um there's a substitute but with a tra with a little bit of an improvement. So maybe um students could hand the homework in online, right? They're still handing homework in. They're still probably writing their homework out, scanning it, and handing it in, but it's a little easier. It's a little bit easier. Maybe you don't lose the you don't lose their homeworks, that kind of thing. So, that's the augmentation. Um, the next level would be a modification. So, some sort of like serious redesign of a task that you couldn't do before that technology. And then the final would be it just redefineses the the tasks that you do, the tasks that students do. um in a way that's completely different. So, I'm going to ask you to think about that for your own courses in about two minutes. Um just there's a little bit of a um schematic here that might help. These are sort of a little bit baby but the idea of um substitution. Um so the idea of using a word processor instead of a typewriter that was substit that was a substitutional technology. Um so then augmentation you get spell check right once you're in a computer you get to have spellch check and and formatting and cutting and pasting and that's different than what you can do on a typewriter. Um and then so modification. Well, there was like an email or you could put graphs and images into the right into the document was a it was changed sort of the way we viewed um a a document like a whole document. Um and then the idea of having uh hypertext or a some sort of a web page that students navigated in a nonlinear or a non-prescribed way that would be the that would be the redefinition, let's say. So, um, so that's kind of a that's a sort of baby examples of that. Um, and then this this next one which is pretty fun is there's this woman Kathy Shrock and um, if you Google Kathy Shrock, it comes up. She comes up got a ton of stuff. But um she's done and this to get back to Bloom's taxonomy there is that she's taken Bloom's taxonomy remember understand apply analyze evaluate create and then she said okay well here's some apps that can facilitate those things facilitate the act of remembering or facilitate the act of evaluating or creating. So it's not mutually exclusive. It's not it's not, you know, it's not um exhaustive, but it is important to remember that some things really are lending some of these tools are supporting remembering or they're supporting uh some other level understanding, but they're not necessarily, you know, at the highest level or they're not at the lowest level. They it's good to be aware of that. Before I charge you with your your assignment, I did want to um demo a few other technologies just just so you could take a look at them. And there was that list in the reading which I hope you checked out. Um I invited you to this um I thought I invited you. Oh, wait a minute. Huh? Hang on. It's on the Well, let's just start up a new one. Um, so I can create this this uh picture here and I can share this then with you. Um, um, and I can invite the board. And so this is the link and if you have a device and want to log in there, you can check it out and then you can write on it. Oh, somebody wrote on it. Somebody erased my picture. I don't know who that was. Is that a UP? U QPL. Anybody? That's different from the link that was in the wiki. I I know. I just created a new one because I didn't want to go look for the wiki link. So, this is free. This is free. Yeah. Um, so we're working a little backwards here. I'm showing you the tool and now I'm asking you what you might want to do with it, which I is not necessarily best practice, but um I have a use that I um you can change the color. This thing, this pen here changes the color. Uh no, something changes the color. Maybe not. Um Oh, somebody got blue. Um uh I teach when I taught thermodynamics we would often do sketches. I'd say okay sketch the Gibbs free energy versus temperature gives energy versus pressure. Tell me what the what's the uh you know tell me what the uh the first derivative of of G with respect to T is things like that. Sketch sketch the slope catch sketch the curvature etc. And so this kind of application is you could have a student you could have students log in do that kind of a sketch and then people can people can evaluate it. It's anonymous. You can see I can't tell who said what except David who wrote his name. Um but um I can't see who did what. So so that it could work pretty well in a in a small class. If you had a class of 400 people, I'd be afraid, right? I'd be very afraid. But um but in a in a small class, you can come up with with some interesting uses of it. It it the good thing about it is that you don't have students coming up to the board. There's a it minimizes that motion, the sort of getting everybody unsettled and settled again. Um it's not a cure. I wouldn't say this is this redefineses anything in terms of the SAM model. I'd say it's probably a modification, maybe an augmentation, maybe. I don't know. But it's certainly not um it's certainly not an R. Um so I wanted to just demo that because it's kind of fun. Um the other thing I wanted to do is I think you guys saw this list. Did you see this list on the from the readings? This is just some things that I've compiled. It's kind of a mishmash, but um there's some interesting things on here that you might want to explore depending on your um on your teaching what on your learning outcomes. Uh, and we've used back channel. Today's meet is pretty similar to back channel. Um, back channel chat is pretty similar to back channel. So, those are some things that are are pretty similar. We just looked at um the web app. We've used clickers. Um, we've talked about Siccat, which is this uh just a cell phone based clicker. Um, but there's a lot of a lot of interesting uh uses and you you might want to just play around with them. Um there's also and I'll augment this list. So when you go if you click it again from the from the wiki you'll get a augmented list of things. A few things I want to add to it. Um so now given your experience in life and the readings etc is that I'd like for you to think about um think about a technology that you haven't used before. Actually, what you want to do first is think about a learning outcome. Um, but um, you want to think about a learning outcome. You want to think about um, a technology that might advance that learning outcome. And then just jot down why you chose this technology, where does it fit in the SAM model, um, how you would use it in your class, any kind of difficulties, and then there's a Google doc. I'm pretty sure everybody can access it. We can only hope. Um, and if you can type your responses into that. So, I'm going to give you about five, seven minutes for that activity and then we're going to do a lightning round based on it. So, so use whatever um use the handouts, use your knowledge, use etc. But um and then somebody can tell me really quickly if they can get into the Google doc. So, yeah, you guys are good. I I was going to say write your name down, but it doesn't really matter whether your name's up or not. So, um, so I want to make sure that you take a look at everybody else's some of the learning outcomes. We're going to do this lightning round where you're going to be talking to other people about their about the technology they chose, their learning outcome, why they chose it, etc. and you're going to be trying to help your partner uh troubleshoot or perhaps implement the technology in a better way, solve some of their problems uh with the implementation process or perhaps think about a different technology al together given their desired learning outcomes. So we let's just take a minute and either read it on your own device or read it up here so that we can so that you kind of get a sense for what we're um what you're going to be talking about. Okay. And if Yeah, that's okay. Okay. And if you haven't read it, um, if you haven't read over it, please do that now. So, there's some really interesting ideas up here, I think. Um, and a big a broad spectrum of of uh of ambition, right? right? We have some pretty small tech like assignment one assignments worth of technology perhaps and then we also have kind of a whole course uh design. So So that's another thing we didn't really talk about. I mean I didn't narrow the scope in any in any way or define the scope in any way. So could be for a whole class, it could be for um one particular assignment or one particular course activi class activity and that's fine. That's okay. Um, so does everybody did everybody get a chance to look over the other posts? I'll say I have had the past two things. So here's a pitfall of of all these things that I when the um the the AWW where everyone was drawing um I could draw here but it was never showing up there. Interesting. Oh yeah. My thing never showed up. Yeah. And then the other thing with this now um with the Google doc I tried to um edit it and it doesn't let me click on it says do you want to use the app? So then I had to download the app and now I say yes use the app and then it says um something about the server not being recognized. But then if I go back and say no thanks and I try to use it um use it without the app, then I can't put anything in. Interesting. Okay. So who had trouble? Yeah, I downloaded the app. I'm using that. All right. And is that Did anybody that was using a smartphone uh have tr not have trouble? I didn't have trouble. You didn't have trouble? I know that I'm using Oh, yeah. Okay. And uh I were you on I an Android or Android? It's Android. Android. iPhone. iPhone. Who else had trouble? It was more than just the two of you, right? With this one. With this one, with this particular one, Rachel had problems with it. Um, so for now, if you wouldn't mind, just um, uh, let's see. I'd like to We don't have to complete this right now, but maybe if there's a lull, just come on over here and you can type your your app in just so we have a complete record, your uh, technology in. But that's an interesting um it's a good thing to keep in mind that access might be an issue. I did try this out on two computers, but I tried them out on two computers and I didn't try phone. Do it after. Yeah, after is fine. Um so if we could get up and anybody else that didn't didn't wasn't able to input their ideas, if you can, we'll do it later. That's fine. So, we're going to do the lightning round. And if I could get um you gentlemen to come around and fill in the back. Just fill in up to here. Um great. So, what we're going to do is I'm going to ask the row in the back, this row to um share their technology, their their their intended learning outcome, their concern. Uh, and then the other the this row will give their advice and it's two minutes for the whole process and then we'll switch. Okay. So, what do I do? So, you just have to tell me what you're going to tell me more or less what you wrote on the screen. Okay. But hold on. I got to set the timer. Okay. Go. All right. Now the kind of technology that I pick to use is called entry point. The department pays subscription for it annually. So it's not very it's not available like free going to um is going to share their um ideas with the other with the other side. I guess my only constraint would be not everyone. All right. So, so that's a very good idea. But what do you see as a difference between the tool you want to use and the one the professor is using? Dave, it's the moment you've been waiting for. Okay. So, we're going to do this this two more times. This time and one more time. Okay. All right. Now for for the course which I want to teach using uh uh educational technology. So it was a big challenge because the head of department wanted to say no but then it continued because many of the professor already prefer it. So does it like input equations like easy? Yeah. enable you to do anything and and and it's you can reconfigure it. Al if you come around and then uh Tessine yes if you come around please everybody slide down uh we already went that way or you went that way. We already saw those people. Okay, thank you for seen I haven't seen right um anyone. Okay, please come on over. This is more difficult. Okay, so my or my intended learning outcome in general was for students to better understand and be able to explain the 20 people sitting on a computer talking to the to the message board instead of them just talking to each other. So I think it's got access money. I I think it cost like $15. I'm not sure if that's pretty. So I know in my uh in my conversations I I heard some really interesting ideas, some some uh fascinating uh uses and some incredible obstacles. Um, I'll just point out David's obstacle. It's on the It's on the spreadsheet, but he wants to use this piece of software and it cost $12,000 a year. So, it sounds fabulous. Sounds really fabulous. Um, and your department actually bought it for you. Yeah. Have it for all the faculty, all the faculty. Yeah. So, that's great. But that that's a huge hurdle. I mean, that so there's an example of of, you know, like trade-offs that you might not always be able to make. Um so um that was my interesting um so u but I did hear some other wonderful ones too. So I hope that you take a look at it. You'll note that I always give you time after this this this uh lightning round because it's a noisy it's a very noisy kind of little crazy exercise and I always like to give you a few minutes of silence afterwards to sort of process it a little bit because it can be a bit of an overload. So that's that's sort of the part of the design or the planning for this exercise. Um any anything anybody want to share about something they learned or some issue or problem that was solved or still unsolved? All right. Um I see some people are still typing. Um I'm going to I'm going to go on. Feel free to keep adding to this. Um, and again, please take a look at it because we only got so many pairings and you can see virtually everything from the Google doc, assuming everybody gets in. Um, so what I wanted to do is flash back a little bit to what what we talked about the second day, the second class that we met. We talked about all these different learning theories about behaviorism, cognitivism, constructivism, and I think we've done some other exercise with these three three learning theories before, but it's a good chance for you to reflect back to do a little um backward transfer uh and to reinforce some of the concepts from the beginning of the semester and to also think about how technologies might be. So we talked about how technologies might fit at different levels of blooms or supports different levels of blooms but also different different technologies different any anything you do in the classroom but different the different use of different technologies can actually be more behaviorist cognitivist or constructivist in nature. So I think it's useful for you to think about that um just as a way of just getting a bit of a marker about again it's this idea about what are we trying to do with this with this tool. Um and so I'm going to divide you up and we have nine people left. So three groups of three which works absolutely perfectly. Um yes three groups of three and we're going to have the behaviorist group, the cognitivist group and the and the constructivist group. What I want you to do is think about a particular technology that is um that sort of would be consistent with this. Okay, one group will have four um uh a particular technology that's be that's uh consistent with that particular theory learning theory. Um and so this will take about maybe four minutes and think about perhaps even think of a learning outcome that that tool advances but at that level. So, at the behaviorist level, let's say. Um, and then what I'm going to do is the activity is called a jigsaw. And so, first you're going to be in these homogeneous groups. So, everybody talks about one group talks about constructivism, one group group talks about behaviorism, and one group talks about cognitivism. And then I'm going to mix you up. So, each group then has one cognitivist, one constructivist, and one behaviorist in it. So, this is this is an active learning technique, and I wanted to model it for you. So, let's get um let's let's just create some groups. Nobody wants cognitive. Open it. Yes. Open it up. How you perceive things, how you interpret information. So, it's all about like sensory Yeah. All right, folks. I don't know how far you got here, but um now each one of you is going to be the expert in your particular um he's going to be an expert in your field. So, um so I'm going to take and this is the constructivist constructivist. So, here's three constructivists. I'd like one cognitivist and one behaviorist to find a constructivist and to make a new group. All right. So now each one of you is the content expert for your particular theory and just sort of explain what you came up with to your peers. So just you'll just go around the table and talk about it. Kids get to go around and like pick what station they want to learn about. It's like they're still learning, but they're having an active role in like participating on what they're going to learn about rather than just like being passively taught. And that's constructivist. Okay. So, what technology you Well, I think that um like a cool way to do it is to have like computers set up throughout the room that have like internet access and like So, the class is officially over. I mean, it's it's five of I don't know if people have to go other places or not. Um, so we can um we can take this up beginning of class next time if there's things you want to finish up. I'd like to hear I'd like to hear some of your uh what you came up with for sure. So, and we just plan to do that and uh and just tie it tie up the exercise. Not the best um not the best pedagogical strategy to you know make it make you wait a week um but it is what it is. So, um, okay. Thanks very much and I look forward to seeing your post session assignments.