Hi, welcome back to recitation. We've been talking in lecture about anti-derivatives. So I have here a problem for you, just an exercise about computing an anti-derivative. So the question is to compute an anti-derivative of this big fraction. So it on top it's got x 8 + 2x cubed - x 2/3 - 3 that whole thing over x^2. So just a a quick linguistic note about about why I said an anti-derivatives instead of the anti-derivative and then I'll I'll let you work on it a little. So an anti-derivative there are many functions whose whose derivative is is this function right? So, so they all differ from each other by by constants, but but um so you know I would be happy with any one as an answer to this question. That's why I chose the the word an anti-derivant and anti-derivative. So I'm looking for a function whose derivative is equal to this function. So why don't you take a couple minutes work this out come back and you can check your answer against my work. Okay, welcome back. So, we were just talking about uh this anti-derivative here. So, one thing you'll you'll notice about this function is that I've written this in a sort of silly form. And it it's probably a lot easier to get a get a feel for what this function is if you if you break this fraction apart into its several pieces. So, for example, x to the eth over x^2 is just x. So, well, okay. Okay. So let me So this this anti-derivative that I'm interested in anti-derivative of x 8 + 2x cub - x^ 2/3 - 3 over x^2 dx. So I've written this in the silly form and you can get it in a nicer form if you if you just realize that you know this is just a sum of powers of x that I've I've sort of put over this silly common denominator here. So okay so so our life will be a little simpler if we write this out by splitting it up uh into the the separate fractions. So if I do that, this is just equal to the anti-derivative of well x to the eth overx^2 that's x 6 and 2x cubed over x^2 is just x. So I have x sorry it's 2x + 2x now okay so x to the 2/3 over x^2. So that's x to the 2/3 minus 2 which is x to the - 4/3 and - 3x^2. So okay so we could write that as - 3x^2 or maybe it's a little more convenient to write it as -3 x -2 dx. So, so far I haven't really done anything, you know, a little bit of a little bit of algebra here. Okay. But now we know that we we've we've seen a formula for anti anti-ifferiating a single power of x. I mean, we know how to differentiate a single power of x. And so to do an anti-derivative is just the the inverse process. Um, and we also know that when you have the derivative of a sum, it's the sum of derivatives. And so consequently, if you have the anti-derivative of a sum, it's just the sum of the anti-derivatives. So we can write this out into its into its constituent parts. So it's the anti-derivative of x to the 6 dx plus the anti. Now, of course, you don't have to do this. You could probably proceed just from this step onwards or uh but but I don't see any harm in in actually splitting it up myself. So anti-derivative of 2x dxus okay x to the - 4/3 dx plus - 3x to the - 2 dx. Okay, so I just split it up into a bunch of pieces. Oh, I guess this one I sort of pulled the minus sign out and this one I didn't. But you know, whatever e either either way. Um, okay. So now, now we just need to remember our our formulas for for taking the anti-derivative of a power of x. So in order to do that, so when you take a derivative, the the power goes down by one. So if you take an anti-derivative, the power will always go up by one. So in this case, you get so you're going to get x to the 7th. And now when you differentiate x to the 7th a seven comes down in front right you get 7 x to the 6th. So in order to get just x to the 6th we have to also divide by that seven there. So x to the 6 the anti-derivative is x 7th over 7 2x. So that's going to give us plus 2x^2 over 2. Or if you like you could just recognize right away that 2x is the derivative of x^2. um minus okay now we've got minus powers rather negative powers so so that always is a little trickier to to keep track of so again the same thing is true though you have to you add one to the to the exponent the exponent goes up by one when you take an anti-derivative goes down by one when you take a derivative so okay so when you add one to minus 4/3 you get -3 so we have x to the minus 1/3 and then I have to divide divide by minus 1/3 when I take a derivative here we get of of x^us 1/3 I get - 1/3 x to the - 4/3 so I need to divide by that - 1/3 okay and finally here so - 3x^us2 so okay so so just like this first one you you you might recognize that right off as the derivative of x to the minus 3 so this is plus Oh. Oh. Uh, you could you could do that if you were completely confused like me. Um, so right. So x to the minus2 it increase by one increases by one. So when it increases by one you get minus one notus 3. Oh okay good. So this is -3 * x to the minus1 over minus1. Okay that's much better. And if you like right. So okay. Okay, so we could any any constant we add to this, it'll still be an anti-derivative. Okay, and now we could do a little bit of arithmetic to to rearrange this into nicer forms if you wanted. So you could rewrite this as say x to the 7th over 7 + x^2 + 3x^ - 1/3 + 3xus 1 plus a constant. Now suppose you got here and suppose that you know you did the same mistake that I just made um and you and you had accidentally thought that this was going to be a minus3 power instead of a minus 1st power. So how would you is there is there any way that you can prevent yourself making that mistake? Well, there actually is. So one nice thing about anti-derivatives is that it's really easy to check your work after you've computed an anti-derivative or or something that you think is an anti-derivative. you can always go back and take the derivative of the thing that you've computed and check that it's equal to what you started with. So if you if you're if you're ever worried that you made a mistake computing an anti-derivative, one thing you can always do is take a derivative of what you've got at the end. So if we take a derivative here, we get x 6 + 2x - x - 4/3 - 3xus 2. Okay, so that was just using our our rule for powers one by one and okay, so you say that out loud or write it down and then you just check, right? So, so I said that. So that's exactly the same thing we've got right here. Yeah. So, so x 6 + 2x - x - 4/3 - 3xus 2. So, one of the nicest things about anti-derivatives, they can be difficult to to figure out in the first place, but after you've got something that you think is an anti-derivative, it's very easy to go back and check whether you did it correctly by taking the derivative and making sure that it matches the the the, you know, the the thing that you were trying to anti-ifferiate at the beginning. So, that's that.