INTERVIEWER: Hi. Can you tell us your name and what course you are involved with? PROF. COLEMAN: My name is Charles Coleman. I am an assistant professor in the Aerospace Engineering Department at MIT and I teach Systems Engineering and the Unified Engineering course. And can you tell us what is going on today for this Unified Engineering Aerial Competition? COLEMAN: Today we are running the 2004 Unified Aerial Competition. There are about 14 teams of five students each that are flying their airplanes and demonstrating their systems. How does this relate to the rest of the Unified course? COLEMAN: Well, the systems problems and labs serve two purposes with Unified Engineering. The first part is the laboratories provide an opportunity for students to experimentally verify some of the theoretical principals they have learned in class. The second aspect of systems problems allows us to implement our conceived designed implement and operate pedagogy. And so we have various, several exercises throughout the semester where students actually design, build and operate small systems. And this is the CDIO component. Can you say more about CDIO? COLEMAN: Yes. CDIO stands for Conceive, Design, Implement and Operate. It is a pedagogical framework that we have chosen as an overarching framework to teach engineering. And the principle behind this is we sort of want to reduce the gap between what engineers do in real life and what we teach in school. The facts of the matter are most people, once they graduate for practical engineers, spend most of their lives conceiving, designing, building and operating things. So as we teach theoretical principles, basic engineering principles, we want students to be able to apply them in the framework that they would much like in their careers. INTERVIEWER: OK. Can you describe what is going to happen today and what the students have done to prepare for this event? PROF. COLEMAN: Oh, yes, that would be a lot of fun. I have assigned the students to design a system. And I teach a simple decomposition of systems. It is not the only one. And I teach students that systems are composed of people, products and procedures that have to operate together to deliver value. And you can sort of think of value as going in the opposite direction of money. Systems are fairly general. This breakdown works anywhere for Disney World, people, product and process, lawyering, and even to things like the military. In particular, today they have about a set of four functional requirements, build a plane, train a pilot and a crew, and the task is to fly two empty laps, land the plane, load it with anywhere between one or four eggs, and then fly as long as they can with their payload. And then they also have to minimize the amount of time that they spend on the ground loading the eggs. So that is what is going to go on today. We are going to see how the students perform based on their estimates. INTERVIEWER: And how long have the students prepared for this? PROF. COLEMAN: Oh, the students have been working for approximately nine weeks for about four hours per week with five people per team and with training from us and various materials and supplies. Any predictions about how it is going to go? Are we going to see a lot of spilled eggs do you think? COLEMAN: I hope we don't see a lot of spilled eggs. One of the learning objectives of the course for me is for every student, every group to have a successful systems building experience. So a broken egg is not necessarily a bad thing. You learn how to build systems by building systems. And I think a unique aspect about this part of the course is that you can actually learn a lot from your failures. INTERVIEWER: So, in other words, you cannot learn to build aircraft without breaking some eggs. PROF. COLEMAN: True. That is true. OK. Well, thanks for your time and thanks for sharing your materials with OpenCourseWare. COLEMAN: Yup. Thank you.