Okay, thank you. Uh thank you again for doing the work, the reflection and and trying to engage your mind and and hand in this activity. Um next coming up is the propeller case study. our first session. Erdin is going to moderate it with uh the actual CEO of Propella, John Conson. And what we'll do for this, we're going to have a very interactive no slides workshop. Um you have all received the uh the case brief description of the case study. Hope you had a chance to look at it. Um and we'll just set it up in a second. That's great. Thank you very much. Can we proceed with the with the case study? Yeah. Okay. Great. John, thank you so much for being here. Uh you may not know this, but the students here know you already through the case study. So here is why we're doing it. Let me just make a few remain. John, uh you can uh make yourself Yeah, please. Um all right, folks. So here here's the deal. Entrepreneurship is neither science nor art. It is a craft. And in a craft, learning from mentors, learning from leaders is essential. This is why we are doing this is why we are doing case studies. They're going to be very interactive. The goal is for you to express what you think, to argue and debate. Uh expect cold calls. So, we do expect you to have read the case studies before the case presentation. So, be ready. And the reason we're beginning with this case study is this. Let's let's make no mistake about it. the the the field of addiction doesn't provide a lot of hope for us at the moment and I think that's just the reality of it. Uh we we cannot yet say that that there are solutions that are going to be uh certainly be able to address those problems. We're in a state of this perhaps hopeless stasis and and that's and that's what it is. And so as we were designing the program together, one of the things that we were asking is what can we do to give people hope? Because entrepreneurship and innovation begins with hope. And when we learned about Propeller and what John and his team are doing, we just said, "Oh my god, this is this is the way. What a great case to really bring to life this the importance of hope." Um that's number one. And number two, really there is a lot to learn from this case study about how technologies get commercialized, how leaders steward those technologies. So let's thank you. Thank you very much. Um let let's begin Marco. May I please summarize have ask you to summarize part A of the case where the background of John is described in the healthcare field. Have you have you read the case? Okay, that's that's fine. Who who has read the case? Raise your hand. Yeah, Sarah, please. Will you will you summarize uh John John's background? How he came into the healthcare field yesterday. So I look you see the best I can. Uh John is someone who has uh really started corporate America. Um so large organizations where um mobile just it is 3M um essentially lot going on that company so computer products sticky notes uh but also has uh quite the the healthcare uh arm as well. Um and so looks like how did this gain the track recorders through that through that preparation to really focus in healthcare uh which is where he he started career and Billy started subping in solely on on healthcare uh and developments on it the part um that's fair That's that that that that's all fair. And so the goal is going to be we we're going to go through a a set of questions to set up the case and then John will offer his reflections on your comments. That's going to be key and then we'll have a Q&A with everyone in the group. Now so as you can see John is coming into this field into a startup that eventually became Propeller from a corporate background. Now Mark, if I could go to you for a second, you are going into the field of SUD entrepreneurship from the academic field, right? You you are a faculty member, a Rockefeller, you're spinning out your company. How do you think your pathways well your pathways are different from Johnson even though you are in a sense ending up in a similar destination, but how do you think how you think, what the skills you have, how you think about the world, how is it different from John's? I think they probably actually here here's AI think they are probably 100% different. Um I'm sort of coming from the molecular mechanism aspects of it. Uh not so much from from any uh any business uh development side and I feel like I understand the basics of what needs to be done but not probably how to do it. And I hope I will make progress on that quickly. Okay. And so how do you how do you think about it in your company right now? What skills do you acquire about bringing additional team members? What skills do you need to nurture in yourself as the entrepreneur leading event? And that's an important question for all of you. You're partly you are to meet others so you can identify additional skill sets. You're also to bro yourself. How do you think about it? Well, I definitely need uh everyone that is uh focusing on on different aspects than than just the research itself. Basically, I will need advisor. I will need uh probably at some point a CEO that has experience in in the field ideally in the field of healthcare and then maybe even more in the field of SUD if possible. Why why would you like a CEO instead of you being the CEO yourself? Well, because that's that's not what I will do best. Uh maybe I can try it but I don't think it would be efficient for the company to be fast to be to be yeah to be moving as quickly as possible. Okay. Now um who would like Thank you. Uh who would like to summarize uh part B of the case where the technology is described? please. Yeah. Um my name is Tomokco. Nice to meet you. So um the B is about the the scientist discovering um an obs made an obser observation which came to an idea where it could um channel into the sorry I'll take my notes into the baby suffering from irregulatory breathing and um is Dr. P Da he did say it right Dr. He really narrowed into the interest that he discovered and um he found a niche which was the opioid exposed babies and um yeah and there was obviously a need uh unmet medical need in in the research that he he has continued and he developed actually a medical device that can um that have seemed to give result in the experiment. It's it says experimental. So, I'm guessing it was some kind of uh clinical trial or something that they did. They actually seen a positive effect on the medical device that he made and then he made the connection with um John who has then yeah wanted to make this into the market. Great. Let me push this a little further. What does the UI Oh yeah. I also wanted to highlight was I done this really interesting a lot of medical and scientific advances. Um the point about serendipity and observations with this great uh which really actually gave science into the health applications um to like um you know like other famous examples are you know aloning pencil like an observation of something like really crystallizing everything. That's a great point. Now let me push again on the technology promoting in in this book is in general does technology as okay so first we need to describe it in ways that are simple understandable also comprehensive. So what does a technology do? So it Yeah. Uh so whoa. Uh so basically uh sto stoastic resonance um and the idea of using that as a signal amplifier. Um yeah. So, so leveraging that uh technology uh in combination with uh some of the discoveries in uh biology uh in relation to the squid and and what was observed in in in um a completely different uh uh area of expertise and kind of uh connecting those dots together in order to uh leverage that in a in a way that can be used to uh help uh treat substance use uh sufferers. Yeah. Okay. Good start. Now, let's let's do this again. Hey, uh if I'm if I'm pushing this is purely with the goal of land, there's nothing else going on. This is this is a goal, right? But put yourself in the in the shoes of Dr. pay the P right you've identified this interesting Panamani you're fascinated by it you've also been working on it for a number of years you've been working 15 years so there is something near you that be care that it goes somewhere and it is important for you that someone like John gets interest you need to find a way to kind of date in a way John is not a scientist he's been around technology but we're not a scientist We need to explain it to him in a way that can dispense and more importantly he feels compelled by right so let's lend describe this to to John and what John is going to do he will tell you how Dr. Pedapha presented in the game because there is a reason he got interested right and one of those reasons is Dr. the beta for and how he described it. So, let's let's Oh, do you need the mic? Yes. What? No. Yes. Yes. I I will be using it. I'm sorry. Yeah. No. So, you go and and then let's go with you again. Yep. And sorry about that. Yeah. Wait. We do actually. Yeah. Oh, there. Yeah. Yeah. So let let's let's do it. Let's describe it the technology in a way that raises the interest and is understood. So this technology it there is um the signals are very weak and usually it's too weak for normal uh devices to pick up. So it's impossible to measure these. But by utilizing this particular technology, you can amplify it as Corey said and put it in a form where it's very easily detectable. Um, and that's powerful because you're putting from impossible into something that's real. Um, realistic. Um, boom. Right. Everyone observe. She's saying that was impossible before. With this innovation, it is. All of a sudden, John is interested, right? What he needs to know now is that that impossible thing is also valuable, right? Do you want to give that a shot? Right? So, not all possible things are valuable. Why don't you give it a go? Yeah. That was good. Impossible is not possible. Okay. Um uh let's see. Uh can can you reframe that one more time, please? Right. So what Tomoka said, she said, "Hey, uh signal amplification of the sky was impossible before this technology." And if I'm speaking loudly, it still doesn't help, right? Because No, dude. I need the mic. Could could I use the mic just for uh for media purpose? So right what what Toma is saying hey there is this interesting technology that we've been working on for a long time and by the way this is not just in our field this is now a general phenomenon that physicists are aware of that biologists are aware of so it's real and signal amplification of this kind was impossible before it is possible now so John is interested huh something that was impossible is possible now but he needs to know that this is valuable as well that there is value in signal amplification. What do you say to him? So there's there's uh this idea of of stoastic resonance has has been around um for a really long time. It's it's a proven technology and it's a it's a it's a proven way of of amplifying signals that are otherwise undistinguishable like um and the noise and uh this is something we can apply to to many different problems and uh can capitalize on on some further investment. Okay. Uh do you want to give that a go? Hi Jeff. There you go. Yes. So my name is Gifty and I just wanted to add on that at least in the case study it mentioned that you know current um technology so with the stoastic resonance it was used to like help with motor functions. So that was one evidence of why that technology may work. Um, and then as you referred to earlier, I forgot the name, but um, it did mention how um, was it Corey? Cory. Cory, yes. With the vibrating insoles. So, that's all examples as well as the squid um, you know, reference that was made. So, that's all evidence that, you know, there's somewhere, you know, you can go somewhere with this technology. Yeah. All right. Uh, so now Melanie, let's go to you. Thank you. Uh so Melanie you're now John and you're speaking with Dr. Peter you you've heard about this tech you want to ask questions what questions do you ask Dr. paid for because right your mindset is not purely scientific. You're wondering hey can this become something commercial. What are the questions that you ask? Um sure good morning uh my name is Melanie Jimmerson. Um I think in a response to a question I'd asked would first start with the mindset and the mindset is that progress is not linear but it's more of a momentum or continuum of everything that we're continuing to work on. Um and so I would ask next is for this viable idea how could we continue the continuum of the progression of the technology that we have and in what scales? Yeah. So um how will the technology develop? Right. How will the tech develop? Other questions? Hi, I'm Dr. Ray Denny. It's nice to meet everyone here. Other questions I would ask, how reliable is this technology? If we're going to be administering it to premature babies, it has to be reliable. Also, it has to be reproducible. uh define reliable. Reliable in what sense? Reliability when it's detecting the signals, how likely is it to detect the correct signal and how basically how safe is it? Right? Is it reliable? Is it safe? Okay. Um how can it actually be deployed? What do you mean? So what do manufactured? What is it going to look like that's usable? So even if that's your job doesn't know the answer to those. Oh okay. Okay. So he wouldn't be asking the question because if if you as a business person go to a science person and say hey how will you take it to market? That's you're not proving a value. So I'm asking I'm not asking how you take it to market. I'm asking what is the vehicle for this technology to be actually introduced into the real world. So like it's so the technology is there but the the they put it into a bassinet, right? So I think the question would be but I mean I'm assuming that this came to John before the bassinet was fully developed. How do you productize it? How do you productize it? Yeah. How can the technology be okay? I got you. That that's fair. How would that be deployed? I thank you. B says yeah. Uh well you have this in front. Um one of my question is how is it differentiated in particular? You have vibrating solutions, random noise generators that are available in a consumer goods space that have no regulation associated for them. So what are the discoveries that have been made that could differentiate this and apply this through to warrant the additional cost and overhead required to make this into a medical device technology. And then this leads directly into the question about intellectual property. What about this resonance or particular form of resonance is going to be optimizable or going to be patentable such that it's not obvious to anybody who's been developing bathing suits that were already in the market at that time such that there is a moat formed through intellectual property. Okay. Right. So now you're introducing IP and what we need to start thinking about all of us is John is already thinking when he is hearing all that he's thinking who do we need on the team? We need IP who the right crack the folks to go that for that we need manufacturing right so we need to start thinking about team composition okay Dr. seems coming to you. Thanks Mark. Perfect. He already said my two points really which were from a regulatory perspective. What are the predicate devices that you would be referencing in filing a 510K so that the FDA can understand hazards and efficacy are the only two things the government I mean are the core foundational issues and then on the intellectual property landscape um it's just vital to spend dozens or hundreds of hours searching the entire IP landscape that could be relevant to this because uh you know the business model has to hinge on uh not just excellence but protection. Yeah. Uh and could I actually put you very quickly on the spot? You've been in the shoes of talking about your innovations at MSG to potential licensers of that technology. How do you how did you present those innovations, sir? What what high level advice do you have for the folks here as to what's important? Um that's that's too big a question. um because it depends I guess on whether you're starting from the health care organization and let's say a consortium of neonatal intensive care units who meet regularly and identify unlongfelt needs and they could be the pulling function to bring the technology into existence as opposed to the technology ology push which is from the research labs and companies with a cool new thing and we always said at MGH that the magic space the serendipitous space is how you match up tech push with clinical pull and so that's the highle way that I would think about it as opposed to just how you would present it I mean that's more like hey is there a particular neo neonatal intensive care unit that's very very interested in in certain issues with premature infants and has all is eager to be the first pilot site for a clinical trial once we figure out whether this is a 510K application because there's strong predicates or whether it's a PMA or an IDN which our friends can explain all of those pathways are very complex and of course I'm sorry to keep babbling but there's the um the uh the institutional review committees for the trials uh for human studies which this would be the first um if one was doing a study of the device in a clinical setting then you've got to have institutional review board approval and the IRB is going to say, "Hey, is this uh FDA approved or not? If not, then show me that you've done your homework as far as uh the pathway." So, it gets complex and and then to you, Leonardo. I was just going to say some additional questions that haven't really been touched upon. Um, how much does it cost? What's the market size? Um, are there already patents in place? And who else is on board? I uh Adams is on board. Okay, let's uh go last to Leonardo and then John had you come take center stage offer reflections on on the perspectives. So please very briefly um one question and then John I'm sure will uh comment why why we care about the technology is there a problem to solve and we will also discuss and John will present there is actually no predicate so we have to be a pioneer in creating everything creating regulation and negotiating with FDA and that's really suffering so but why we care about that and then I'll pass it to John yeah John uh please join us if you here. So I want to make sure there's uh there is a great deal of time to interact with you saying welcome by the way. Thank you so much for for um Dr. Cy you're raising your hand. Just one other loose topic is the management of conflict of interest to the extent that it's invented somewhere by somebody and you need that person the inventor in the new in the startup in order to provide domain expertise in which case the management of conflict of interest. If the inventor is a employee of a provider organization like Rockill or Mass General, then that's a whole space that has to have a lot of uh attention pay to it. Would would you have a comment for that? Yes. And several more. Um so I don't want to start with that. I'd like to start more at the beginning and then jump into this and we'll come back. Is that all right? So yeah in that case let's let me ask you John would you offer some perspectives on the journey that are not in not in the case study it perhaps offer more to the students. Sure. Sure. And in fact I was uh taking some notes so let me reflect on those. Um what came up in early was uh hey what kind of abilities do you need to really get a venture going right and abilities are very important right we hear about knowledge skills and abilities all throughout our lives you need to develop knowledge you need to develop skills and you need to have abilities and I think synonymous with skills are traits right and starting a venture whether it's focused on substance use disorder or something else requires I believe first and foremost a trait of resilience. Resilience because nothing goes the way you expect it to go. There will be setbacks along the way. Things that you think are slam dunk are not. You will be surprised and it's your ability to take a step back, learn from that setback and then set a new more powerful course to succeed. So resilience is absolutely key to the success of your venture in this space and any other startup space. Got it? Startup. Another trait I'd like to reflect on is actually reflected and written about long ago in a book by a gentleman named Jim Collins called Good to Great, who did extensive research on what made companies really successful over a sustained period of time. He concluded among many things that leadership at the top of a company needs to be humble but driven. And I think we've seen countless examples especially the last few years where you can say to yourself, "This person is really driven but maybe not so humble, right? This person's really brilliant and they know it, but perhaps not so humble. And while they may have great success, it's the companies that endure that are most important to us. The companies that provide innovation after innovation that return great stockholder wealth, but also improve human lives. and the CEOs and the CEOs in lineage of those companies if they're humble and driven typically provide and deliver on those kinds of promises. Right? So traits resilience, humble but driven. Okay. Uh thanks for letting me get that one out. It's all about technology meeting needs. So we're going to talk about payar for a second. Right. So he's down at Woods Hole and he discovers that every time the table shakes, the squid that he's doing an experiment on, the axon fires. And he wonders why why does this axon fire every time the table shakes? And the table shakes because it's trying to maintain a saline temperature bath at a constant level. And to do that, it stirs the saline. That saline uh tub is next to the table. And when it stirs, it makes the table shake. but just ever so slightly. And at first, Dr. Pedapar didn't even realize that the table was shaking. So, he couldn't figure it out why. So, this is an important trait, too. Collaboration. What did he do? He didn't sit back and just say, "Whoa, what could it be?" He went to go see another Collins, believe it or not. Only this one happens to be at MIT. And he says, "I noticed whenever this table shakes, this axe on fires. What the heck is it?" And Jim Collins, another one says to him, "Oh, it's stochastic resonance." And at this time, maybe stochastic resonance is around 10 years old as a field of science. It just celebrated its 40th year anniversary in 2021, by the way. So, it's a 42y old known technology now. And Pafar says, "What the heck's that?" And Pafar is no dummy, right? physics, undergrad, MD, Duke, UNCC, had Harvard, right? Practicing physician, now chair of neurology at the Dell Medical School. So, he's pretty bright guy, but he's humble enough to listen to what Dr. Collins has to say and he dives in and he starts his journey of, well, I want to have this apply to helping babies breathe. Now, where did he come up from with that idea? Well, it just so happens back in the 70s, there were a couple guys at McGill University who wrote some papers on mathematical modeling of human respiration and Dr. Pedafar through his experience in looking at babies in the NICU knew that there were breathing problems and so he thought, well, if I can make this work to help babies breathe, that could be really something. So he did further computational modeling and then developed the very first device and back in 197475 published his first paper with one neonate that said hey guess what this stochastic stimulation seems to work now he didn't have it all sorted out he didn't know what the amplitude he didn't know what frequency but again he was humble he was driven that led him to work at Harvard and the V institute where they developed better prototypes. They did first investigational device studies on humans. They expanded the number of babies that they were looking at and went from that one and they did in 2009 a study with 10 preterm infants and showed, yep, we're actually seeing improvement in breathing control in preterm newborns. Fantastic. All right, so stop there. That's a big important story about I think Dr. Pafar does it help and I'm coming back here we good any follow- on question about early innovation so now we'll go so this is the innovation this is the technology now there's the next phase right which is okay from technology to I'll call MVP minimum viable product and now and and Dr. pafar turdan's you know explanation upfront isn't a business person he's not literally thinking about well what is the product right I I I know I've got a concept here of this pad that baby can lay down on to improve breathing but what what really is the product so that's really the second phase of this development right and serendipity with the squid love the word serendipity for me right I just left running a company for four years out on the west west coast that happened to be my was my first experience in electro stem right for pain management couldn't get the board to go in the direction I want CMS had dropped coverage of our number one device which was tens to treat low back pain they had covered it for 20 years and 60% of our revenue disappeared in a period of 4 months you have 600 employees and when 60% of your revenue goes away in a very short period of time, you better scramble. You better be resilient. So, we did. We got the company. We stabilized it. We survived. But it was time for me to move on because I couldn't get the board to expand into other areas, other technologies to address pain. Fast forward to the end of 2016. My stepson has an overdose in our house in the bathroom. We discover him blue. Luckily, because he had been going through counseling, we had Narcan in the house. We revived him. He's doing great. He's living in Michigan. Happy that he's alive. A month later, after I had been working with Harvard on a microbiome project, they called me and said, "We got this other technology we want you to look at. We don't know how to get it to market. We can't get any of the big companies interested. Why not? You've worked at big companies. Tell us what we're missing. I go down. I look at it. Within a day, I tell them why. No company's going to look at it for a while. They believe me. About two weeks later, impressed with what it could do for opioid exposed babies. Barbara and I, my incredible spouse partner, agreed this is what we were supposed to do. went back to Harvard said I want it. I want to bring it to market. They said okay that started the MVP journey. What is the MVP? Right? Luckily some of the skills that I had early in my career was as a marketing analyst. Right? Okay. What could this become? How do customers what is the niku? What is the market size? What is the application? What's the competition? All those things that I learned as a marketing analyst early in my career, I started applying to this opportunity and started thinking about how to bring it to market. I thought this is going to be easy, right? I'm going to put together some slides, PowerPoint slides. I'm going to get in front of some angel investors. I'm living in Boston. I'm living in conquered mass. It's former CEO, 30 plus years of experience in medical devices. Harvard technology with MGH, right? And University of Massachusetts, the three institutions collaborated on it. Got a real market need. I got investigational devices developed. I've got clinical studies. I've got patents. I'm going to get $2 million right away after my first presentation or two. Fail. Fail. Fail. Right. angel investors. They're great. They're wonderful, right? But at the end of the day, they're hobbyists that are looking to make 40 $50,000 investments, maybe 10 or $20,000, and they want something a little bit more proven, and they want a whole lot of your equity up front. So, somebody told me about how to write a grant, and I'm like, well, wait, how do you spell grant? Even though I was a former CEO, I didn't really know how to spell grants, let alone write one. So, I went on the internet. Oh. Oh, yeah. There's these things called SBI. Oh, yeah. I'll write one. No problem. Spent a couple days, tossed it in. This will be easy. All the same assumptions I made with angel investors. I get this feedback. I don't know. Couple months later, it wasn't scored. Wow. That that must mean this is great. It was so good. They didn't even score it, right? No, dummy. Means it was so bad, right? that nobody even wanted to give it a second look. They didn't even want to waste time discussing your grant application. Oh man. Okay, angels aren't going anywhere. I'm not getting any love on the grants. Oh, start a substance use disorder challenge, NIH, sponsored by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. I think I'll apply for that. $10,000 award. Applied. get it and I get the $10,000 and I'm really excited about it. But you know what the real benefit is sitting right here in this room. The benefit was oh you're going to get to learn how to write a grant. Oh, super. And we're going to teach you how to do it. And I get on the phone with Elena and she basically tells me, a former CEO of a midcap company who developed a 35-y year career with many of the world's best companies in medical devices, is going to teach me how to write a grant. She lays it on the line. This is going to be tough. You're not going to like it. You're going to do everything I tell you to do. You're going to do homework. You're going to submit it. I'm going to evaluate it. I'm going to critique it. and you're going to write it again. And that went on for six months. Write, rewrite, write, rewrite, write, rewrite. Submit the grant after it. Wasn't perfect. Wasn't a really great score, but I got scored. And I got Naida to step in and give us our very first grant. Amazing. This set the foundation. To date, we've won over $8 million in non-dilutive awards and grants. Yeah. And taking exactly what she told me and working at it year after year after year. The last grant I applied to was scored an 18. And we'll know in a couple weeks if we've got that grant. And if you're not familiar with grant scores, they go from 10 to 90. Lower is better. Usually 30, you're in the ballpark to get funded. So getting an 18 is pretty darn good. Going from not being scored to 18 is fantastic. So why do I bring up this important element, right? Because in order to go from an idea and a technology and investigational devices to an MVP towards commercialization, you need money, right? And there in my opinion, my humble opinion, there is no better source of funding for a startup in this space than the NIH and NIDA specifically. This is absolutely America's seed fund. And the support that you receive, and by the way, I'm not getting paid for this. Nothing on the side, all right? is immeasurable as long as you remember to stay humble but driven. Right? What does non-dilutive mean? It means that you're not picking up the phone every week and talking to 10 different investors who are saying, "Why aren't you moving faster?" Okay? It means that you have time to think about how you're going to go to market. means that you have credibility when talking to physicians that are interested in using your product or your technology. It means that you have something to show to people struggling with addiction that there is a promise that you are working on something that will help resolve an issue. That is really what you get. And oh, by the way, after you get these other things sorted out, it's an incredible backdrop to investors. It's proof. It's a proof source that you know what you're doing and that you have a path forward towards success and you've been successful in the past and in all likelihood you'll be successful in the future. It's a fantastic proof for source to get grants. by the way you can't answer these questions right really really well until you write a grant because you've got to answer all these questions when you apply for an SBI grant all these things that we talked about what's your price what's your go to market what what's your IP right what's your cost of your product what margins are you targeting how big is the need What's the adoption rate? What's going on with reimbursement? What's going on with regulatory pathway? You have to understand all those. And in my opinion, humble opinion is the best person to write the grant is the person that's leading the company. I can't tell you how many people I call me up over the last two years, oh, I see you've done really well with some grants. Who do you use? And I go, I write them. No, no, you don't write them. You're an NBA from the University of Colorado. You don't write them. Come on. By the way, when I went to Colorado for my NBA, they used to say, we used to say it's the best NBA program in the Rocky Mountains. Try and name another. Okay. So, um, so yeah, I can't tell you how important it is to develop that skill in writing grants and how valuable it is. It's not just about securing the funding and the relationship. It's also what you learn when you realize, oh, I've got to write about this now. I've got to I've got to write about in innovation. Oh, I've got to write about significance. Oh, I've got to write my commercialization plan. I've got to write about my team. I've got to write about our facilities. And you've got to write it in a convincing way so that you get a low score. All right, Erden, go. So in the moment that um I want to ask you about is Dr. Pafar approaches you what strikes your interest? Why are you beginning to think hey this is not just a great technology this can be a product and once more this can be a successful business. Um so the quick answer is oh my gosh you're talking about something that a baby lays down on and it helps them. Gee, babies laid down a lot in hospitals and at home. This could be amazing, right? It was one of the first opportunities that I saw in my career where there was a potential medical to consumer crossover that really got me excited. also the evidence that they had developed the link between here's the technology and the explanation of the mechanism of action for that technology to the results that they were seeing in investigational studies. All right. And to be clear, what we're doing is we're talking about what stochastic resonance does at this level because it's not just generic stoastic resonance. Okay. It's for in this application at what frequency, at what amplitude. All right, we're talking about a randomness in terms of the up and down movement, which by the way is less than half the diameter of a human hair. I brought a device for you to see it break so you can feel it for yourself. And you're talking about a randomness in a frequency bandwidth, a speed between 30 and 60 hertz. And it randomizes in that speed and it randomizes in the up and down movement. And that is the brilliance of what Dr. Pafar discovered. It was that stimulation at that level which actually improved breathing. And he discovered that yes with it started with the squid and also he proved it computationally through mathematics which I can never do. Please. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So why did I say um well some of it had to do with whether or not I was even really ready to I mean you know it it it at my age after my career most people say time to cash in, join a country club, play golf, you know, hang out. and um and I knew that even if I were to secure some investment right away, it was going to be a big hardship potentially on my family. Um so that was a big big element of it, right? Um the other element was I didn't feel that the clinical studies were robust enough to take me to clearance as fast as I want. By the way, point of clarification. All right, we discovered during our journey that it's not 510K, right? It's a denovo, right? A denovo is not a 510K. A ven denovo means what? New to the world. New. So the FDA says we want all this safety testing, nonclinical and clinical. And we want efficacy, right? And we want you to present this to obvious. And I was feeling like I didn't even know it was going to be a denovo. I thought it was going to be a 510K plus clinical studies is what I thought initially. Um, by the way, resilience we applied for denovo in April 2023. We said they said no. FDA said no because the clinical study that we used was too small. they felt and we knew we were at risk and they moved the goalpost on cytotoxicity testing from a qualitative test to a quantitative test and by the way there is an ambasset pad in the US now in any niku that passes the new test but that didn't matter to them they wanted us to pass it and that's okay right um a month after the FDA told us no in April 2023 they knew another study was coming out study was published in Jamma pediatrics 181 newborns and what this technology does is it reduces as shown in the JAMA pediatric study which is what we're submitting with our new denovo soon to go in is that it reduces the amount of morphine that is required to help calm these babies. In fact, it over a 21-day period, these babies need 44 less fewer doses when they're on our pad. So that's two a day fewer doses of morphine to calm them down. That's a good thing. It reduces their length of treatment as well. And we're just about to start analysis on a new study that we completed at TUS. There wasn't one baby who started following birth that was on our pad that was ever treated or ever required treatment with morphine. So a different study than the one that was just published in Jamma Pediatrics, which by the way started five years ago. So those are two principal reasons. Thanks. Great question. Please. Um, one of the things that I noticed in the case study was, um, kind of the burden on the hospitals. So, like, you know, I mean, my my twins were in a NICU, I experienced firsthand the craziness that the staff deals with. So I'm curious, was there any when when you guys were going to these different institutions for the clinical studies, what was kind of the response that you got from the hub? Was there a lot of, you know, uh push back with a concern of uptake? Because that's generally a big problem. Um, and did did any of the studies also look at, you know, were was there decre decreased resources like were they discharged from the hospital quicker or like did were any of them? So everybody got the question. And it was, you know, basically infants that are exposed to opioids after birth as they experience withdrawal, which is neonatal abstinence syndrome, sometimes called neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, right? Placed a heavy burden on the staff at hospitals. So what did we investigate? What did we find? What were hospitals saying about the situation? Well, I'm going to go back to the very first grant, right? Which is an SBI phase one. And what does an SBI phase 1 do? It tells you you need to tell us two things. You need to tell us is your technology feasible? Can it be reproduced? The question over here, can it be done accurately? Can you produce a device that's going to consistently perform the way it needs to to develop and provide the efficacy that you think it provides? And the second part of an SPR phase one is what's the commercial feasibility? And the commercial feasibility goes right to the heart of what the users of the product babies but in this case because they can't really talk about what they need. They do cry really well though. But there are caregivers at hospitals could explain to us what the burden is in caring for these babies and whether or not our device had promise in helping them with the burden that they had. So during my phase one grant, that's what $222,000 gave me, the opportunity to do technical feasibility and commercial feasibility. And as part of the commercial feasibility, we did several things, but I'll just reflect on one experience. I went to Bay State Medical Center in central Massachusetts. I spent a day with the head of the neonatal intensive care unit and the pediatric group uh physicians there. And the day ended with a two-hour session in a nice room where we talked and they also did surveys, completed a survey before we did our talk, etc. And there I met Dr. Raja Singh. The feedback was incredible. They told us that they would love something like this to help them care for their opioid exposed babies, which was a big issue to them. And they explained what the burden was. And they explained how constantly they had to hold these babies and how the morphine doses for some babies was just burdensome, etc. Which is all great and good. You get that in the surveys, right? You you you got that information, but it was the end in the hallway, right? That mattered so much to me. Dr. Sing came up to me and she looked at me and she said, "Whatever you want, however I can help, just let me know." Fast forward, we get another grant. We're going to do the study at Rainbow Baby Children's Hospital in Cleveland. The head of the uh NICU leaves for a position at the NIH. They can't do the study because the new head of the program can't do it. I need to find a replacement. Literally, where am I going to have the study done that we had gotten basically the go-ahhead from Naida to to do? I call up Tus Medical Center because it's in the back yard here for me. And no, I call base Bay State Dr. Singh. She's going to help. Well, she's no longer here. Where where'd she go? Oh, she went to TUS. Oh, okay. Call toughs. There's Dr. Singh. Sure, we'll do it. Relationships, collaboration, right? Support. Those are the things that, you know, you just need to stay on top of. So, long- winded answer, apologize. Um, in the studies themselves, the JAMAP pediatrics looked at length of stay. It looked at time on crib. It looked at morphine doses, cumulative morphine doses. On the new study that's going to be published in the next year coming out of TUS is going to look at length of stay, length of treatment, and whether or not any babies were where their symptoms were so severe they needed to be treated with morphine. And as I I already kind of stole it a little bit. I know just at a very high level, we didn't have one baby move on to morphine treatment at TUS, which was amazing.