Hello everyone. Here we are in the fourth session h of this amazing program that's coming up closer. In this case today we have Susan Mitchell. She'll be talking about healthcare research into healthcare entrepreneurship and I'll pass it to her and I'll let her introduce herself. Please remember we want to hear from you. So feel free to ask questions. You can put them in if if you don't want to interrupt you can put it in the chat and I'll I'll read them to to Dan. So ready ready for you forward. Good morning. I'm really um happy to be here on this side of the boot camp. I uh was I think in the second MIT boot camp, entrepreneur boot camp uh cohort um and it was an intense experience. It wasn't healthcare specific um but it was very um formative for me and began my journey as an entrepreneur. Uh I'm going to tell you my story and the story of my company. uh throughout this session. So, um I'm gonna not do a formal introduction right now um at this moment, but um I want to first say hello to everybody I got to meet in the interview process. It's good to see all of you again. And and Gifty, say hi to you. Shout out. And I'm going to just start out by throwing out a question because I think this is it's important to kind of root ourselves in what my um intention was in transitioning, you know, or or just embarking on the work that that I do. And so, uh, I'm just going to ask any, you know, anybody here ever have the opportunity or try to, um, stay on an exercise program, floss your teeth every day, um, change your eating habits, wear a condom every time, anybody here have an experience like that? Pretty much. Pretty much everybody. and in and in and in one tell me in one word what that experience was like for you and and just you know shout it out or put it in the chat but I'd really love for us to be interactive and and conversational so feel free to just open up your mic and and say I see um Balaria you have your hand up. What was it like for you to try to embark on something new like a behavior change? Well, in the beginning you it's always hard and it's hard to keep up like with the habit especially when you're trying to read something about your dig able to Yeah. Yeah, I I saw somebody put lifech changing um which means that it was probably um your All right, we'll come back to you. Anybody else have a a a one-word um story for for a lifestyle change? Painful. I see painful. I mean, in general, right, it's hard work and full of ups and downs, right? Um, and you know, it's hard to, you know, is and and for those of us who are in pretty good health, I mean, that that can feel just like a um, you know, a thing that maybe we we keep coming back to and trying, it's it's, you know, it become it raises its level of importance when it becomes a matter of life and death. um or or even harder if it becomes a matter of consequence but you're not really feeling any of the negative consequences um in the in in the moment of opportunity to make a difference in your future health. I would add the additional complication or complexity that when you are not able to meet your basic needs in life or if you have a complex comorbidity like mental health or other issues you know getting it together is really difficult and you know in in my experience taking care of people and and working with people in that situation I it was both difficult as a clinician to feel unsuccessful, not able to provide people with the kind of support that they needed uh and to watch people face the consequences. And so my story is really about how I was trying to help myself while also trying to help my patients because I was starting to feel burned out uh by the lack of progress that I was making with people. Um and and I just felt like I couldn't have another conversation about quitting smoking without better tools. And so I started to but out of the my own drive to try to make um my patients better serve my patients trying to find better ways to deliver health care. I also have a personal story with um my husband who experienced um a very serious brush with cancer and thankfully I had a very good outcome but a a very ex difficult experience. Um and those kind of um those experiences informed my journey from uh being a primary care doctor to a paliative care doctor, health services researcher to ultimately what I spend most of my my time doing today which is trying to deliver better health care um through uh as an entrepreneur. So I'm going to try to use some slides to tell my story but I really would like this to be interactive. So, please, if you have something to share, you can just raise your hand or or shout out and um or you can write a comment in the chat. We're going to be monitoring the chat. Um but feel free to um share your your comments or stories. Okay, I'm going to screen I'm going to screen share. Can you see my slides? I can see my slides, but I cannot see you. So, I'm going to stop again and see. You can't see your slide. You can't? No. Okay, let me try this again. I'm going to try to do it so that I can see you and still uh see my slides. So, all right. Now, I've lost my slides. Hang on a sec. All right. Sorry. Hang on one sec. Okay. Glad I had them ready. Okay, here we go. Share. All right. And then slideshow. We can see them right away. How's that? Now I can see you and I can see my size. Sorry about that. All right. So, we're gonna talk today about translating health services research into healthcare entrepreneurship. And you know in my experience as a researcher most of the time uh research questions or people pursue research questions um or pathways that really have something to do with uh their own passion or or curiosity. So my story began began that way as well. So I um I'll tell you I started out I'm from the area here. I grew up in Arlington, Massachusetts. I went to Bentley College to study business. And um after spending a couple of years working for a a think tank uh that was working on the internet for the military, I made the decision to uh go to medical school and I changed gears, went to Wake Forest University Medical School in North Carolina. And uh from Wake Forest, I uh went to California to um study family medicine at Adventist Health primarily because I thought, "Oh, I'm going to go in the Peace Corps and I want to deliver a lot of babies and take care of people from cradle to grave and learn Spanish." And so I ended up in California for 10 years. And um in East Los Angeles where my practice was, I was experiencing a lot of um difficulties delivering care to my patients. And I couldn't figure out I didn't understand why it was so difficult to get services for my patients at that time and why they were experiencing poor health outcomes. Um and so I kind of embarked on a on a journey um through epidemiology. I wanted to build up my skills to understand and and study what I was seeing in my practice. And so I got a master's in clinical research at UCLA and I started studying childhood obesity of all things because at the time I did a lot of maternal child health and I just started to see ch very very young children, infants, toddlers, preschoolers with obesity and it was the very beginning of the um obesity epidemic in childhood. And when I went to the library to get the answers where I always went to get answers, there was no literature about obesity in children at that age level. And I started going and looking for people who were experts in the area and they would tell me, "Oh, they're just chubby babies. They grow out of it." And you know, fast forward 20 years later, we know that children um there is an epidemic in very young children and even in infants and toddlers of being overweight and that those con those have consequences uh lifelong consequences. But at the time um I was just starting to understand how to translate what I was seeing in my practice in a population level way. And that became kind of a fascination for me because I was talking to patients and they were telling me how um you know difficult it was to manage their child's diet and I thought that daycare programs were the problem and I went and talked to a woman who studied uh early childhood education and she re basically laughed me out of the room and told me I had it all wrong and that it was actually structured daycare that was helping children stay healthy. And I started to realize that um there was a there was a process to understanding one how to translate a question that I was experiencing in clinic into a researchable question that would then turn into a solution because what I didn't want was to just understand a problem. I wanted to find a solution. And that is really the story of my journey from becoming a researcher to um going into um entrepreneurship. I ended up coming back to Massachusetts and I joined the faculty at Boston University at Boston Medical Center where I was for 16 years doing um health services research and that was really a formative experience because my very first research project was called project red the re-engineered discharge and it went viral while I was on that study. It was one of three studies that came out at the same time that the federal government started issuing penalties for hospital readmissions. And so immediately there was an unbelievable demand for Project Red implementation. And I became an implementation specialist without really even planning to because there was such a demand for an evidence-based solution to avoid penalties. And so my experience told me that good research should go out into the world and make a difference. Today, Project Red is one of the top 50 research studies um ever disseminated um around the world really. And so that was my first in you know insight about research and um it really informed my next in important study which I'm going to share with you called women in control. So designing research that solves a real problem with potential real solutions. That was what I really wanted to do. So when you do research, I'm sure some of you out there are researchers and know how this process works. You know, you have to start with a researchable question. And for clinicians, a lot of times, you know, you understand the problem, but you don't know how to formulate it into a researchable question so that you can develop evidence around it. And what's been very interesting for me in going, you know, going from a research environment to a a entrepreneur environment is the what I think of as an artificial line between what is rigorous research evidence and what's considered real world evidence. And I would love to have a conversation about that uh while we are here today, which is you know to me evidence is evidence. It's got to be rigorously gathered, interpreted, and and um and uh and analyzed in order to be in informative. And the the the what I think of as an artificial distinction between research um and real world evidence um is something that I encountered in my life in my in my journey from research to um entrepreneurship. So the research question what happened was I started working on project red and we started working on um chatbot systems now called embodied conversational agents and uh to fill the role of educating people at the point of hospital discharge. And that introduced me to this com human computer interaction that is a um com that is was um a a device a human uh character teaching people their discharge education. Um and from there I started to study technology to fill gaps in healthc care services. And in that process I was introduced to immersive technology a virtual world gaming uh systems and we wanted to see if we could use that system to um address gaps in care delivery uh models that were unscalable but effective. So that led to my work called women in control. So the women in control study was designed to look at a model of care called group based medical care visits and whether we could make those that model of care scalable with the use of technology. Now you have to put yourself in the mindset of you know pre- pandemic like 2010 before technology was really as ubiquitous as it is today or even in the five years following. So um we were really looking at using really um you know innovative but really unfamiliar technology in a group of patients that were facing significant barriers to health care but also had digital barriers to you know to accessing health care as well. So they weren't familiar with technology and they didn't have good access to care and as a result had poor health outcomes. Does anybody have any questions or comments up until this point about the research process? Any comments? Anybody here familiar with research? Just so I know who my audience is. I don't want to over uh over share my research um expertise here, but I'll keep going. Okay. So um so we did this study called women in control. We wanted to look at diabetes. We were looking at an important medical condition that had been studied up to that moment a model of care for chronic disease management that uh was effective was a population level solution but was unscalable in its uh implementation in real world settings. So in in-person settings and so that study was called women in control and our our question let me just minimize this here. So we what did the evidence show us? The evidence showed us that um and and in research generally when you're developing a research question like in entrepreneurship you do your customer discovery process. In in research, we usually look at what is the evidence already available to answer this question. Um and and what are the gaps and then the research should address the gaps. And so what the evidence showed us was that there was poor access to effective chronic disease management among uh underserved populations that were leading to poor health outcomes and health disparities. There was a model of care with a lot of evidence called medical group visits where instead of having one-on-one appointments, people come together for a 2hour appointment uh in groups of about 10 with a clinician and an educator, they get self-management education to teach them how to manage the disease. They get peer support which teaches them strategies for implementing those care programs in their home life. They get medical management counseling and it's a tremendously satisfying model of care for patients and clinicians. The problem is the typical barriers to cost effectiveness and efficiency. No shows transportation, child care responsibilities, managing group infrastructure in primary care settings and billing issues. So there was here's a great model of care. It works for population health, but there's significant barriers to implementation. And so we wanted to ask, can technology make this model of care more scalable and efficient? So we're asking, can we offer diabetes group visits in a technology-based environment that will increase patient engagement, increase efficiency and cost effectiveness, and will it be as effective as in-person classes or standard of care, which is one-on-one? So that's how you create a research question. It's not that different from how you start thinking about how to build a a a um product. Uh but usually with the product, you start with the customer interviews. So we're starting with a a problem that we have, which is how do we use this medical group visit model of care in a way that's more effective and efficient. And so the women in control study was a comparative effectiveness study. We had two active arms. One was usual care which is in-person group visits and the other was an immersive world translated curriculum where the women came together as avatars went through uh 12 weeks of of educational programmings and and medical management as a cohort and we looked at whether technology would deliver results that were as good as in person. We call that non-inferiority and that means it doesn't have to be better. It just has to be as good because in-person is good but not scalable. And so we needed it to be cost-effective, efficient, and equally as effective clinically. And so we looked at physical activity, we looked at glucose control, and we looked at engagement. And the most important thing and the pivotal moment for me thinking like an implementation specialist was engagement. So, if you don't know anything about lifestyle uh products, research that looks at lifestyle change and lifestyle management usually has extremely high dropout rates. We had 77% of our participants complete our program, our study, which is exceptional. It's very exceptional to have that many people stick with the program. And for me that was uh that turned on a light bulb that you know this is good research. It's solving a big problem with patient engagement, access to care, health disparities. We should be trying to find ways to bring that to the real world. We showed improvements in A1c for a very high risk population. The mean A1c was 10, which if you're a clinician, you know that's very high um at baseline. And we had a group of women who were, you know, not necessarily sedentary um but you know were needing to be a little bit more physically active. And so what happens after you do a successful research study is you publish, right? you publish your results, you publish a bunch of papers, you present at research meetings and you know you share your um success and then you try to build on that success or disseminate that success. And so my experience as an implementation specialist was, you know, I'm going to try to disseminate this. But at the time I was uh starting to get a lot of visits from entrepreneurs like you asking me to give my opinion about uh their ideas about new products and I started to get curious about what is the entrepreneur process? Um what what are people doing? And it seemed like they were moving a lot faster than I could move as a as a health services researcher. And so I started to wonder how do I get into that lane? What does it take to start to um do uh dissemination through that pathway? And that's what yes sorry to interrupt before you go into the next step there's a question on can you elaborate more on the billing issues? On the billing issue. Yes. Yes. On the billing issue. So the the issue with medical billing is um that you um there the insurance companies have um rates for uh how much they would bill for a group visit versus how much they would bill for a one-on-one encounter. And so the group visit model was um reimbursement was much less than um the one-on-one encounter. And so the people in the group visit movement have managed to figure out how to um circumvent that although it still remains you know an issue because as you may know there's two models of of reimbursement from insurance companies. There's valuebased compensation where you get like a monthly subscription or you bill fee for service which is as people come you can bill. Now, if you're billing and you know you have everybody show up, then you might be able to cover your costs for implementing a group visit. But if enough people don't show up, then you don't get then you can't cover your cost and then your model becomes, you know, a a a problem for cost effectiveness. And so if your major barrier is getting people there and you can't bill unless they come, then your model starts to become weaker. And so, you know, group visits at that time had faced the barriers of um transportation and no-shows that made the the model um problematic for the most part. Engagement was part of the issue as well. Does that answer the question? I think and I guess and and there's another question. How did you engage those with limited digital literacy? Exactly. So, so that was actually one of the most illuminating um aspects of my what my very first so the the paper that the my very first um we did a feasibility study and that was my introduction to this work and I did the qualitative assessment of the women who did participate in the feasibility in the feasibility study and at that in that moment we enrolled 89 women over half of them had never even sent an email. The average age was 60 years old. They had not just low health literacy, they had low digital literacy and poor um poor diabetes control. And so I was extremely skeptical that they would be able to participate in this program because the the gaming platform was complex. we had to give them um uh computers that would run the um application and they had to learn how to use a laptop. They you know they didn't have they at that time the many people didn't have smartphones, they had flip phones. So the whole aspect of teaching people how to navigate the technology was part of the development of agency towards the disease. And that was what really captured my attention was that teaching people how to successfully use the technology was actually giving them more confidence to deal with the issues that they were facing with the disease management. And there's interesting literature about that in education as well that you know using technology to help people build not just um digital literacy but literacy about a subject matter like health actually makes their confidence in dealing with their health um stronger and more actionable. And so we had to create a instructional design that integrated learning digital skills with learning health um management skills. And that's how we delivered our platform. And so each we had people from from 40 to 82 in women in control. And some of them it took them longer, but they were very they had a lot of perseverance and we gave them um we we gave them um training sessions and if they needed extra training sessions, we would give them individualized attention. We also had the ability because we were in control of the laptops, we could uh remote into their laptop if they got stuck and help them get unstuck. So those tools helped us navigate large groups of people at the same time with different levels of digital literacy and we still use those skills today in seeyou yourself's program hope app to help people with digital literacy barriers. Does that does that help? I think that answers the question. Yeah. Great. All right. So after um after we published um I started doing talks and and sharing the results with uh about our success and um I met through one of my presentations. I met the CEO at Guisinger Health Plan in Pennsylvania which is known to be a very innovative health system in terms of designing health service um models and uh Dr. Fineberg invited us to uh implement women in control in Pennsylvania and gave us our first contract and with that funding I established seeyou yourself health and um became an entrepreneur. I it took me a long time I I really uh for the most part would consider myself a founder. I took me a long time to really feel like an entrepreneur. Um but I decided to take that opportunity to um go on that journey and uh it's been a life-changing experience uh to both um try something new um that was really not in my wheelhouse um and to uh learn the skills that it takes to be an entrepreneur. And I would love to ask another question to the group and just say who here woke up one day at 5 years old and said I want to be an entrepreneur. I'm guessing that most of you thought I I want to I want to have a lemonade stand. Um maybe I want to have AI want to be a fireman or a or a princess. Um, but you know, most people most people don't wake up and say, I you know, I want to be an entrepreneur when I grow up. And and and yet my greatest obstacle was I'm not an entrepreneur. Like I thought to be a doctor, you had to know you wanted to be a doctor when you were born. And I learned that, you know, you could become a doctor. And so I kind of used that I idea to um allow myself to take the journey to become an entrepreneur. And it really was the MIT program that showed me that I could do that. You know, I up until that time I thought entrepreneurs were born and you know that you you really had to have that. Um and you do have to have a certain disposition to be an entrepreneur but you can learn what it takes to be an entrepreneur. And I think that was um something that I really contribute to the MIT program um and my experiences and in the boot camp that taught me you can become an entrepreneur um and but you can't do it alone. It's definitely not something to do alone and I I think that is important. So, we set up um we used the funding from Guisinger to set up See Yourself Health, which is our um our early stage startup that's still in the you know that we're still building and we're still growing and still launching. Um and we um our platform is called the Hope app. The Hope platform B really modeled on hope uh healthy opportunities and personal empowerment. And what we're doing is delivering group- based care with an immersive technology uh platform that we call um immersive an immersive teleaalth platform and what I had to learn going from a health services research because as a researcher your story is kind of done a a lot of times once the research is done and you either get an implementation grant and you study implementation or you go on to do something different and your work is done. Um, and but my experience was good research should go out into the world and serve. And so I started to try to find how how do you take something out into the world and sustain it outside of a research um environment? And there was a lot I had to learn along the way. And you know, I think the first thing is one way to do that is to, you know, get people on your team that have experience doing that and, you know, know how to do it. But most entrepreneurs are, you know, highly motivated, missiondriven people with a vision, um, but don't know all the steps it takes to be successful. That's my experience. And, and I think that, you know, it's a very steep learning curve. Uh, but it's a it's a very exciting journey and you I think the the if you have the people to do it that inspire you along the way, then it can be a very positive experience. So uh one of the questions that was uh asked of me was what so what was the problem that you were trying to solve? And uh you know we focused on diabetes because women in control was we were resting our um our our success on women in control. And at that time the one of the questions I was asked was what um assumptions did you make along the way that might have been incorrect? And one of them was that my research was enough. That my successful research program was going to be enough to be um convincing to get people to partner with me that people would just be dying to partner with me. Um kind of like what happened with Project Red because uh you know that's what my experience was. My what I didn't realize was that one and this is something you should be aware of you the argument that people want to reduce readmissions isn't the same for all stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem. two that you know um that different stakeholders in in in the healthcare ecosystem might need to be served at the same time which is something new about healthcare right if you're an entrepreneur in another in another area you might have one stakeholder that's you know your decision maker in healthcare it's multiple you need to you know your your success depends on patients adopting or providers adopting your solution um and health plans being willing to pay for it or somebody has to be willing to pay for it. And so one of my, you know, assumptions going into this was my research success, you know, outcomes were going to be enough to get me um on the path to success. And and it wasn't. It it got me to the first step, which was with Guisinger. I I was extremely fortunate that Dr. Fineberg was um really um driven by patient engagement and our success with patient engagement was um you know the the thing that got us started but it didn't get us all the way there. Um so why did we start diabetes? Because diabetes group visits was the most established evidence-based group visit but there are other group visit models um that you can translate to. And that's one of the advantages of doing a platform that can be translated to other verticals. But the other thing I learned early in my entrepreneur journey was stay focused. Don't try to solve all the problems. Stay focused. And so today I'm still working on diabetes because one it's not solved and two there's a huge business case board study you know trying to solve uh problems with diabetes and three it's because that's where I have the most experience um but you know translating it now we have enough expertise that we can start talking to people about translating what we do for people with substance use disorders for caregivers for I have a group with autism them uh that's interested in our platform and our instructional design. So, you know, that's another lesson that I had to learn was the discipline of staying focused. And so, the problem we were solving is and and this is something as an entrepreneur I I I don't know if how long I can't tell you how many times I had to iterate on the problem statement. And so if you find yourself, you know, a year from now still trying to refine your problem statement, you're not alone. This is a hard thing to define. It's very hard to be able to say your problem statement in a way that makes, you know, that makes sense. And so our problem statement is living with diabetes is a full-time job. That's what our patients told us. We've talked to hundreds of patients and many health um many health system leaders and and health plan leaders. We did um participate in the NIH C3I program and did all the whole customer discovery process. Um and at this point, you know, my my informed what was really informing me was my patient um input. And so diabetes, a full-time job. Twothirds of 37 million people living with diabetes struggle to manage their care. And as a result, almost half have poorly controlled diabetes, which leads to complications, unnecessary hospital visits, consequences, long-term consequences, and higher cost. And the hard part about diabetes is what you see in front of you. There's four stakeholders. There's people who are working as care managers. There's health plan executives, there's providers, and there's patients all in the, you know, stakeholder chain of um, you know, people that could be impacted by your product. And so understanding, you know, who is the where is your entryway into the market, which one of these stakeholders is going to get you there, um, is important to, you know, your success in going to market. So 7% of people with diabetes don't get the self-management education. they need to actually be successful in managing it. As a result, health plans pay, you know, two and a half to three times more for a diabetes patient than they do for a person with well-controlled diabetes or no diabetes. There's high rates of ER use because of that. And half of people end up facing consequences. So, as you go on your entrepreneur journey, you'll become familiar with the idea of having a persona. So Martha is our persona. Meet Martha. Martha is a composite of all the patients I've ever met with diabetes. And this like living with diabetes, a full-time job is a quote from one of my patients. Martha is probably been living with diabetes for five years or more. She has had her ups and downs most of her life, managing weight and then managing pre-diabetes and then ultimately being diagnosed with diabetes. She is feeling exhausted and burned out with her attempts to get her diabetes under control and is starting to experience a phenomenon known as burnout, diabetes burnout. And she's not taking her medicines and she's, you know, kind of in a a place of giving up. And as a result, her risk for complications is increased four-fold. Her cost of care is going up because she's facing acute complications. She's disengaged, not showing up for appointments, and she has poor control. And that's this person is experiencing what we call diabetes distress. And it's an actual marker that we tr that we monitor our patients for and is an indicator of one, who is our target patient. It's a person with a high diabetes distress score, and we've confirmed that with our research data, and it's a person who's most likely to improve quickly with our support. And so when you're thinking about who is your persona, that's the kind of person you're, you know, you want to identify to that level of specificity, you know, and I would add Martha has a smartphone and she's comfortable using a tablet, but she doesn't really use computers and so she has a little bit of a digital barrier um to using our tablet, but she's not um she she's open to learning and that is our persona. So what is the problem is self-management? If you're not familiar with self-management, substance use disorder requires a tremendous amount of self-management. All chronic diseases require patients to manage complex medications, diet, exercise, stress, uh navigating the health care system. There's eight pillars that people need to master in over a lifetime in order to live well with a chronic disease. And what we know is what I've told you, self-management training in its form has been successful but unscalable. And so what you see is low engagement, limited access. The benefits Wayne because Medicare only pays for eight sessions in a patient's lifetime. There's difficult workflow in primary care settings, low reimbursement, and as a result, costly consequences. So this is the problem that we are, you know, that we were really trying to solve is how do we help people become high-erforming partners in chronic disease management that meets the needs at the population level so that we can actually serve the epidemic of people every year being diagnosed with diabetes. I I want to pause for a second. I saw a couple of hands go up and I just want to see um if there are questions coming through that we can um address before we go further. Anybody want to question? Yeah, there are some I'll read them because I think you may mention it as you go ahead and you can choose how to answer them. So one is from Mark is diabetes is a huge market with large numbers of competitors. From a market segmentation point of view, what angle did you decide to follow and why? Uh from Roger, how pivotal was to have your clinical trial published and then and done to fund sorry and launch your company. Maybe one how long was it? How pivotal? Oh, how pivotal. How key? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, I'm going to talk about the competitors and and the the intense competition in diabetes um in a couple of more slides. So, I I'll pause I'll hold off on that one. Um how you know I actually started trying to uh disseminate women in control before I published my findings. Um and so that of in the middle of the pandemic which was you know really it was very challenging. I I actually that was another assumption that I had to face which was have one having the CEO's support was critical but it wasn't enough that I had to have the support of other people in the system and there were people that were not in support of us and we ended up having significant challenges staying in uh the the system and and getting the support that we needed to actually recruit people to the program. I would say be very careful in that environment and I can talk to you a little bit more about how you navigate those relationships because even if the CEO says good, come and bring your platform to my comp my huge company, there's a whole infrastructure of people that have to support that in order for you to be successful. And if you don't navigate it carefully, uh you'll find yourself in in hot political water with um people. Um we we I learned that, you know, lesson early. Um the other piece was um so having I had evidence it hadn't been published. It is important depending on who you're talking to. Doctors love evidence. Health system leaders, you know, appreciate it. But then the health plans, you know, really want to see um results and uh you know, what they called real world results, which I I couldn't really understand because I felt like I had real world results. I still feel like I have heal and and what you really need are is a network and connections, not just results are not enough. you need a network of adviserss to help you enter the ecosystem because if you don't it's going to be impossible to to compete and and those relationships take a long time to forge. So I just you know it's a it's a cautionary tale but you know people do it it's it people are successful but it takes a lot of uh perseverance to to do it. Uh so use your literature to use your your evidence to u get people's attention but you know be aware that it won't be enough and one thing I would mention is like we were in you know in guisinger implementing and it seemed like a natural fit for a teleaalth platform serving diabetes patients to be promoted but when um an epidemic is coming that nobody knows how to manage you know everything else is extraneous and so were we. And so um you know we were sunseted we kept all the patients that we had but we were sunsetted because they were really started to just focus on you know ICU beds and ventilators and that was a surprise to me as well. So, you know, health systems, health plans, you know, they have priorities that you may not make sense to you, but u the more you can understand, you know, what it feels like to be in that position, the better you can anticipate potential bumps in the road. Um, so we managed to do our demonstration, we managed to get our company funded, but then we had to figure out a way forward after that. So, our solution Yes. Go ahead. Just so I think that Thank you so much. I think that addresses the how did you commercialize your research idea and also if later you can talk a little more about how hard this is in in corporate and another question is was your focus only in the Medicare population or did you also have the commercial population? Uh the diabetes epidem is pretty broad especially in employee population etc. Yeah. So we were looking for the unserved population. So if you've read Clayton Christensen and the disruptors dilemma, you know, we knew this was a crowded space and I felt at the time that we were going to need to find a way to differentiate ourselves and one of the ways that we differentiated ourselves was by working with a Medicaid population. So even though we were working with middle and older aged adults, um Medicaid was really at the time, you know, untapped and also, you know, uh trying to work with an older adult population with a technology platform. So our niche was to look at Medicaid, which at that time now Medicaid has become incredibly fashionable. And there's a lot of people trying to get into Medicaid managed care uh plan um programs, but at that time Medicaid was not and people weren't really looking at Medicaid. They were looking more at employers and commercial plans where there was seemed to be more money and maybe more patients where technology was more familiar. So we were trying to really serve the unserved where there was no alternative. And even today I can tell you I'm working in a market where the alternative is to us is nothing. And so that's an advantage. If you're thinking about how to go to market, find a place where the alternative is nothing because then people have nothing to lose by working with you and you know everything to gain. And so we've used that advantage. Our advantage is being able to engage highly engage. You know I use patient engagement as a differentiator. our ability to engage Medicaid populations. And I can talk more about that business model in a couple of sides. It's, you know, you need to kind of if you want to differentiate yourself, you need to find a part a way into the market that isn't crowded. And and that's at least was my experience. And so we differentiate ourselves that way and um you know have really tried to work with uh health care providers that are serving you know Medicaid populations. I can talk more about that as we go along. Uh just quickly, you know, our solution to the problem was to develop a techn an a technology platform that wasn't just Zoom. Like this was one of our big challenges was why not Zoom, right? Because now we're facing the pandemic and everybody is getting on Zoom calls and um and and why would they need to go into a gamified platform? And so it was a big challenge for us. And this is another thing about entrepreneurship. You never know when the playing field's going to change on you, you know, and so, uh, we had to be agile and and pivot and and really face the threat that Zoom was going to take us out. And what happened and I I just was like, okay, well, now we just have to embrace the the challenge. and Zoom was really pivotal, but at some point people were like, I can't I don't want to look at a at Hollywood Squares anymore. I need something engaging and interactive. And so it really helped us understand what we were bringing to the table, which was, you know, an environment that was interactive, that was engaging and whimsical with an instructional design that helped people not only connect to others, but to master the complex skills they needed to implement every day that would be available to them all the time, not just eight sessions in a lifetime. And that is our value proposition. What we've been trying to prove to health plans is that this is more coste effective than fee for service one, you know, once in a lifetime trying to get people to be effective partners in care and deliver these complex plans. And that's that is, you know, what we how we're going to market. So our platform is an is an immersive platform. People get an avatar, they navigate it with an avatar, they engage in health behaviors that are designed to prime their real life behavior change. And there's neuroscience that supports this. And our experience working with patients shows, you know, if we create engage them this way, engaging them in yoga, dance, uh physical activity, calisthenics, as well as teaching them, you know, other key actionable behaviors. We see behavior change, improvements in uh disease control and long-term engagement. And so, uh, our platform uses VOIPE for speech and and text chatting as well as 3D interactive, um, exhibits to teach them how things work like how does a CGM work and and those kind of things. Our outcomes showed that we can improve uh, health system costs, improve glycemic control. Interestingly, emotional distress, you know, that diabetes distress uh aspect also improves uh while improving patient engagement and adherence to self-management. This is all based on a scientific foundation that I won't go into unless you're you want to ask questions about it, but we use um the experience of presence, self-presence, physical presence, and social presence in our instructional design to engage people in a highly immersive experience. Our patients do not use headsets. They don't like headsets. They do, you know, we had a lot of negative feedback with headsets. So, we use and and also just access to this technology. People in our pop target population don't even have a tablet. So, we are partnered with a company called PCs for people that help us get refurbished devices that people can um have to participate in our program. So these are the study the you know these are the results from women in control. These are my proof point that we get 70% engagement significant improvements in glucose control in a short period of time reduce cost and reduce mental health distress and that's our value proposition in a you know in a population that's very high risk and difficult to access. And you know, people always want to know how do your patients feel about the experience. And so we have tons of documentation about patient focus groups in key informant interviews about how the experience uh helps them improve their lifestyle management. And so the story about going from a research project to scale, you know, really comes from going from a research environment to a real world environment. The biggest lesson is how do you navigate that real world environment? How do you engage clinicians? How do you engage health plan leaders? How do you engage health system leaders so that they support your implementation? After Guisinger, we needed to find additional funding so we could continue to make our platform scalable. One key thing that happened to us, we learned that when we went to Guisinger, people wanted to participate and they couldn't download the application. They had no all they had were tablets or work computers. They couldn't download it. And so we had to figure out how to create a cloud gaming solution. And today it seems so yesterday, but at that time nobody could answer my question about how to do this. And so my partner Oscar Cortez helped us create a cloud gaming solution so that people could access our platform on a tablet or a Chromebook. And that was a very important step forward for us otherwise we would never have been able to succeed at Guisinger. So a technology glitch that really pushed us to make a more scalable platform um happen happened in our you know experience in trying to go to market after the pandemic hit and our sun and our program was sunseted. We needed to figure out how to get additional funding to continue to make our platform scalable from all the lessons we learned at Guisinger and we turned to the SBIR program at the NIH. We successfully won phase one and phase two funding and um that has allowed us to advance our platform so it's integrable with an EMR system to help us track patient reported outcomes and risk scores um and to make a a scalable immersive environment that actually can be navigated easily um by patients of all levels of digital literacy. So that's where we are right now is uh and we're implementing with a health plan partner Molina Health Plan a national Medicaid managed care plan in the state of Kentucky um to demonstrate that we can once again build traction with our newly designed platform in this population. So just in terms of competitor I know um people asked about competitors. It's important to know who your competitors are. They're they haven't remarkably changed very much. So the gold standard was you know in-person self-management education 9 hours in a lifetime. Other uh digital health competitors have come in the market are really well established is Mada and Labongo. Um but the thing they don't bring is the live peer action um experience the immersive experience that we think makes a a really important difference in our demographic. Um in in addition tracking apps that track people's behaviors are also things that uh people use to manage their self their their self-management needs. Our vision is a platform that integrates data from different sources to create a living breathing experience for people um in similar to what would be called digital twinning. Um just looking at seeyou yourself health's hook platform versus new weight watchers lark these are our major competitors I think our main thing is the immersive liveaction programming our expertise with Medicaid populations and our um NIH researchbacked evidence. Uh so the market if you really look at the market it you know the diabetes market in and of itself is is enormous and and it's incredibly competitive. If you you know if you span out to pre-diabetes and and even the weight loss market is even a a richer environment. The number of potential people to serve is enormous. 96 million people living with pre-diabetes um and uh or at risk at least um and 37 million with type 2 diabetes. I mean the there's just the numbers are staggering and and it gets you you don't have to touch every life to be successful. That's the good part of a a problem like diabetes. But you know the competition is stiff and it's very difficult to partner with um health plans. So I can talk more about that. The business model that we use is um a valuebased reimbursement model. So we are partnering with Molina on a per member per month subscription. So the and we get paid based on patient engagement and enrollment. And then we hope that with that initial success with just based on traction that we will negotiate a bonus um pay for performance shared savings kind of bonus where we are responsible for a population and the cost of that population um you know we're not responsible for their costs but we if we can show an impact on the cost then we get a cost share and that can be a significant in you know additional source of revenue. So, just this per member per month uh reimbursement is about $800 per person if you can keep them engaged for for the year. And and we've been we have people in our program who've been with us for five years. So, you know, we're showing, you know, some good numbers for long-term use. Um but even short-term use, the market is so big, you know, you can have a sustainable business um even just getting, you know, somebody engaged for a year. Um, and then there's also fee for service options as well as direct to consumer, but right now we're really trying to uh demonstrate that we can work with health plans because they just have control of a lot of the market. This is my team and I can tell you more about them, but I can tell you right now, you can't do it without a team and you can't do it without a good um team with diverse skills um that can tolerate the uncertainty and the difficulties that it takes to um endure, you know, this experience. So, you know, you really it's worth finding people that you can work with that uh can endure the challenges and the ups and downs. Uh so, a couple of other questions that were asked. um you know what regulatory stuff have we encountered? The biggest one is HIPPA. We haven't tried to get FDA approval as a medical therapeutic at this point. We are trying to go to market without that. But HIPPA is a huge obstacle with technology platforms. Um anything about working with partners, providers and payers, it's hard. It's really hard to work with them. They it takes years to de develop real partnerships with them. They are, you know, they are, you know, they are running the ship. They have control of the lives. They get to decide what people have access to. They, you know, can decide what they want to reimburse people for. And the only leverage you have is with the government. The government, you know, they have to honor what the government requires from them. So, in our case, the government requires them to provide self-management education uh and support. So you know that's something they need to deliver and we leverage that. Also Molina worked with us because of a health equity initiative that they are trying to implement in Kentucky. There's significant and published disparities in outcomes among minority populations. And so uh they brought us in as a health um health equity initiative. So you can find ways to partner if you can understand what the health plan's needs and priorities are. And and I think I mentioned most of these assumptions that I that prove to be wrong. Uh one is you definitely need lawyers and good ones because the the further you get down the road, the bumpier it will be and the more legal advice you need to get. Um, and it's not, you know, I had to learn that, you know, if you don't skin your knees, you're not playing hard enough. It's scary. It's scary when you get, you know, into legal um, contention with somebody, but it's important and navigable, but you just got to have good lawyers. Um, making mistakes is not the end of the world. You know, we you have like I almost think you have to make mistakes, but you feel kind of bad when you do. And um but it's inevitable um that you'll make mistakes and and learn from them. So, you know, you can get the best advice you can get um and that's that's what you can do proactively is try to have good advisors, but don't don't beat yourself up if you're making mistakes. And and the most important thing is to be educable, coachable, and and to learn from them. So, I'm gonna I'm going to stop sharing and and open up the floor for questions. And thank you um very much from the bottom of my heart for listening to my story and you know um I hope that um you find some benefit in it. So what other questions do you have? I think it would be great if you can talk a little more about like selling to the big organizations and and also like why did you decide to go for the four like um target audiences, right? You could have chosen one or two. Yeah. Or three. Yes. So I would say that um you know we kind of learned this we we're still learning it to some extent. So we we I was not I didn't realize that we would have so much trouble getting partnered with health plans. I really thought that it would be my experience with Project Red was, you know, in some ways it was kind of a fairy tale of, you know, like something happened at in, you know, once in a lifetime and and and the demand for our product just took off with a life of its own in a unicorn kind of way, I guess. Um, but mo the real world is that those relationships are hard to forge and and even harder to keep. And so um you know sometimes that's an important role for an advisor or an investor right that you know if you're working with investors. Now I'll tell you my very first group of adviserss sat me down and told me to build my company with um non-diluted funding for as long as I could. And um there's pros and cons to that. The road is slower for sure with non-diluted funding, but you remain in control of your destiny. And I think that for in some ways that is important that you um you know are able to fulfill your vision without the pressure of you know generating revenue um when you're not ready for it. And so I think that's an important thing to consider. If you find the right investment partner, that can be a dream come true. You know, somebody who a group of people that are, you know, so um you know, committed and generous uh and and can wait it out. But at an early stage startup, like making money is not going to happen for a very long time. And so you've got to find a way to, you know, find partners that are can can stick it out with you. Um I'll I I saw a question about diluted and non-diluted funding. And so, uh, you know, when you take on an investor, usually there's a cost, right? The investor wants a piece of equity, um, in the company for the money that they give you. And depending on how much value you have in the company at the time that the investor um, makes the commitment, they will be able to request more of your company. And eventually as your company and your success grows, you can diminish your your ownership and your control over your vision to the point where some people lose their company entirely and and get displaced. And that's a true story. Sometimes it's a you know, it's not entirely negative, but it's a it's it's a true story. And so, um, we kind of decided that once we, you know, because of our first contract with Guisinger, we really were able to go into our first kind of preede round without, um, giving up any equity and we got, you know, a half a million dollars in that contract. And then, but from there, you know, I was kind of trying to figure out where are we going to go from here? Um, and going to the NIH just felt familiar to me to be perfectly honest. I knew how to navigate the NIH. I wasn't that familiar navigating investors and you know my adviserss really pushed the idea of not engaging an envir you know investor partner until we were further along where we would have more leverage um to negotiate you know a better agreement. And so we uh went for the SBIR funding and I just I'm a good writer. I'm a good researcher and I'm a good grant writer. And so we have been very successful with the SBIR program. If you don't know about SBIS, I'm happy to talk to you at length about it. Um and and how you can be successful with that um funding. It's it's really you can get up to five four or five million on a single idea. And there's people whose companies just keep putting in SBIRS and getting more funding doing different types of projects. Um, and so you can have as many SBIRs as you want. Um, at some point you have to demonstrate that you're you know you're getting commercial success, but it's a it's a great way to get non-diluted funding if you can. You also have to realize though working with the government is also a pain in the neck and you there's a lot of things you have to abide by working with the government. But that's my bread and butter. I know it really well. So that has worked out well for us and we've gone a long way um in getting to our go to market strategy working with a a national health plan partner um and and getting traction in a um in a Medicaid market. So I'm happy to tell you more about that um if there's if if you're interested. I see a couple of hands up in grid. What where should I go? We can uh but with that on Donica Donica us hi. So firstly I wanted to just thank you for sharing your um your journey. I have a women's femalth startup called wingwomen. We do virtual and inerson gynecology family planning coaching and doulaare. We're also in Massachusetts um serving the Medicare and Medicaid patient population. So, I appreciate um meeting and running into another founder that has navigated that because with startups, it's not always common that people will go after that patient population because of the complexity. And then to your point around dealing with investors, a lot of them don't want to deal with the government. Yeah. Um, so again, I appreciate your um, honesty about that piece as well as um, trying to wait as long as possible before taking investor money. My question was at this point, have you taken any investor money? And then for those of us because our company has already taken a bit of venture when you've hit periods where you just need to kind of I'm just going to do like air quotes grind and grow where there's not a lot of revenue coming in like how to kind of position those milestones and those wins when it's not translating into dollars. Um, and then for those of you guys who haven't taken investor money or don't know, just if you take it, usually you have to give them a monthly and or quarterly snapshot of how much money is in your bank account, what your burn rate is, um, anything you have coming up, so they have constant access to how much money you have at any given time the moment you take it. So, um, with that in mind, um, kind of how to position those milestones and those wins when it doesn't translate into dollars. Yeah. So, I had one period where we were running on fumes um, and interns were helping. Um, so, thank you, Gifty. and and uh we you know we didn't we we were waiting for our phase two and we were running out of our phase one and we weren't generating revenue. We were generating a little bit of revenue and doing side gigs with our platform but it was you know we were we still needed to do more development on the platform in order to be able to partner around cyber security. So, if you're going to work in healthcare, don't wait till the last minute to think about cyber security and HIPPA because when you want to that's another piece of if you want to partner with a large health plan, you need to be able to play at that level of security and that means have insurance. I hear somebody's do you hear that? Okay. So um it's uh so you have to be able to show that you can deliver secure data sharing. You have to have a a a significant amount of insurance that secures you. Um you have to accept it, you know, a significant amount of risk for data sharing. So if you want to play ball with payers and and big employers, you have to be able to com you know reassure them that you have the ability to manage the data because that's their biggest risk. And it's it's a very you know we failed our first security audit which was that was another eyeopening experience like I had no idea and the guy practically laughed us out of the zoom room you know because we were so poorly prepared and you know we we learned quickly what you needed to be um in you know to be able to partner with a large help plan and that was a growing pain and so we were in that window of needing to develop that cyber security Um, and I honestly I played poker. Um, Donica, I played some poker there where I didn't have enough money to do what I needed to do and I was trying to build it and and and you know that's the entrepreneurs's journey like you're playing poker a little bit. um you know as you're because those those contracts take a long two years to get a signature on a contract and you know you can't believe the way the lawyers will talk about you know what you're going to do you know you're trying to you think you're trying to serve patients and they are just you know layering on all these other complexities and so it takes a long time. If you sit around and wait for that ink to dry, you will not be prepared when when when go when the time comes to hit go. So, you know, you have to deal with that timeline. We were in that donut hole where we were waiting for our phase 2 funding. Our phase one was gone. We're barely kind of keeping the lights on. and we did take on an investor um with a safe note and it was a small amount of money and we don't give him any kind of reports uh but he is still a good friend to us. He's somebody I met on an airplane. You never know who's sitting next to you on an airplane. Um and you know he's he's a good friend to us. Uh and we are in still in debt to him for um for that funding but it got us through to our phase 2 funding. So sometimes if you can find that I would say don't wait to develop your your partner your relationship network with investors uh while you're using non-diluted funding because you you know you never know when you might need that investor to step in and help you out. But we just know that when you do it, there will be, you know, some you'll be giving up some of your freedom, um, some of your equity. But for some people that's, you know, that actually helped them get to win. So I I don't judge, um, either way as better. I I think it's very dependent on who you are, what you're doing, and the kind of investment partners you're able to work with. Yeah. Any other questions specifically? I can talk more about working with big um health plans or what it means to work with a m Medicaid managed care plan or the business model. Anybody have any I see a hand up. Roger. Yeah. Yeah, I wanted to ask you uh if you so with the SSB, SBBR or the business program at the NIH, if you were when you wrote that proposal, is this something you were leading the company or you were partnering with a different company while you kept your academic position or how did you navigate that uh that process? Have any conflict of interest or um just curious? So you know the sorry so when you develop something in an academic environment usually the uh academic institution will have intellectual property rights. I went to beu and I told them I wanted to do you know do this in they had no interest and I was like so I can just go do this by myself and they were like yeah we're not you know we we're not interested and I was like okay first of all I was devastated because I thought I I was just devastated like how could they not want to do this with me but I also felt freedom to go do it on my own and um and So, but that was not easy and and also you know the again I would say the point in time you know BEu wasn't really on the like they were looking at patents and engineering but what software would bring wasn't really on their radar and so because this was a software um type of innovation they just didn't you know they weren't that interested and so um so initially I was just this was like a plant on my window sill that's what I say it was like little plant on my window sill that I was trying to see if it was going to grow and you know the the critical thing was you know when I met Dr. Fineberg and and you know he gave me that opportunity to implement in Pennsylvania. I kept my day job. I kept my research job and I you know brought people along that uh you know helped me do that implementation and and were co-founders really at that time. Um and you know that my team has had some turnover in the last five years that you know that was also difficult but you really need if you're going from a research to a entrepreneurship you need to understand what tech transfer means and go to your tech transfer office because it's not the end of the world if they you know have some equity you just have to put it in writing so you know how like basically if you de develop something at an institution like an academic institution ution what wherever the product is at that time is what they own and anything if you take it out of the institution then you know they own what you know they own a at least some of the intellectual property of where it was them but you're going to build on it grow it change it do things with it maybe make it a lot better um their rights are limited um to what was you know what was available at the time of the tech transfer depending on the institution and how they deal with text transfers so be sure you clear those, you know, bar those kind of regulatory um barriers if you're working in a research environment. That's important. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Sure. And do I have one final question or I will somehow Well, I was going to ask if it's I don't know if I don't see any other hands, but I'm going to ask again. And this is Adonica again. Sorry, I'm just really excited to hear from you. Um, uh, just I would just say from experience, there are some harsh realities around being a female founder and then navigating in this space that, um, don't often come up until you learned a hard lesson. Yeah. Can you share maybe a hard lesson you learned and just like a piece of practical advice um for you know for all of us? I know it doesn't have to be specific to being a female founder. I just I call that out because you're a female founder and it's sometimes rare to engage with a female founder in this space because it can be really difficult to navigate especially if you don't have an advanced degree or um uh certain partnerships in place. And I would just kind of love to hear like something practical that you learned um even if it was a really really harsh lesson. I know you shared the example about kind of being laughed off of the phone for not being prepared. And I'm like I'm listening to you. I'm like I have such a hard time believing that. But I've also been in those situations. You can be brilliant and noteworthy and all of the things and still be unprepared for what actually happens in those meetings. But I would just love to hear another like story if you had one to share. I have a lot of them actually. I mean, thank you for bringing it up because I I don't like to lead with that. I was part of the mass life sciences nextgen program. Uh I was in the second cohort of women entrepreneurs and um I at first I wasn't like in my entire career and in medicine I never felt treated differently because of being a woman. I felt like it was all really based on, you know, your academic and and your skill as a physician. And, you know, I felt always evaluated based on my ability or my, you know, accomplishments. Um, until I started trying to navigate the entrepreneur field and initially I thought I was crazy. I was like, this is weird. I'm having these I'm having this really uh challenging time connecting or making connections or or or st you know competing and then I went to um a program that Babson I think um hosted and they had five investors um and the theme was about um disparities against women founders and it was profound. found. I mean, first I felt validated. I I felt like something I was experiencing and couldn't name and label, I guess, what we would call a microaggression was real, that I wasn't crazy. I also think there's some agism. It's not just about gender. Um, you know, there's some agism. I I had a woman uh who was a mentor and an investor in a seed uh group, invest angel group, say, "Suzanne, what are you going to do? you're a doctor, a woman, you know, and um a a a scientist. So, she named three things. She's like, "You're never gonna make it." And I was like, "I can't believe that someone had like I think she thought she was letting me down easy." And I I couldn't believe that she even like said it to me as a woman, you know, and I was like, I thought those were going to be advantages. I thought being a physician with research and a research track record and implementation expertise was going to be enough. And um and it definitely was not just not enough. It was sometimes it was um a red flag. My people are like, "Oh, doctors are terrible business people. Doctors are terrible um managers." And um I and you know I I mean like those I stood up at um one of the mass challenge um this entrepreneur uh program for women to pitch and we were supposed to be getting practice pitching from you know a group of 30 you know uh people in in um health sciences pharma all these things right so you're like totally vulnerable. You're standing up there and it was almost all men in the room and this one guy who knew me from beu just started railing on me. It it just started and and it wasn't even about my pitch. It was you know just about you know my presence, my you know like my tone of voice. It was it wasn't even about like you should have brought the content from the end up front or I and I I had I I walked out of there. I was I thank goodness I had a strong mentor network that I you know because they picked me up. That was a very difficult experience. It was first of all it was very difficult to have that happen to me in front of an audience and here I was like I was used to public speaking in front of you know very elite scientists you know like I was used to being in front of people it wasn't that it was the way I was treated in that environment as somebody who didn't you know warrant respect and it took me a long time to digest that and finally me um write a letter because this was supposed to be a program to lift up woman entrepreneurs and you know it reminded me a lot of experiences I had in medical school um that were were harsh and toxic and so I feel like you know learning experiences are meant to be you know you know help people grow and I felt like I was treated that way because of you know um because of all the stereotypes that I represented and um I do this mentoring and um I mentor women in my company because you know I don't want them to have that experience and if they do I don't want them to be without a network to support them and so you know I would just say that you are not immune to having that happen to you whe no matter who you are I think you know you're not immune into having that experience, you'll need to have people that can help you navigate it, make some meaning out of it and move forward and know that next time it happens, you won't be um taken down as as um you know, as harshly. And I tried to turn it into an experience where I could, you know, grow. Um so I feel like um you know, this entrepreneur experience, the startup world can be harsh. I it can be full of the hard knocks kind of philosophy, but it doesn't have to be. Um and it and it really shouldn't be. So don't take it if you're if you're facing it, but you know, try to um handle it with grace and and dignity. That's my that's my advice. So I thank you. Yes. And I'm happy I'm looking forward to working with all of you um in person and I'm happy to connect with you um offline. If you're interested, please feel free to reach out um to me. I'll be happy to share whatever I've learned and I'm very excited to meet all of you um in person. So, thank you so much and happy holidays. Thank you everyone. Bye-bye. See you soon.