The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hey guys. So these are our special guest lectures for today. These are sixth graders from the RT. You guys want to go ahead And everyone rotate. Hi. Music matters. It really does. Are you a musician? Yep. Where you play? I play the snare drum, the bass drum, tan, marine, pretty much all the guys trying. That's really cool. All right, you guys. So, before we get started, um the way this is going to work is give you um five minutes at each station with your consultants. Um and during this five minutes, go ahead and uh this is for the MIT students. Go ahead and introduce yourselves. Uh tell them what you study, maybe what year you are, what you're interested in. And then if you feel comfortable showing them the video pitch that you made last night, we we have this to deal with. So, just just know that that's out of our control and we're really sorry that they're doing some construction over there and it's going to be a little noisy. Sorry. So, go ahead and show them your pitch if you're comfortable with it. If not, you can just tell them your idea and then workshop some of the backup ideas that you thought about last night and the Cummings Middle School students know exactly what criteria you're looking for, right? So, you can use the rubrics that that we gave you. Um, and at the end of the five minutes, we're we're gonna have the MIT students rotate. So, um, Nathan, you'll go to the back. Paul, you'll scoot here. Everyone will just shift that way. Does that make sense to everyone? We'll try it out for the first time. Um, and if anyone has any questions, you can always come talk to one of the instructors. Okay. So, does anyone have any questions about how this is going to work before we get started or what your job is? Does anyone have a question about that either? Good job. Your job. It's a very important job. Your critics, right? All right, then. It looks like everyone knows what to do. So, I will go ahead and start the timer for the first five minutes. Um, and if at any point you have a question about what you're doing or just a clarification, then you can come find one of us. Yeah. Have fun. Right. Yeah. Just a short introduction. I study computer science. Anyone know what that is? Kind of like programming kind of stuff like Oh, and so the kind of stuff I like to do is like I make computer games. So this kind of like slash snowflake, you know? So you you it's kind of like Fruit Ninja. Ever heard of Fruit Ninja? But except cuz it's snowing today, you slash the snowflake. It's kind of like the same, but this time you get a lot of combos. Oh, if you slash the red one, you kind of lose time. You lose points and you eventually lose the game. It's kind of like the kind of things I do. Did you make that? Yeah, I made that. Oh, I didn't. Yeah, you can. You can. I got Fruit Ninja. It's kind of like Fruit Ninja, but except that don't slash the red snowflakes and it's okay if the snowflakes fall off. Oh, the blue ones give you these mega explosions and they can layer. Yeah. So, I have this idea like it's just without programming. How can you make computer games? That's kind of like what I was thinking of off my head. What do you think of that? Like um Do you have like things you like when you playing your phone? Do do you play games a lot on your phone? Yeah, definitely. Right. What's your favorite? Oh, um I like a lot of them. I love social media. Ah, social media. That kind of Yeah, that kind of thing. I don't really have a favorite. Oh, I see. I play Madden Mobile in Clash of Clans. Ah, Clash of Clans was thoroughly addictive. Yeah. So it'll probably be about like how can you come up ideas to make games because honestly the people who is trying to make games are probably not as smart as anyone out there cuz you play the games. You know what people like to play and it's not it's not me it's it's you you know what likes to play. So if people like you could make the games that people that of all ages could play then that would be great, right? Yeah. Okay. Well, just just another curious cat question. Do you know what a hacker is? What? No. Hacker. Oh, a hacker. Yeah, a hacker. Oh, yeah. Someone tries to like invade the firewall thingy or Uhhuh. security get through the security bar. Yeah. Yeah. Would you like would you want to know what what they do? No, I don't. No. Okay, then let's just script it. How about a curious question? Everyone knows Google, right? Yeah. But what do they do? search engine. Okay. Yeah. So, um and then what what does that what does that make them like? How are they like so important in our lives? Oh, cuz we like when we do our homework like kind of look up on Google that stuff. Okay. History is helpful. Yeah. Okay. You can also ask Siri on like your phone or something like a button. Okay. Just curious. Do you do you cuz I'm I'm actually not from US. I'm actually from a little country in Asia called Singapore. Yeah. So I'm just curious. Do you study programming at your age? No. Like any kind. So Okay. Me neither. I've never studied programming until I came to university. Yes. Yeah. So yeah. So what do you think program like? What do you think programmers do? Um, they create, they help build games and code and stuff. If you were to be like curious about what a programmer or or what can he do, what what would interest you games perhaps? Yeah. Anything else? I pretty much just play games. Yeah. I can't call online cuz it's an iPod. I don't have an iPhone. I only have an iPod. So, yeah. So, out of the like random ideas to um which one like would would you be interested in in like a possible video? Um football games like football games. Okay. Yeah. Um I don't know. I think something has to do with What's the like the weirdest thing you have in your mind? Like it always nags you about computers. I guess it's too slow sometimes. It's too slow. Yeah, too slow. Like even when you have Wi-Fi in range and you're like near the router or something, it's always really slow. Oh, okay. Oh, yeah. And Wi-Fi. You can't get like when I'm in my car, I can't play on like the internet and stuff. Ah, okay. I can play games that don't need internet. Yeah. Okay. So, like I don't like Wi-Fi cuz I would We should have builtin Wi-Fi and everything. So, that would be cool. Okay. What about um maybe um you know Pixar? You like the movies? Yeah. Oh, I I love The Incredibles, but that was really old, but I still love it here today. Like Yeah. And have you ever wondered like how they do it? It kind of looks different from like the normal Yeah. So, they actually use some computer software to do it. It's called 3D animation like threedimensional. Is that like interesting or Yeah, I would be interested in that. Yeah. Like how do you draw but on the computer? Like do they have to draw all little pictures like of every movement like ah that's the key. It's no. It's actually the answer is no. Oh yeah they did. It's pretty cool right? What they do is like kind of like they make a teddy bear in in the computer like some kind of like 3D image of it and they put bones in like like just like how you put bones in humans but you programming you put like logical bones and then you can shift the bones and you're like puppets you know. Yeah. Yeah. That's kind of like what they're doing all the time. Okay. So which one of the ideas was like I like the last one. Last one. Yeah. The last one the most. All right. Thank you guys. You're so amazing. Okay. I'm Michael. I'm going to sit down with you guys, too. My name is Sarah. Um I'm Nathan. Um I study something that's a mix of mechanical today and geology. Geology. Mhm. Um sorry. Yeah. I'm a second year. I have two ideas. It looks like my main idea has been scrapped at this point. Um, but I'll still mention it to you in case one of you is fervently interested in it, which is I was interested in possibly doing something on how and why food decomposes. Um, but I guess my backup idea was is a bit more interesting to most people. Uh, which is how you can tell if there's like magma or lava under a surface like and how you can detect and map it and then you might be able to say, "Oh, is this place in risk of having some sort of eruption at some point um or not?" Still have to work on the hook. Um I don't know. I'm here do you think is more interesting? What was the first one? Uh um how and why food rots and decomposes. Yeah. I would probably do the lava stuff. Yeah, it's like Yeah, save lives. Yeah. Um, so I know exactly what to say about that. Um, what would you be like expecting if you wanted to watch a video about lava? Like what would you want to be? A diagram of the Earth. Okay. probably having the lithosphere and a cenosphere and like the layers and then having like problems like you said how you can detect if there's lava under a surface probably having like a place that already does have lava under the surface and like showing the magma chamber stuff. Do you have It sounds like you guys have already done a unit on volcanoes like um is there any like any questions that you still have after that that you might want to have answered like really volcanoes or things like that? I know it's kind of a hard question or like the coolest part of the unit that you remember how it looks. I've seen videos of volcanoes erupting at night. I'd probably probably question I have there's some volcanoes that do like they're big but they have small eruptions and then they do like a big one and then there's other volcanoes that just like have huge eruptions every time they go. Why would some volcanoes have big eruptions and some have small small and then a big eruption? All right, so here's what I would say. Um, of volcanoes that tend to have small eruptions. It's actually based a lot on what the makeup of the reef the lava from the volcano is. Um I don't know if you did you cover um the difference between andic um and amocidic um volcanoes um basically um glass is made of something called sil um silicon silicate uh um it's an element and volcanoes that have a lot more silica in it um they tend to be a little less dense and once ones that have lower content are a lot heavier than magma. And so, as you might expect, the ones that are heavier when they erupt, it doesn't just shoot out everywhere. It just kind of like bubbles over the side and it's like more viscous and it flows slowly. And so those ones often will be the ones like the big mountains that like kind of like spread out this way a lot. Sort of like a shield volcano. Yeah, those are the shield volcanoes. And so the lava type causes it to have a lot more smaller eruptions because it takes a lot of buildup of pressure if you want to have a big eruption than that. Whereas when you have a higher silica content, which means it weighs less, it's going to explode more and it's going to have more violent eruptions. Um, and there's other factors as well, um, like water content, um, and at what depth the magma chamber underneath the volcano is. Yeah. Um, another question. Let me see. If you don't have one, I have one. All right. You um the Which was a long time and then blew his crazy. Yes. That's what if volcanoes are doormat for a longer period when they erupt would they have a violent eruption than ones that a doormat shorter? Um I can't actually answer that question. Um, I know like what causes our parents to go in more dormant what make them might make them not dormant, but I can't really say if that would affect it. Okay. One thing about Matt that you have really enjoyed or really hated or two things. So, we'll start from left to right. So, name um favorite subject and things about math that you have really loved or really hated. Okay, my name is Brian. My favorite subject is gym and I hate math. Kind of boring. Okay. Um, actually there is I guess it's a kind of new direction, but a lot of people are actually studying the math of sports. So they go out and do really weird things with sports like throwing basketballs at like places where you should shoot an arrow kind of thing and they do math with it. So that's kind of a connection gym and math getting closer together. My name is Matt. I like math. You hear that, Brian? And what was the third thing that I have to say? Um, some things that you really enjoyed or hated about math. Um, I enjoy solving variables and equations and graphing things. That's good. You're ready for high school. burn. My name is My name is John and um my favorite subject is history and uh I personally do not like math. Um hi guys. Um, if I had to like say what I like about it, it would be like I'm really into like fractions kind of. Okay. I just like the idea. Okay. What do you know what about the idea? I've never heard anybody say I like the idea of fractions. So that's really interesting to me. think of like this table being like broken up into like a thousand. Now really wacky things that mathematicians do later on is that they don't just break the table into a thousand pieces. That's like too easy. They break it into an infinite number of pieces and then they see what they can do with that. Um and kind of related to that um math mathematicians have proved that you can take a ball of you know just volume one one gallon ball and you can cut it in such a way that you can make two onegon balls. So you can make two out of one using math. Um it's cool. So that's uh semi relative. You like math now boys? I still don't know. I mean, if you think about it, math people do really cool things. Like, um, there was a study once where they analyzed the language of King George and Kanye West and they compared them. And this is like an actual study, like they put time into it. So, I thought that was pretty cool. But, um, anyway, that's not what my pitch is about. Um, and I'll just kind of say real quick, not going to show the video because the sound is terrible. Um what I want to talk about in my video is just the question of is math real and true because what uh mathematicians learned in the 20th century um there was a young man named Kurt Girdle who proved that you can never prove if math is true or not. So the arithmetic we learned in school like we think it's true because it's worked but it may not be. There's no way to say for sure. Wait, is Kurt Kernel the guy who made Kentucky Fried Chicken? No, it's Kurt Girdle. Oh, I mean, I think it would be really cool if he did math and Kentucky Fried Chicken. Like, that would be the best. Our family guy. And he was like, he went to Kentucky to get chicken. He's like, is like whatever his name is sounding like what he said. And he's like, and he's like, no, he's dead. And he's like the something. That was so fun. Have to look into, you know, did any mathematicians open fast food chains? It's probably an interesting question. I don't think anyone's asked it before, but um that said, um any thoughts on the idea? Just I'll get a thumbs up, thumbs down, or thumbs middle. Okay. All right. Thanks, guys. Uh it was nice meeting you and enjoy playing or not. So you want like a aha moment in Euro kind of I think I think you want to get away from instruction and more of like concept, right? So see if you can think of a little narrower focus than these big big big concepts and that might help you with your next group. So like you guys like like some of them are like like the robots. Yeah. Yeah. So what they're doing so we're teaching them Do you need to rotate? No, you're okay. What we're doing is we're they're scientists and we're teaching them how to make Have you ever looked on cool videos? was like, "Have you seen um Charlie the Unicorn or you've seen Charlie?" Charlie or maybe you've seen um the was it my I used to work with kids your age and they loved that one. Um it was about this little snail Marcel the shell. Have you seen that one? No. Well, you see these little YouTube videos and everyone's like, "Oh, that's cool. You got to watch that, too." Right. The 21 kid. Which one? The 21 kid that says 21. Every everybody in America says 21 now. Oh, really? Is that Is that the one you have to watch? 21. It's like it's like a vine and then they make them into a video or there's um a series of shows in YouTube called ASDF. It's about this little like stick figures, right? So So you guys see them and then you're like, "Hey friend, you've got to see this too." And then you're like, you get everyone to watch it, right? We're trying to make those really cool short videos about science topics, right? And so we're going to make them free so that anyone so that it also teaches people something while it's also cool and fun, right? Okay. And so what he's trying to figure out is like what in his world of computer science would be like cool enough that you'd be like, "Hey friend, you got to check this out. It's really awesome." I think the hacker one would be good for people our age to understand like how someone hacked your account. Yeah. But then you don't want then you want kids to hack people. Well, that's the fear, right? You don't want to end up giving kids instructions on how to hack cuz I don't think the government or anyone else would probably like that. But but that's a fear, right? is just making sure that we're not actually giving instructional videos on how to destroy other people's credit cards. Google might feel good ATM. Yeah. Of make protecting your how to protect your like yourself like make sure your money's safe or something like that would be like how to protect yourself from hackers. How to protect how to protect yourself is instead of like destroying someone else's something. It was a nice way of learning. So say if someone lost their um wallet and they had their credit card in there and they can access to the bank is that the person if someone found it and the person access do do they end up giving them the money sometimes and that's why credit cards are really good at being do you know anything about this in your work or no? um credit cards, credit card like protecting credit card identity and all that, but don't they have like your picture or something so they know? It's like But online you it's really easy to like use another person's credit card if you know all the information. Yeah, it's kind of like I get called often from my bank saying did you make this purchase or did someone else? Um but that's an interesting thing for people who who do a lot of shopping online. How do you protect yourself? If somebody else took your money, would you get that back or no? That's why if you catch it quickly with your bank, sometimes they can they can quickly stop it before it ends up getting charged to you. But that's an interesting idea is how do you how do you if you're buying stuff on this on the internet like what's actually happening to protect yourself? What if um like someone like um um like if they did if they did like catch the person and the person already used all the money and that you can't like return it after that? Did the bank end up giving like their money to Do you ever wonder what happens when you type in the credit card number and like how the money actually gets where it needs to go? Oh, they um track them down. Like have you ever wondered about how that happens? No, not really. You just care about getting your package. Um do they ATM make the money or do they put it in? Do they just put the money in there? There's a whole every country is different but at least here um there's a central office that makes money and then they just distribute it into different places. Them doesn't make the money. It's a good question. But interesting thing for you to think about is sort of what within these topics more specifically because the hacking is a cool topic, but you're right, it's a dangerous one and we'd want to make sure we had the right angle so that we're not accidentally giving sixth graders the tools to be able to hack into whatever account, right? That would be scary. Google might be a good one. Could be, right? How does Google actually work? How does it find your result? Like if you want to learn how zebras have stripes, how does it actually give you an answer? Like how does like spread like a virus? Like that's a cool idea, too. Something to think about. Keep thinking. You're on it. Good, good, good. And you are Anama. Anemma. Anama. Nema. Okay. Two really cool names. Yeah. Thank you. And Giana. Giana. So, we're going to have to move a little quick because we got two teams to talk about. So, you go first. Um, okay. Introduction first. Um, I'm a first year here at MIT. I like to study math, uh, physics and education. I said it's too much. Um, and, um, I'm going to just pitch the idea right away. Normally, I would ask you guys what you like. Um, but the question that I would like to discuss in a video is whether math is actually real and true. And the thing is that mathematicians have proved that they can never prove that. So we can never know for sure if math is true. Even arithmetic, you know, it's worked for us so well. You know, t plus 2 is always four, it seems, but that may not be true. Um, so I guess that's kind of the question I wanted to address. And out of that, it also comes, you know, can machines be smarter than humans? And, you know, can robots overtake the world. So just things like that. Um, so any thoughts? Which one? So those were three topics, right? Um, so that was one topic. one topic like just like all those questions kind of come out of that. Those are big questions. What do you guys respond? Do you think any of those ideas that she mentioned are things that you would be like, "Hey, friend. This is really cool. You got to check out this video." Mhm. Yeah. Which one? The robot thing. The robot. Would robots take over the world? They're all related, you know. I like the one that is like Is it like true is like for It's like like for like eight. Is that true? Okay. So, I'll I'll tell you a secret. Even though we cannot tell that math is true, that's sad. That also means that robots cannot overtake the world. In case possible, it's not answer. Changing it to math. The math one, but you'll get to the math one through the robots one, right? So, you could Did you have any other ideas or was this like the big idea? Uh, that was the that was the big one. So, you think that if she talks about the idea of could robots overtake the world and through that she answers some of the questions about math being true or not true, that would be really cool? Yes. I don't think robots can take over the world. You don't think so? They because Wait, what about that weird robot the face of that thing? I mean, you can smash them and they break. But what if they try to smash you? So eventually we'll be smarter because that's kind of what a mathematician proved is that a machine can never be as smart as a human or do as many things that we can do. So you guys said could robots take over the world idea with all this other stuff connected to it. I think that's a cool idea. Do you know the um show Lab Rats? No, I don't. Well, there was like these three humans who are like also like um a robot thing and they have like all kinds of powers and and because there's this guy that wanted to make them evil and like take over the world. Not Disney Channel and and then like this person stole them and make them became heroes. But can what if like someone that invents a robot gives them all kinds of like Yeah, that's what she was saying that robots can be really really smart but not as smart as us. So, I guess eventually we'll win if robots do decide to break down on us. I want to make sure Andrea gets some time. So, let's hear your ideas. So, you guys have an I'll go get you some. You keep going. Okay. I'm sorry about that. It's okay. So, um I already know the answer for you. Are you going to have to have braces someday? Do you know? No. No. I want They're cool. They look cool. You want them? No. Kind of. No, I don't. No, you don't. So, what how long have you had your braces? Beginning of fifth grade. So, you've had them a while. Yeah. I don't even know if I want braces cuz you can't eat gum or anything. No, I don't. I do. So, are you curious about like what they do to your teeth? Make them straight, I guess. Do you know how do you know how they do that? Yeah, they put them They put them together. That made them straighten. I had like two teeth up here. Hold them down, right? Yeah. You have two teeth that flipped out. I had a pallet expander, too, that they took out a couple months ago. Tissue. You're going to make me talk like like like that. I couldn't talk for a while. It's like widening my jaw. I had to key it everywhere. It kind of hurt. You don't want braces. What was it? I'm sorry I missed it. What was your idea? um to talk about braces. Basically, what they're doing to your teeth. Oh, that's cool. Are they bad for your teeth also? Are they bad for your teeth? That's a good question. Why did my teeth move back? Why did my gum like scratches everything? What happens when stuff gets Oh, I just I just got my braces off in October. Good for you. My dad hasn't hooked me to get them changed every month, but it's been like 3 months. Yeah. So, what's actually going on with your braces? That's a cool, very age relevant topic. Wait, instead of getting braces, can't you get that like plastic thing? Yeah, the the aligners. Yeah, I have. Do you know if I have to get a retainer? I have to wear a retainer. I know one of my friends who had them who like still wears this retainer. Do you have to like wear it every day or if you don't wear every night? Every night of that actually for the rest of your life that if you don't wear your retainer, your teeth wear it from school. I just hear stuff about you have to wear the rest of your life. See, I still wear retainers at night. And I don't understand they give kids braces so young now. Like you can be in third grade and have braces, whereas when I was a kid, you didn't get them until like high school. Third grade? Yeah. I mean, do they I I've seen lots of little kids with braces and you're like, "Your teeth are so little." Yeah. You have to wear um retainers every for the rest of your life. For a while. What about the head gear? The head gear. Oh, I like that. That's so gross. It looks weird. Charlie. Yeah. Yeah. Where wears. It makes you talk weird, too. We're actually really good on Would you do Would you If you like everybody, what are you doing? I heard some amazing conversations and you sixth graders asked fantastic questions. As we're just wrapping up, I'd love to hear from a couple groups of the students, the sixth graders. What were some of the best ideas that you heard all day that you're like, I can't wait for this video to come out. I really want to watch it. Any of you hear any like ideas that you're really excited about? Yeah. Navy one. The Navy one. What about it? Which what what did he Torpedoes? Torpedoes. Interesting. The idea of watching things blow up is exciting to you. Yes. What else? I like the idea with the robot and like we would talk and like we could with Wi-Fi and stuff and you can play with it, run around with it. I like to see it. So, you're excited about learning more about robots and how they work? Yeah. Awesome. Anyone else have one? Tiana? Yeah, I have three. Pick one. Pick your best. I like the braces. Yeah, braces. Understanding what braces do your teeth and how they work. That's cool because you've got braces. So that that would be interesting. Um, someone said like something about volcanoes. The volcanoes, understanding if there's a volcano underneath your house. That was a cool idea. Is there lava under my house? Right. Yikes. Any sixth graders, any advice to our MIT students before they take your good feedback and turn them into videos? Anything you want to make sure that they know to do or not to do as they take your good ideas and over the next month develop them into actual movies? use like picture ideas instead of talking to them like show examples so they can memorize it. That's what So we talked about that MIT students yesterday the idea of showing don't telling which I'm sure you guys talk about in your writing a lot right showing don't telling. Cool. Don't ask too many questions like cuz we watched one video and it asked a ton of questions and we didn't really understand it. Do you mean asking the audience questions? Like saying like what does this do? What does this do? It could just say one thing and then show it. So asking your audience too many questions is annoying. Yeah. You first and then you. The original. The original. So try to have a new idea. And what else? Um while you explain how things work, try and make some jokes while you do it so your audience laughs at it and like they understand what you're talking about. Awesome. Last one. Um, don't use like a monotonous pitch. Awesome. To change your voice around and make it more interesting. MIT students, I'm curious from you. What was valuable that you got from the sixth graders today to give them some feedback about this experience? Did anyone get some good feedback? Yeah. Uh, well, I found that um, and I should have realized this is that having robots stomping around and destroying cities is way more fun than showing old people doing math. Robots are more than old people doing math. H. Uh I too learned that my tastes are different. Uh that uh lava and volcanoes are a lot more interesting than food decomposing. He wanted to show food rotting and everyone thought that was not as fun as volcanoes exploding. Um any other thing from the MIT students that you found was helpful? Yeah, I was kind of like I don't know. It was humbling to know how much people like even sixth graders know about some of the really complicated subjects that we're even learning here. So awesome. A lot. We had some good conversation about sticking and floating and how do boats even work. It was awesome how much you guys do. Well, we can't thank you six readers enough for coming here today. It was so helpful. Thank you. And I'm sure Elizabeth will be in touch with you guys to let you know how we our ideas and the videos that you guys made with me last month. They're almost finished. Carrie is almost finished with them today. So I will send those over to your teacher and you can watch them sometimes. Any directions from teachers before they leave the room on what's coming up next? Nope. Just um make one long single line so I can count you before you leave the building and then I'll count you on the bus again. check for jackets and all those things, but have a safe trip back home. Did you say thank you? Thank you. Thank you so much.