controversial question. Uh I asked you before the show a question and I have not seen the answer yet, but um the question was um in an environment when there are coding tools out there that allow people to build things um what's the value proposition of learning a language like Python to do that? Like do we still need to do it? And what's the value proposition of doing it? So you're going to reveal your answer. I'll reveal my answer. So, not sure if this exactly answers the question, but I said trust but verify. Oh, tell me more. Okay. Yeah, I've certainly definitely used Genaii tools before and for even for really simple things, it can get it wrong, especially um mathematical things and even programming things. And so I have sort of AI would say a basic knowledge of programming. And I was wait I'm at I would say it's a little more than basic for everyone out there. More than basic continue. Um and so I was able to start with what Genai gave me as a as as a program and kind of kind of tell you know what it in this particular test case it doesn't really work that well. And I didn't have to go back and ask it to fix it because that requires a lot more sort of back and forth with the with prompting. And I was able, you know, to just fix it on my own. It wasn't that hard of a fix. And, you know, as soon as you go back and prompt the the genai again and again and again, you start to introduce sort of variability of English language, right? like when you're talking to someone online, it's really hard to tell what they mean or right there's all these double meanings. Um, and Genai is all probabilistic. So, they're basically going to, you know, pick the highest probability of what you mean and then when they give you answers back again, they give it to you with whatever the highest probability for the next word to be, that's what they spit back at you. So as soon as you introduce sort of that prompting back and forth, it can introduce errors that potentially stack on top of errors, misunderstandings, and things like that. So having a really basic knowledge of programming could allow you to maybe start with a piece of code that the genai gives you back. So you're not starting with a blank slate. It's not super daunting to write it yourself, but you start with something and then you potentially test it and then debug it and then, you know, figure it out. Okay, now I trust that it works well. Mhm. Yeah. I feel like the ability to verify is the human component. Yes. And that is sort of what creates the balance with AI. Like if you let AI make all the decisions, then you've lost your self-reliance. Um and you can't choose your own adventure because you're going to get a bunch of errors and it's going to lead you down the wrong path.