The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So, let's get started. That's this. We're going to have to go through learning this language. It's it comes quite quickly. There's a syntax that we're looking at all the time. I'm going to say who that I want to do what and then I'm going to say maybe how to do it and then I'm going to say when to do it. So the who is going to be the whole group that's everybody in the room. So when you see whole group, you know I'm going to need everybody. Now I'm going to say what a long tone. The middle of your instrument middle choose some middle area there is for drums. It's going to be a press roll of some type, right? You're going to be you're going to be if you had a a volume pedal, you'd be hold. But otherwise, you're you're trilling basically. For piano, you could hit one note and let it put the sustain down or you could rock between a major minor somewhere in there. But not a lot of rocking octaves or anything like that. Rock something simple. So you're creating like a drummer that kind of thing, right? Same in guitar. So you know what it is. You you choose one note, you take a breath and you go back to the same note. You don't develop the note at all. It's static. So I'm going to go whole group long tone middle pian. Now you know what's going to happen long. Now when is here and right at the end of my hands that's where the is right at my hands you come in. Okay. I'll make it louder. I might say continue. It's going to sound like a cluster. If you're playing F and you're playing F#, don't change. If I want you all to play a C major 7 chord, I can sign that. Okay, I'm not going to do that now. Here we go. Don't change it. Sc I mean, I want it right at the end of my hands. Here we go. Okay. And once I cut off, it's a complete plain cut off right now. So that's middle of your instrument. Then this of course would be and this would be simple, right? We're learning the letters in that. So here we go. Let's try to load on the tone. Now, if I don't say how, then you choose how. And if you're louder than he, you don't get louder because she's louder than you. If you choose to be, you choose to be participant, then you stay there. So without the how, it's your choice. Okay? So this time no happen and then a high long jump and then we'll go through a few of them, right? And don't don't I'll be you guys. Don't do anything now. Don't do this. Don't go. Don't put a pause in there. Go from one to the other. If you were holding a long tongue for a length of time, stagger only change on my it's going to take some time to get used to, but since that happened, let me address something really important when it comes to being a live composer that You are working with people and mistakes are going to happen. And the the philosophy of sounding is there's no such thing as a mistake. Like Miles Davis said, there is no such thing as a mistake. So if you if that happened and we were doing a concert tonight, you just it's fine that it happened. If if if it's another gesture like I do this and you come in accidentally with something else another type of content then you would keep playing that you know you wouldn't acknowledge the same mistake because in sound painting you continue with the mistake it becomes the content that you're working with and I and I hear that and often will use the mistake because the mistake will be very interesting even more so than the what I intended it takes a long time to get used to this notion of business or saying is a mistake. I can say and you can go sure Walter I understand but in practice it's actually hard to do. So let's So now we've got different long tones and getting louder and getting softer, right? We have play and we have stop and I say watch me and then this needs to continue. So now imagine long tones going on. I want you to go up a whole step or a half step. to give her a go. I'm right. Okay. Most perhaps your choice. You work, you know, press go out to the sides to assemble. I don't you know Now I have two hands, right? So let's say for you over this side, you overs this side. So now I can flip it. Okay, so now that I can do this, this, this, and then maybe together. Okay, here we go. And we're just in the letters now. We're not making words yet. Yeah. Okay. Good. All right. So, there's a lot of gestures that fall in the syntax of who, what, sometimes how, and when. Hundreds of Then there's another set of pictures called loads. And we'll learn this one now. But the whole group scan as my hand goes by and passes and lines up and they look at this part of the arm, you know, as as the indicator as to when to go play anything you want. But after my hand passes by, you stop immediately. It's almost like there's a big heart in the sense that I'm hitting the strings and they're muting after my hands by. Anything doesn't have to just be one note. It can be similar things. Okay? Anything at all. So that this will create a salad of sound. This is the reason I wanted you like this and also split up so that we just don't have low sounds, middle, high sounds. Wait for me. Because if you were standing up here doing this, say you were the sound, you can actually you can feel the sound on your hand on your arm. So I know when you know but it just takes a little practice. Sorry again. So that we play until is we play right when you only here. Okay. Okay. All right. I understand. only as a lines up. Actually, when you get used to it, you can do that. Actually, let's do it this way. I'm going go a little more slightly advanced and go this way. It'll give you a sense of it. I'm going to say scan. This means with I'm going to go scan with movement. Now, as I go by, you're only going to move And you're going to go back. I got to sit up straight in your chair because I work with dancers. I'll give you a little bit of this. And it often when you work with movement first, it helps you deal with sound. My uh I was a drummer for one time and they used to say you can say it, you can play it. So I used to have to always, you know, say complex rhythms, sing I could play, no problem. So now I want you to move. So as my arm goes by, you just move a little bit and go back to neutral. This actually comes from watching foot uh soccer football we say in Sweden but watching soccer and when they stood up and didn't wait that's where this sign comes from that's so now I want you I'm going to the whole group is the phrase scan with so this is let's That's what I mean. You let you That's what I'm talking about. We were in a concert. That would be so cool. Because once you come in with something, you're stuck with it, you know? So then then I would have just one note coming across all this movement and one note right in the middle. That's how you have why you get used to like mistakes are cool, you know. Let's try it again. Okay, good. Now, now we'll go back to your instrument. If I if we were doing this in concert, I might say scan with movement because it's interdisiplinary because it might be dancers in the group. I want everybody to move, you know, because it supports what the dancers doing. So, I want you to go back to instrument. I'd say scan with instrument. Now I'm getting a little complex here, but just so you know instant back to by default. Okay. Now, try as much as you can to offer different ideas as I go by. Do something different every time. That's right. Come up with new ideas. Right? So, the scan becomes more interesting here. Instead of you playing the same thing each time, if I wanted you to play the same thing each time, I could I could actually ask you to do that. All right? So now continuing on, say I'm standing and I stop on somebody. What you would do is take what you're doing, your first idea, and you develop very slowly. So if I'm, you know, say I'm an actor, this is sign actor and I'm scanning. Huh? What? Oh, not that. Come on. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. No. No. No. No. No. No. Not that. Come. No. Come on. Okay. No. I didn't jump away from that idea and go, "Oh, oh, come on. Would you give me I got some new shoes. See this?" I mean, like, I didn't jump away from that. I say this. Oh, oh, oh. So, stay with your idea and develop it slowly. If I stop on you, let's try that. But since you came in, you're in, you know, cuz you came in and because you thought it's not exact science as far as just lining up the arms. So if you think if you think that oh he means me, then you play and and I'm not going to be like Tuscanini and give you you know what this means in Tuscanini world. He used to hold the two means you two notice you're fired. The great conductor, right? And he used to do that in the middle of when he was conducting. You look at somebody go be conducting away. So it's not like that. Sound pain. If you happen to come in and you make a mistake, remember it's no problem. Let's try it again. So if you come in, develop your idea slowly and when I move my head away, stop. Okay. Now, say I want that to continue, you know, so I don't have to hold my hand up there all night. Uh, I would just take the the continue gesture and attach it to my arm. So, just I do this and I want this to go on and I say continue. Now, this is going to go on until remember the only in sound painting that you don't do is stop. That's the only mistake. Never stop. So when you make a mistake, don't stop. Continue with it. Let the composer deal with it because I can't compose with the silence that you take the sound away from me. You know, so let's just imagine that I did this and said continue. Everybody else in the room is what's called the rest of the group. So now we have not half but the rest of the group. I consign them on either side. So let's let's imagine that you're doing this, right? Just imagine that. And then I say rest of the group long play and you still play. Say rest of the group off. Rest of the group scan a little bit. You know, rest of the group high play. Rest of the group off. Rest of the group scan some. And then you're still going because you're not resting the group. Now I said whole group long tone. And since this is a hope of long time and when I give a pleasure I should do it for that as so let's try it. And that was the time that you would come in and you know this. Okay. So, but what so what and I know you know it. So, you kept on playing and you would have thought, "Oh, I missed it." You wouldn't jump to the long. That would have been one of those instances where I realized, "Oh, okay. You missed it." But you continue to play, you know? Yeah. Good. All right. So, what do we know? Long tone, right? Pitch up. Pitch down. Scanning. Continue. Continue this way. Watch me. Rest of the group. Getting louder. Getting softer. Off. Woodwinds. Brass. Percussion. Strings. Vocalists. Voice. electronics, actor, dancer, movement, visual arts. So, group one, group one, group two, right? For example, identifiers to be able to pick out uh and there's a whole thing with brass family, saxopones and strings, how to identify, but we will get into that. But right now, we'll just lump it all together. Um, okay. So, now I say whole group point and I want you to be able to very quick short. You're like dropping marbles down the stairs. You know, they're not all bouncing down together. It's a big spike. So, let's take that wave. Yeah. And then, and this Oh, sorry. Now, no, no, no. But this would have been, if we were going to do a content tonight, I would say you would go, "Oh, yeah. I came in too soon." But let it go right away. You can continue, right? And then I would do something with it. And then it it creates a very important environment that you need to live composing. It's none of this, oh, I messed up. You know, that can't be in this box. So, let's try it again. You can be all over the hill. So what you want is I'm not telling anybody how to play. It's what how you want to interpret. So if you want to interpret one hand, that's fine. But to just let you know it's very very popping and all kinds of percussive kind. Okay. All right, here we go. Okay, good. If you're given the integrity of the sound right to that next change and what happened there is it died off right before we hit the long tone. You ant you anticipated it by leaving space and by letting your sound drop down. So keep the strength of it going and then when you go to the long tone jump right to it. Okay? You can turn. Let's try that. Okay, good. Now, so this is tempo getting slower and getting faster. No, it's getting faster, not louder. Okay, here we go. Let's try it again. Okay, good. Good. Nice. It can be maybe it can be a little more crisp. You can leave a little bit more space, you know, so it's more I just say that and then that's because it's a little bit. It's a little long tonguey sound. You want to really pop. Nothing should go. No, no, no. Oh, really? Okay. Is what an actor might do. All right. Here we go. So, a little bit more spike, you know, broken glass. Okay. Okay. So now we keep going this whole group point to point and it's like scanning and without pointing at you you play anything you want and if I stay pointed at you you develop the idea. I take my hand away and you stop because anything but your hands. No speaking. That's later. As soon as I take my hand away, stop. And it's it's hard to do. It really is. Everybody has a problem with this including me when I say so because it's not like this kind of sign that you're looking at. If you watch what I'm doing, I'm stepping into what's called a box in sound. So, I'm moving out to an inactive space. So, I'm going over the tone. I'm stepping into the box. And as soon as you see that, that's off. Okay. You have to be really ready because you just Now, so if I stop on you, if I and you know this because we've worked together. So if I stop on you, then you take your idea and you develop it, you know. So you try not to try not to go and then all say, you know, if you play and you just make just a short sound, then that's what you're working with, that short sound. just all of a sudden jump in and say, "Oh, he's pointing at me still. Now I'm just going to launch into something." Okay, let's try it. Right. Do it as soon as I take. But so this is one that you'll get a lot of mistakes in. So you realize, uhoh, you know, he took his hand away. And then and then you just keep going. Okay. You know, that'd be a time Lucas say string player, you know, continued with this. Okay. All right. All right. So we keep going. Uh now, um what do we know? The whole group one group two rest of the group woodwinds strings perussion vocalist and voice actor as an um point to point scanning stop faster. Watch me continue. Long time pitch up, pitch down. So, we're at like 13 14 seconds. And to do a performance, we're probably about 40. So, be like another hour plus and we go to a performance. Really, no problem. because I'm experienced at doing this and you would know the language and we make it you know several more steps you hear we would do a performance that would sound like we've been rehearsing for a long time from just I do it all the time I've done it hundreds of times in orchestras so it's very quick learning curve and then if you want to go deeper to the language take some time to get further and further into this to use notated material like what we're going to do in Brazil pallets and that's section rehearsed music choreography visual design piece of music I've done paintings of he orchestra miles there was recently a sound painting of death just last week in Paris Shakespeare's nothing and where we use the pal we take the piece and take it apart and number them as pallets music palette one, dance palette five, you know, after pallet two, that kind of things. Then we take those things and get it into first thing. Or you could say point to point with because we know with now, right? So point to point with one piece with one. So there's all kinds of ways of working besides the ability to compose live. Don't use just use what you hear. Uh so again with so if I go scan with pointalism now you're only I've modified it and you're only doing pointalism. Let's turn right. So it's only going to be pointless. or point to point with the long tone. Now, when I pointed to you, you're going to play a long tone, but since you're in point to point, you would still have the ability to develop it because point to point says you develop your ideas slowly, right? So if I point you to kind of long tone after establishing that long tone, you can start to change its quality and you can move away from that long tone and doing something else you know but very slow movement like a motif can really develop. So let's try that. So really Yeah. And really a really cool one is if you go scan with long tone and you're not going to be able to play a long tone. It's just going to sound like the only way the long tone will come out is a soft and then it comes out. We'll just try that because it's actually really hard to do. So scan. So, first it's just going to be like staccato. Yeah, exactly. Uh, okay. But I won't that's getting another step. I would do that. So, now point to point and I point at somebody, you know, for example, and and I would say continue like this or continue like this. And now I want somebody to relate to what you're doing. Again, we're building language, you know. So, if you feel at some point you want me to slow down or tell you a story or something, let me know. I can go eight hours without stopping. So, um, so let's imagine, you know, I pointed at you and I pointed to you in the play. Now, I want someone to relate to this. The relationship that you do with this is up to you. you can relate to what's being played by being supportive or contrasting, you know. So, I might look at you and make sure I'm identified. You might be, you know, grass five or something. Grass five or two, pointed to using very sophisticated. So this is relate to arguments relate to and now instead of giving you a play gesture which is hard edged you know as we change from long tone to pointalism those are very hard changes like changing the channel on the television set of thinking but in this case I'm saying relate to now I don't want to give a hard name so what's called slowly it's a funny gesture I really want to take this home that means Enter within 5 seconds whatever it is that the sound painter has signed. It doesn't mean to crescendo to crescendo two different signs of it just means to start within 5 seconds. So then you you know so imagine you know you're playing you know say rel and then you come how you want contrasting or supportive or you know how you want. That's right. It was the switch of the percussionist. I'm real used to like, you know, cuz I work with dancers all the time and how did you do this? We morphed. This is morphing. That would be that would be or it would be actually sign that would be percussion. You know, maybe you're one and percussion two change places. Change. Yeah, change places. Change places. And when you would actually do that, but walk slowly facing down stage. Well, you face up, you face down. Yeah, because you know working the dance you have to work in all kinds of things. Okay. So, let's try this relationship. Yeah. So, it's just normal for so let me just tell you you're getting used so much to remember like you know and my group used to say oh let's can we just have a sheet of what you're doing Walter and we'll put it on the you know we'll do this and so the whole orchestra has sheets and they never looked at it you know because you actually have to just take it in your body and you got to you have to make mistakes you know it's part of the learning curve you Some people learn visually and some people learn another way. You know, takes a little time. So, so I'm going to go hopefully point to point. I'm going to point at somebody and have them continue. I'm going to look at somebody else and have them relate to what that person is doing. Okay. So, let's set that up and as much as you can come immediately so that there's no delay in it. I want you to Heat. Heat. Yeah, good. Nice. Good. Um, so we keep going. So you can relate. That was nice. You related to in a very uh friendly way or loving, but you can relate to over the top or murderous intent, you know, how you want, you know, that's up to you. So if we were going to do a concert, I would I would work a little bit on that with you, the details of getting you to open up to the idea of relationships. Um, but we're not. I'm going to keep going. So now minimalism. Minimalism is playing two or three notes. This is a big group, you know, woods and brass and some strings and percussion. Uh so be very minimal. So if I was an actor, say, you know, actor, I'm a sound paint myself. Minimalism. Watch me. I'll give you four beats. Right. Sure. Right. Sure. Right. Sure. Right. Sure. I chose something very simple, you know, and I'm repeating it over and over and over again. Right. When I come in with four beats, it doesn't mean playing four four, but it doesn't mean the fourth is going to happen with four. And then I would keep I'm pulsing in one just give it a pulse so that if you choose to come in and play 15 in 15 or seven or five, that's your choice. or three or four, but it has to be minimal within that field. I'm only giving you four to get started and then I'm pulsing. Okay, let's do it. So, let's do group two. Immediately establish a cycle. Don't go searching searching. Don't go right away. Come up with something simple and establish. There you go. Okay. Now, when I do this and then give a loop, you change to something new or alter what you're doing. So, this means to change. So, now you're going along with your first idea. You know, whatever it is, you're going to do that and you change to something new or alter what you're doing. Okay, let's try again. How are you? Yeah. Nice. Cool. Nice. Nice. Okay. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Ah, heat. Heat. Hey, heat. Hey, heat. Heat. All right. So, say there's something that we're doing and I want you to remember it. I want to bring it back somewhere in peace. So, say if there's something like the last minimalism, I go this is memory one. Now, you have to remember Time to grow now, right? So in a sound painting, you can have as many as 10 memories if you don't make them all big group members. Like say you know two or three people in room one, four or five people in room two, you know the whole group is memory three. You can build if you're skilled at something, you can build 10 memories and use them. If I sign a memory in performance, then I'm going to use it fairly quickly after I sign it. Um, and if I wanted to bring that memory back 15 minutes later than I haven't used it, then I'm taking a risk and I know that and I'm not going to probably get what I thought, you know, because you're not going to remember, but I will get something. And that's the idea of why I would do that. So that's an interesting thing about live composing is because you make choices knowing that they're not going to know. They know the the rules so to speak, but they they remember it kind of doing this. So they go after as much as you can remember. And that's a different choice than using something immediately when you're going to get exactly. So use something later and and actually use that that that you know that loss of memory is a part of composing. So that's an interesting thing about this is making those decisions in the moment. Again, if we were to go to concert, if I working any of these gestures, when something comes back at me, I can think of maybe 50 different things to do. You know, it's not just one, but I choose one of choose two or three. So that's how it works. You're starting to get it now. I mean there's so many so many of these gestures that once anybody comes back with anything then I choose the next four directions to take um so memory can be how you see it like don't move right let's say we're a multid-disiplinary group so stay where you are just how you seated legs across like this if we were working with with actors and dancers you would then have to sit in what's called neutral Because you when you work in theater, if you if this is a one-man show and I'm sitting on stage and as you walk into the theater, I'm sitting here, I have a character and I'm telling you a story already just by how I'm seated seated like this, you know, I seated like this. I'm speaking to you with movement at this point. So how you sit and alter this very sound and move is key to the success of the piece. So let's imagine I ask you to sit like this. Okay. Everything where your trumpet is, your saxophone is remember everything. So now I'm going to say whole group. This is where you want. It's how you're seated is the say whole group. Sit. Then I'll say slowly enter. Everybody will sit up flat on the floor but not yet because you need to remember where you're at. Just tell your trombone is everything. And then I'll say whole group maybe one slowly enter and you go back to this position. Okay. So very in the piece the audience is back checking it out. I've got you to this somehow. Yeah, good. Now, you know, everybody from Duke Ellington to Sun Rob to Anthony Braxton to all the people on the AM have worked with theater. The art ensemble Chicago was all about theater. Duke Ellington used to have his members of this group stand up and say things and speak and talk to each other. Then they would launch off into something else. So theater is a huge part of being a musician on the stage as a musician. Choruses often work theater, you know, often do different things. So I love doing that in sound. It's part of my work as a sounder. Although I have a sound string quartet and we're like this very new music sort of approach to you know what I'm composing there. Um but I love working. So what we just did was interdisciplinary. So if we were working uh doing concert with actors and dancers as part of the group then you would learn certain things about movement and certain things about acting. So that these worlds come together. you're that you're not a musician. There's an actor sitting next to you and you share nothing. You know, this is why it's why it's interdisciplinary for me. I I I need that in my work. Um, okay, let's keep going. This means to improvise. So, if I look at you and I say, you know, maybe a woodwind 10 improvise slowly. Now, you do what you want. That's your that's the wide open space for you. It's John C. You know when you are taking a soul simply put what I'll never do because I learned the hard way many years ago is what I'll never do is look at you and then do this and stop you in the middle of that because you'll yell at me later for stopping you in the middle of your solo, you know. And that's what happened to me. You might want to know that all of this stuff isn't theor comes from theory. It comes from practice. That's how I created all this language in the moment, so to speak. So, what I'll do is I would say, you know, if I say you would intend to improvise slowly into now, you're improvising and and I want you to kind of wrap it up or hear this wrapping up. I'll look at you and I'll say it's it means finish your idea. You have up to a minute and a half to stop. All right. And you take it, you take that minute or you take that 30 seconds or you take that minute and a half, you know, because I want you to be comfortable as a network boxer so that I don't shut you down, you know. So then there'll be no trust if I do this to you constantly or this asking to quit. There's no trust. So anyway, when I give this gesture, it'll be the only way out of it when there's an individual materialistic. The only way out of it is an individual is this. But if I say pointtooint with the device, which is really just wide open, you know, so now you're really developing as fast as you want, as much as you want. So I said continue, then in this case, because it's not the same idea, then I could stop you like this. But this one is saying I'm giving you sol. Um, so as far as our exit gestures, our off gestures, we have stop this way, slowly exit, finish your idea. As far as the play gestures, we have go and slowly go. So this is coming within 5 seconds. So let's let's try long slowly enter and you'll enter the piece for 5 seconds. No machine just begin. You might begin one second, you might begin 5 seconds and other people in between that. So here So we get a softer edge to the change by doing this instead of this hard edge. Another way of doing it. Um okay, next gesture is you good? Your brain's okay? Any questions? Have you ever worked with a smell artist? Like someone who makes like another Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yeah. What was that like? It's great. I mean, because I work in theater, you know, so it's not like Anthony Braxton told me a story, you know, that he was in Paris some years back and they came to see he and uh Leroy Jenkins and um it was Andrew Surell. I don't know who the tour was, but they came they came to the concert and there was Anthony and and whoever else it was, Leroy, I believe and one other person and they were cooking on stage and the audience was, you know, almost like cages 433. I mean, they were ready to like crucify them for cooking on stage. you know, I thought it was cool and it, you know, so it influenced me and and yeah, I've used cooking. Uh, so yeah, it's very it's very, you know, I work with laptop performers or circus play. I did a piece um uh three years ago with 125 circus performers and we made a piece with 100 politicians and next year I have a piece in New York with seven trial workers so they work as actors you know and and the circus performers worked at work as movers and actors but there was real hard that was the most difficult thing was working with the circus performers because They could not get rid of the no matter, you know, because they're used to doing that at the end of their routine. They go and I'm not kidding. I could not get them to stop that. It was in the body, you know, the years of training, you know, and I could not, it was really hard to get them to to when they made a mistake, as we've been speaking about, to actually work with the mistake, especially when they were juggling seven lit back and forth with the lights out, you know, and they were on fire. I'm not I'm not kidding. So, the idea was and I rehearsed this with them for like two weeks. did the performance in Oslo and and uh and they if they dropped something when they were juggling, they were supposed to kind of work with it and bang it on the floor and hit it on your leg except for the fire ones, right? And uh they had such a hard time doing it. And so what I had to do with this thing, there was a there wasund and something people. So what I did was I I choreographed uh uh this was a movement pallet one for some of the other performers and I would say you know prepare prepare movement pallet one and they would stand up about 50 people and then I would say you know you know moving pallet one and do this and then I had 50 people going. So I took what was bothering me and used it It worked. Uh, shapewise. I'm going to go whole group shapew and then I'm going to go into neutral. This is this is living graphic meditation. So when I move, you're going to follow me with sound. But you don't have to do it as like lando like it could be pointalistic. You know, you could leave space in it. But look at what I'm doing with my body and relate to it with sound. And this comes from my work as a saxoponist with two dancers who I worked with for eight years and was always improvising to their set dances. And I came up with this chest shape. I thought oh let me just you know look at the look at what I'm doing my body whatever it is and and relate to it. Let's see what happens. And the only way out of this one, the whole neutral one, go to neutral. Move a little bit. Go to neutral. That's silence. Move a little bit more. Move a little bit more. Go back to silence. And then to get out of this, I can't I can't sign. Oh, you go. So the only way out, this is an irregular verb in sounding. The only way out is is to use watch me. So I go back to the neutral and I say watch me. And now it's now I can go on to any other side. Okay, let's try. Right. Yeah. Good. So, so it's really interesting. So, you know, you can either take something like this and work with it for a little whileing or there's something going on. You just look at, you know, just the movements shape and you like a little piece and then get out of it and go on to something else. you know, the gestures can be used and you can work with them for a while depending on the piece or they can just be used up really quickly. Um, okay. Extended techniques looking gesture in the language, something my father used to do in my mother years ago, but it was a loving and it needs alternate techniques on the instruments pop inside the same techniques. Let's try something different. Flutter I'm gonna say scan with extended techniques. because you came in. That's exactly what you do. what what exactly that I mean so if you go out it's like the acknowledgement and everybody knows oh you made a mistake you know and plus it doesn't work for the whole you know momentum of the piece so good so that's extended techniques and we can do point to point with extended techniques you know shape line let's do that shape line these are all modes scanning point shape line modes so shape line Yeah, there's so many different places to go with that. Anyway, I won't get into that. I'll never get to these other gestures. A hit, just a simple point, simple sound. In other words, you're like, "Oh, okay. Real short. Prep it here and then together." And exactly. So now a low I'll stay in the box and you exactly you know then there's a way to stick those kinds of patterns you know so that you can actually like put things out there and stick them so they stay actually called the stick. So then I stick the pattern so it's called stick hip stick hip. Now, when I repeat my movement two or three times, you're going to know that I want you to continue with that movement, so to speak. Okay? So, Now, if I take it and start to speed it up, you're not going to be able to stay together. And I know that and I don't expect that you will. But something will happen. As long as you maintain integrity, it becomes then individual. This is individual, this is collective, it becomes in an individual effort to speed up and it starts to become intertwined. So this is a gesture called intertwining but actually happening not silent. So then you intertwine it as it starts to speed up. Okay. Anyway, just so you know, that's what I would expect to have happen. I really expect to be able to keep together. Um, a hit always goes back. So, if you're in a long tone, we go what you Okay. Always goes back. So, let's put it long tone. you you would get used to it. Tomorrow would be ready to go. So now let's imagine that we have a long tone going on. Now if you were up here sounding or you were sounding somebody else, you just begun it and you say you have a long tone going. Now you want to use scan, you know, for example, a mode, but there's already a sound going on. If you did this to a sound register, like, you know, a Mel or some register, and you scan it, it's a long tone moment, and you just said whole group, scan it, and you did this, everybody in the group would not respond. It just continued in the long term. So why doesn't that work? Why is this? Because if it if in a nutshell, if you if you were able to do that, it would limit the possibilities of what you can do with the language. So in order to be able to have a long term going on and to put something else on top of it, it's called a layer scan. And so now you have a long time going on. I say layer scanning. Now, as my arm passes by, it's normal scanning. You choose what you want to do as my arm passes by. And after it goes by, we go back to a long time. Okay. So, it's turning. It's a replacement layer on the top as my arm goes by. Okay. Let's try Exactly. So you layer you can you can layer point to point or you can layer any of the modes. So you know what I mean? So the so that's layer scanning. There's there's 20 different types of scanning in sort of the first two levels of the language you know. So you can do all kinds of things but with modes. Uh so another to work with is called modify scan or it could be modify shape and modify point modify scan. Now as my art goes by we're going to long tone repeat simple. Now make the long tone louder make it softer. Make change the quality of it. Do something to the long tone. Add a flutter tone to it. You know something. Do something. Change vibr whatever. So first simple right now one more with the layer idea. I'll say layer of scan with volume high. So now as I go by you just you're going to just model the layer of what you're doing. So I'm just layering I'll now you know partic Now that would have been all those people that I said continue. So then I said continue and then I said rest of the group Paul. Okay. But I left that. Let's do that one time. So we have rest of the group. Heat. Heat. Come on. Ah. I was going to take it take it there for a minute. So, we'll do that before we you know I'll keep going and go through the language and then we'll do a little piece so you can when you make mistakes you have to hang on you know don't worry about the mistake and that's where really becomes apparent. Oh yeah, it's not so easy to do actually. But let's keep going because we really could go to a concert. So this How's my great? Good. Can I ask you four or five questions? Yeah. Yeah. Give you a mental break for a second and then we'll review. This is just fabulous that we can begin to but I have four things to get. One is to Have you done this where there's been audience participation? Uh, okay. I assume so. Yeah. Let me just address that real quickly. U because I work so much in theater. We have in theater we have this thing called the fourth wall, you know, and um I love working with the audience because uh um they're out there in sound and I'm selfish and I work with sound. So what I do I'll often a sound painting is an hour long and it feels like it's 15 minutes. It's kind of like minimalism in that you never played a minimalist piece it like really seems very short because some it does something to the perception time perception. So I usually do an hour piece and somewhere in maybe the 50 minute mark I can feel that as we all came when we play music since such a time marked um I'll say to the group to get the audience there the audience has watched this I just did it recently a bunch of times recently and the audience is watching this and seeing all these signs um so they they get an idea what's going on and believe it or not they're kind of ready to go there And if they're not, there's another way that I work with them. So, so somewhere in the piece, I'll say whole group long tone with voice. Now, the whole group will go and I'll turn to the audience. Yeah. And then I'll do and I'll bring one up and bring you know and then I'll say scan but I'll use speaking scan with speaking and then they speak you know and then hits with speaking h you know and if and so I teach maybe a handful of gestures and then bring the audience in. And if like in Sweden, we have something that's called wa. Sweden is very much like uh Japanese in culture. You never hug anybody. You only shake hands, you know. So working with an audience that has model which means you really you know I've had a lot of problems and until I learned model I lost it work because I was too over the top as a New Yorker you know let's do this you know if you have that kind of attitude you don't so so Swedish audience you know but I did this to them so when I group a long tone to sing it and then one turn to the Swedish audience they weren't so So I said whole group I did this and this means the heckle the entire orchestra said hey you can't do anything what's the matter go you can't really so then I turned to the to the public and I said to the public and and they there was no longer it broke right down you know and so then I said the orchestra yell and the public gentlemen I had the whole group the you know it's it's theater I mean Shakespeare that's what used to happen in the days of Shakespeare you know this is part of theater the audience involved Shakespeare is so anyway yes a lot of work and then the this are there ever uh duets do you ever relinquish some control um so that they would have could they det with themselves or how does that you think the sky's is the limit. The sky's is the limit. Okay. Yeah. Absolutely. You know, we're right now you're learning the language in and I'm going through these things quickly at times in in a piece just like you're playing your instrument where you can play very fast at times. So, can I move fast, you know, and make these things happen very quickly. But I'm not going to play fast all night, you know. That's boring, you know. So, I I I change it up. You know, I might play a solo. I might make let them sit for a while. Or we might use what's called a flying fish, which is a group that's it's flying fish and it's a group that's separate. It's a it's an entity that takes off on its own. Wow. So, there's there's triggers also. So there's all this kind of all these sorts of things and also there's um there's more than one sound painter at a time with a group this size from three to four sound painters but often two. So during the piece I might look you might be sound number two which means come up and then you come up and you take two. Wow. Yeah. We'll try that. We'll get one of your opinion to do that so you can see what I mean. It's really cool. You have to really listen. It's a duet playing two pianos and two saxopones. It's fun. I just quick it's just I Does Do you Does the face get used only to enhance the gesture or do you ever use it separately? Absolutely. when you do in shape line in shape line you go you know when I'm making an expression that's great or you can say you can say you know actor one long tone with this is body or you say with face and this is and this is or this is if and this is not okay and wow speak point. So they have a long face and they're speaking. It's almost like a cartoon and it takes a very trained accent to do that. I won't try but you should you can imagine your face being long and this is kind of like a long faces you know and then you speaking pointalistic while you're keeping this long expression. So that's that's cool. That was my my last question. his uh implications for uh for lack of a better word traditional conducting. I mean they're massive just as they are for so-called traditional playing because of that. Have you done things with people working with them that way? Yeah. Like in orchestra I like to take Sio give him a few lessons like that. Yes. Not but yes I have. Yeah. Yeah. I've done a lot of master classes with conductors and it's not so much It's a different thing where the conductor is this role is not a conductor. This role is a composer and he uses conducting skills at certain times. Interesting. But yet communication is is absolutely Yeah. It's that's you are conducting. I am conducting in that sense that way but but it's at the same time I'm using patterns of time and times but the rest of the time it's it's a sign language. So how great the music would be whether it's Brahms or Braxton if if the person who's helping shape it brings this kind of a that's what I that's what I try to do when I'm working in class is get the expression come out so they learn the sound and often the gesture that's the most helpful is shapew interesting you know for getting getting the Bernstein to come out yeah beautiful I'll leave you alone It's a good um as like a artist yourself, do you ever find yourself frustrated that you're not conveying the like the message in your head or you just relinquish it as they're doing their own thing? No, that doesn't happen because it's a trained group. Uh you know, always I' I know kind of what they know because I have to talk. But if but to speak to that for a second, say something does happen and you know you don't understand what I'm asking for then you you have a gesture you give back to me which is you go this and take your hand back. A that's great you know. So then that's a sign rephrase that you know now if there's something that you can't do and it becomes too difficult like a high D on a trunk or something and you can't really hold that for too long. If you can, you put your hand in your throat and take it down. You see the trumpet to slow reaction or change and you change to something first. If I don't see you, then you just stop and you're only going to neutralize for the next gesture. So these are built-in safeties in the piece, you know, because when you're working multiddisiplinary, you have to have these built-in safeties. Language is so Yeah, that's beautiful. Yeah. Do you ever do anything like when members of group maybe sign to each other? Yes. You can go on YouTube. If you go on YouTube and you look at uh first you go in and look at soundpainting Walter Thompson link and then you go to Pexo Pexo. You'll see two excerpts there. And then in that same area, you'll see a a video that was shot two years ago. It's it's 11 very skilled sound painters. We're in tour in France at what's called the sound painting think tank which every year happens. 14 of them have happened where sound painters around the world come and discuss and develop the language further in all the disciplines. So these are very skilled sound painters sitting in a circle sound painting each other. So it's there's a sample of it on YouTube and these are all like really really high level. Some of them live 10 12 years and some very seriously for three or four. So very high level and so you might be one of the sound painters and there's there's a whole language for one-handed gestures so you can hold your instrument. So they're using some of the one-handed gestures and and so they they're signing. So you you want something to happen. You look and you say you know brass tube long tone slowly enter the alter just half this half the gesture and so then that person so you've said long tone and then another sound picture might use the one-handed gesture for higher volume and then somebody else might say change so the whole everybody so it's not like someone's complete the whole phrase the phrase might be passed around amongst the entire group and that you can see on YouTube it's actually a pretty well done uh DVD are in. So is is video the way that you document this type of work? We were speaking about that. I mean you you can you can listen to like any music. It doesn't have to have you know when you listen to a great piece you know with Schulty conducting Beethoven you don't have to have Shulty in it to listen to it. Um but I think one of the one of the m when you're working in a multi-disipline you have to have that but I think it's very interesting to have that as as the main medium to work on. So often I shoot you know DVD or shoot something for DVD but then at the same time I put it on CD. The the reason I you know this started for me as as something that came out of frustration you know it came out of uh I'm I come from a very uh open background but also about the structure all that stuff I studied very long time really into my complexity the sound painting thing has has kind of overridden my composing in the more traditional way even though I write a lot of pallets still compose a lot for dance. Um, but it's just interesting, you know, I if you were to ask me when I was 22, you know, what I'd be doing in my 50s, at 54, what I would be doing, I would never tell you what. So, because this this for me, this came out of frustration of of ensemble just kind of we were speaking around, I believe, like often group improv with a big group of people. I said just think about it's hard to do. It's because there's so many different personalities and different group dynamics involved and unless you study like certain methods that probably Mark works with and Sarah works with and we work with that it's really hard for a group to to like really work together and so when I was so sound pain came out of that frustration so I never thought that in this age I would actually my heart would come out of frustration. So look look out for it. You never know where it's going to. Um, so let's keep going. How much time we got? 20 minutes. Okay, good. We're good. Another 60 gestures. So shake wine from watching dancers, you know. Um, uh, scanning from watching soccer, you know. uh stab freeze. The next gesture I was listening to a CD of my a CD the son gave me and it was kind of lame you know so I was cooking well this was a lot of years ago when I was cooking listening to the CD in the living room and all of a sudden it became really interesting you know that doesn't sound like the CD I was listening to I walked into the room skipping you know so the skipping sound was really nice you know it's much better than what was on the CD I don't remember who it was, but it was just something I bought. It just wasn't so I wasn't appealing to me, at least not in that moment. Maybe another time. But the skipping was really cool. I said, "How can I do that?" You know, that is interesting. There's these gestures that I've come up with. Some of them come out of my my studying musical, my study, the visual arts or just this just two people passing on the street. I've created a gesture called coming from that. So things come from all over the place. It's not just a music, you know, background I have when I create this up. So, so I came up called stab freeze, which is what we're going to do now. And I hold this out as I say that, you know, you're doing whatever you're doing. And the moment that my fist hits my palm, that's when you're going to get stuck. As you can see, I'm sort of like a CD just kind of get stuck. You have to really be true to the moment of what you're doing. You don't just naturally go ta ta. You have to think of the rhythm of what you're playing. And when that time I was in silence, so I got caught in between words. So I got stuck there. Or it could be like imagine trying to say something like talk or or you know if you say word like to to talk you know what I mean it's really just in the moment. So let's try it. Let's try wood. Yes. It seems like there's like a a tempo to to it. There's there is inherently from what you were just doing from from the tempo of my voice. So I take the tempo of of the forward momentum of my voice and that's so whatever the tempo of whatever was happening before you get stuck. Okay. Okay. Let's do this. Let's do it this way. This is the one of the easiest way. So each player stuck in their own individual and let's do it this. We're going to go whole group pointalistic movement. So now you're and there's going to be no sound involved in it, you know, it's only going to be movement. So now pointalism for dancers is this kind of, you know, like you know, it's really like you've been struck by lightning, you know. So, so now without hitting the person next to you, in other words, without contact with without within two within three. So, so no contact. Um, I want you to do points movement. Okay? So, let's say whole group pointed movement. I'll give you a pledge. You're going to be like, you know, but watch your instruments, you know. No, you know, you know, and then I preparing and you're going to be moving, you know, and then when I stab you, you're going to get stuck. And then I take my hand off and you go back and then and then you're going to get stuck again, whatever you're doing. Now, if I want you to stay there, I just say continue. And now you're stuck there. And then if I make B The volume for dance to to step into the dance for a moment. Volume for dance is not getting louder. If I'm stuck like this and the sound brings the volume up, it just means I'm taking more space. Okay? And of course, tempo is obvious. It slows down. So now when the staff reach you in the middle of pointless movement, take it back off. You're going to go back staff you again. Ask you to continue and then maybe bring up some volume. Bring down the tempo. Then take your back off and you're going to go back to the front. So don't try to be dancers. Don't wave your arms around. Use your instruments, you know, okay? But don't, you know, coke, you know, really be careful. Don't get overenthusiastic. Here we go. So qualistic movement. Let's go from a place of neutral. Now you're you're crossing over the dance world for a minute. Now watch me. Keep going. You're going to get stuck. Yeah. And then I take it back off and you go back. And now you're going to get stuck again. Now you're stuck. Now I'm see Now you're stuck there. I let you stay. Stay there. Now I'll slow you down. Now make the space. Don't scoot it up. Just try to take up a little bit more but carefully. So you're hitting other instruments. Now, as soon as I take my hand back off of it, you go back to point and Okay, good. No, you know, imagine we're doing a performance and we have 10 dancers, you know, and now the dancers are are doing are doing sound painting as dancers, you know, and now I want to support what's going on by bringing in the musicians to do things that are pedestrian in movement, simple and pedestrian. And then this is one of the ways I do it just something very simple like this, you know. So it actually in the beginning it's like kind of hard to get used to. Uh but if you see it in performance where the dancers doing it in a very like you know learning uh then then in this case you know you're you're just given this kind of supportive movement behind behind them. Okay. Um let's try with sound. Now it make total sense with sound right now. You know what it is cuz it's in the body now. So we'll do it with pointalism in our staff. Good. Good. Good. Um, all right. So, that's staffing. Let's do a couple of more and then let's do a piece. Um I mean there is synchronizing. We won't work on this right now by stepping through the box. You can you try to synchronize in that last status I had you you know going stuck there. So I want you to try to synchronize. That's really hard feel you would synchronize in sort of pockets of people like five separate synchronizations maybe as I'm saying synchronize. But who do I synchronize with? You might be able to hear what's coming on from here, you know. So, but you might synchronize with. So, there's just different pockets of synchronization. As long as I stay here, you try to do it. That's one way to do it. Another one is synchronized. You have one chance right now. And another synchronization synchronize and do it within 5 seconds. So let's try one of the work together. So we can finish this other stuff. I'll stab you from point to listen synchronize. I'll step into the box and as long as I'm here, you're trying to synchronize. Don't don't keep the integrity of the sound. Don't just drop down to listen. You can stay where you are. You realize coming to you go somewhere. Here we go. Yeah, that was really cool. It's like a plan. I can live my bathroom. open flame, you know. So, yeah. And then once I take my hands and remove, then you're stuck in that. You don't continue to try to synchronize because if I wanted to come closer to everybody doing unison, then I can come back into it and get closer to the unison. Um, so let's do these next ones and then let's do a piece and I'll train somebody else as a sound. So by holding this flap, okay, good. Now you could be you could be like and I can say continue very cool and then the rest of the group you be st everybody else sing and everybody else go whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop. So anyway, I mean that's that's a place where this kind of do it now would work, you know. Um, so that's that's air sounds like that type of thing. And why don't you do it through your instrument? Air sound instrument through the instrument. Um, let's do that. I thought about it, but I know you know, but normally you have to do it with your voice, but I like went there with it. Um, and then whistle. So, here we go. And if you can't whistle, you have to look like you can. And then and then home group speak. And this is uh we did this earlier today. By default, this is what's called the default in by default uh you're going to speak loud and fast and not tell a story. This would be telling a story or it's also called melody in some. So it's without narrative. So in other words, you're using words kind of musically, repeating them, using parts of them, you know. Oh, come on. No, no. Oh, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. No, no, no, no, no, no. Really, really, really not it. You know, because you have to speak loud and fast. So hang on to one little idea almost like in point to point and just kind of develop that one thing. So I go hold speak and by default when I say this, you're going to write it in my hand. You're going to be like, I open these doors. It's all these people speaking with almost knock me off my feet. Okay, that's what I want. That's the effect I want to happen by default. As other sound makers might set it set default differently, but I set it like this. It's always loud. So, lock ch up cat up chick up. Yeah. Good. Okay. Good. Come up. You're my You're my other sounding. Yeah. Okay. So now if so face game and let's just sort of hold and play. Yeah. Play is like bowling and then throw your arm out and make put your hands side by side and make a a snap at the end so they know where you're coming. Yeah. And then when you do that, step back out. And if you want them to remind them is to continue, right? Can you do continue doing something? So now you can work with standing. Try standing. Try that. Right. And hold your arm up like straight and keep it stiff. It's not like this, you know? It's like there's a board on there. And then pass over it. And then, you know, take it down and then stop. And then try long tone again. should play. Now make them louder like Yeah. And then up and down. Tell me continue. And then slow down like tea in time out. Turn your hand chop down like this. Yeah. You slide your hand and that's going to slow him down and then hits. Yeah. And then hits it. Okay. What I'll do is you'll go back and sit and I'll I'll call you up. I'll go and you'll come up and stand here and I'll take this and do a little bit of sound cleansing for a while and then I'll step back center and look at you and say I'll call you up. Okay. Okay. So remember this thing saying is a mistake. Wait on keep going. So let's make a piece. You know we know the content gestures the ones that are going to call up sound. We know long tone pointism minimalism. No problem. Everybody's good on that. Point to point. No problem. Scanning. scanning with pointalism getting louder slow faster I might use shape lock remember so I won't use many gestures point to point don't forget that if I point you stop when I take my hand away but if you continue to go after I stop then don't stop I mean if you want to pull away if you continue to play don't stop let me look at you and say try to come off of the point but if you don't you're Let's make a piece. By the way, minimalism could be with a swing feel. Minimalism with a rock feel. Minimalism swing field. Classical uh a classical feel. A rock feel. Klesmer. Irish. Funk march. Okay. Tap note. C D E F G A B flat sharp. C C sharp. Oh my god. D A C major 7 chord in figure one. Who plays in what part of the chord? Minimalism with a swing field C major 7 chord configuration one configuration. Okay. All right. Just to dig a little deeper. If we had more time, you know, like we were rehearsing for a long a long week of this say we did a concert at the end of the week, you would be really proud of this. But you you already are. We can do it tonight. I just want to show you the more depth is how the art goes in there. There's all kinds of ways to sign rhythms and all kinds of stuff, you know. So, here we go. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. There you go. Hey. Okay. Heat. Thank you guys. Open. Yeah. So, we'll do a short piece, the two of us, two something, and really listen, and then we talk. I don't know. Don't tell me. Okay, good. Good. So, if you wanted anybody wanted to, you know, to work with the language as a composer, you go in front of the mirror like a a conductor or dancer might and you stand there and you look at your gestures, you know, and you detach them from one to the next to the next to the next. So, it's really detached because The body is what makes the clarity and movement is what makes it happen. So if I stand in front of you and just go, you know, that's what I'm going to get. But the the more clear that I sign the better, you know, for the communication. So how are we? I think we're over. But that that's great. Okay. Good. Good. Thank you very much. It's been a pleasure to work with you guys. Thank you. Thank you.