The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. So, uh in terms of uh what we're going to be discussing today, it's various aspects of feed forward loops. First of all, uh we will go over this idea of network motif in more detail. We talked about it a little bit in the context of autoregulation and you there was a simple argument there that uh that autoregulation is a network motif and in order to understand how to detect network motifs in general, we have to look uh at a little more detail in terms at these subgraphs and the frequency that they'll appear and so forth. Um and then after seeing that the feed forward loop is a network motif, then there's this question, oh well, what might be the functional significance? And uh in in the chapter that you just read, you'll you found that this so-called coherent type one feed forward loop has a nice attribute that it's a sign sensitive delay element. Okay. Uh the incoherent type one has this feature that it's a pulse generator and kind of related to that it can also speed up the response time or right so it can uh make the response time for turning on uh shorter right so speed up the response rate if you'd like. Uh we'll also maybe say a little bit that there's been later work demonstrating that uh that the feed the incoherent type one can also act as a fold uh fold detector. So uh it can sense changes in the kind of fold uh the fold change of concentrations of proteins. And then finally we'll say something about how you can extend uh these ideas of network motifs to larger structures in particular how you can get useful uh temporal programs. All right. So we we we started out with this network uh that is kind of our our base network is this transcription uh network characterized in E.coli. Right. and and we've already talked about it uh some right so there's uh going to be uh some uh some measure of the number of of nodes and the number of edges right so we have nodes we have e edges okay and this is from experimental uh measurements of you know what is it that regulates what okay now uh from this we we'll have some set of uh kind of directed edges Okay? Because indeed we know that there's going to be some uh some transcription factor that will regulate some other protein. We what we want to know is are there patterns that occur more regularly than what you would expect based on chance. Okay. Now autoregulation we found indeed appeared more regularly or more frequently than you would expect by chance. And there are a limited number of other network motifs that have that property. Right? In particular we we'll kind of analyze this idea of um of of the feed forward loop. Okay. Now there were uh in in the network that we kind of talk about a lot there around four there were around 400 uh genes or proteins and then around 500 uh observed edges. All right. And this would be inter you know interactions or regulation regulation. Okay. Now, uh there's this idea of sparseness. All right. Can somebody remind us maybe what this is supposed to tell us about? Yes. So, yeah. So, there should be roughly potential edges. All right. So, there's kind of n possible edges. Yeah. All right. I mean, if you just connected everything is about the order of I mean, so roughly there's only 500. Okay. Right. And we should be clear this is n squed possible. We might even want to add directed edges since we're uh okay. And uh you know whereas what we what we see is that the the actual number of edges that we we observe in this real network is is actually around order n. Okay. Right. So this sparseness which is also this probability P if we're going to make a network somehow that has some similar property to the observed network. This is the there's some probability P that the that an actual edge will appear. This is given by the observed number of edges divided by the total possible number of edges which is indeed n^ squ. Okay. What you see is that at least in this network uh this p is much less than one. Okay. So this is this is what we mean by sparse. Okay. Now uh you can also think about the question of how many edges does a typical uh does a typical gene have you know say emanating from it and well you can see that it's around one right of course each edge connects two things right so if you were to say on average each gene has kind of one edge going out and one edge going in right of course there might be a reason to believe that these averages are not as uh well they can be misleading and why why might the average be misleading? Yes. A distribution with heavy tails, right? It's going to be a distribution with heavy tails and in particular on which side. So the average will be right. Okay. So, right. So, the average is always the average, but there there's going to be some tip, but I guess the question is there's going to be there going to be some proteins or some genes with many of these outgoing edges, right? And more generally, I do do you expect that? I mean, there there's a natural limitation in all this. I mean, it's we're part of the value of this approach is that we're abstracting away from a lot of the the the microscopic or the biological details, but every now and then it's good to go in and think about it a little bit, right? So, there's a good reason that you would expect many uh proteins to not have any outgoing edges. And why would that be? Yes. examples of detector protein, but they're only involved in one specific function rather than having Okay. Right. So, so there are some proteins that have rather specific functions, you might say. And that I think that's true. I think that's part of it, but there's maybe something that's maybe even a little bit more general that we that's worth pointing out here. Yeah. Anything that's not a transcription factor, right? So, I mean, you know, we we say transcription, we don't never really quite specify, but what it means is it's something that can affect the transcription of other things, right? So it's it we're talking about the function of it when we say transcription factor and just you know a majority of the proteins in any genome are not transcription factors. What that means is that they to first order cannot at least directly here influence the transcription of other of other genes. Okay? Right? So this is you know a reflection of of this power law distribution that we observe. So you could argue, oh well, it's maybe not a surprise that these that this outgoing edge distribution is power log because we know that there are some transcription factors that control many things and there are many proteins that don't control any other u any the expression or the transcription of any other proteins directly. Right? Okay. All right. But at least it's just useful to think all right you know on a it's good to know what the properties of this thing are on average even though for the for the outgoing edges the the average is a little bit dangerous because it's really that most proteins don't have any outgoing edges and then some have many all right so this is this probability P and this is going to be useful because we're going to uh this this P will kind of appear when we're trying to construct these random networks Right. Right. So what we're going to do is we're going to uh ask uh you know how how frequently or how many of a given subgraph do you expect to appear in this larger network that we have here. Okay. Now we know that and we're and we're going to characterize characterize each of these subgraphs by kind of two properties. Right. And and in particular, what we want to do is we want to if we're going to analyze some uh smaller kind of graph, we just have to keep track of how many um how many nodes are in the subgraph and how many uh edges are in the subgraph. All right. So for example, if we have autoregulation, then we're just talking about little n equal to one, little g equal to one, right? Whereas in the case of this feed forward loop, uh what what is little n? What's g? All right. Well, uh, you know, we can count now. All right. So, here indeed n is equal to three. 1 2 3 and g is also equal to three. And we're going to find that actually the fact that these two numbers are equal uh is somehow very relevant in in thinking about the dynamics of these of these networks layer. uh in this framework when I have an when I just draw an arrow in the context of a generic subgraph am I necessarily trying to say that that this is upregulation of x upregulating y no right so this is a bit confusing because uh depending on the context sometimes the arrows actually do mean upregulation sometimes they just mean regulate all right and in this case when we're talking about subgraphs we're just saying that X regulates Y in one way or the other. Right? So this is uh this is also how we're going to write the so-called coherent type one feed forward loop. But for right now, this is just a generic feed feed forward loop. Yes. Upreulate means positive regulation. Yes. Positive regulation. Yes. Say activate. Yeah. Okay. All right. All right. So the the way that we we think about this is we ask all right what's the expected number of some subgraph uh G. Okay. And indeed what we're going to be doing for right now is assuming this is an EDI random network. Okay. Now what we're told is that this is going to look something like the following. All right. Uh could could somebody explain one of one of these three terms? Uh well, you have to select edges and you have to choose them correctly. So for each one there's a chance to be chosen the right way. Okay. Right. So for here what we're going to do is we're going to say all right we're going to for example if if in this context we'll say all right we're going to choose these three okay now the question is we have to put in three edges as well to connect those nodes right and each one of them has some probability p of actually somehow appearing okay because this is uh this is what we're keeping constant from the original network right so we're assuming that we have this erdos ready network with the same number, say roughly 400 nodes. And then what we're going to do is grab maybe three of them, and ask all right, what's the probability that we get these three actual edges, right? So you get P to the G. Okay. All right. Now, where does this term kind of come from? Yes. Right. So we're going to be selecting nodes. We're assuming that this n is much larger. You know, we're assuming that we have a big network. So it's much small or much larger than the uh the size of the subgraph we're looking at. So we don't have to think about n * n minus one, n minus 2 and so forth, right? Uh and then and then there's this there there's this factor a here as well, which uh depending on how you do your counting um it it this get this is a this is a little bit tricky, but what was a again? Yes, it's the number of ways to arrange the edges. Yes. So, it's a symmetry factor. It's way of Yeah. And there I think there are multiple way multiple ways of looking at this. I think you could you could think about it as the number of ways of of rearranging X, Y, and Z and having the same u the same subgraph, right? The the the exact same one, right? Um and in this case there's actually no way to rearrange X, Y, and Z to have the same one, right? Because X is a occupies a special spot. Y is indeed again a special spot. Z is special, right? So there's no uh permutations that you can do to get the same thing, right? Whereas if you have this repress all right now, now here I'm I'm just drawing this as an arrow because again we're just thinking about the generic version of these things. All right? So it's just when we have X YZ regulating each other. All right. In this case uh you can get the same network by rotating the these x ys and z's right. So in this case you get a equal to three. Okay for pretty much all the conclusions that we're going to be talking about these factors of 1 2 3 don't actually end up being relevant but it's good to know that they uh indeed exist. Okay. All right. So this is uh this is this is fine. uh but it's it's useful to uh to express this in um in another way right in particular we can uh we can always define this lambda which is e over n right that's the mean number of incoming edges or the mean number of outgoing edges right and um and with this we can we can express this this guy in in a way that is is surp you know surprisingly informative, right? Okay. So, this is uh this is really I mean nothing happened except that we just can't plug this thing in here, right? But by doing so, we we see something that's kind of interesting, which is that there's reason to believe that for many of these networks, this lambda, which this mean number of uh incoming edges, that lambda will be roughly similar whether you're talking about a network that is uh 500 nodes large or 5,000 nodes large, right? So this lambdas and indeed in this case it's around one, right? It's around just over one. Okay? Right? So that means that when we think about the number of subgraphs that will be in this large network right it scales with the size of the of the overall network with this little n minus little g okay and in particular in cases when you have the same you're analyzing a subgraph with the same number of nodes as as edges then you just get n to the zero and it doesn't scale with the number, right? So for those and indeed for basically all those subgraphs where little n is equal little g then you you expect of order one of those you know for if if lambda's around one then you expect of order one of those to appear in the network right and and you know so from a very kind of simple standpoint the networks like the feed forward loop that we see that is a network motif what the expectation is that in a random network you'd get around one maybe two whereas if you see many of them, you know, dozens, then it's indeed a network motif, right? Are there are there any questions about how that appeared in the chapter or the argument there? Okay. So indeed we can uh we can actually just then say for for the feed forward loop we can just go ahead and ask how many are were observed in E.coli this this this this network that was actually observed. All right. And this was 42 I believe. Right. Whereas if you do this analysis for the Erdish Renie random network, you get 1.7 kind of plus or minus 1.3 because these things they appear kind of randomly. So they should be plus on distributed. Uh all right. So you you expect of order one of them to appear in a random network with this same kind of sparse the same number of edges. But we actually observe this much larger number. So then you can say all right this uh this is evidence for uh the feed forward loop being being a network motif right that that for some reason this subgraph appears more frequently than what you would expect uh based on chance. Okay. Of course, then you know we we alluded to this on the at the end of class on Tuesday that maybe this Erdos ready network is not the proper null model or null network to be using. Right? And maybe we should be using one of these degree preserving networks. Uh right so maybe we should try to preserve more of the properties of the original network. Right? And what what is the what's the property that that we would we well yeah so what is it that you know can somebody you know say a little bit a little bit what do we mean by degree preserving because there's there's an element that this that our null model here already preserves something about the degree right right it preserved the means right so it's not just that it's not that we picked up some random null model some random er network right so yeah what what is it that we want to uh keep track keep track of in this degree preserving work. That's more or maybe Oh, yeah. I saw a hand over there, but I don't want to I'm not trying to call on people randomly, although I I'm going to start doing that in the second half of the semester just after drop date. Right. So, right. So, we're going to um preserve not only the mean of the incoming and outgoing edges, but also the actual degree distribution, right? And in a very concrete way, we can actually just say that each node actually does maintain the exact same number of edges. Right. Right. So in particular, we can say uh here we say that all nodes have the same um nodes maintain their their uh degree distribution or maintain uh I'll say number of incoming outgoing Right? And uh and and there was a simple algorithm for doing that. If you recall, what you can do is you can just take two edges randomly and just swap the locations. And you do that many many times and you end up maintaining uh the both the incoming out and the outgoing uh numbers of of edges. And uh if you do this analysis on a degree preserving random network, well, you get a seven plus or minus five, right? So this makes a big difference. Okay? So if for example the experimentally observed network had 10 of these feed forward loops, then what you'd see is that actually comparing to the erdos reni you would have said oh well that that's a network motif. Whereas comparing to this degree preserving you would have said it's uh it's not right. Yes. I don't know why I haven't asked this before. Is it also true that this degree preserving thing is roughly in terms of expectations? Yeah, I think it it's it's close is the um but I think not um I think it ends up not being quite but I think um but it's it's it's yeah but it is close. Yeah. So the um I think that it is Certainly now this this well you'll notice that here there are 400 genes. How how many genes does E.coli have anybody? A few thousand. Right. So so the the the network that that Uri analy analyzed in that original paper was not the full transcription network of E.coli. How do people actually Yeah. Well, figuring out any any part of it is actually hard in some ways. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, actually that in this the way that they actually annotated this particular network, I I I'm not sure. Can does any uh I mean, how would you Yeah. What what kind of data would you need in order to uh to get at this? Does anybody have any I mean, if I asked you to do this in your lab, what would you do? Yes, maybe you can look at sort of binding energies of these proteins, right? So you could actually use a computational program to try to is right. So to actually estimate binding affinities of these proteins to the to the DNA, right? Yeah. And actually and these days actually experimentally you could actually just measure for the entire proteome basically just the um the affinity of binding to to different promoters. Of course, that doesn't prove that it's g going to regulate expression, right? But that that at least points you in in the right direction. Then you can actually if you want you can just experimentally go and you know put the this protein on an inducible promoter and just see if it does regulate expression, right? Yeah. So actually at this stage people have for something like E.coli, we have uh collections of um strains where every gene has been removed, right? uh we have collections where every gene has been tagged right and of course when I say every this means that it was tried to make it for every and then of course if it's an essential gene you can't remove it if um you know in some cases it's hard to put to attach fluorescent protein so forth right but but there are collections both for ecoli and for for uh for budding yeast um where where this has been done any other any other questions about Can can somebody say why it might be that I mean is this a surprise that that this number is larger than this number? And in particular would um would the degree preserving random network have a larger expectation for every subgraph? No. Okay. But in particular for the feed forward loop, can can somebody say why we should have expected that that the degree preserving should would have a larger number than the yeah distribution towards lower numbers of edges. Okay. So, um I I I think that I I I think the explanation had the right flavor, but I think there were two two inversions in there that kind of like a knot and a knot turned into a right I don't know. Um incidentally, uh this is a nonsequator, but this happened to me once. The airport San Francisco, I was going to the airport, I I got the wrong airline in my head, you know, so I thought I was on the wrong airline, so I went to the wrong terminal. But then it turned out that I also was wrong about which airline was in which terminal. So then I was actually at the right terminal even though I just made two mistakes. Um but you know you can't count on this happening all the time. So um but um yeah. All right. So but yeah. So I think but I think that there there were there was two things that were mixed up in that explanation but it yeah for transcription factor it has many outgoing outcoming edges and you just have to Right. Right. So yes so it's in Yeah. So there in the actual network there are there are some nodes with many outgoing edges right and then what's you just need to add another line between that's right you somehow just have to add one more edges right so because x actually has two outgoing edges right so then so there's a sense of the feed forward loop here but you can think about x as being some transcription factor and then what you need is just to get and there and and x might have many many outgoing edges Right? And so to get a feed forward loop, what you need is you need for one of those uh one of those uh genes that are targeted to just target another one that's in that network. Right? So if you have X that's regulating regulating 100, then actually that presents many opportunities to um to generate feed forward loops. Yes. Um at the same time Z more edges. Yeah. This is the problem with verbal arguments is that you can construct anything. Yeah. Um and indeed I would say that uh this is an example. Um what we said is that the distribution of incoming edges is roughly kind of similar to an ER network in the sense that if if the mean is one then you kind of sometimes get zero, sometimes one, sometimes two, and they're all kind of reasonable, right? So in that sense, I'd say this uh Z uh node is not so unusual from the standpoint of a degree preserving network. If Z had 100 incoming edges, then this would then then it's certainly true what you're saying is that uh that the degree preserving would then have fewer. Okay. All right. So I think that so this is this is the basic argument for why uh why you might go and look at what the function of a feed forward loop might be. I just want to say a few things that um about this original paper that URI published. All right. So it's in science in 2002 uh network motifs colon simple building blocks of complex networks right so uh so so the authors did indeed analyze both the ecoli and the yeast transcription network but they also analyzeed a number of other networks uh to look at these these network motifs so they also analyzed uh neurons from um from segance the worm where the conneto has been known for several decades now and again they found that feed forward loops appeared more frequently than what would be expected bas based on uh based on uh the null model of degree preserving. Okay. And that that's encouraging is that's saying oh maybe feed forward loops really are somehow preserving some they're performing some useful uh information processing task. Okay. Um of course you know you always have to you know there's also the spatial arrangement you know you can all you can worry about a lot of things but it's but that's encouraging. Uh he also analyzed food webs in that case food feed forward loops were not uh were not a network motif but other things were. All right. So that's interesting. Uh he analyzed the design of um electronic circuits, a forward logic chip. I don't I don't know what that is. But then also uh the worldwide web, it's another network people love to analyze. And indeed he saw uh saw some other patterns. And and the idea is that in each of these contexts the network motifs are different depending upon the microscopic structure that's leading to it or the function that is being you know that's maybe evolving towards or whatnot. Right? So it's a way of getting insight into the uh the properties of these complex networks. All right. Are there any questions uh about these network uh kind of the global network structures before we get into the feed forward loop in particular? All right. So, first I want to just go ahead and and do a few of our little concept questions just because um you have the cards and you know and I think that the chapter is actually pretty um pretty nice in the sense of you can read it and get a get a clear sense of of what's going on. Um but let's uh let's start by just considering this feed forward loop which is this uh coherent type one. So now the arrows actually mean activating right? Right. So we have X going to Y. Um now it's going to be going to a Z. But we have to remember that now that there are two inputs, we do have to specify how the inputs are going to be um combined, right? And and for now what we'll do is we'll assume that it's an AND gate. Okay. And that's that goes to Z. Okay. All right. As always, we're going to have to think, okay, there's some signal X and signal Y that come in here, right? In many many cases, uh these transcription factors in addition to being regulated by another say transcription factor may also be responsive to some signal. Okay? And uh there there was uh a nice example of this in uh in Uri's book which was uh how how ecoli decide whether to make the suite of uh proteins that are required to digest the uh the carbon source arabinos the sugar arabinos. Okay. Right. But um okay, but for now let's just think about this and uh and we want to just make sure that we we remember and and once again it's not that you should necessarily memorize memorize these things but after having seen the argument once or twice you should be able to reconstruct all of these things. Okay. Right. So I I claimed that this is that somewhere in here there's a signs delay. Okay. All right. Now the question is in which direction is there a delay? Okay. All right. And so it's going to be some combination of on and off perhaps. All right. and check means that it's a delay in that direction actually. Well, okay, we should just have nothing there and D is don't know that direction you mean that that there's a this is this means that there's a sign that that's right. So this would be going from off to on. So turning on so this is turning turning on as compared to turning off and we're looking at um this is delay we're talking about this is in response to S sx changing concentration of Z. All right. Any any questions about what I what I'm referring to in this? Yes. Good question. I like that. All right. Si is present right so this is compared to simple regulation or i.e. Does the concentration of Z immediately start to change after uh this SX changes goes from either zero to one or one to zero. So simple regulation in this case would be that between X and Y. Yes. And make the AND gate a not an not and gate. Exactly. Yeah. Right. And you know, we're comparing to just if X is just directly regulating Z, right? Because what we want to know is, right? I mean, what what might a function of the feed forward loop be? All right. So, I'll give you 15 seconds to think through this. Once again, it's not that you should have memorized it. No, I don't want anybody saying that they just couldn't read my handwriting. All right. Um this is for I'm sorry. So this is um I'm asking about the for this feed forward loop the coherent type one with an andgate and I'm comparing I'm say you know I'm asking is there a delay you know either turning on or turning off all right as compared to the uh the simple regulation of X regulating Z and of course this is my B seminus X and we assume that X is already present Right. All right. Do you need more time? All right. Ready? Three, two, one. Okay. We got a clear majority of the group actually is saying C. Okay. All right. And I So I All right. Can and we can we can get at this kind of visually, graphically. You know, I I really like graphs. I think they're much nicer than equations. Um, you know, different people can agree or disagree, but uh but you know that's my right. The idea is that we have sx starts out off and say turns on. Okay. So if we think about the xstar right x was always around. So that means XAR immediately you know so the signal immediately changes X and Xar the active version right now Y and this is why we can even say Y star because the signal Y is always there right it starts out here it immediately gets this signal so it starts coming up but of course this is an AND gate which means that you need to have both active Y and active X in order to start getting expression of Z. Right? So we have if we look at Z it there's some threshold at which Y starts act allowing for expression of Z. So just because we have active X doesn't mean that we immediately start getting expression of Z. We need we need Y as well. So this comes up All right. However, when the signal here comes goes away, Xstar immediately goes away. This is the separation of time scale idea. Right. This is just a binding of a small molecule or so, right? What that means is that okay, Y star is there a delay on Ystar, right? We're going to do a verbal. Is there a delay before Ystar just starts coming down? you know. Okay. So question it's going to decay exponentially once it starts going. Does it start going immediately or does it is there a delay? Right? So the question is is there a delay before the exponential fall off of y star? You're going to say yes or no. Ready? Three two one. No delay. Great. Okay. And indeed over here it's the same thing. No delay because of the gate, right? expression of Z requires both Xstar and Ystar. So although Ystar is still there since it's an andgate Z goes down. Okay, right that means that in this case we have a signs sensitive delay for turning on Z but not for turning off Z. Right? Of course, this can be useful depending upon the costs and benefits of having false positives and false negatives in the signal, right? Okay. So, if there if if this andgate were switched to an orgate, how does this thing change? All right. I'm going to give you 10 seconds. All right. So, question is, if I convert this to an orgate, does it change anything or not? Okay. Do you need more time? Right. Ready? Three, two, one. Now we got a lot of B's. Great. So, all right. So, in this case, it's coherent type one feed forward loop with uh with an orate. Okay. Uh I'm not going to go over the logic, but I encourage you to uh if if you're confused by this, just make sure that you can reconstruct the argument. Okay. Um from my standpoint, you know, these equations, I mean, you should be it's good to do equations, but um it's more important to be able to understand the logic here. Did you have a question? Yeah. So, how is it easy to prove experimentally what kind of gate there is? Yes. So, actually, yeah. So the idea is that um in many cases you can put X on an inducible promoter, you can put Y on an inducible promoter. So you can just some small molecule will allow you to control these, right? And then and then you can measure say fluoresence on on Z. And that that's the most direct thing because it's experimentally doing it yourself. Of course, much of the data that you see in the chapter is is kind of just looking at the fluorescent Z as a function of the um the signals that you put in and that that can that's certainly an argument for it. And then ultimately what you'd like is to to measure things in multiple different ways. Confirm that it's all consistent. Yeah. All right. Any other questions about this idea of signs sensitive delay element? Okay. Yes. Is it possible to look at the actual genes and see if that interpretation makes Yeah, that's a good question, right? So, so if you look at across both EC coli and yeast, what you see is that of the feed forward loops, um about half of them are coherent type one, right? Which is one of the eight possible kinds of feed forward loops, right? Um right. And so what you're asking is in this case, let's say there are 20 coherent type one. How many of what fraction of them does this all make sense? Uh and and it's a good question. I I don't know. I haven't yeah haven't I haven't looked at you know because it's always dangerous of course that we find one example of the 20 where it it kind of makes sense conceptually and then we go and we test it experimentally and see that it all works and then um and then we're convinced right but but you're pointing out that maybe maybe we shouldn't be convinced yet uh but I'm just curious you're proposing a functional kind of explanation if you know what the genes are that that's right you should be able to go and see whether it it's somehow makes sense. And of course in all, you know, makes sense is always a slippery concept, right? Because, you know, we can always, it's not that this radically changes the logic, right? you know and then you know and then in any given circumstance you can maybe say oh well you can kind of wave your arms and con and and and make up a story where it kind of makes sense you know but then um the only way to really feel comfortable with it or not is for you yourself to go and look at them and see how comfortable you are with each of those arguments right um and you know I haven't actually done that right so one more one more question in this regard all right so let's imagine that Instead of thinking about changes in syx with sy present, let's now flip things. Let's assume that sx is present and ask about sy turning on and off. Okay, again with the ANDgate, I want to know in which direction is there a delay when turning either on or off. Now we're talking about with sy turning on or off. All right. Does everybody understand the question? All right. I'll give you 10 seconds to make sure. All right. Do you need any more time? Let's go ahead and vote. Ready? Three, two, one. All right. Okay. So, I'd say now it's it's pretty overwhelming the the group again agrees that now it'll be a right. So if if if we have sx equal to 1 and sy changing then in that this case we don't get any of these delays right so there's sort of immediate changes in z as sy changes okay and that's that's because this is well this is an endgate if x is already there that means that we've already sati satisfied this half of it right so then we're just reduced to simple regulation this is just equivalent to y regulating z so there no delays either turning on or turning All right. So what you what you read about from earlier's book is that the coherent type one uh is perhaps the most common of the feed forward loops observed in these transcription networks. Uh the other uh of the feed forward loops that is distinctly over represented is this incoherent type one. Right? So it's very similar with the exception that now what we have is X activating Y but now Y is going to be repressing Z and we have X again activating Z. Uh, and all right then and we're going to use we're going to use an andgate again. Okay. And edge going to Z. All right. Um, for me I find it sometimes a little bit confusing to think about a repression and an ANDgate. So it is useful to make sure that we kind of understand the the logic of all these things. Okay. So if we have say xstar yar and we can just make sure this is absence or presence. All right digital approximation of each of these things and the and the question is uh if we have um expression of um of z. Okay. Now, the way to just think about this is that this this guy is equivalent to kind of inverting the um the sign of of Y star. Okay. And then we have an ANDgate. So, this is a 01. That's not an and we have a well zero is enough to give us a zero. One one. Okay. So, here we get activation here. Here we don't. Okay. All right. And so we can we can do a similar kind of story of what we did here except that now instead of Y being an activator, it's now a um a repressor. Okay. And again, we're going to have think about what happens with the signal coming in. Right. Is is there any difference up to up to this point? Let's think about All right. Everybody think about this for a second. All right. So, this is a case where we already have signal Y, right? It's allowing say the Y repressor to bind. But then we make sx appear. I want to know verbally yes or no. Is there a do do I have to do any draw? Do do I have to draw something new up to this point here? Ready? Okay. So, what do I want to say? Yeah. Is there a change from this drawing up to this point? Ready? Three, two, one. Yes. All right. And that's because actually Z starts coming up at this point. Right? It's very very nerve-wracking these these these quizzes. I know. Um right. And and and but this is a little bit you know the idea is that here Y is now a repressor. So it's not that you need Y in order to get expression of Z is that once you have Y star then you stop getting expression of Z. Okay. All right. So it it looks like um maybe I'll make it. All right. So in this case everything everything's the same here except that it's it's in this case you start getting Z coming up right but then once Y gets up to a sufficiently high level it starts repressing okay and in that case it might do something like this. Okay. Now, depending upon the strength of that repression, these this curve might look different, right? Because it could come all the way down to zero depending if it's a if it's a very effective repressor. Okay? So, and depending upon whether it's fully repressed or only partially repressed, you might think about it as either being a pulse generator, right? So, you get some Z and then it goes away. Okay? Or you could think about it as a way of increasing um the rate at which you're able to turn this gene on, right? Because it's sort of like this negative autoregulation idea that initially you get lots of expression and then later you stop getting as much. Of course, here you would get an overshoot, but you know, maybe that's not all bad. Right? Um right. So in this what what we you might say is that this is a pulse generator and this here is uh a way of making t on go down. Are there any questions about the logic of what uh what happens in this incoherent type one? Yes. Can you explain the genome? Sure. Um, so let me let's zoom in. All right. Um, and and we can look at Z. So it kind of gets expressed and then it represses like this. Okay. And then you always have to ask what do you mean by T on? And and we have this working definition which is that we say all right well T on is defined as there's some equilibrium concentration right. So this is Z equilibrium and we often define T on as the time in which you get half of that express half of that concentration. Right? So what we do is we say we take half of that and we uh we say okay where does this cross crosses right here. We go oh I I maybe overdid my drawing. It's too good of a Okay. So T on in this case would be that time right there. Okay. Now of course you have to say well what what should we compare that to and the comparison should be the t the ton that you would have had with just simple regulation right so that's based on the the generation time and you can actually see what the generation time is here because this thing this thing in the absence of the repression would have done something like that right so this tells us that the simple regulation would have led to something that looks like this right so you see that t on here uh this is T on uh simple is is much larger than the T on that you actually get here. Right? All right. So from this argument there are we can now try to recapitulate or recall for ourselves uh the various strategies for uh increasing the uh rate of response to to signals. All right. So we have uh we we can think about all right there's some t you want to decrease t on and you want to decrease t off right and we want to think about maybe different strategies that we've we've encountered over the last few weeks. What are what what are some of the what were some of the strategies? Yes. Higher degradation. All right. Higher degradation, right? Um, so increase degradation. Yeah. Well, or maybe I'll just say decrease lifetime. Well, all right. Well, you know, it's the same thing. Okay. So, decrease the protein lifetime. And what And what does that do for us? Does that uh decrease T on or does it decrease T off? both. All right. So, this this decreases T t T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T on and it decreases T off. What are the what were some of the other strategies? Uh, negative auto. Negative auto regulation. Great. And what does that do for us? Um, all right. So, let's let's let's do a vote. This is a good opportunity. This is like review for exams for you guys right now. All right. So, negative auto regulation. Does it decrease T on T off? Both, neither, something or another. All right. 8 seconds. Ready? Three, two, one. All right. So, we got um many C's but many other things as well, right? But yeah, indeed um it it's only going to decrease T on actually, right? And that's because remember the negative autoregulation what it does is initially it makes a lot of this protein but then once you hit the repression threshold then it sort of represses itself and so you you you are able to kind of rapidly get up to that level and then you you clamp it there. Whereas turning off that just means that you just tell it to stop making it. Right? And so it's always going to then decay at um the rate that is dictated by its effective lifetime which is kind of either from the protein or from from the actual degradation or from the the growth of the cell. Right? So it's this only decreases tion. And then indeed we just learned about another one here which was the incoherent incoherent type one feed forward loop with kind of modest amounts of repression, right? Uh incomplete repression or so. And and what does that do here? Oh, did we actually even figure out what it did here? Oh, we maybe didn't say. All right, five seconds again over here. All right, what is it? Does it We've We've Well, I told you one half of it already, but what is the other half? All right, you can. All right. Ready. Increment type one feed forward loop. What does it do? Ready. Three, two, one. Okay, we got a again a bunch of C's. All right. Um in indeed this is um and of course I'm using the same chart for the signs sensitive delay and for the um time to turn on and turn off. So I hope that that doesn't confuse you. If it does I'm sorry. All right. So this is this is it decreases t on but not t off. Right. This is an andgate. So you need both active xstar and y star. Right. So the moment that you u make uh sx go away then it's going to start u oh oh wait now I'm explaining a different one okay sorry this is the time okay so we're at z okay but yeah it immediately starts going down but at the same normal rate of effective lifetime right okay many more ways to make uh to make a protein quickly than to get rid of it quickly Right. Are there any questions about what we've said here? So, while we're on the topic of uh kind of response times and and so forth, uh it's it's it's important to remember that the characteristic time for all these things is kind of the generation time or the protein lifetime, right? So these are these are ways of processing information over time scales that are kind of like minutes maybe even tens of minutes maybe hours right so it's rather slow okay now is that in general going to be good enough for all everything that a cell needs to do no okay so it's important to highlight the that you know transcription is slow right so that means that transcription networks are going to be slow, right? And that's both because you actually have to do the transcription and translation so forth, but also you just have to change the concentrations of proteins. Right? So if if you need to uh kind of respond to things more rapidly, then what is it? What is it then you need to do? Phosphorate. Phosphor Yeah, it's all about phosphorilation. Yes. Uh indeed phosphor, right? So you need if you want to be fast you have to you can't have um you can't be changing overall protein concentrations you have to change protein state right and phosphorilation is is kind of the classic way of doing that right so uh I just want to highlight that you know you know for speed uh you need uh just to to do kind of protein uh protein networks all right so we're not actually going to be reading uh the chapter uh analyzing kind of these map pine cascades and so forth but uh but if you're interested in such things I very much encourage you to do so. It's uh also nice chapters. Uh maybe not as nice as the first as the first four, which is part of why we're not reading them, but um but it's it's a very important insight in the sense that we spent a lot of time talking about transcription networks just because uh there's a lot of I think simple beautiful things that you can say about them. Whereas they are intrinsically limited in terms of speed. Okay? So for uh for much of what a cell needs to do, it has to already have the proteins there and then and then and then you can take advantage of these these rapid processes, right? So we talk about SX rapidly binding changing the state of X. Okay, from the standpoint of transcription networks, we just draw this as a straight line, you know, right? It's rapid. But what that's saying is that if you just change states of proteins, then you can do uh you can do a lot of information processing rather rapidly, right? And you don't have to do do just a simple thing of of SX binding X. You can also have proteins regulating each other and then and and performing logic functions at the protein uh only level. Okay. All right. What I want to do for the last uh 20 minutes is is uh say something about temporal programs that can be implemented with sort of larger uh network motifs. And in particular, this is material basically from chapter five of uh of the book, which again we're not going to be reading. It's uh I think it's again it's beautiful, but it's it's really simple. So I think that in in 20 minutes we can we can cover it just fine. All right. All right. So for many cases, for example, in the context of um metabolic pathways, right? It might be the case that you have, you know, some protein, well, we'll call them Z's. All right, some you'll have some protein Z1 that um that does something, right? So, that catalyzes um some All right, so we might have some, you know, molecule one that's converted into molecule 2 by Z1, converted into molecule three by Z2. Right. Um and Right. Right. So many metabolic pathways have this structure where there are a series of enzymes that are doing something to the product of the previous enzyme. Right? Now the question is let's say that this is some carbon source that we didn't have before but now uh it's appeared in our environment. Okay. So what we would like is we'd like to start digesting uh that carbon source or uh in the flip side maybe we have to make some complex molecule or an amino acid or so and so then what we're doing is we're building something up coming down right now uh in either case if you were to if before you weren't making these Z proteins but now you want them. All right. Question is, uh, maybe you could just make them all at the same time, but maybe it would be better to make some of them first and some of them later. What do you think? All right. Um, and you know, let's say for the sake of argument that you would want to have some first and some. Which ones would you want first? Yeah, the ones you need first, right? So, you'd maybe want to first have Z1, then Z2, then All right. um you know it's it's a kind of a it's a trivial statement but you know you might not actually think about it right uh and the question is how might we be able to do this okay well uh there's a very simple thing called the single input module right the idea here is there's some uh transcription factor x which actually does this fabulous thing where it creates all these guys Okay. All right. Interestingly, this also often has autoregulation. All right. Um in order to um for example stabilize the concentration of it. Okay. But this single input module, the reason it's called a a single input module is because uh the the network motif is saying not just that X makes many Z's, right? that actually you can't you can't actually argue that that's a a network motif from the standpoint of a degree preserving network because of course this is just saying well some nodes you know activate many other nodes right and in a degree preserving network that's always still going to be true right but you can say that such a thing is a network motif when you say that these Z's are only regulated by X right so that happens somehow more frequently than what you would effect. Okay. Um although now that I just said that I'm a little bit worried that even the degree preserving would um I think you have to be a little more subtle in defining uh your null model in that case. All right. But I'll just say that this happens more frequently than you might expect, which is that you have one transcription factor uh say activating many um many different proteins. And this makes sense, right? Because if all these Z's are involved in the same metabolic program, then when you want Z1, you also want Z2 and you also want Z3, right? So this makes a lot of sense. Okay? But what is uh not what is a little bit less obvious perhaps is that it's possible to do this such that uh such that you first make one and then you make the other right and the way that that you can do this is just by you have different activation kind of thresholds K1 K2 etc up to KN for each of these right so then if X is turned on right so let's say that you first see something right so this you actually have to have x start at zero and then grow over time. Okay, but then if you just have different thresholds, right? Now the question is where should I draw k1 and where should I draw right? Do I draw k1 the low position or the high position? Low. Perfect. All right. So we say k1 here's k2. Here's k uh n and then there might be some others in between. Right. So the idea is that X grows over time and you first kind of activate expression of gene one and then gene two and so forth and then the proteins will kind of naturally appear in the proper order and there's actually beautiful data in chapter 5 uh illustrating this in the context of arginine biosynthesis. Okay. All right. So it's um it's quite it's quite neat to see that the it's not just you know I of course it's easy to kind of think up this idea and say oh yeah maybe the cell might want to do this right but then it's quite cool and you see that actually in some cases the cell actually really does do this right and you can actually see that they're expressed se sequentially in the same order as they appear in the in the bio biosynthetic pathway. Okay. All right. So this is um this kind of gives you a warm fuzzy feeling inside, right? All right. I'm not going to make you vote on whether you have a warm fuzzy feeling, but um yeah, could you also have you know just some sort of Z1 required for transcription? Ah yes, so you right. So you you could you could have a cascade in that way. Um that's that's a really good question that would work but um but there's a problem which is that it's super slow, right? because like there's a characteristic time scale for each of these things which is this cell generation time and here when when I say you want it a little bit after you want it after the other what I'm what I'm saying is you might want it a few minutes after right I mean you know and so in the context of development and some cases that some things that really are very slow then that is actually what happens there's a long cascade of you know one activating two activating you know but in the context of of this yeah you you really want something that's just delayed by five minutes each or maybe even just a couple minutes Right? And in that case um because really the the range over which you can have this sort of delay like this from the beginning to the end I this is still you know it might be you know one to two say cell generations slash lifetimes right so you you just can't get much more of a dynamic range otherwise you're going to be in trouble because you can't have this be too close to the top otherwise if you're a little bit off you you're you know so it really maybe we should even just say one generation right so that's kind of how uh how much of a delay delay you might reasonably be able to get from this mechanism or the and and indeed and that's as much as you would want for some something like this. Okay, so this is uh this is great. Uh I think you know you know when you know when I first read this I was like oh you know I was feeling it. Okay. Now the question is after this um carbon source or the need to make arginine or whatn not after it goes away then we'll stop making these uh making these proteins and the question is is this what we call a fifoq or a lifoq lio lio. It's been a long time. A lot I have a lot of faces that are like, "What are you talking?" Okay. Um, right. So, um, this is a first, first in, first out. Have you guys really you you never took any of these computer science classes where they talked about this. All right. And this is a last in first out. All right. So, um, just to be clear about what this means. So at the at the grocery store, all right, is that a first in first out or a last in first out? So first in first out, right? If you get in line first, you get out first hopefully. Okay? And when that doesn't happen, you get very annoyed and so forth, right? But last in, first out. This is for example what happens in your inbox. Okay? Right? So you have a stack of paper. people are giving you things you're supposed to like sign or fill out, you know, and the pile kind of comes up and then you know, you handle things on top of the pile first, right? So the things that get stuck at the bottom like you never get to them, right? And that's because that's a last in first out. All right? And you know, so different um depending on well in computer science, I mean they can choose these things and it's relevant and so forth, right? Uh but many there are many situations where this this sort of idea appears, right? Right. And so the question is in the single input module do we have a first in first out or a last in first out Q? All right. I'll give you 15 seconds to think about this. Yeah. Question in and out. All right. Oh god. So in and out mean what I mean is that um the concentration of each of these Z's you know these guys they they uh they were produced in different in some order right so first they we started producing Z1 then Z2s and then then and so forth up to ZN right and what I want to know is what order will they the concentration kind of go away in right and and you know you might want to We'll look at this figure because it's going to be it's going to be super useful. All right, any other questions about what I All right, so in and out refers to concentrations going up and then going down. All right, let's go ahead and vote. Ready? Three, two, one. See, I mean, people learned what a FIFO and LIFO cues were and then um and and now already we can use it. Okay, so this is a last in first out Q, right? And in general, which kind of Q do we like? We like LIFO cues more, right? Um well, okay, you can argue, but um in this situation, would we like a FIFO or a LIFO Q? We're gonna, you know, I'll give you 10 seconds. All right. In a biosynthetic pathway, would you want a LIFO or a FIFO Q? Yeah. And if if and if you're totally confused by everything I'm saying, you can do the flash all the letters, numbers, whatever. Okay. Um All right. All right. So, there's some disagreement. Okay. Okay, we got um but now a majority of people are saying that uh although the single input module gives us a LIFOQ, what we might really like is a FIFOQ and why and can somebody say why that would be? We don't want that much intermediates, right? We don't want like to pile up those intermediates, right? So just for the same reason that we wanted to start with Z1 and then get Z2 and so forth, right? And the reason that was because there's no point in having Z2 until after we have Z1, right? Because there's nothing for Z2 to do. it' be wasted energy to make it. In the same way, when it's when we're getting rid of these proteins, we would actually like to get rid of them first, this one, and then later. Z1's point shows up again, you want to have Okay. Well, yeah. Carbon source showing up again, that's I think that's a separate argument. Yeah. And so the reason that we right the statement is really just that if we first get rid of ZN then we are just going to pile up molecule N minus one right so yeah that's right that's right so you can just think about like the flow of those of the metabolites of the molecules in there and you you kind of want to first get rid of this so then we stop making this and then we kind of travel on down. Okay. So there are many con contexts in which you would perhaps really like to have um a FIFOQ and indeed one of the things that uh that had been studied uh previously was the fleellar biosynthesis pathway. So uh ecoli and many other bacteria they make these fugella that allows them to swim right we're going to talk a lot about that in coming weeks but in this context uh what it had been what had been found actually is that it is indeed a fifo cube right so when they first start to make these fugella they make and it's this is a big complicated machine right but they they make it in the order that it appear that it's transported and put in the membrane okay but then when it is taken away when you stop making the flugellar components then it's again in the same order as um as they were made in which kind of makes sense. Now uh the question is how might we be able to do that. Okay. Now in the um I think all right so let me explain it and the basic answer is via an extension of these feed forward loops. So it's what we call a multi-output feed forward loop. Right? What we have here is we have some x and it is going to uh come to y and then y again is going to do this thing to z1 and z2 and all the others. Okay, but it's a feed forward loop because we also have X coming in here as so and I think that we do want to have these be and gates. Let me just make sure I'm not Ah, no. Here's here's an orgate. Okay. Um All right. So what we're going to assume that all of these uh inputs are are combined via an orgate. Right? What we have is we have some K1, K2, etc. up to KN. But then we have another set of K's which are K1 primes, K2 prime, KN prime. Okay. So we have a set of K's corresponding to how X interacts with the promoter at the Z. We have a different set of K primes that tells us how Y interacts with the promoter at Z. And the question is, how can we get a FIFO order? All right, I'm going to illustrate some options and you can think about it while I do it. Are those association those are these are dissociation constants. So these are again this is where this is can be thought of as the concentration of the active protein in which it starts being effective in sending a signal to Z. question. I hope not because otherwise I'm going to be in trouble. Uh uh why don't we maybe for now let's assume that I'm I've written the right thing and then uh we'll find out we'll find out soon enough if All right. Does everybody understand the question here? All right. I'll just give you another 15 seconds to think about it. All right. Do you need more time? Just a little bit more than All right, let's go ahead and give it a go. Ready? Three, two, one. Okay. All right. So, we got um a majority B, but some C's. Okay. Um All right. So, let's try let's try to figure this out. Okay. So, what we assume is that X comes and it's going to do this and then it's going to do this, right? And we can just have two values for now. K1 and K2, right? So this is X. Now we're going to have Y. And we we can talk about and this is also XAR Y. You know, we'll assume that we always have these things. So Y is also going to come. It'll be activated here uh at some time which we don't it's going to be delayed by a little bit, right? maybe. Okay. So, that's what Y is going to do. Now, we want we want to know about uh Z1 and Z2, right? Well, the idea here is that it's going to be the K the regular K1 and K2 that determine the order that it appears. Right? We have an orgate. Y is going to be delayed. So it's really the important thing is what the um it's what the normal K's do in terms of turning on Z's. Yes. Right. And this is especially true because Y is again delayed because it has its own threshold for turning on. Right. So since Y is delayed, it won't really have a chance to influence the behavior of the X's, right? Oh, and I actually I should have drawn this delayed too as well. Right. Okay. So, it's the order of the K's that determine how Z is turned on, but it's the order of the K primes that that tell us how the Z's are turned off, right? And that's again because Y is delayed relative to X and we have an orgate. Okay, so indeed in this case if we have it like this then we want things to be in the opposite order with respect to y. So if we wanted k1 to be less than k2 then we actually want you know say kn to be I'm sorry and we want k1 here and then we want kn down below. Okay. And and the heart of this is really because of the fact that X is also regulating Y with some some other constant KY, right? And this is going to tell us how much Y is delayed relative to X. But the heart of this is that since Y is delayed, it's really the dynamics of X at the beginning that tell us how the Z's are turned on, but it's the dynamics of or it's the dynamic of the Y and the K primes, K1 prime, KN prime that tell us the order at which those uh those Z's are going to be turned off. Right? So with the proper choice of of orderings of Ks and K primes, you can then get um you can then get a a fifo cube. With that, I think we should quit. Please read the uh Sunny She's paper very carefully because it's going to be uh focused on a lot over the next lecture. All right, have a good weekend.