people being put out of work um with the advancement of these technologies is hugely concerning and I know one that you're concerned about because it seems like in everything you do it all comes back to people and the impact on people. Um I'm wondering where that drive comes from. Where did your interest in leveraging finance to positively impact people's lives come from? Because it didn't have to. there's a lot you can do with with money and not worry about positively impacting people. So tell us a little bit about that. Well, yeah, I have to say that um that was really not something that I had planned. Much of my early career was focused on applying mathematical and statistical models to investment problems, developing trading strategies, risk management policies, various kinds of systemic risk measures. It was really all geared around the amazing impact that this technology could have on the field itself on finance making finance better and uh in some of the things that I did in practice on the commercial side um started up my own asset management company and ultimately implemented some of these strategies for various kinds of hedge funds and uh investors and um at some point I mean it was very satisfying but at some point I started to wonder whether or not um you know this was uh this was it. this is, you know, what um I was meant to do. And around that time, it was about 20 years ago, a number of friends and family uh all developed cancer at the same time. Within seven years, six people close to me all died, including my mother. You know, I I really never dealt with death up close and personal before that. And so, it was a big wakeup call. And through that process realized that uh finance plays a pretty big role in cancer drug development. You know, I was pretty naive at the time. I just thought that if there was a patient in need and there was some great technology that could help that patient, that somehow magically money would just come sprinkling down and develop the drug. Um, but when I looked into it and talked to my colleagues uh here in Cambridge, uh, it became very obvious to me that that was not the case. That that there were many examples of good drugs that could help lots of patients that will never ever see it to market because there was not enough financing to bring that to the patients. So that's when I started uh thinking about how finance could play a role in that and it was actually totally selfish. I wanted to figure out how to help my friends and family uh and how to get better drugs to them. uh but in doing so it just made me realize the power of finance and and the responsibility that we have uh given that we understand the kind of things that other people don't about how to finance certain kinds of projects about how to bring money to a particular area and really make it go faster. Um that that we also have a responsibility to take some of these ideas and implement them for those really high impact high societal impact kinds of uh uh pursuits. Um so I started with that and then one thing led to another and I began thinking more broadly about how finance uh impacts society in general and realizing that there are many things that we can do to further all sorts of different goals climate change uh energy transition. There are so many different issues that really are crying out for new business models and financing strategies and these are you know well-known tools that all financial economists know but we haven't really spent time thinking about the applications. So that's been a really rewarding aspect of my current focus. Yeah. Could you give an example of how a different business model might radically change the climate trajectory that we're on? Sure. Let's talk about energy transition because clearly we are not in the process of transitioning very quickly. That's right. In fact, right now about 82% of the world's energy usage is in the form of fossil fuels. I think that might be down from 83 or 84% 10 years ago. It's not enough and we're not making a difference fast enough. A number of people who know a lot more about the issues than I do have said that we're not really right now in the business of transitioning because it's not as if we're declining our usage of energy. If anything, it's growing. So, what we need to do is to come up with new sources of energy. Energy addition as opposed to energy transition. Oh, that's interesting. And so what do you do with that? Where do you go? There are three totally green sources of energy that my colleagues tell me right now that that are um not in the renewable space. Obviously solar, wind, hydro is important, but they're not always there when we need it. We need to develop better battery technologies and that's all happening. That's good, but again, not enough. So if we want to speed up the process of energy addition, we need new sources of green energy. And there are three. There's nuclear fision. nuclear fusion and geothermal. And all of these should be areas that we pursue. And so imagine if we could support all sorts of different investment projects in all three areas and really make a concerted effort to develop these new sources of green energy. That's an example of what finance can do. But we need to develop the the political will to be able to do that. And and even part of that can be uh hastened by finance because if you can show that governments can actually save money in the long run by investing in these if they can get a good rate of return on these investments, they're much more likely to be able to write the checks that we need now. Yeah, it really does all come down to money. Unfortunately, um in most cases that seems to be true. Uh but fortunately the world has become wealthier and largely that's happened because of industrialization and the innovations in technology that we have pioneered. Uh but the wealth is not equally spread. There's definitely winners and losers and I would argue that the wealth is not necessarily being allocated in the most efficient way. If we were to change some of that allocation, we could actually get better outcomes for everybody. Nobody has to lose.