Welcome back to recitation. In this video, I'd like us to practice integration by parts. Specifically, I'd like to solve the following four problems, or I'd like you to solve the following four problems. I'd like us to find anti-derivatives for each of these functions. x e minus x x cub over the quantity 1 + x^2 arc tan x and natural log x^2. And so the main goal because we're using integration by parts is to figure out what you should make u and what you should make v prime. And why don't you give it a shot, work on that for a little bit. I'm actually going to give you one hint, and that's that this one you may want to break up in a non-traditional way. You may not want to break it up as x cubed and one over this function. You're going to want to split up this function in the numerator. Part of it will be in u, part of it will be in v prime. So that's my hint on number two. So now with that information, I'd like you to give it a shot and then I'll come back and I'll show you how I do it. Okay, welcome back. So again, what we're looking for is anti-derivatives for each of these uh each of these four functions. And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to help you pick u and v prime. And then I'm going to show you what answer I got. And I'm going to let you do the work in the middle. So let's start off with number one. So if I have x e the minus x integral of x e minus x dx, it's very easy to do either to make e the minus x either u or v prime. Doesn't really matter because an integral of e to the minus x is going to have an e to the minus x again. And a derivative is going to have an e to the minus x again with a minus sign in front in both cases. But this doesn't really change. So we have a when we go up or down it doesn't really matter if we integrate up or take a derivative. So really it's we get to pick what we do with the c to the minus x based on what we want to do with the x. Well we like taking derivatives of things that don't have two functions of x. So it'd be nice if we chose our integration by parts pieces so that this thing wasn't there anymore. So let me write down actually before I even do number one maybe I should remind you what in the integration by parts formula is. So let me just I'll just just scratch that out for a second. And what we're doing is we're going to have integral of uv prime dx. And if you recall what you saw in lecture is this should be equal to uv minus the integral of v u prime dx. And we'll put that plus c because sometimes I forget to write it at the end. So I'll put it there so I don't forget. So really what we're trying to do right is pick the u and v prime. And so we want to make this this thing this v u prime as simple as possible. So what I was saying is if we make this V prime or this U, it doesn't matter. So let's pick this. Let's pick whether we want this to be U or V prime. Well, if I make this U, then U prime is one. That's good. If I make it V prime, then V is X^2 over two. That's more complicated. So we obviously want to make this U. So for number one, we're going to choose U is equal to X and V prime is equal to E minus X. And then you can proceed from there. And I I'll leave it at that. Well, actually, just to make sure we're okay, I'll even write u prime is equal to 1 and v is going to be equal to e to the minus x. So, we'd be able to proceed from there, right? We have all the pieces we need. Now, number two, I'll give you the final answers at the end. Number two, picking u and v prime is a little more complicated. And let's look at this function x cubed over 1 + x^2 squared. The problem with picking that does not look like a two. Sorry. The problem with picking uh u and v prime here is that it's hard to see what's going to be easy to integrate. So what we want to do is rewrite this as let's see x^2 * x over 1 + x^2 squared. And now why is this any better? Well, I mean it's the same thing, but why does this help us see what we want to do? Well, if you notice this thing right here, 1 plus x^2, what is its derivative? Its derivative is 2x. up here we have an x. So this piece right here looks like it could be much more easily integrated than this right here. So this might be a little counterintuitive uh because we're going to take the harder looking thing and make that our v prime. But the nice thing is that that we can actually integrate this quantity. So we choose in this case this is our u and this is our v prime. So how do I integrate this? Well, I integrate this by using a substitution and that will give me v. And the derivative of this is quite simple. It's just 2x, right? But this is the strategy we want here. Why did we even think to split that up like that? Well, we knew we had to deal with the denominator in some fashion. And taking a derivative with this in the denominator. So putting putting this part of the function in u when I look at u prime, it's going to be even worse. It's going to be at a higher power here. It's going to be a cubic in the denominator. That's just making things worse. So, we know we'd like to integrate this denominator. We'd like it to be a part of V prime. But the problem is that if I put all the x cubed in the u and if I just had a one here for my v prime, that's I can't really integrate that very well. But if I keep one of the x's, then I can integrate this quite simply with a substitution. So, that's the that's the sort of reasoning behind why we choose it that way. All right, we've got two more to look at and then I'll give you the answers. Three. Okay, three. You've seen this trick before. The function was arc tan x. Now, you've seen this trick I'm about to do with uh with natural log of x. The same kind of thing with natural log of x. You actually saw this in one of the lecture videos because there's only one function here. You might think, well, I have no idea what I'm supposed to pick for u and v prime. But remember, it's really arc tan x times 1. Now I have two functions. And what gives us a hint for why we would want to do this is that what's the derivative of arc tan x? Let me just remind you ddx of arc tan x is 1 over 1 plus x^2. Right? We're back to actually an almost similar situation to what we had in the previous thing. ddx of aran x is 1 over 1 plus x^2. So taking a derivative of this puts it in a form that almost looks easy to integrate. What would make this function easy to integrate? If there was an x up here instead of a one, then I could use substitution. Where do we get that x from when we're when we're solving this problem and we're actually taking finding an anti-derivative of arc tan x? Well, it's going to come from the fact that I make this U and I make one V prime. So, let me write that out explicitly. U I make arc tan X and V prime I make one. What does that do in our formula? Well, we're going to be we're going to be integrating something that is V u prime. Well, V is going to be X and U prime we see right here. So, it's going to be I'm going to be integrating x over 1 plus x^2 when I start doing the integration by parts method. That's much simpler as we talked about previously because the derivative of x^2 is 2x and you have an x in the numerator when you put in that v. So, this this is sort of the flavor of of how these things are actually working. So, let me do the final one here. We have ln x over x2. Okay, let me just tell you right now in integration by parts natural log x is not something you want to make the v prime. You don't want to try and take an anti-derivative. You know an you know an anti-derivative of natural log of x ln x - x but that's certainly not going to make things any easier, right? You're actually then you've got a a product of two functions. All of a sudden everything's getting more complicated. But natural log of x has a very nice derivative because you end up with something that has just a power of x. Derivative of natural log of x, it's just 1 /x. So that's probably the way you always want to go when you see natural log of x in these integration by parts uh techniques because if I choose u is equal to ln x and then v prime in this case, I'm going to write it as a power. Let's let's think about what happens. U prime is 1 /x, right? So u prime is x to the minus1. What's v? Well, if something like let's see x^ the minus1 something like that, right? Let's make sure I did that right. Yeah, I think I did that right. So all of a sudden if I integrate v u prime, that's just a power rule. It's x to the minus2xus 2. So that's quite easy to to to integrate. So again, when I see natural log of x in a in an integration by parts method, almost always, I hate to say always, but almost always almost a guarantee that you want to take a derivative. You want to make that the u. So hopefully that makes sense. Some of these strategies I tried to pick ones that were were somewhat different so you could see some different types of strategies we needed. And now I've I've done these earlier, so I'm just going to write down what the answers actually are, and you can you can compare to what uh what you got. So the answer to number one just to check. Number two, some of these are kind of long. Number three, number four. Oops. So, let's just go through. We get in number one we get x e - x - e - x + c. Number two we get x^2 / 2 * 1 + x^2 plus 12 natural log 1 + x^2 + c. 3 is x ar tan x - 12 natural log of the quantity 1 + x^2 + c and 4 is negative natural log x - 1x + c. So again, the whole point of this exercise in my mind is really to make sure we get a a good understanding of when we're doing integration by parts, which function makes the most sense to have as U and which function makes the most sense to have as V prime. So that was the main point of this exercise. Hopefully you're starting to get a flavor for how these problems actually work. And I think I will stop there.