Okay. Uh this is the second video on second order differential equations constant coefficients. But now we have a right hand side. The first and the first one was free harmonic motion with a zero. But now I'm making this motion I'm pushing this motion but at a frequency cosine omega at a frequency omega this is my forcing term. So I think of having a forcing frequency omega and remember that for this one for the null solution there was a natural frequency omega n. It's very important are the are those close are those well separated that that governs whether the bridge that you're walking over oscillates too much and eventually falls or in the extreme case are they equal? If omega n is equal to omega that's called resonance. Let me put that word in resonance. When omega equals omega n and that's we're not going to deal with today but you should know that always the formula has uh an omega minus omega n dividing by that. So if that is zero, if omega equals omega n, our formula has to change today. This won't happen. No. Okay. So what's the formula? What is omega yp? I'm looking for a particular solution. That's a that's a nice function and also important in practice. So I would like to hope that the particular solution could be some multiple of that cosine omega t and in this problem that's possible because if I have a cosine I've got a cosine on the right hand side and if that cosine comes here it's on the left side and the second derivative of the cosine is again a cosine I I'm going to have a match of cosine omega t terms and then I'll just choose the right number capital y. I won't be able to do that when there's a first derivative in there because the first derivative of cosine will bring in signs. I'll have a mixture of cosiness and ss and then I I better allow for that mixture. But here I don't have to. There's the forcing function. the response. This is the This is the forced response. I'd like to get used to that word response for the solution. Here's the input. The response is the output. Okay. So, let me just plug that into the equation and find capital Y. So here I have m second derivative is going to be a y and it will second derivative will bring out a minus omega^ 2 right times the cosine and here I have k y is y * the cosine equal the cosine I could have a constant there, but the whole thing would be no more interesting, no more difficult than with a one there. Okay. So, what do I do? I'm the nice thing is here I have all cosiness. So, I'm just going to have minus omega^ 2 m and a k. So it's k minus m omega^ 2. Can I write it that way? Times y. I'm going to cancel the cosiness. That's just a one on the side as a one. I've canled the cosine. So I've kept k y. I've kept the one and I've kept the minus omega^ 2 m y. So that tells me why right away. just it's just like plugging in an exponential and cancelling exponentials all the way along. Here I'm cancelelling cosiness all the way because every term was a cosine. So I know why. So I know the answer. So the so the final answer is yt is yn. Well let me put y particular first plus yn. So I've just found y particular. y particular is this capital y cosine omega t. So it's cossine omega t* y. And y is 1 over this. Here it goes y. Down below I have k - m omega^ 2. Right? That's what we just found. that particular solution the capital Y the the multiplying constant was one over that constant. Okay. And now comes the C1 cosine of omega NT and the C2 sine of omega NT. Remember omega n is different from omega actually this is pretty nice here I can I could write that another way so you would see the important here so remember what is omega n^2 can I just remember that omega n^2 is k over m right yep so k minus K is the same as K is I'm going to put that M up here. K is the same as M omega N^2. K is the same as M omega N^ 2. And here I'm subtracting M omega^ 2. Huh? You see the whole point of resonance or near resonance when the bridge is getting uh forced by a frequency close to its resonant frequency. This difference omega squar the difference between the two frequencies squared is in the denominator and will be small and then the effect is large. And if we get those too close, the effect is too large. Okay. So we're seeing this cosine omega t over this is I I would call the frequency response is is this factor 1 / m omega n^2 - omega^ 2 that that's the that that's The key multiplier for when the forcing term is a pure frequency that frequency gets exploded. And now of course what are capital C1 and capital C2? We find those from the initial conditions at t=0. We put in t=0 and that tells us what c1 has to be. And we put in t equals0 again to match the velocity y prime at zero. And that tells us c2. Are you okay with that? Just look at the beauty of that uh solution. The this is the null part. This is the forced part. the particular part the cosine divided by that constant. There's one more equation one more forcing term I'd like often and always and now to in to to discuss and that is a delta function an impulse. So I'm going to add one more example. M yp prime plus k y equal the delta function. Delta function. It's called an impulse. So I'd like to solve that equation also. when the forcing term just happens at one second at the at the initial second at t equals z the delta function I'm hitting the spring so the spring is sitting there or the pendulum is sitting there actually let's sit it at rest here's my pendulum I'll try to draw a pendulum so I don't know that's not much of a pendulum but it's good enough Okay, this equation says what happens if I hit it with a a a point source at t equals z. I hit it but I give it a finite velocity. It it doesn't move it in that instant second. Now this is this is where delta functions come in. So let me give you the result of what happens and then we'll see them again. So what am I doing? I want to solve this equation when the forcing function is a delta function. So I'm going to call y the impulse response. It's the solution that comes when the forcing function is an impulse. So y is the impulse response. In fact, it's so important I'm going to give it its own letter G. G. Now, can I turn that y into a g? So that g is g of t is the impulse response. Okay, if I can solve that equation, you might say not so easy with a delta function. Uh, it's not even a genuine function. It's a little bit crazy. It all happens in 1 second. But I'm sorry, in one instant. Not over one second, but one moment. Okay. But I can solve it. I can solve it for this reason. I can think of it as an impulse here or I have an option another way which clearly I can think of it as solving it with no force mgp prime same problem same solution is zero but I start from I start from less Nothing's happening. Y of 0 is zero. And it starts from an initial velocity. Y prime of 0. I give it a the impulse starts it out like a golf ball. Just go and it it there's a one over m there. I I'll discuss that another time. What I want to see now is that I have either this somewhat mysterious equation or this totally normal equation even a no equation starting from y of 0= 0 but with an initial velocity that the impulse gave to the system and I should be calling this g this is the g we'll see impulse responses again but let's see it this time by solving this equation. So I plan to solve that equation and actually we solved it last time. You remember the solution to that this one. When it starts from zero there's no cosine but when the initial velocity is 1 / m there is a sign. So I'm going to just write down the g of t which is just sine of omega nt. And why is it the natural frequency? Because I'm solving the I'm solving the null. I'm looking for a null solution. The previous video on no solutions gets me this only I have to divide by get get 1 / m as the initial velocity. Do you see that? That will solve the null equation. This is what happens to the the uh uh pendulum or the golf ball. Well, pendulum much better. Actually, golf balls are poor poor example. Sorry about that. Golf balls don't swing back and forth. They tend to go. I'm looking at pendulums, springs going up and down. So, the spring starts out has an initial velocity of 1 / m and then after that nothing happens. So, that is the impulse response. the response to an impulse. And why do I like that? First of all, it's beautiful. Simple answer. Secondly, every forcing function every and the output comes from this one. We'll see that point. So we've we've introduced forcing functions cos omega t where the particular solution was a multiple of cos omega t and now we've introduced the forcing function delta the delta function where the response is a sign function. Okay, thank you.