Hi everyone, welcome back. So today we're going to take a look at some forest oscillators and the exponential response formula. And the problem we're going to take a look at is first for part one to consider the equation x dot dot plus 8x equals and then a forcing term on the right hand side cosine omega t. And we're going to consider the case when omega^ 2 is not equal to 8. So uh in term in the language of resonance we're not on resonance and we're also asked why is this called an undamped force oscillator and then for part two uh to use the erf to solve the differential equation x dot dot + 2x dot + 4x= cosine 3t and then what is the natural angular frequency of this differential equation. So, I'll let you uh take a look at these problems and try them out for yourself, and I'll be back in a moment. Hi everyone, welcome back. Okay, so we're asked to find the general solution to the differential equation x dot dot + 8x dot sorry, plus 8x equals cossine omega t. And notice how this is a differential equation with constant coefficients, but it's being forced by a periodic function on the right hand side. So the first thing to do is to write down the the homogeneous uh solution. So the homogeneous solution which I'll denote with a subscript h solves the differential equation with the right hand side of zero. This gives us a characteristic uh polomial of s^2 + 8 = z which then gives us roots of plus or minus 8 i. So the homogeneous solution is some constant C1. And when we have imaginary purely imaginary roots, we have cosine of the imaginary term time t plus some constant c2 * s of the imaginary term in this case is roo 8 t. So the general or sorry the homogeneous solution always contains two constants and it solves the differential equation with a zero right hand side. The general solution however is the homogeneous solution plus one particular solution that solves the differential equation x dot dot + 8x= cosine omega t. So we just need to find one solution to this differential equation. And in this case, I'll use the exponential response formula. But first note that when we use the exponential response formula, we need a forcing to be of the form e to the s t on the right hand side. And cosine omega t is not in that form. However, what we can do is there's a trick to complexify the right hand side. So we note that cosine omega t is actually the real part of i omega t. So what this means is if we have a solution a complex solution zed which solves z dot dot + 8 zed equals e to the i omega t. Then we can take x equals the real part of zed. Then solves the differential equation x dot dot + 8x equals the real part of the right hand side cosine omega t. And now we're in business because this equation has the form uh where we we can use the exponential response formula. So solving this differential equation for zed, we have a particular solution for zed is going to be e to the i omega t divided by the characteristic polomial evaluated at the exponential. So in this case the exponential is I omega. So we must evaluate the polomial at i omega. And this is the solution provided that the polomial evaluated at i omega doesn't vanish. And in our case the characteristic polomial p of s we worked out already to be s^2 + 8. So this gives us a particular solution for zed which is 1 / i omega squared + 8 on the denominator. We have e to the i omega on the numerator and of course one over uh i omega^ 2 + 8 becomes 1 over 8 - omega^ 2 and we know we don't have a problem because omega we were told in the problem is not equal to equal to the of 8. So in this case we know that the denominator is not going to vanish. Okay. And now what we need to do is just take x for the particular solution to be the real part of zed which is going to be the real part I'll write it out 8 - omega^ 2 cossine omega t plus i sin omega t which gives us 1 8us cosine omega t. Okay. So the total solution, the general solution is going to be the sum of the homogeneous solution plus the particular solution. And in our case, that's going to be C1 cosine omega t plus c2 sin omega t + 1 8 - omega^ 2 cosine omega t. Sorry, these should be roots. So this is the homogeneous part and this is the particular solution and this is the general solution. So we were asked also why is this sometimes called an undamped forced oscillator? Well, it's undamped because in the differential equation there was no damping term. there was no term proportional to x dot. And then secondly, it's forced because we have a forcing on the right hand side. We have an input function f which in this case is cosine omega t which doesn't depend on x and that forces the differential equation. Also note that the forcing term gives rise to part of the solution which is directly proportional uh to uh the forcing. In fact, it has the same frequency but a different amplitude. Okay, so this concludes part A. Now for part B, we're asked uh to use the ERF to solve the differential equation x dot dot plus 2x dot + 4x equals cosine 3t. And again we can use the same trick. The right hand side isn't of the form e to the i t or sorry e to the i3t. But what we can do is we can write cosine 3t as the real part of e to the i3t. And then solve the differential equation z dot dot + 2 zed dot + 4 zed equals e to the i3t. And then take uh take x equals the real part of zed. And in this case, we're only looking for a particular solution which we can compute using the ERF. So it's one over the characteristic polomial evaluated at 3 * e to i3t. And what's the characteristic polomial of this differential equation? Well, P of S is going to be S^2 + 2 S + 4. Which means that P of 3 I is going to be 3 I^ 2 + 2 * 3 I + 4, which gives us -9 + 4 is -5 + 6 I. And putting the pieces together, we end up getting that X is equal to the real part of 1 over 5 + 6 I e I 3T and we can expand we can expand out the numerator using Oilers's formula to get cosine 3T + I sin 3T and when the dust settles I get 1 over 61. Let me check my notes. - 5 cossine 3t + 6 sin 3t. So I'll let you work out this last step for yourself. Okay. And then lastly, what is the natural angular frequency of the differential equation? Well, this is just some notation. We sometimes call the natural angular frequency uh to be the square root of the term proportional to x. So in this case, the term two here uh comes in as a damping term. The natural frequency which is sometimes written as omega squared is always equal to this term which is four. So the natural frequency the natural angular frequency omega kn would be the of 4 which would be two. Okay. So I'd just like to quickly recap. We've taken a look at forced oscillators and we've computed their solutions using the erf. And one common trend uh particularly when we have an oscillating uh input a forcing term is to first change the oscillating term into a complex exponential then compute uh a particular solution using the erf formula and then take the real part of the the erf solution to recover a real solution to the od that gives us the particular solution and then in some cases we also have to add the homogeneous solution to it to get the full general solution to the OD. Okay, so I'd like to conclude here and I'll see you next time.