Okay. Uh I'm going to explain forier series and that I can't do in 10 minutes. It'll take two maybe three sessions to see enough examples to really use the idea. Uh let me uh start with the what we're looking for. We we have a function and we want to write it as a combination of cosiness and ss. So those are our basis functions. The cosiness and the ss and the a ends and the bns are the coefficients that we have to look for. That tells us how much of cosine nx is in the big function f ofx. Notice that the cosiness start at n equals zero because cosine of zero is one. So that's a a there's an a zero in our sum. But there isn't a b 0 because n equals z the sign would be zero and we don't get anything there. So we're looking for the a ends and bns. And really I want to show you at the same time the complex form with coefficients CN. And and now n goes from minus infinity to infinity. That's really the more beautiful form because there's a nice formula for CN that one formula for CN does the job. Whereas here I will need a separate formula for a n and for bn. Okay. But so this is like uh natural when the function is real. But in the end and for the discrete 4a transform and for the fast fora transform the complex case will win. And of course everybody sees that e to the i nx by oiler's great formula is a combination of cossine nx s and sin nx. So I can use those or I can use cosiness and s. Okay. So how do you find these numbers? The key is orthogonality. So that's the first central idea here in forier series is the idea of orthogonality. Now what does that mean? That means perpendicular. And for a vector and a second vector, we have an idea of what perpendicular means. The 90° angle between them. And we check that by the dotproduct or inner product whichever name you like uh between the two vectors should be zero. Okay. But here we have functions. So I have to say like cosine functions. So here's one cosine and here's a different cosine. So those are two different basis functions. cosine of n say cosine of 7x and cosine of 12x would the the coefficients a7 and a12 would tell us how much of cosine 7x is in the function. You see we're divid separating the function into frequencies. We're looking at into pure oscillations, pure harmonics. And we expect probably that the lower harmonics, the smoother ones cos x cos 2x cos 3x have most of the energy. And the high harmonics cosine 12x cosine 100x probably that's those are quickly alternating. Those are those contain noise and high frequency quick changes in the function will show up in the high frequencies. Okay. But now so what's the answer to this integral cosine of 7x * cosine of 12x dx over the range - to pi. The answer is orthogonality comes in the answer is zero. That's the crucial fact. That's what makes it possible to separate out A7 and A12 and get hold of them. So let me show you how to do that. So So I'm going to use this fact which is the function version of 90° angle. So you see it's a little like a dotproduct. dotproduct would be uh well let me let me remember a dotproduct would be something like uh c1 d1 + c2 d2 = zero if I had a vector uh c1 c2 and a vector d1 d2 that would be the dotproduct and it would be zero if the vectors are orthogonal here instead of adding I'm integrating because I have functions. So just that's the meaning of dotproduct. The integral of one function times the other function gives zero. Okay, I'll use that now. Okay, how will I use this? I will look what I want. This is my goal. I'll multiply both sides by cosine kx. multiply both sides of this equation by cosine kx and then I'll integrate and the beauty is that when I multiply by cosine kx and I integrate everything goes to zero except what I want the by the way all the signs times cosine kx integrate to zero all the signs are orthogonal to all the cosiness and all the cosiness will be orthogonal to all the other cosiness. So I'm only going to get let me show you what I get. So I multiply my f ofx by cossine kx and I integrate from minus pi to pi. Okay. Now on the right hand side this is my big my integral from minus pi to pi of my big sum of all these terms 0 to infinity a n cos n x etc including the signs but I'm not even going to put them in because they're going to get killed by this integration times cossine kx dx. All I did all I did was take the f ofx equal that formula multiplied both sides by cosine kx and integrate. And now the orthogonality pays off because this times this when I integrate gives zero with one exception. when n equals k when n equals k then I do get the integral the only term I get is a k cosine kx twice dx only k= n survives this process and then that integral of cosine squared happens to be pi so this is just a k * pi Look, I have discovered what AK is. I've discovered the the kiera cosine coefficient. I just divide by pi. So, can I just divide by pi to get this formula for a k. A k is 1 over pi. The integral from minus pi to pi of my function time cossine kx dx. That's the formula that tells me the coefficients. And I could only do that with with orthogonality to knock out all but one term. And now if I had if I wanted the sign coefficients BK, it would be the same formula except that would be a sign. And if I wanted the complex coefficient CK, it turns out it'd be the same formula except well maybe it's 2 pi there 1 over 2 pi and this becomes an e to the minus i kx in that complex case the complex conjugate e to the minus i kx shows up. So this is really the dotproduct the inner product of the function with the cosine. Okay. So uh let me do some examples. I'll start with one. Maybe I should write up the the sign formula that I just mentioned. So bk is the integral 1 / pi the integral of my function time sin kx dx. And there's one exception. One exception. A 0 has a little bit different formula. A 0 the pi changes to 2 pi. I'm sorry about that. When k is zero, it's the integral of 1 from minus pi to pi and I get 2 pi. So a 0 is 1 / 2 pi. The integral of f ofx times when k is zero cosine this is 1 dx. That that has a simple meaning. That's the average of f ofx right. Okay. So all the so the basis function was just one when k was zero. When k is zero, the function is my cosine is just one and I get the integral of the function times 1 divided by 2 pi. Could we just do an example? So I want to take a function. And in this video, why don't I take an easy but very important function, the delta function. So I plan to use these formulas on the delta function. Let me draw a little picture of the delta function. I'm only going between minus pi and pi. And the delta function as we know is zero. It's infinite or at at the spike and zero. Again, reason I wanted to draw it is that's a even function. That's a function which is symmetric between x and minus x. And in that case, in that case there will be no signs. Sine functions are odd. The integral from minus pi to pi of a odd function gives zero. It's the odd odd means that when you cross the cross x equals z you take you get minus the result for x greater than zero. So, so my point is this is an even function. Delta of x is the same as delta of minus x and only cosiness. Good. The sign coefficients automatically dropped are zero. So, of course, the integral would show it. But we we see it even before we integrate. Okay, I'm ready for the delta function. So I'm going to write delta of x and we remember what the delta function is is a combination of cosiness. Okay, that's the delta function between minus pi and pi. Okay, and what's our formula for the a? Well, you remember we had a special formula for a 0, which was 1 / 2 pi times the integral from minus pi to pi of our function which is delta times the basis function which n equals z. The basis function is 1 dx. Okay, we know the answer to that. we can integrate the delta function. The one key thing about the integral of the delta function is it's always one if we cross x= z, which we will. So that integral is one. So I'm getting 1 / 2 pi. What about the other 48 coefficients? So that's 1 over pi. Now the integral from minus p to pi of the delta of my function times cossine kx dx. You know what I'm doing? I'm using my formula to find the coefficients. My formula says take the function whatever it is and in this example it's the delta function. multiply by the cosine, integrate and divide by the factor pi. Okay. Well, of course, we can do that integral because when you integrate a delta function times some other function, you only get you only get the act all the action is at x= z. At x=0, this function is one. And I don't care what it is elsewhere, it's just one. So this is the same as integrating delta of x * 1 which gives us oh the integral of the delta function is one. So this gives us a one that integral is one. So I'm getting 1 over pi. Good. Okay. So now uh do you want me to just to write out the series for the delta function? It looks kind of unusual. This is telling us something quite remarkable. It's telling us that all all these coefficients are the same. All the frequencies, all the harmonics are there are in the delta function in equal amounts. Equal amounts. Usually we would see a big drop off of the coefficients a k. But for the delta function which is so singular all a big spike at one point there's no drop off and no decay in the coefficients they're just constant okay so I'm saying that the delta function is the constant term 1 over 2 pi and then 1 over pi times cosine of x and cosine of 2x X and so on. Okay. All frequencies there are the same. Yeah. And uh let me I'll stop with that one example here because so the key points were orthogonality the formulas for the for the coefficients and this example. Thank you.