Hi everyone. So today I'd like to talk about resonance frequency response. And specifically we're going to take a look at a couple differential equations. And we're asked to graph the amplitude response for each equation. And you'll note that these equations A, B, and C have varying amounts of damp uh damping. So for part a we're asked to uh plot the amplitude response for x dot dot + 4x= f cosine omega t. For part b it's the same equation. However we have an x dot term added. For part c again we've increased the damping. So now we have 6x dot. And then lastly for part d uh we'd like to discuss the resonance for each system. So I'll let you work out this problem and I'll be back in a moment. Hi everyone, welcome back. So for part A, we're asked to graph the amplitude response to the differential equation x dot dot + 4x= f cosine omega t. And from a previous uh recitation uh we already wrote down the particular response to this differential equation. So I'm just going to write down the particular response which has the form f minus omega^ 2 cosine omega t. Now the amplitude response is defined as a ratio and specifically it's the ratio of the output amplitude uh to a different of a differential equation to the input amplitude of a differential equation. So in the case at hand we have the output is a sinosoidal function whose amplitude is f / 4 minus omega^ 2. So it's the output divided by the input. These are both amplitudes. And in our case we have f / 4 - omega^ 2. This is the output amplitude. And the input amplitude is just fnot. So we see when we compute this ratio the f knots divide out and at the end of the day we're left with 4 minus omega^ 2. So I'm going to draw the amplitude response now. So we have omega and we see that when omega is equal to 2 there's an asmtote. When omega is equal to zero we have 1/4. And specifically we have this tent-like function. So this is the amplitude response. So notice how when we drive the system with frequency 2, the amplitude response goes to infinity. Uh as a result we call this frequency uh the resonant frequency. Okay. So this concludes part A. For part B, we have uh a differential equation with damping. Now and to compute the uh particular solution we follow the standard procedure of first complexifying the right hand side and then using the exponential response formula. So I'm just going to write down the particular solution. If we follow these steps, we find that it's the real part of the right hand side complexified which is f e to the i omega t divided by the characteristic polomial evaluated at i omega. And in this case the characteristic polomial p of s is s 2 + s + 4. P of I omega is then 4 - omega^ 2 plus I omega. And when we put the pieces together, we end up with a particular solution which looks like the real part of 1 4 - omega^ 2 plus i omega f upstairs e i omega t. Okay, so we're asked to uh compute the amplitude response formula or the amplitude response graph. And if we take a look at this uh we see that the denominator here is really just a complex number. So we can convert it into the form of r e to the i fi. Now the amplitude response is defined as the uh ratio of the output divided by the input. And so the output amplitude is going to be the magnitude of this complex number. So as a result the amplitude response it's just the magnitude of one over the characteristic polomial evaluated at I omega. This is also sometimes referred to as the complex gain. Moreover, this term right here contains two pieces of information. Not only does it contain the amplitude response, but it also contains uh the phase information. When we take the absolute value, we're throwing out the phase information and we're just remembering the amplitude response. Okay. So, what does this amplitude response look like for this case? Well, we have 1 over and it's the magnitude of this complex number which is 4 - omega^ 2 plus i omega. So I just take the real part square it add it to the imaginary part squared and square root the whole quantity. Now there's a question of how to graph this and we see that it's that well first off the square root's an increasing function and we see that we're one over an increasing function. So there's a trick which is to just look first at sketching this this piece which is under the radical sign. And if you if you look at maximizing trying to maximize this function so finding the critical points we see that in this case we have one maximum to 4 - omega^ 2 plus omega^ 2 and this is at when omega equals the square root of seven halves. Sorry, this is a minimum. Okay. So when I go to sketch this now, you have omega, we have the amplitude response. Okay. Now I'm going to draw in root two or sorry just two from our previous diagram. Now the square root of 7 halves is just below two. So square of 7 halves. So we end up with a maximum at 7 halves and then a decay to infinity. And again this is going to be 1/4 when omega is zero. Okay. So this is the peak amplitude response. So note that in this case by adding damping what we've done is we've uh we no longer have an asmtote at omegaals 2 but we now have a finite amplitude which occurs at omega omega equals the of 7 halves. Okay. So I'm just going to clean up the board and I'll be back with part C in a second. Uh for part a we uh have a resonance response or sorry an amplitude response diagram which looks like a tent function and at two omega equals 2 we have a resonance. So the amplitude response diverges just like to point out I made a a small error before I forgot to include absolute values uh on the denominator here. The amplitude response function it's always a positive quantity. we always throw out uh any phase information and uh leave that uh for the for the phase and um uh in the description of the response of a linear system. So the amplitude response is always positive. Uh for part B we uh we added dampening to the system and we see that there's actually a peak point which is at the square root of seven halves and uh the amplitude response is bounded at this point but it achieves a maximum and then again it decays to infinity. So I'd like now uh to take a look at part C and in part C we have the differential equation x dot dot plus 6x dot + 4x = f cosine omega t. And again, the amplitude response is going to equal 1 over the absolute value of p of i omega. And in this case, p of i omega is going to be 1 over well we still have the 4 - omega^ term instead of x dot we now have six x dot which gives us 6 i omega and then again we want to take the absolute value of this complex number and when we take the absolute value we just get the sum of the the real part squared plus the sum of the imaginary part squared which in this case is going to be 36 omega^ 2 the whole quantity is square rooted and then we have 1 over this value. So now if we'd like to plot this this function we can still do the same trick and try to maximize or find the critical points of the denominator under the radical and if we did this in this case we would find that the only critical point is when omega is equal to zero. Uh secondly, if we look at omega going to infinity, we see that the denominator goes to infinity. So this whole quantity must go to zero. So if I were to go back here to the amplitude response for part C again, when omega is equal to zero, it's going to start off at 1/4. I've just argued that it goes to zero as omega goes to infinity. And since there are no critical points, we must smoothly paste the function between the two. And in fact, it's always decreasing. So the amplitude response uh in this case is just a decreasing function. Okay. So this concludes part C and now I'll take a look at part D. Discuss the resonance for each system. So in part a we had no damping and we saw that there was a resonance at omega equals 2 and uh the resonance manifested itself uh in the amplitude response graph with a pole or a a divergent asmtote at omega is equal to two. So as as you drive the system close to omegaals 2 the amplitude of the system starts to diverge. In case two uh we introduce damping into the system. So we still have a very large amplitude response at omega equals the of 7 halves. However, it's no longer infinite infinite. Uh and then lastly uh when we increase damping even further uh so we had the six x dot term the uh the presence of a peak uh disappeared and in fact the amplitude response just monotonically decayed from 1/2 to infinity. So it just constantly uh decreased to zero. So I'd just like to conclude there and I'll see you next time.