Hi everyone, welcome back. So today I'd like to take a look at uh gain and phase lag. And we're going to consider the simple problem. So first off, find a periodic solution to x dot dot + 8x dot plus 7x= uh f * cosine omega t. So basically it's just forcing a differential equation with some frequency uh cosine omega t. And the problem we're interested in today is to give the gain and phase lag to this periodic solution. So I'll let you take a look at this problem and I'll be back in a minute. Hi everyone, welcome back. Okay, so we're interested in finding this periodic solution to the differential equation. And we see here that we're forcing it with right hand side of cosine omega t. So the standard procedure is to first complexify. So we're going to consider the differential equation x dot dot + 8 x dot + 7 x= f e to the i omega t. And then at the end we're going to take the real part of our solution to this differential equation. And we do this because cosine omega t is the real part of e to the i omega t. Now uh for this equation we see that we're forcing it with an exponential. So we can just use the exponential response formula and this gives us a particular solution. So the exponential response formula is 1 / p of i omega times the right hand side which is f e i omega t. And in this case the characteristic polomial P of S is S ^2 + 8 S + 7. So that P of I omega is going to be 7 - omega^ 2. So the omega^ 2 comes from S^2 + 8 I omega. Now I'd just like to take a moment and step back for a second. If we take a look at the differential equation, the input on the right hand side is f e to the i omega t. Now notice how this characteristic uh the sorry the exponential response formula gives us a particular solution which is 1 over p of i omega f e to the i omega t which is a periodic solution. But moreover the output uh of this uh formula shows that uh it's actually the input forcing multiplied by this factor 1 over p of i omega. So this factor right here 1 over p of i omega relates the input forcing to the output forcing or sorry to the output response. And this factor is sometimes called the complex gain. And the reason it's the complex gain is because if we take a look at P of I omega, it has a real part and an imaginary part. So specifically contains P of I omega contains two pieces of information. Because it's a complex number, we can think of it as being uh an amplitude and a phase. So the amplitude of P of I omega is sometimes called the gain. And the phase is the phase lag. Okay. So P of I omega contains two pieces of information which relate the input uh forcing signal to the output response of the differential equation. Now I'd like to go ahead and write x of t decomplexify. So we're going to take the real part of 1 / p of i omega * f e i omega t. So we have 7 - omega^ 2 plus 8 i omega upstairs is f e i omega t. And I'm going to just put this in amplitude phase form. And when I take the real part I'll do it in two steps. First e omega^ 2 square rooted if not e to the i omega t / e to the i fi where here phi is the phase leg and tangent fi is going to be the imaginary part over the real part. And just quickly note that as omega goes from zero to infinity, uh tangent phi will go from 0 to pi. Okay. So this is the uh this is the range of phi that we're interested in. Okay. And now uh when we take the real part we end up with fot 1 7 - omega^ 2 + 8 omega^ 2 all rooted cosine omega t minus 5. And now we'd like to look at uh what the amplitude respon uh the amplitude and phase are as a function of omega. So for each fixed omega the output is going to be a sinosoid which oscillates at the same frequency as the input. However the only difference is that it's going to res it's going to have a rescaled amplitude and it'll have a shifted phase as well. So for the amplitude response, we're interested in plotting one over the amplitude of P of I omega. So here's the amplitude and this function is just going to decrease and asmtoically approach infinity. Okay, so this is the amplitude response. This is 1 7 - omega^ 2 + 8 omega^ 2 rooted. This is omega. And then in addition to the amplitude response, we also have the phase. Okay. And the phase, if I go back up here for a second, we can write it explicitly as phi is equal to tan inverse 8 omega / 7 - omega^ 2. So I'm going to plot omega on this axis and phi on this axis. And okay, so to plot this curve, we note that when omega is zero, uh tan inverse of 0 is zero. So we're going to start at zero. Um, typically what I usually like to do in this case is look at the denominator in the arc tangent. We see that when omega is equal to the of 7, this argument blows up. It goes to infinity. And the arc tangent of infinity is pi / 2. So I can draw a curve in here which is pi / 2. So we know that phi is pi / 2 when omega is equal to roo 7. And note how this is the uh the the natural frequency if there was no damping in the system. And then lastly there's another curve here at pi. We see that as omega approaches infinity again this argument uh approaches zero. And if if you were to take the derivative of this whole quantity, we would see that uh it's uh of tan inverse of this argument, we would see that the functions increasing for all omega. So it actually looks something like this. It looks like an S-shaped curve that asmtoically approaches pi as omega goes to infinity. Okay, so just to quickly recap when we look at uh the differential equation uh or a particular solution to a differential equation which is being forced by a periodic sinosoidal function, the output is always going to be rescaled and phase shifted but still oscillating at the same frequency. And specifically depending on which frequency uh the differential equation is forced at the amplitude will take on different values. The amplitude response will take on different values and the phase shift will also have different values depending on the frequency of forcing. Okay. So I'd just like to conclude here and I'll see you next time.