Hi everyone, welcome back. So today we're going to take a look at homogeneous equations with constant coefficients and specifically the case where we have real roots. And we'll start the problem off by looking at the equation x dot dot + 8x dot + 7x= z. And we're asked to find the general solution to this differential equation. And then we also have the question, do all the solutions go to zero AST goes to infinity? And then for part B, we're going to take a look at just the differential equation y dot= ky. So this is the same equation that we've seen in uh past recitations and we're just going to show that we can use this this method to solve this differential equation and obtain the same result. And then lastly, we're asked or we're told that we have eight roots to an eighth order differential equation. -43 -21 0 1 2 and 3. And we're asked what is the general solution. So why don't you take a moment and try and work these problems out and I'll be back in a minute. Hi everyone, welcome back. Okay, so we're asked to find the general solution to x dot plus 8 x dot + 7 x = z. And we we see that this is a differential equation. It's linear and it has constant coefficients. And whenever we have a differential equation that's linear with constant coefficients, uh, one of the standard ways to generate the solution is to seek what sometimes mathematicians call an ansat, but it's to try a solution of the form x is equal to a constant time e to the s t. And if we substitute a solution in of this form, we see that taking the second derivative of this uh this function pulls down two s's. One derivative pulls down one s. We have no derivatives here. And we also have on each term a factor of C * E to the S st. And we want this to be zero. So specifically C E to the ST can't be zero for all time. So the only way that this can hold is if S^2 + 8 S + 7 = Z. So what this means is if we choose s to solve this polomial then x= c e to the s t will be a solution and this will be a solution for any constant c. Okay. So what are the roots to this differential equa or to this algebraic equation? Well we can factoriize it. The roots are going to be -7 and negative 1. And notice how this this whole process has turned a differential equation into a simpler algebraic equation. So if we can solve the algebraic equation then we can solve the differential equation. Okay. So the general solution well we've just showed that we can take any constant times e to the s t provided s is equal to -1 or -7. So the general solution is going to be some constant c1 * eus t plus c2 can be a different constant eus 7t. So notice how there's two constants in the final solution. And the reason there's two constants is because we started out with a second order differential equation. So in some sense, for each order of the differential equation, we always have one constant. It's almost as if for each time we integrate, we have a constant of integration. And so at the end of the day, we have two constants in our general solution. uh as part of uh part a we're also asked for any solution to this differential equation does the solution go to zero AST goes to infinity well the general solution has this form so for any constant c1 and c2 the solution is c1 eus t plus c2 eus 7t and we see that no matter what c1 and c2 are this term AST goes to infinity is multiplied by eus t which goes to zero and the second term also goes to zero. So, so AST goes to infinity both e to the minus t and e - 7t both go to zero. So that means that any constant * eus t plus any constant* e - 7t must also go to zero. So hence x of t goes to zero AST goes to infinity. Okay for part b we have the differential equation y dot equals negative k y. And this is the first order linear differential equation with constant coefficients. And we're going to use the same trick. We let y is equal to c * e to the s t. And we see that the characteristic equation in this case it's not a polomial. It's just s is equal to k. So we get y is equal to c e to the kt is the general solution. And this is exactly what we had in previous uh recitations when we used for example integrating factors to solve this very same differential equation. So this just shows that we can use this the same method uh to solve first order linear differential equations. Okay. Now lastly, we're given eight roots to an eighth order differential equation. An eighth order differential equation with constant coefficients. So I'll just write out the roots again. So we're told the roots are -4, -3, -2, 1, 0, 1, 2, and 3. And in general the solution to an eighth order differential equation whose roots to the characteristic polomial uh are -4 through 3. The general solution x of t is going to be a constant c1 time e to the first the power of the first root which will be -4t plus c2 eus 3t. And of course we we take different constants for each term. C3 eus 2t plus c4 e minus t plus c5. And now for this term it should be e to the 0 t. But e to the 0 t is just one. So the zero root is just going to give us a constant c5. Then we have c6 to the t plus c7 to the e 2t and then plus c 8 e to the 3t. So the solution has eight terms and eight constants. And just for fun we can ask does every solution to this differential equation go to zero AST goes to infinity? And the answer is no. In fact, although each term with a negative root does go to zero AST goes to infinity, there are three terms that go to positive infinity AST goes to infinity. And there's one term that just stays constant. So in general AST grows goes to infinity these terms will become very large and won't necessarily go to zero. Well they'll never go to zero. So I'd just like to conclude there and I'll see you next time.