The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So, good morning everyone. Uh, Rebecca, Lauren, Ben, and I are going to be giving an update on the progress we've made in designing the hydrogen production plant. So, first we're going to give an overview of the UT3 process, which is the hydrogen production process we chose for our plant. Then we'll go through the block diagram of our plant and the iterations we underwent to try to optimize for our desired hydrogen output for the biouels group. Um then we will go through our individual contributions over the last uh month or so uh that we researched and were primary concerns in the development of our UT3 plant. So the hydrogen oxygen separator membranes, the calcium reagent structures and the hydrogen storage system. And last we'll go into the next steps that we're going to take over the next uh month or so to complete our design. Okay. So the UT3 process is a is a process with four reactions and each reaction uh occurs in a separate reactor unit. Um there are two so-called larger reactor units that consist of calcium reactions and the iron reactions. And just for convenience, we normally denote these in their own boxes just to show um the characteristics of the reactions as a whole. And the reason why I say that is because so in the first reaction where calcium broomemide reacts with steam and makes calcium oxide and hydromic acid. Uh seemingly are basically backwards from this reaction. Calcium oxide reacts with bromine and makes calcium bromide and oxygen. And so as you can see the reactants of one reaction become the products of the other and vice versa. And this enables a cyclic um continuous hydrogen production process by switching the flow periodically in our UT3 plant. Uh the iron reactions are analogous in that the some of the reactants become the products and vice versa. So I'm going to hand it out to Rebecca for the first block diagram. So this is the block diagram of the UT3 plant. And so the four reactions which Derrick mentioned take place in these four I guess they're yellow on the screen these yellow blocks which are the four different chemical reactors. And so basically steam comes in and it goes through the first uh calcium reactor and the first iron reactor and that produces hydrogen which this red block is the hydrogen separator. And so hydrogen comes out here and either goes to our storage area or will go off to the bofuels plant. Um and then there's a compressor here which is what is used to switch the flow. Um and I'll show you the backwards flow next. And then so the products from here continue flowing here flow through the second iron reactor and the second calcium reactor. Um and then we'll have oxygen at the end of that. And that's that blue block over on the left is our oxygen separator. Um, and so each of these reactions takes place at a specific temperature. And so that's what these um orange heat exchangers are to make sure that the react the reactants coming from one reactor are going to the next one at the right temperature. Um and so as Eric mentioned since the products of one such the products of like the first calcium actor are the reactants of the second one. What this does is we use this first compressor here to change the pressure and that will change the flow so that when everything has gone to completion, we switch it. So instead of flowing around this direction, it then flows this direction. Um and so therefore we can reuse the products that we have in there. Um so Ben will talk about the specific mass flows. Right. So um as recommended we get um steam from the process heat um group and that provides both our fuel for the hydrogen extraction and also the majority of our heat that we use for these processes. Um at each of the reactor units um we make products um gaseous products which are then propagated um through the system by the steam um aided by crumps and compressors um throughout the process. U then at various stages we extract some of the valuable products like hydrogen or just keep propagating things uh along. Now this is what realistically happens. The assumptions we made are in an idealized case. Everything would go to completion. Um so we'd use up the steam and then um just propagate HBR along. This is what we use for our calculations. Um of course in the actual case we'll have steam going through the whole thing. Um right. All right. And um here we go with some of the qualities that we've actually calculated for our mass flow in our first iteration. Um again the assumptions we went off of were that each of the reactors goes to completion. Um we also know that they have to operate at a specific temperature. So that also grounded some of our nodes. Um and the other is the other assumption we made or requirement was that we needed 0.1 kilograms per second to send to biouels at point4 MPa and 25° uh Celsius. So from that we've been able to uh quantitatively identify the different mass flow rates um if you're paying attention. So we have the hydrogen uh the hydro bromine uh the steam. Basically, we just in each of these pipes, you would sum up whatever is in these colored blocks to get the full mass flow rate. Uh the other important thing to note is that our entire system runs at uh two megapascals except for right here where this compressor creates the um pressure differential which creates the forward progression of flow. So we go from 2 megapascals to 2.04 megapascals and that's what creates the procession. Um, another thing to note is that at the separators, um, the products that come out, the hydrogen and the oxygen come out at a much lower pressure and temperature. Uh, so we'll have to, um, eventually we will quantify this compressor to figure out what work needs to go into it to make sure that we get the 4 MPa and the 25° C. Um, oh, and we've also, uh, quantitatively identified what these heat uh, exchangers need. So, the important thing to note is that in heat exchanger 1 and three, uh, we are putting work into or we're putting energy into the system because we have to increase the temperature of the products throwing through those heat exchangers. However, at heat exchanger 2, um, because we're going from 4 452° C to 220° C, we actually take heat out. Okay, moving on to some smaller topics that our group has to address to make our hydrogen plant work. Um, one is the hydrogen separator membrane. Uh, if you research membranes, you can realize that there are a ton of different types. uh you have um like organic uh ceramic metallic membranes. Uh because we are operating at 2 megapascals and a temperature of approximately like 500° C. Uh we've identified ceramic membranes as the most optimal um as far as getting a good perance value through. Uh we looked at two different ceramics. We looked at uh CVD, this uh TEOS membrane and the zirconium silica membrane. Um the CVD is well established. It's in use. Um there's a stated value of 4.0 uh for the perian uh* 108. Uh however, the zirconian silica is more um experimental. It's not used as frequently. They're still developing it. However, um, one of the figures suggested that we could get a perance of 10.0 * 108 for perian. Uh, when you run through the calculations, that means we need an area of 1,240 m squared for the CVD membrane, and we'd only need 496 m squared. So, obviously, we've uh decided to go with the zirconium silica. Um, the stability issues are the same for both. So, we'll have a phase transition. um issue. Uh however, we're not expecting to have a hu a phase transition. And then there are a couple of poisoning issues, but again, these shouldn't be a problem if we make sure to purify the steam. Um and the last thing that should be noted is we need 496 m squared of membrane area for it to diffuse across. This is going to be a pretty significant engineering concern just because we're dealing with a 0.1 kg per second. So that's a very small volume of hydrogen but should be fun moving forward. So similarly with um hydrogen separation we also need to separate out oxygen um because the whole point is we're breaking H2O into hydrogen oxygen. Um so how these membranes work is you've got a mixed gas that comes in um and then it diffuses across um a sort of porous membrane um this is um aided by um electrodes um which ionize the oxygen and then it just diffuses across um from differences in partial pressure and uh temperature. Um so what we are using for the oxygen separator is uh doped CEO2. Um this has pretty good conductance um at our temperature ranges. Um and it's basically just a combination of an oxygen ion conducting material u that's the CO2 and then it's doped with an electronic conducting material um which helps out the ionization of the gas and the conductance across the membrane. Okay, so the calcium reactor system in the UT3 process actually poses a significant materials concern primarily because there's a 76% volutric difference in the structures between calcium oxide and calcium broomemide. Um, so during the typical UT3 process with the switching of flow, you're going to have a expansion and contraction of these solid reactants and products depending on the stage of the process which can cause fines to form and could eventually lead to products centering after uh substantial cycling. And so I researched a couple designs to mitigate these problems and because we don't want our products to turn into powder. And so we looked at a couple designs that basically form a stable calcium oxide pellet that can be cycled multiple times and last in the same order as the iron pellets which are much more stable structurally. And so I'm going to actually show you the design and then talk about it since it's more obvious. So the global calcium pellet has a couple of substructures nested in each other. And so the first substructure you have the calcium titanium oxide which is just used as a structural binder for the pellet which does not undergo substantial expansion or contraction because the it doesn't actually react with any of the gaseous products. It's just there for structural integrity. And then the calcium oxide pellets as you can see have uh they're not solid pellets like the calcium titanium oxide. And so there's actually voids presented in the calcium pellet which you can see in this even smallerru substructure. Um and basically the calcium oxide as it's brominated into calcium broomemide expands due to the volutric difference and the extra void between all the pellets initially allows these pellets to expand without exerting substantial stresses on each adjacent particle. the pore plugging. So the the separation is designed such that when all of the calcium oxide is eventually transformed into calcium broomemide is just at the point before they're exerting substantial structural stresses on each other as to prevent um fines from forming and other um bad things for the metals. And so as a whole if you can just cascade this back the c the calcium pellet globally will not expand too much due d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d to brination and even if it it's going to expand and contract some because just inherent in this design. However, with the calcium titanium oxide coupled with a substantial space for calcium oxide expansion, we can have a calcium pellet that is structurally stable and exists on the same order as the iron pellets. Okay. So now Rebecca is going to talk about hydrogen storage. So as mentioned um we're going to store hydrogen so that if there's a case where we would need to shut down the biouels could continue going. And due to a combination of storage size and safety concerns, we've decided that we're going to store 1 days worth of hydrogen which is about 9,000 kg. Um and so I looked at the different forms of hydrogen storage because it can be stored in solid, liquid or gas. So as a solid it's that you have hydrogen in the interstitial spaces between metals or um coalently bonded. However, there isn't that hasn't been fully developed yet. And so we don't really know the thermodynamics or kinetics for solid forms. In addition, they have a very um small percentage of hydrogen by weight or mass. So that's obviously not a great form to store it in for us. And so we going to gas and liquid. Um the thing about gas is that it's at the very high pressure um 35 to 70 MPa. And so in order to deal with the stresses on that, you need a very strong outer wall and it also has to be very thick. And so that's best for small amounts of hydrogen such as that's the one that's used in vehicles. um if you want to use hydrogen for that but for large amounts it's actually better to have liquid hydrogen um which is sort of at a low pressure it is at -253° C and that needs to be kept like that because if heat enters the system the hydrogen will evaporate and so that's a concern but it actually turns out that because what you need is a good surface to volume ratio it gets better as you get larger amounts of liquid hydrogen and so That means for the amount of hydrogen we want to store because 9,000 kg is a lot, that means liquid hydrogen is the best. And so that's going to be 130 m cubed of liquid hydrogen um that we'll have stored. And so this means if something goes wrong within the hydrogen plant, the bofuels team can run off the stored hydrogen for one day. Obviously, if we need to be shut down for longer than that, bios also need to shut down. Um, and if anything else shuts down, we will also shut down. So, our first analysis we did that we showed you just now was done by hand. Um, and going forward, we're going to be using ease and hopefully Aspen in order to be more rigorous. We will also look at the individual components which we haven't discussed yet. Um, such as the heat exchangers and compressors. Um, we'll look at the physical size of the chemical reactors and the consumption rate of the solid reactants as well as the amount of solid reactants determines the timing of the flow switch. So when it switches from being the forward flow when that is completed to when we do the backwards flow um as well as recovery of bromine and hydroromeic acid. So are there any questions? Yeah. Um, you have two different flow rates for water that are going that's going through the same heat exchanger. Um, you had 97 kg coming into your Yeah, if you want to go back to the you have the 97 kg per second going into that um, and you have 6. You have 6.13 coming. I'm assuming that's where our heat exchanger is going to go for processing on the far left. Okay. Yeah. for here you have two very different math rates. How are you going to correct that because it's supposed to be a circuit, right? So the idea is yeah um it's hard that we were um so in like creating these block diagrams we were trying to explain how what happens with the 6.13 is that it's going to have to go out um cuz it it will have to be reheated. It has to be at 760° C when it goes in. um this 9.7 or 0.97 like imagine that it's further out there. So that's actually entering from or rather so the way it works is that we do have the 6.13 kg per second that needs to be reheated and then that's going to join in with the 97 coming from process heat specifically. So this is 6.13 kg that we can recover from our system that then joins the 0.97 coming from process heat alone. Um again they that needs to be reheated so that I can do joint processing and then you need to have some sort of feed water coming into the Yeah. So that is your feed water coming out but once we have the cycle going and there's steam being recovered we don't need as much feed water coming out and so those would join before he do have a feed water system somewhere in there to get to I think the plan was just to have water coming in from outside. Um, so yeah. Okay. So, continuing on that, are you going to be giving us feed water to heat or are we going to get the steam at 589 to heat to 760? Okay. Or some mixture of the two. I'm confused. It's looking like some mixture of the two. When can those numbers? What? When can we have those numbers? Um, I mean, we have these. Oh, we do. I mean look at it but like yeah so I mean the thing is yes the heat water is going to create that.97 kg per second and then this is going to be after it's all flowed through it like that's our 6.13 that joins in I don't um we're still like optimized we still need to put it in e so these are not final numbers but they're pretty close to what we're actually going to need. I think the confusion is um like which stream we're responsible for heating and what temperature will be coming in at. So if there's feed water coming in from the environment and it's coming in at you know room temperature um versus this steam getting diverted in from the rest of the the circuit coming in at 589. Um guess we're just wondering like what the different Yeah, we can definitely make that clear for you. I'm sorry it hasn't been like that so far. So yeah, you will be what we would like from you guys is for you to be responsible for this um 0.97 kilograms per second coming in from feed water, heating it up from the is whatever um heating up to 760 and then in addition you will also be responsible for heating up our um 6.13 kg per second from 589° to Well, here's a question. Yes. If you're if you're taking in a small amount of feed water and you're giving it to processed heat to heat up, would this be a good place to put in uh an intercooler, something where some of the heat on the iron reaction could be used to boil the water, make it a steam, and then give the process heat a single phase to heat up. Where the 6.13, okay, steam at 589 could be mixed with 97 at whatever the saturation temperature is at 2 megapascals. And that way they'll only have to worry about one phase. So, okay. So, you're saying take the 0.97 that we need from wherever. Then we heat it up ourselves and then we send it to them as steam at some temperature that's already steam. Yeah. Heat it up using some of the heat from that iron reaction, which it seems like it doesn't have to be that hot in order to work, unless I'm mistaken. um these all of our reactors like there have been papers upon papers upon papers that have optimized the values at which these reactions run. Okay. So they're kind of like the reactors. So the 760, the 560, the 754 and the 220 are all fixed. Then how about see the top heat exchanger where you're dumping out 2.9 megawatt. Could you use some of that energy to boil the feed water and recover? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Any anywhere where you're dumping heat, if you can use that heat to make your life and process heat's life easier, that'd be a good use of energy. Sure. Can I just ask one more thing? Sorry to bel. So, you want 7.1 kg/s totally going into your calcium? Yes. Okay. Just just to be sure. And that I mean the number may change slightly because we did assume that the reactions run to completion. So we might need a little more but that's order of magnitude in pretty good ballpark. And just a quick question what's the sign convention for heat going in and out of the heat exchangers cuz it looks yeah I little words um cuz if you take the bottom two as the example where positive is in and negative is out then I think that should have a negative. No, no, the top one should be negative. Top one should be negative. Okay. Okay. Just I apologize. That was just a convention. No problem. So, does anyone else have any other questions? Uh, Tyrell, anything? Yeah, I have a few. Um just looking at this diagram, it looks like there's a lot of room for optimization with the you know the taking the hot water and reheating it as an input to somewhere else because right now once once through cycle you know it I think you could manage it a lot better. Um but we can talk about that more. Um the other one question I had is you said you're running it through one way. So I guess what I'm gathering from that is you run it until all the products from your first calcium reactor then become your reactants for your second and switch around. So how does uh have you looked at all at the efficiency of your reaction as you get those the imbalance of products versus reactants because I imagine it's going to asmtote you know and then you're going to have to find some optimal time to switch it over that was no I was going to say yeah it's on our list but yeah I mean all the papers we've read have done it with aspen doesn't look like something that can easily done. Okay. And so we're going to try to do it, but right now we're making, as bad as it sounds, the best guess we because they seem to be quite nonlinear according to the papers. So we're going on the best information we have right now. Yeah. And I think that's something that, you know, just be able to talk about, you know, the final presentation. Um I was also wondering where does you have a going from 2 megapascal to 2.04 04 like where did you come up with the 0.04? Is that just an arbitrary delta or it's from another one of those papers that they determined that was the optimal pressure differential for that compressor. We're basically choosing papers that have quite similar designs to ours to try that. We don't need like an aggressive like speed mass flow rate flowing through. So I think the 0.04 is like just small enough where you're not requiring too much energy in that compressor to change the mass flow rate, but you do get that forward precession. Um, sorry, I got a a list here. Uh, how big is your calcium oxide pellet that or the thing that you're talking about with all the structures and subructors? They're quite small. I mean, they vary depending on the actual structure we decide on. So there's three competing structure. I was going to end this because I felt like we did enough material science but so what um go back to the calcium pellet and so basically the calcium pellet in general are normally spheres but depend and these spheres are very small comparatively like on the order of centimeters. Okay. But the choice of or and they're I mean they're porous too because you have these original like voids and stuff so stuff can fall through but you don't want to make it too big so that you can't you know nothing can permeate mass wire. But the the choice of how to load up these calcium pellets. Um you can either load them up kind of think of as like a high temperature gas reactor like spheres on spears. Yeah. Or you can make it into a honeycomb structure and kind of have a predetermined lattice which you load up or you can actually even make them so small that you can mix them and make kind of like a nanoparticle fluid if you will. So we're going to also try to look into which design will be best for our mass flow rates of interest. Yeah. I imagine if you're flowing through a like a pebble bed, your um pressure drops can be pretty high. So, you know, definitely take that into account. Um and one I have several more, but I'll just limit it to one more. Um one big question I have is if you have this huge um hydrogen tank, what do you do if it starts leaking? That is something which I have not figured quite addressed yet. Okay. I mean that's that's the biggest handicap I see in that you know um the minimizing the surface area versus car uh compartmentalizing it for ease of maintenance and safety concerns and stuff like that. So you know I I would at least have something that you could discuss for the final presentation on that. whether or not it's final solution, you know. So, Oh, yeah. I was going to ask um I think I forgot to not What are you guys using oxygen for? I'm not using it for So, could you But we have to separate it out. Yeah. Could you combine it with the hydrogen to give yourself hot water? Hot water. You burn it with hydrogen oxygen and then you get your feed water which is really Yeah. I mean we're optimizing this plant for a specific hydrogen rate for the boules. So we'd have to make it even bigger and all of our figures would change. So you'd have to redo all of them. I'm I'm going to cut the questions off there except I have one very quick one for you guys in terms of the materials. Since you're dealing with so much hydrogen at various temperatures, have you looked into hydrating and materials failure or into hydrogen cracking in terms of things that would be under high stress and would have a lot of hydrogen in it? You don't have to yet, but I' i'd expect something a little bit of like various sort of corrosion things and things along that line. Um, so we're looking sort of like maybe some sort of ceramic material or like special output is better than that. So, okay. Yeah. Well, you may want to look into at at what temperature and under what conditions does hydriding of of things, especially like metals become a serious problem because hydrogen diffusion at these temperatures like the wind just goes right through. Um, but wouldn't expect anyone to know all that stuff until the very end of the presentation. Good job. So nice job. I especially like um some of the stuff you did like color coding your block diagrams and your products. That made it really really easy to follow what was going on. And so everyone take a hint for that. Um that made it extra clear. So thanks a lot.