Welcome back to recitation. In this video, I want us to work on some problems looking at integrals that may converge or diverge. So, these are improper integrals. And we want to know uh if each of the integrals below converges or diverges. And if they converge, I want you to compute them. I want you to actually evaluate it. find a number that that that is the area under the curve. So that's really remember what the integral is. So we should be able to find actually uh the finite number that represents that. So there are three of them. The first one is the integral from 0 to infinity of cosine x dx. The second one is the integral from 0 to 1 of natural log x / x^ 12 dx. So that's just x remember down there. And the third one is the integral from minus1 to 1 of x^ the minus 2/3 dx. So why don't you take a while to work on this? Pause the video and when you're feeling good about your answers, bring the video back up. I'll be back to then to show you how I do them. Okay, welcome back. Well, hopefully you were able to answer these questions. So they the question again was that we wanted to know if the following interval in intervals integrals converged or diverged and and then I wanted us to actually compute them if they converged. So again we're going to start with the integral of cosine x dx. Then we'll look at the integral of natural log x over roox dx. And then we'll look at the integral from minus1 to 1 of x^us 2/3 dx. So let's look at the first one and I'll rewrite it up here. So we have it. Okay. And this is kind of interesting because maybe this this is a little bit different than um than what you have seen previously in the way of saying this is potentially improper. Um because cosine x certainly doesn't blow up anywhere, right? It's it's bounded between minus1 and one. So the function itself is not blowing up. But let's look at actually what we what we get when we try and evaluate this. So if we take this this integral we we know the anti-derivative of cosine is negative no it's just s sorry it's just sinx right the derivative of s is cosine so we get sinx and what we're supposed to do is we're supposed to take let me rewrite that x that's horrible we're supposed to take the limit as b goes to infinity of sinx evaluated from zero to b right and so this is pretty straightforward again now wants the limit as b goes to infinity of sin b because sine of 0 is zero. And now here's where we run into trouble because this limit doesn't exist, right? Because as b goes to infinity, sin b s the function sinx. So now it's really the function s b is now the variable if we think about it that way. As b goes to infinity, s is going to oscillate as it always does between minus1 and one. And it's going to continue to do that. it's not going to approach a certain value and stay arbitrarily close to that value as you as B goes off to infinity. So this limit does not exist. And maybe what's informative is to think about how could this happen as an integral if we know that the the integral we're looking for is really the area signed area under the curve. So let me explain briefly what's happening. Let me just draw a quick picture of cosine and explain briefly what's happening. So cosine starts off starts off like this, right? So what happens if I want to integrate cosine x from 0 to infinity? I first pick up this much area. Sorry, this graph's a little sloped. I realize I pick up this much area and that's all positive. And then as I keep moving over here to here, I pick up the same amount of area, but it's negative. So once I get to here, my my integral it's zero, right? The area above and the area below are equal. So then I I start the process again with the value zero. And so I accumulate some negative area and then over here it's the same amount of positive area and it kills it off. So I I start off I have some positive value and then it becomes less positive, goes to zero. Then I get some negative value accumulated. Then it comes up and goes to zero again. So the point is as I'm moving off to infinity, the area is oscillating and the area remember is actually what the value of of sign is at that point. The area from of under the curve from zero to any any value for cosine x is the value of s at that point. That's what we're seeing here. So the the point is that this integral even though cosine x is a bounded function the area is accumulating then disappearing then becoming negative then disappearing then accumulating then disappearing. So there's no value that it's approaching. It's varying between all these values over and over again. So this is a weird one maybe where the integral doesn't exist, but it actually it doesn't exist there. So hopefully that makes sense and even though it's a little different, you understand the idea. So now I'm gonna going to go to B. So what is B? It's the integral from 0 to 1 of ln x over x^ 12 dx. Okay. And what I what I want to point out is we probably want to see why is this improper? Well, at at one, we don't have a problem because natural log of one is zero and we can put a one down here and nothing bad happens. At zero, we have a problem. Natural log of zero actually doesn't exist. It's the limit as as x goes to zero of natural log x is minus infinity. and then natural log or sorry natural log zero evaluated evaluating square root x at zero gives you zero. So we have something going to minus infinity in the numerator and zero in the denominator as we're as we're and we're trying to integrate that function as it goes towards that value. So we have to figure out kind of what's going on here. So let's let's not uh worry about the bounds at the moment. Those are obviously going to be important at the end. But let's figure out what we get as an anti-derivative for this. Okay? And we're not we don't have to worry about the constant. remember uh in the anti-derivative because we're going to evaluate. So what's the best way to attack this one? Well, probably you should see that you've got a natural log and you've got a power of x. So this is really set up to do an integration by parts because remember natural log likes you like to take derivatives of natural log and powers of x are happy to be integrated or to take derivatives of them. The only power of x that's maybe a little bit annoying to to uh to integrate is x to the minus one because it's integral is because it's anti-derivative is natural log instead of like another power of x. But this one is not that case. So it's it's looking good for an integration by parts. So again we said for integration by parts natural log you love to take its derivative. So we're going to let u be natural log of x and u prime be 1 /x. And then v prime is x to the minus one/2. Right? This is x to the 1/2 in the denominator. So v prime is actually x to the minus 1/2. So v is going to be x to the 1/2 with a correction factor. So it's going to need a two in front. I believe let me double check. Derivative of this is 12 * 2 is 1 x to the minus one half. So I'm doing okay. So now what do I get when I want to when I want to take the integral? I take uv. So it's going to be 2 x to the 12 ln x and then now I'm going to put in the bounds evaluated from 0 to 1 minus the integral of v u prime. So v is uh x^ the 12 and u prime is x to the minus1 really it's 1 /x and so I'm going to keep the two in front integral from 0 to 1 x^ the 1/2 overx is x^us one2. This will be nice because we've already taken an anti-derivative once. So we know what we get. All right. Now, this one we'll have to look at because notice that as x goes to zero, we have to figure out if this has a limit. Okay, we have to figure out if this has a limit. And we'll probably need to use lial's rule to do that. So let's let's finish this part up first. So I'll just keep this here. 0 to one, that's a zero. and then minus okay x to the minus 1/2 is anti-derivative was 2 x^ the 1/2 so I have another two so I get a four x to the 12 evaluated from 0 to one so this is easy because here I just get uh four right this this part right here will eva when I evaluate it I'll just get four and the minus sign in front so this part is just neg4 because at x equal one I get one and at x equals z I get zero so that's fine this part's fine this part when I put in one for x. Notice what happens. I get a one here. Natural log of one is zero. And so I get I get zero. And so the question really is what is the limit as x goes to zero of this quantity. I know right here again I have a minus4 here. And then the question is what do I have here? It could blow up still. It could diverge. We're going to see what happens. So let me let me just put a line. It's the same problem, but I want to distinguish for us. So we're actually wanting to find the limit as b goes to 0 of 2 b to the 12 natural log b right that's what we're interested in that's the only part we don't yet understand so let's see what happens well if I want to make this into a lial's rule thing right now I have 0 times negative infinity so to put it into a form I recognize I'm going to rewrite this this is actually equal to the limit as b goes to zero. I'm going to keep the natural log b up here and I'm going to write this as b to the minus one/2 in the denominator. Let's make sure we understand what just happened. I had a b to the 1/2 in the numerator. If I put it to the minus one/2 in the denominator, it's still it's still equal to the same thing, right? B to the minus one/2 in the denominator is equal to b to the 1/2 in the numerator. Okay? really I'm taking one over this and then I'm dividing by it somehow. I mean that's that's the way you want to think about it. You want to think about saying I'm taking one over this and I'm taking it in the numerator and the denominator. So I end up with it just here. I might that might have been confusing. The real point is this quantity one over this quantity is equal to that quantity. And now what's the what's the point? Why' I bother to do that? As b goes to zero this goes to negative infinity and this goes to uh infinity. Right? So now I have something where I can apply lial's rule. So this is the limit as b goes to zero. Derivative of natural log of b is 1 over b. So I get 2 over b in the numerator. Derivative of b to the minus one2 is - one2 b to the minus3s. There's a lot of denominators in the numerator and denominator. So let's simplify this. That's the limit as b goes to zero. Okay, what do we get here? We have 2 * minus one2 in the or two divided by minus 1/2. So I'm going to get a -4 from this part the coefficients. Then I have a b to the minus1 up here / a b to the minus3 halves. That's actually going to be a b to the three halves divided by b. That's going to be b to the 1/2. That's algebra. You can check it if you need to. I mean, you should have gotten this, but if you didn't get this, check again. Let me make sure I get it again. B to the three halves / B B to the 12. Oh, and that equals zero because it was the limit as B goes to zero of this quantity. Now, I've just got a continuous function. Um, I am notice I didn't actually I kind of cheated a little bit because I just wrote limit as B goes to zero, but I'm always doing as B goes to zero from the right hand side because I'm starting at one. So, you may have seen this. This 0 plus means I'm only interested as b goes to zero from above zero. Okay, I didn't write that in. But notice our our integral was between zero and one. So it only mattered values to the right of zero. So this this function is defined to the right of zero. So I can I can just I can just evaluate there. Just plug it in. It's continuous. And so I can just say ah at zero it equals zero. So now let's go back to where we were. What were we doing here? we were taking this whole piece was to come back in here and figure out what this value was. We knew at one we got zero and now we know at zero we also get zero. So that question mark I can replace by a zero and I get 0 minus 4. So the actual answer is -4. Okay, we have one more. What's the last one? The last one, let me write it down over here again. the integral from minus1 to 1 of x^ - 2/3 dx. Now this is interesting because this you actually saw an example kind of like this in in the lecture that it's at at this end point it's fine. You can evaluate the function at that end point. At this end point it's fine. You can evaluate the function there. So it looks good at the end points. But the point is that at x equals 0 because this minus power is putting your x in the denominator you actually your your function is blowing up it has a vertical asmtote at x equals 0. So what we want to do is we want to we have this strategy for these problems. It's to split it up into two parts -1 to 0 of x^us 2/3 dx plus the integral from 0 to 1 of x^us 2/3 dx. Now the point is that now the only place where I have a vertical asmtote I see it as an end point on both of these and this is again just this this good thing we have an additive property for these integrals that the sum of these two integrals is going to equal this one here as long as you know as long as these are converging uh then I can say if this converges and this converges then their sum converges to this one here. Okay so that's really um what I'm trying to exploit here. Now, what is an anti-der what is the anti-derivative here for x to the minus 2/3? This is going to be again I'm going to write something down and then I'm going to check it. I think it should be 5/3 x^ 5/3 and then I have to multiply by 3 fths. Let's double check. This is where I always might make mistakes. If I take the derivative of 5/3* 35ths gives me a 1. 5/3 minus 1 is 5/3 minus 3/3 and that's 2/3. And that's wrong. So, right, because I went too big. It's supposed to be 1/3. I knew I was going to make a mistake, right? I'm supposed to add one to minus 2/3. That's just 1/3. And so, I should have a three in front. So, for those of you who were saying, "She's making a mistake." I was. Okay. X to the 1/3. So, I take the derivative times three, I get a one there. Subtract one, I get minus 2/3. So, now I'm in business. Okay. And now I just need to evaluate that here, here, if I can. And then another one here from 0 to one. And the good news is x to the 1/3 is continuous at at all these points. It's continuous across negative 1 0 0 and one. So I can actually just evaluate. I don't have to worry. There is a value for the function there. It's continuous through all these points. So I can just evaluate them. So let's see what I get. I get 3 * 0 and then I get minus uh 3 * 1 so I get a -3 plus 3 * 1 and then minus 3 * 0 okay so 3 * 0 - 3 * 3 so that's a three plus three and I get six okay and what's the picture of this well you should look think about what the picture of x to the minus 2/3 looks like and you should notice that across zero it's even right so it's actually going to have um it's going to look the same on the left hand side and the right hand side so if I had wanted to I could have just found the value of say this integral I like positive numbers better the integral from 0 to one of this function multiplied it by two and it would have given me the actual value because it's exactly the same function to the right of zero and to the left of zero it's a reflection across the y- ais you get the same value there so you actually would have gotten three for this multiply by two and you get the value. If this one had diverged, that one also would have had to diverge and the whole thing would have diverged and that's because of the symmetry of the function over zero. So I'm going to just briefly me review what we did and then we'll be done. So we come back over here. I gave you three integrals. We wanted to see if they converged or diverged, right? I and if they converged, find what they were. So the first one was cosineex and we found that that diverged for a different reason than what we've seen before because as as x goes to infinity the problem is the areas are varying up and down and they're they're bounded always but the area under the curve is constantly changing and it's not converging to a a fixed value. It's varying between minus1 and one over and over again. And then b we had this integral from 0 to 1 natural log x over rootx dx. And the the point here was a little more complicated. So let me come to that one. We used an integration by parts. We had an integral that converged easily because it was this was a this was uh an easy improper integral to determine. And then we had this other thing that we now had to evaluate it and you wound up having to use lial's rule to evaluate it. And but then you're able to show that this using li's rule the this actually has a value at each endpoint a finite value at each endpoint. It converges then to zero as you as when you put in these bounds and and then you have a fixed value for this one when you take that integral and so you ended up with another integral that was improper but you could show it converged and then you could use li's rule to find what happened at these end points and you get a value of minus4 and then the third one was this integral minus1 to 1 x^ theus 2/3 dx and the point I wanted to make there is that just because the function is well behaved near the end points doesn't mean that it's still, you know, everything's hunky dory. You have to be careful and you have to check at places where the value of the function is going off to infinity. So in the second case, the the left endpoint posed a problem and everything else was fine. In this case, the left and right endpoints are both fine, but in the middle there's a problem. And so you split it up into its two pieces so that you have the end points uh now of these two new integrals represent where the problem might happen. and then you do your your uh find your anti-derivative and evaluate and see if you can get something that converges. So that's uh that's the idea of these types of problems. So hopefully that was helpful and I think that's where I'll stop.