Okay. Uh I want to continue uh the last video which was about incidence matrices and graphs and networks and flows in the network. Um so that was 5.6 this is 5.6b and I'll remember the same graph you remember a graph is some nodes four nodes here and some edges and in in this case five edges. So I have a 5x4 matrix and that's what it was and I'll remember how it was created. Every row corresponds to an edge. So the first edge there goes from node one to node two. So I put a minus1 and a one in columns one and two. That tells me what that first edge is doing. and it gives me one row of the incidence matrix. Five edges gives me five rows. There's the matrix. And here I'll multiply by V. Thinking of a vector V as voltages at the four nodes and I get that answer. The the one and minus one produce this kind of answer. Okay. Now I'm ready for questions about the matrix A, the 5x4 matrix. These matrices, these incidence matrices are beautiful examples of rectangular matrices where we can ask all the key questions about a matrix and get a nice answer. And the key questions that I have in mind are what are their solutions to AV equals zero? Are there that asks that says are there combinations of the columns that give the zero column so it's asking are there are the columns dependent if the columns were dependent then I'll find some solutions and here I will if the columns are independent the only solution I will find will be v equals z but this those columns are dependent it. Now, how can we see that? Well, in this case, we can find a solution to AV equals Z because I can see how do I how do I get all those differences to be zero? Well, not hard. Uh V could be the vector of all ones. Then the differences would all be 1 minus one would all be zero. I would be solving av equals z and of course I can multiply by any constant the voltages. So all I'm saying is if all the voltages are equal there won't be any flow. If all the voltages are equal and I don't have any uh batteries or other sources in the in the network there will be no flow. And uh and that's those are all the solutions. But the only way I could make all those zero would be for all the V's to be the same. So all the V's have to be the same. V is C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C and I learn something important AV equals Z has some solutions and I'll just jump ahead one electrical moment uh that's not good if we want an invertible matrix if in the end we would have a transpose a and it won't be invertible unless we do something and what do we do we We want to get rid of that last column. We can have three columns. Those will be independent. But that fourth column is a combination of the others. And what we do in reality is we ground a node, which means we set one of the V's, maybe V4. If we set that to zero, it's like we're fixing the temperature, we're fixing the voltage. We often have to do this on a sliding scale. If we only know differences in temperature, we have to say where is zero? And if we make that point zero, then we have only three unknown voltages and a 5x3 matrix and all. Well, okay. So that's the discussion of avals 0. Now what about a transpose w= z? So now I'm asking about the transpose of that matrix. Now this is a 4x5 matrix. Again beautiful example 4x5 matrix. W of course it's a 4x5 matrix multiplying W which is 5 by 1. So 4x 5 * 5 by 1. And I want to get all zeros, four zeros this time. Okay. Right. So, uh first of all, if I have a 4x5 matrix, so when I transpose this, this is you could say short and wide. I think there are automatically solutions. There will be solutions in a 4x5 matrix with five unknowns and only four equations. I'm going to have some solutions to that system. So there will be some solutions. Well, the question is how many different W's could I find? How many different solutions? And what do they mean? And that's the beauty of this example that it's not just a bunch of 20 numbers in the matrix. The matrix has a meaning. The incidence matrix takes differences. A to av is differences in V. But what's the meaning of arpose? That's the key question here. Why is this equation very important? Okay. So I have to tell you the meaning of a transpose and maybe I have to copy down what a transpose is. So let me go to a next board. and copy down aranspose. So I'm looking now at a transpose w. Okay. So now it will be 4x5. So that first column, first row becomes a column. The second row becomes another column in the transpose. The third row another column. The fourth row is that column? Uh yes. And the fifth row is that one. And that will multiply one wo 3 4 and five to give 0 0 0. And that's called the current law. Kirkoff's current law. And what is that law? What does it mean? It means that in the network at a typical node, so at node one, you remember there was an edge out. Edge one went out. Edge two, three edges went out. Actually, this was to node two. This was to node three. And that was to node four. At node one, three edges are going out. And what does the current law tell me? It tells me that the total flow out is zero. The net flow, any flow in which would be negative W's. Uh, and any flows out, which would be positive W's, W that came from the first edge. This was maybe the second edge. And I think that happened to be the fourth edge flows out of W. And that's what I see here. A one, a two and a four are multiplying W1, W2 and W4 are the G the first equation there is minus W1 + W2 + W4 = Z. So that's first came from the first row of arpose w= z right I just took those numbers from the first row I wrote down that that first equation and you see it says exactly the sum of those three flows has to be zero. So if there are some positive flows going out, there must be some negative W's coming in to balance. Okay. And and that was at node one. And similarly at nodes two and three and four currents balance. It's the balance equation. Kirkoff's law. It's the balance equation. It's conservation. A fundamental equation in in modeling applied mathematics is if if a body is sitting there in equilibrium then the forces on it are in balance. If if I have steady flow around a network the currents are in balance. Always there's a balance equation so that things are not collecting up at a node. It's it's stable. Okay. So uh that's the meaning of Kirkoff's current law. That's the meaning of a transpose w= z. And what about solutions? Solutions w now. So now we're getting down into the details. Can we actually find the W's? Well, there will be some. There will be some. As I said, we've got five unknowns here and only four equations. So we're we're certainly going to find a solution. And let me suggest one good way to look for it. Suppose uh the flow let me put in the other two edges. Suppose the flow goes around a loop. Loops are the key here. The key to the solution is a loop. So that's a flow that sends a flow of one along that edge. a flow of one going that way along that edge which I think was w uh five and a flow one going that way. Oh, pay pay attention. It's going so to send one amp around the loop. I I go with the arrow with the flow this way and this way. But this one is against the arrow. So I'm I'm thinking that a solution is W1= 1. You you see I'm writing down a solution without doing any elimination or or other linear algebra. I'm just understanding the picture. W1 is one. W5 is one. W5 is one. And what is W4? Negative one. because it's going against the uh arrow and I and the other two W's are zero w2 and w3. This was this was w3 here. Those are not involved in this loop. So there is a solution with w2 and w3= z. And I think that uh Kirk, how could it fail on Kirkov's current law? Nothing is piling up at a node. We're just sending it around a loop. And of course, I put in that's a one. W2 is a zero. W4 is a minus one. I have a one and a minus one. I get zero just right. And all the equations would be sol solved. So in other words, conclusion. The solutions W come from loops in the network. Every loop in the network gives me a W. Here, here's another loop. I could send flow down there. Now, that would be a W4 + one this way. This way. Do you see that second loop? Let me let me draw my little loopy symbol. The flow going around that loop. That loop happens to have four edges on it. So I'd have four W's, one minus one, one and minus one and no flow on edge one. And I would have another solution and it would be a different solution. So I'm going to from can I insert here two loops in that graph. I see two loops two small loops and each of those small loops gives me a flow a w that solves the current law because it's just continuously running around and around. Uh now there's another question to ask you and that is what about the big loop W1 W uh 3 I think that is and minus W2. What if I send flow around the big loop? No problem. That gives me another set of W's. Those satisfy Kirkoff's current law. They satisfy these equations. they satisfy a transpose w= z. But I don't want that big loop in I don't want to include that in my list of W's because I was only looking for two W's. I was only looking for two W's and a linear algebra told me that was the number to look at look for. And here you're suggesting I'll blame you a third around the big loop. So what's up? Well, do you see it? The flow around loop does solve a transpose wal. But it's not new. It's the sum of a a flow around that loop plus a flow around that. Do you see? If I add on, if I add together the flow vector, the loop vector for for W for that loop and for that loop, they will cancel on the edges that are in both loops. And I'll just be left with the flow there, the flow there, and the flow there. And that's the big loop. In other words, that big loop doesn't give me a new ve doesn't give me it gives me a vector W. That's a combination of what I already have. And in linear algebra, that's always the question. You want you want the number of independent W's. And this big loop is a dependent W because it's the combination of the other two. Okay. So that's the picture for one particular example. Uh I'll just end with uh linear algebra fact. Linear algebra facts. Okay. So how many So if I have an M byN matrix and suppose AV =0 has has how many independent solutions? Shall I say K independent solutions? And in my example, the incidence matrix, the answer was the for equal incidence matrix K was one. So if I know the number of solutions to that equation, then how many solutions do I expect to this has uh so how many solutions will do I expect there? It it the difference between M and N comes in it and then plus K so independent solutions. That's a basic fact of linear algebra that I never wrote down before. I never wrote it in this notation. I I'll make that a question on a future linear algebra exam. What I'm saying is that uh if I know how many solutions uh AV has, how many combination these are combinations of the columns of A that give zero then I know how many combinations of the rows of A and let's just check that uh the this count counting theorem was correct. This was K equal one, right? The only solution to av= 0 was the constants 1 one one. Then m was 5, n was 4, k was 1. 5 - 4 + 1 is 2. And that's the number of loops loop solutions to a to Kirkoff's current law. Okay, we have a voltages, we have currents, and I uh there's a lot of beautiful uh linear algebra involved with these matrices. uh I'll also include a video about RLC circuits which are totally an application of this and uh there I'll begin with just one loop one RLC loop but the reality of uh of a of a of modern electronics is thousands of nodes thousands of of uh edges maybe tens of thousands of edges and uh many many loops. Good. Thank you.