So I developed uh the MOO visualizing Japan uh which is uh MITx Harvard X joint project with John Daer of MIT Andy Gordon of Harvard and also Jennifer Weisenfeld of Duke. I incorporated the MOO material uh into my residential class in 2014 and it changed everything. It changed literally everything and I continued to to use it right up until my last offering which was fall of 2016. Uh before 2014 it was a very traditional class with lectures, powerpoints and little bit of student discussion. When I incorporated the MOO material in 2014, um I didn't anticipate any major changes. I simply said, why don't you look at these video lectures we just produced and see what you think think about them? Uh and what I realized right away was that students would come into class and they would have a lot of knowledge which was not the case before. So I would ask you know so when did Perry come to Japan? 1853. Okay. When did major era begin? 1868. Why did it begin? Blah blah. So my goodness. uh you know I had a whole set of powerpoints which I had created from years of teaching. I did not show a single PowerPoint. I for uh 70 minutes I just asked them questions just to see if I can find something that they didn't know. They knew the whole thing and I said gee this is uh this is different. And without realizing it, without I I didn't even know what a flip class was. I just did a flip class. I did not lecture for a single minute. It was just question answer discussion, you know, posing little deeper questions for students to discuss. And uh I was absolutely absolutely stunned that just in this one class the way I teach changed fundamentally. So by uh having flipped the class uh one very concrete thing that came out of it uh this is MIT so one of the students was actually uh getting some data on this. Um so there were a couple times when I had a traditional lecture uh class because I had to introduce something and uh this student uh uh timed me and she found that I was speaking 80% students 20%. Okay, which is for a traditional lecture class that's not bad. And then so she told me that and I said well look why don't you uh do the same thing when uh we do the discussion. So she did that and she found that it was 5050 and qualitatively it's just completely different completely different remember uh we had uh uh a bunch of visitors from Japan second week of the class and I was doing the you know interactive uh style and they came up to me and said uh so how many months have you been teaching this class? Two weeks. They're like it's quite remarkable. I mean just the sheer amount of knowledge the students gain from this new way of teaching is it just it's incomp you cannot compare to the previous one. You know we like to lecture. We all like to lecture. Uh and I miss lecturing. A lot of faculty members who flip class tell me this you know. So in in their sort of quiet moment, you know, in the corner of their room, you know, they whisper, "I miss lecturing." But we all know that this flipping class makes it so much more effective. What's really important is to have good material for students to study ahead of class. And I strongly recommend video. video is a very uh rich source of knowledge and if you combine that with reading you'll be amazed at how much students bring into into class and uh as uh uh one of my colleagues Rona Gibson who has flipped uh her materials class has said the reason why flipped class is so effective is that students touch the same material several times. Okay. uh once when they're viewing it before coming to class and second time when we're discussing discussing it and third time when they do a pet set based on it. That's why it's so effective. Yeah, I think lecturing is going to go the wayside of uh blackboards.