MIT recently did a uh um a study of future of MIT education and right at the top what we have to do is to teach teamwork and leadership uh above technical skills. And the neat thing about getting students to work with visual materials is that because there's so much information that you got to work in teams, uh just having one perspective is interesting, but having two perspectives is really interesting. And having multiple perspectives on the same material is is just extraordinary. And people debate. Okay, this is something else. the idea of uh critical thinking. You really debate based on whatever evidence you can find in the image and uh historical and cultural knowledge that you gain from uh your readings and the video. And so uh the idea of teamwork really comes into play. And then you can see people playing leadership roles and people uh sort of switch leaders leadership as they go from one image to the next depending on what they feel comfortable talking about. Here are some uh things to keep in mind about incorporating visual materials. Uh the first thing that one should know we know this already is that young people are exposed to visual materials by the tongue on a daily basis. uh and yet they are never taught how to interpret them. What happens with visual materials is that you go in, you react emotionally uh and then you you come out uh without carefully analyzing the content uh unlike written material. Written material you have to go through word by word and sort of think about what what what is this? What does this say? And so uh it's critical that we teach uh sort of how to read visuals. Okay. Uh that's one point. The second point is that u there's a ton of visuals out there. You have to curate them. You can't just throw uh students into know um this collection of visuals without some sense of uh knowing where those visuals come from. If you want students to publish the visuals then you have to think about copyright and students should be taught about copyright. Okay? What things you can and cannot do. So these are all like 21st century skills that you can teach with visual material.