Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, you've learned a whole bunch of different integration techniques. So, I have here a couple of problems that'll give you an opportunity to to apply those techniques and figure out which ones to apply. So, in particular, I have one definite integral, the integral from 0 to two of the quantity x * e 1 - x^2 with respect to x. And the second one is an indefinite integral of 2 ar tan x / x^2 with respect to x. So why don't you pause the video, take some time to work these out, come back and we can work them out together. Welcome back. Hopefully you had some luck working on these integrals. Let's get started. We can do the first one first and then we'll go on to the second one. So here we want to compute the integral from 0 to 2 of x e 1 - x^2 dx. So in order to do this we have to you know well so I mean we could look at it and say do I know the answer immediately off the top of my head and and this is not one of the you know ones that we have immediately already a memorized formula for. So then you say okay so now I need to do something in order to to try to integrate it. So you know you have a whole bunch of techniques and for this one when you look at it the technique that is going to work for you is just the simplest technique that you have which is just a straightforward substitution. And one way to figure that out is that you can look at this and you can see that here we have a a composition of functions this e to the 1 - x^2. And so whenever you have a composition of functions there's the opportunity for there to have been a chain rule somewhere. And in this case we see that this composition of function is is uh multiplied by x and x is very closely related to the to the derivative of of 1 - x^2. So that's what's suggesting for us a nice substitution. And so the substitution we're going to try then is that we're going to we're going to put this inside function this 1 - x^2. We're going to set u equal to that. So all right so this is equal to so I'm going to set u= 1 - x^2. So now if I take a differential if u = 1 - x^2 that means that du is - 2x dx um and since this is a definite integral I also need to change the bounds of integration. So when x is equal to 0 that means that u is equal to well 1 - 0^2 is 1. So that's the lower bound. And when x is equal to 2 that means that u is equal to 1 - 2^2 which is -3. So we make these substitutions. Okay. So what does our integral become? So this becomes the integral. So now the lower bound becomes u = 1. The upper bound is u = -3. Okay. So now e to the 1 - x^2. That's just e to the u. And x dx. Well that's almost du. It's du / -2. So, du / -2. So, we make this substitution. We transform our integral to this form. Now, this is a very nice simple integral, right? This is just the integral of e to the u with a, you know, a constant multiple. So, okay, so we can we can do this right away. So, this is well, okay, so I'll pull the minus one/2 out in front. And now, fundamental theorem of calculus, anti-derivative of e to the u is just e to the u. And I have to take that between my bounds. So between u = 1 and u = minus3. So notice that because we changed bounds, we don't have to go back and and convert everything back to x. We can just plug in directly. Um so okay, so we plug in directly. What do I get? So for first I get minus 12 times. So I'll just pull the constant out in front. So the first term is e to the minus3 minus e to the 1. Okay. Okay. And if I wanted to, I could rewrite this as e minus e the minus3 over 2 or in a variety of other ways. All right. So this one was a pretty straightforward integration by substitution. Definite integral change bounds and at the end you get this answer. Um so let's take a look at the second one. So the second one's a bit trickier I think um and requires a bit more work. So here it is. Let me rewrite it. So it's the anti-derivative of 2 ar tan x over x^2 dx. So we have here here an anti-derivative that we have to compute and this is a kind of messy looking expression that we're working with, right? Um so this is this is not not very pleasant. Um so there are there are a couple of different things we could think to do. So one thing that you could think to do is you could say I really don't like arc tan. I'm going to try and get rid of arc tan. And the way I'm going to get rid of arc tan is by doing a substitution. U= arc tan x or x= tan u. So if you do that that'll get rid of your inverse trigonometric function but it'll introduce in the bottom you have this x squ. So that'll introduce like a tan u 2 and dx will give you some more trig functions. So what you'll be left with then so this will be u on top. So you'll have u * a product of trig functions. So I guess it's up to you whether you think that a polomial or a power of of u * a bunch of trig functions is simpler than than an inverse trig function times times a power. Um it's not clear to me that it's actually that much simpler. Um and in any case we wouldn't sort of be finished at that stage. There would still be a fair amount more work to do. Um so we can think about what other things could we do. That's that's kind of the only obvious substitution here. But another um thing that that that suggests itself is is that we could try an integration by parts. And one reason is this is a product of things. You know, here it's r tan x * 1 /x^2. And arc tan x is something that that works nicely with integration by parts if you can differentiate it. Right? So so inverse trigonometric functions behave like logarithms with respect to integration by parts. by which I mean they really like to be differentiated because when you differentiate an arc tan you get something much simpler well simpler anyhow maybe not much simpler um you get 1 over 1 plus x^2 so if you can apply integration by parts and differentiate the arc tan that makes your life nice and so then in order for that to work you need for everything else to be something you can anti-ifferiate and here everything else is just 2 overx^2 and so that's something that that we know how to integrate it's easy to do so okay so so let's so let's give that a try Um, so we're going to do integration by parts. So I'm going to set u equal to ar tan x. So that means u prime is equal to 1 over 1 + x^2. And I'm going to let v prime equal well I guess I have to pick up the two somewhere. So I might as well pick it up here. 2 over x^2. And so then v so I integrate 2 overx^2. So that gives me x to the minus1 with a minus sign. So it's minus 2 over x. So these are u u prime v and v prime. So now okay. So now I apply integration by parts and that tells me this is equal to well let's see. So it's uv which is - 2 r tan x overx. That's uv minus the integral of what now what's the second part? It's v u prime dx. So here v u prime is well okay. So the minus2 I'm going to pull that out front. Um so this is plus two. All right. So then and then the rest of it is 1 /x * 1 + x^2 dx. So if you apply integration by parts, you have the uv stuff that gets kicked out out front and then what you're left with is this second integral. Now this is to me this is simpler looking than what we started with. It's still not simple but it's simpler. So, so it seems to me that we've, you know, having reached this stage, we can say, okay, we've made some progress and now we have to keep going, right? So, it's not it's not obvious to me what the the anti-derivative of this expression should be. Um, so how can I figure that out? Well, uh, there are a couple of different options here. One thing you might look at this and see is you might see again I have a 1 plus x^2 in the denominator. And so, that might make you tempted to do a trig substitution again. Um, and in fact, you could do a trig substitution here. You could put x= tan theta and and you would be able to to solve the question like this. But I don't think it's the simplest way to go because in addition, well, on one hand, this has this 1 plus x^2 in the denominator. But on the other hand, this is just a rational function. Yeah, it's a it's a ratio of two polinomials. The polinomial on the top is just one and the polinomial on the bottom is this product x * 1 plus x^2. And so whenever you have a rational function that you're trying to integrate, you can also always use uh what's it called? Um partial fraction decomposition. So we can try to use partial fractions on the second expression. Um and so I think I'd like to I'd like to to do it that way. Um so let's so let's do that. Let's do it down here. So, so partial fractions on the quantity 1 over x * 1 + x^2. So if you remember your partial fractions here, this is completely factored. This quadratic doesn't factor. Uh it doesn't have it doesn't have any uh real roots. It doesn't factor. So okay so we have a we have a a single linear term and a single non-factorable quadratic term. So partial fractions tells us that we can write this in the form a over x plus and now because the second term is quadratic it needs to be b x + c over 1 + x^2 right so when you have a you have a quadratic in the bottom you get two constants up top you know a linear polomial and then you can always check you have three constants here and the the degree of the denominator is three so that's one way of checking that you're completely off base that that the degree down here should always agree with the number of constants that you're solving for. Okay, good. So now we need to solve this for for a, b, and c. Um, and so okay, because we have this nice linear single linear factor, we can do the cover up method there. So we cover up x and we cover up over x and we cover up everything else. So on the right hand side, we just end up with a and on the left hand side, well, so x, so that's what we need. we get whatever when we plug in x equals zero. So on on this side we get 1 over 1 + 0^ squared. So that's just uh one. Okay. So the cover up method gives us that a is equal to 1. And now we need to solve for blast and cruise. And probably the most straightforward way in this case to solve for blast and cruise is as you can always just multiply through um and if you multiply through okay so so we'll multiply through on the left hand. So we'll clear denominators. We'll multiply through by x * 1 + x^2. So on the left we'll get just 1. On the right, okay, so we multiply a / x * x * 1 + x^2. So that gives us a * 1 + x^2. But we know that a is 1. So this is the first term becomes 1 + x^2. And the second term we multiply through by x * 1 + x^2. and the 1 plus x squares cancel and we're left with plus x * bx plus c. Now if you uh maybe you could at this point there are number of different ways to finish but one for example as you can see all right if you subtract the 1 + x^2 over to the other side you have min - x^2 and over here you have bx^2 + cx. So for those things to be equal, you need B to be negative one and you need C to be zero, right? Um so okay, so good. So we have B = -1, C = 0. So the partial fraction decomposition then if we plug this in is 1 /x minus x over 1 + x^2. So this is the the partial fraction decomposition of of this uh rational function. So you apply that partial fraction decomposition. What do you do? All right. So now you carry that back upstairs to the to the integral we were working on. So let's So our integral that we started with is equal to now well so this this constant is still out in front so it's minus 2 arc tan x overx plus so now we've got 2 * all right so first we've just this is just algebra that we've done so we can just substitute it in so we replace this 1 / x * 1 + x^2 by 1 /x x - x over 1 + x^2 dx. Okay. And now using the properties of integration, this is a difference of two. An integral of a difference is the difference of the two integrals. So we just integrate them separately. Right? So this is equal to so that okay the part out front never changes. 2 r tan x /x + 2 * okay so you integrate 1 /x and that just gives you ln of absolute value of x and okay so you integrate so the second part is x over 1 + x^2 now in the in the in the worst case we would need to do some more work on this term and split things up and one of them we might have to complete the square or something but in this case it actually has worked out kind of nicely This x over 1 + x^2 is is a simple thing to to handle. It's just that's just ln of 1 plus x^2. Well, actually 12 of ln of 1 plus x^2, right? So, this is minus ln of 1 + x^2. I could write absolute value, but 1 plus x2 is always positive, so it doesn't matter if I do or not. Um, okay. And if I wanted, I could rewrite this a bit. I could rewrite this as just to finish it. I can write 2 arc tan x /x plus 2 ln absolute value of x minus ln of 1 + x^2 and I was doing an anti-derivative. So at some point whenever I finished the last one I should have added a constant. So this should have had a plus C here and I should have a plus C there. Right? Good. So u okay. So there's my there's my answer and let's just recap quickly how we arrived at it. So we started with this with this integral. Um and we saw we recognized it as a as a good candidate for integration by parts. And so we applied integration by parts seeing that the the the arc tan part was the part that really wanted to be differentiated and that the 1 /x^2 part you know it could have been differentiated it could have been integrated but since the arc tan wanted to be differentiated this this got integrated um good. So we did integration by parts and then we're left with a with a rational function as the piece of the integral we had left to compute. So when you have a rational function, one method that always works is that you can do partial fractions. Now in this case, this was a fairly simple partial fractions to do. First of all, the the degree of the the numerator was was smaller than the degree of the denominator, so we didn't have to divide by anything. You know, we didn't have to do long division and the the denominator had a fairly simple form. So we could just do the cover up method and then and then multiply through and be done fairly quickly. But in any case, so we did we applied partial fractions. So we got this expression. So then we carried that back up to our integral and integrated. Okay. So then we had this this integral with the partial fraction expression in it. And then that was easy to integrate. Um so in this case quite easy to integrate. Sometimes it's a little messier but but we came out pretty luckily this time. Um so okay and so there you go. So that's going to be our final answer. Now this was this was a long and complicated and so you know sometimes when you do a long complicated computation you worry did I make any stupid mistakes along the way. Um and one way to check always when you've done an anti-derivative is you could always check you could take the derivative of this expression. So that'll require you to use some product rule and some chain rule. But you know it's it's arithmetically it's arithmetically a little difficult but you can you could but not sort of intellectually right you you just are applying rules sort of automatically. Um so you can you can take the derivative of this expression and check to make sure that it that it actually agrees with the thing that we started with. Um so good I'll end there.