The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. When you have a group of two or three, come grab a soldering iron and your solar cells from me and choose like somewhere in this room to work. We're just we're staying in here first. Do you want us to overlay? Yeah, we don't touch this. Oh, you don't you're not actually soldering directly. Yeah, you don't want to overlay it. So, these three conducts will be viral and these will be serious, right? Yeah. you generally want to go like you the way you would generally do it is you would so I think it's less critical that you cover this entire set. Um so if you cover a little bit of it and solder to that and the back is also like all of this is conductive. Uh the only reason the tabs are there are because the tabs are easier to solder to and so it's just more convenient. Um and you don't really need to solder to all of them individually. You can only s like at minimal if you wanted to s like do it really minimally, you could just do like a solder from or a wire from there to there and that would work like that would be fine. But the reason that they have a lot of them is because if something cracks or something like that and you can't tell if you have a wire running across your wire is not going to crack because these are fragile. Uh and so you have more and you also have more contacts. So Okay. So, you're you're you can you should feel free to wire it however you want. And then we're going to test them later, too. Yeah, we put on or do you want to cut it off in small strips? I'm trying I'm trying to think if that would work. Connect these two. Yeah, but I don't know. Like, I don't know if that would work. It'd be a full circuit. Yeah, but I don't know if you can do that across a specific cell. Like I feel like that wouldn't work because I mean it would it would definitely make sense if you took two of them and you did one one way and you did the other was you had them going in two different patterns on one side. So you were connecting positive to negative to positive to negative and then on the other one you were connecting negative to positive to negative to positive. Uhhuh. on top. Yeah, this on top And here, right? Yeah. Yeah. Do we That's how you would traditionally titanium. Oh, no. It was going to go to Can you use the scissors? Exactly what I'm talking about. Yeah, I hate that. Then it tries to burn the butter. You have to do this side too. So you should also probably cut this shorter because this is electric conductive even though like even though it's not tabbed like the entire surface is electrically conductive. So if it's touching it's going to short. So like this part like you only need this one to touch. Is that what you're saying? No. Uh well that is true. So the thing is that um all of these are like this is all one surface that's electrically conductive. The tabs are just there to make it easier to solder onto or supposedly make it easier to solder onto. Um but the thing is that if you have two of these like right next to each other and uh they're like the back like there's a wire touching like this wire is touching this then you're going to short your Okay. Okay. Yeah. So that part all you need to do is from here like this much heard my crack. Are we supposed to do both sides? Are we supposed to have both sides? Uh is my And then these are really pretty in the sun. So yeah, so when you're checking voltage, you need to like sort of do it in parallel like check it across an element to see how much voltage is being dropped. So in this circuit, the only so you have this like battery. This is the source and then the only load is this thing. And so this is going to be dropping all of the voltage that is being collected by this by the solar panel. You getting anything? Is it getting any current? You don't have it in current this one. Uh, I mean the You're right. Sorry. 2.36. That's milliamps. Volts. Oh, volts. Yeah, we're taking then you don't need the volts. Yeah, because this become this becomes like the finishing. Oh, so in that case we're are we Oh, no. We're going to still check. Yeah, we'll check the voltage across this one. Got two 2.4 for the whole thing. Excellent. Nice work. across the whole cell one. Um, what was the resistance? 100 ohms. It should change it. Yeah. No, it was still wired across. Can we just Yeah. Can we just go inside and do a data switch all those three numbers? Okay. I'm sorry. I guess I don't think we cover up a quarter of Are we going to do a cover on one of these? Do you want to just cover the quarter panel for the first one? We didn't actually do that. Sure. Let's do that. We just covered one entire cell. Same effect, right? Sure.