Hello and welcome to lab three. My name is Yugu and I will be walking you through the important steps of this lab. You will be making a single LCD pixel. For this lab, you will need two pieces of itto coated glass which are also coated with polyvinyl alcohol or PVA. The side of the glass that's unccoated should be marked. You will also need two linear polarizers, a piece of microfiber dust cloth, a suspension of polystyrene spheres which act as spacers, some canned air, a pipet, pipet tip, the LCD crystal which is 5CB glue, a binder clip, clear tape, copper tape, a 9volt battery, the same photo resistor circuit you used in lab one clips and a battery strap. First, you will prepare the optical sensor for your setup, which is the photo resistor circuit previously shown. Start with a 10 koohm resistor in series with a photo resistor. Tape the photo resistor face down on one of the polarizers. Use the 9V battery to bias the circuit as drawn in the lab handout. Now you will assemble the LCD pixel. Make sure to wear latex gloves for this part. Start with the two pieces of glass with the ITO and PVA coated sides facing up. You can always check this using an ohm meter. Using the microfiber dust cloth, rub both pieces of glass along the long direction. This results in micro grooves inside the PVA layer, which creates boundary conditions for the LCD crystals. Now, put a drop of the spacer solution on one of the glass slides. Flip over the second slide and press down to spread out the spacers. Then dry both slides with canned There. Now put a very small drop of glue on each corner of your pixel. These should define roughly a square. Flip over and align the top slide with a PVA side down. Press down firmly and wait until the glue is dry. Once the glue is dry, use the pipet to fill the pixel with 5CB. Place a drop of the 5CB along the edge where the slides cross. With the help of capillary forces and gravity, the 5CB should slowly fill up the pixel. Add a second drop of 5CB as needed. Once the pixel is filled, wipe off any extra 5CB. Place your pixel between the two polarizers, one of which should have the photo resistor setup attached to it. Align the polarizers such that the pixel is by default in the off state. Secure the assembly with a binder clip. To make electrical connections, scratch off some of the PVA on both sides to expose the ITO underneath. Wrap copper tape around the two slides to make two electrodes. Now you will connect your LCD pixel to a signal generator. Use a 9V battery to bias the photo transistor circuit and connect the oscilloscope leads to measure the voltage across the photo resistor. Characterize the LCD pixel by driving it at different voltages and frequencies as written in the lab handout.