The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. As I mentioned in the end of the last session that uh we're going to be talking about now about the transverse modes of lasers. Now these are what we call undesirable this is an undesirable behavior of lasers. There very few applications that take advantage of of these transverse modes. So let's talk about them and also we have a little demonstration uh to show you the uh these modes and and some of their characteristics. Okay. So the topic now is uh then transverse modes and um and then we remind you of what we did before you know typical laser cavity with two curved mirrors. We have uh we have the output coming out which is a single spot that Gaussian uh uh spot that uh that we get and we're used to it because most lasers that's what they put out is that single uh single spot with a peak intensity uh in the in the middle. Now let's see what else lasers can do. Well, turns out that some lasers will uh give you instead of just a single spot output will give you two spots and sometimes more than two more than two spots. And uh in most cases uh the modes are there simultaneously. So it's not like this uh separate uh mode. This this is the what we call the the higher order mode or 01 mode or so on. We're not going into that uh in this course. Uh but this is called the 00 mode which is the lowest order mode. Now uh sometimes I say we get mixtures of these and other high order modes and they're they're a uh they are a mess. Now before I go to the demonstration I want to discuss some of the uh properties uh of these modes with you so you appreciate the demonstration a little bit more. Uh let's look at aside from the intensity distributions which will which is obvious. The uh there's also the frequency uh issue there's a spectrum issue. So let's look first at the what we call the lowest order mode and again we have the cavity modes for that and if there's enough gain to uh to uh oscillate here then you get a what we call the 00 mode output associated with the 00 mode cavity resonance. Now when this other guy uh oscillates, okay, because again this fellow uh u uh um satisfies the boundary condition just like this one here, but the mode has a uh essentially a hole a hole in the middle. Essentially, it's two spots. Now, this particular mode uh does not have uh the exact optical length of of this one for the for its cavity. It has a slightly it looks like the cavity for for this one even though it's exactly the same but uh optically it looks slightly different than that one which means that the optical length is slightly different which means that the resonances the cavity resonances are slightly shifted for this one from that one. The uh they're still C over two L apart there's no problem but the exact phase shift you know between one mirror and another is slightly different for for the transverse modes. So again if there is more if there's enough gain here to oscillate then this one will also oscillate. Now you get two frequencies oscillating uh when when normally you know we'd expect only only one because there's only one cavity resonance under the gain curve. So in this case you get two. Now if you have other transverse modes, if you have uh this what we call one zero two 0 1 1 and so on uh these are all shifted uh from one another and and they generate all sorts of laser frequencies. Now uh so it can be a mess. So the spectrum of the laser output instead of being single frequency now you see all kinds of modes and all kinds of intensity distributions. If uh you want a formula for this as I say in this course I'm not using any formula but this one is uh uh is difficult to keep away and that basically will give you the resonance frequency for for any uh cavity mode uh you want uh in terms of uh the transverse mode number. Q is the same Q we had before what we call the longitudinal mode number. M and N are the transverse mode numbers you know in the X direction and the Y direction. And this is the formula. I don't know whether it's worth going into it, but basically it's again C over 2L * Q. That's what we had before. And on all this other stuff is because of the transverse modes. So for a given transverse mode depending on what M is and N is uh like this one here, the two spots is 1 0 or 01 depending whether it's in the x direction or the y direction. And the three is in a horizontal line is 2 0. Uh the the four here is 1 one. and and so on. So by substituting m and n from whichever mode you have and then plugging into here and there's a very simple uh formula 1 minus l over row one where l is the separation between cavity mirrors. Row one is the curvature of one mirror and here's the curvature of the other mirror. And when you do all this you find that you can calculate the frequencies of these uh of these transverse modes and the laser will oscillate at them. But if you were able to isolate, let's say you isolate this one like we'll do in the demonstration. Indeed, you'll see the uh the basic cavity modes that uh that look like this C over 2L apart and and also in the demonstration we'll we'll u make this one oscillate with this one and others and then you'll see all sorts of uh all sorts of modes. Now uh as I say there not many applications that that take advantage of uh of all these modes. There is one or two but we don't want to bring them up at this stage. Most lasers would like only this mode. So we need to get rid of these. Okay. So in order to get rid of them is uh what what we have to do is is the following. We put we put an aperture inside the cavity. It doesn't have to be in the center. It can be elsewhere. And this aperture what it does it starts to cut into these transverse modes because these transverse modes if we do the calculation they're always bigger in size than the lowest order mode. So when we start putting an aperture inside uh we provide loss a little bit of loss for these guys and if there's enough loss so that the the gain is not enough to lace then they'll drop out. While this one here, even though we we cut into them, if if we don't cut too much into this one into lowest order mode, then it can still survive. Maybe it'll be less intense, but it will survive, but this one will will go out since the all the transverse modes are bigger than the lowest order mode. All right, so this this is one way of getting rid of uh these transverse modes. And there are also other tech clever techniques of getting rid of them, but but this is the simplest to to understand. So we have to do something. I put an aperture there to get rid of them. Otherwise, they'll oscillate if there's enough gain for them to to oscillate. All right. So, now I think we're ready to look at a uh demonstration that that uh that demonstrates these uh these transverse modes at least in terms of intensity and also will will demonstrate the spectrum the modes that are associated with uh with these with these modes either when they're all together or when they are separated. We have a nice little technique of separating out one higher order mode. Then we'll show it to you and show its uh its spectrum. So I think this this this demonstration is is a lot of fun because because lasers with transverse modes don't are not readily available because uh usually as I say manufacturers make sure that their lasers only oscillate in one transverse mode. So I think now we're ready to appreciate this uh this demonstration. In previous demonstrations, we showed the laser beam to be a very simple beam with a single spot in the transverse direction. Now, most lasers actually put out a beam like that, just one spot in the transverse direction. And the intensity distribution is uh Gaussian. It has very nice properties. And that's why it's a it's a very popular uh beam from a laser. Now a laser can also put out other intensity distributions because of the existence of transverse modes which means that the the beam would look uh very spotty. Sometimes it can look like a donut with with with darkness in the in the center. Uh you can also make it look like two spots, three spots. can make it look like a flower and so on. All because of the existence of transverse modes. Now in this demonstration we got a special laser for you that can exhibit these uh transverse modes and the setup is uh is here. We have our usual discharge tube except in this case the board diameter is a little bit bigger than in previous demonstrations. The uh the diameter here is of the order of 2 mm 2 and a half millimeters or so while before the board diameter was about 1 1/2 uh millime. One mirror is attached to the discharge tube over here and uh and the other end of the discharge tube has a Brewster window so that we can place the second mirror uh over here. The uh this mirror here is curved about 60 cm radius of curvature and the mirror here is a flat one. the transmission of the mirrors is very small uh and so that the the output light is not going to be as bright as we would like it but hopefully we'll be able to uh see the transverse modes. The the beam then from the from the laser will come out over here and then we'll reflected by this mirror and then this mirror into a lens. Here we expand the beam and then the expanded beam then will fall onto uh onto the screen over here. So now let me turn on the the laser and we count up to seven or 8 seconds or so. And here is his laser on and the the output then from the laser is it's weak I know but you might be able to to see it. Here's the output from the laser and then we're going to reflect it as I said before by this mirror. this mirror to the lens and then onto onto the screen. And now we'll have one camera look at the screen so we can look at the transverse modes and another camera can look at my hands adjusting one of the mirrors to change the the the the number of modes and the intensity distribution that you will see on the screen. Now here as you can see the the beam looks uh looks like a uh a donut mode with with no field in the in the center and my hand you can see in the lower right hand corner adjusting the uh the mirror mount. Now here I'm going to start now adjusting and then you can see that the the intensity distribution uh varies varies quite a bit. Here we are. Here you can see very complicated kind of pattern. Here's another one with two dark spots, single dark spot. And here is like looks like a flower. Nice pretty little patents. And these are all due to uh these transverse modes. Now what you're seeing here is a mixture of transverse modes. They're not necessarily pure ones. That means just a single transverse modes by itself. Now here if I misalign too much and get rid of most of them here is our uh lowest order mode which uh is called the uh 00 mode. Now here is the the normal kind of laser beam. But in this particular laser setup, I can generate uh all kinds of uh other uh intense distributions due to the the the other transverse modes that can be generated in this kind of uh setup with a large uh with a larger bore in the discharge tube. It's very pretty as you can see. Now, as I mentioned before, in most lasers, one wants to get rid of the these uh transverse modes so that we can only have the 00 mode. And when we come back, we're going to show a method of eliminating the lazing of these transverse modes other than the lowest order one. We're going to do this by placing a an aperture, a small iris inside the laser cavity. We have now placed an aperture inside the laser cavity so as to get rid of all transverse modes except the lowest order one, the 00 mode. The aperture is is over here when we're placing it in the space between the Brewster window and and the second mirror. So, here's the aperture. And then by by adjusting this knob here, I can I can then change the size of the of the aperture. In the meantime, we've also covered this uh the laser tube here with uh with some white paper so that uh we don't have too much light to uh to burn the camera. So, in case you don't see the discharge tube so well as before is because we've covered it up. So, now let's look at the at the screen now and and see see the transverse modes without without the the aperture uh uh stopped down. Here we are. We see we see those uh transverse modes or mixture of transverse modes. Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to now reduce the the size of the aperture and let's see what happens here. I am reducing it and you can see me go back a little bit. Here's some other modes. And then when I stop it way down to about a millimeter or so you can see that I have now the lowest order mode, the 00 mode. Okay, let's do it again. Let me open it up again. Here's the transverse modes. And then as I stop it down, I get rid of all transverse modes except the lowest order. In fact, now I can even adjust the mirror. I can adjust the mirror and and indeed I can't can move the spot around, but I don't get any any uh transverse modes showing up. So in summary then by putting a small aperture inside the laser cavity and choosing the diameter appropriately we can get rid of all transverse modes except for the lowest auto mode. Now most commercial lasers either have an aperture like that inside the laser cavity or have the bore size of the uh of the laser amplifier. So chosen so that only the lowest order mode would lays and would very difficult to have the other transverse modes lays also and that's why most commercial lasers put out that lovely uh single spot uh beam. Now another interesting thing about transverse modes is that their frequencies are different from one another and that depends on the the again the length of the cavity and the curvature of the mirrors. So when we come back we're going to have the spectrum analyzer set up so we can look at the frequencies of the various transverse modes. We're now ready to look at the frequencies or the spectrum of the transverse modes of this laser using a scanning Fabri Pro interpherometer acting as an optical spectrum analyzer. And here's the setup the output of the laser. Now we take the output from the other end from the other mirror. We're going to reflected by this mirror here, this mirror here onto the scanning Fabri Pro interpherometer. The length of the cavity is about 10 cm which means that the free spectral range will be about 1 1/2 ghertz. The output of the scanning fabric intererometer then goes onto the scope to play to display the the frequencies of the uh of the laser. Now we're going to look at uh the intensity of the of the beam or the transverse uh intensity distribution of the beam showing the various transverse modes and at the same time we're going to look at the spectrum of the laser light uh as measured by the scanning fabric propherometer. Now here on the screen now we see on top we see the the uh intensity distribution of the laser the transverse intensity distribution and below we see the corresponding uh spectrum. What I've done here is I've stopped down the aperture so that we only have the lowest order mode, the 00 mode uh oscillating. And on the scope we see three or four modes due to the longitudinal modes in the in the laser oscillating in the in the laser and of course the number of longitudinal modes will depend on the width of the gain medium. The laser uh is about 40 cm long which means that the mode spacings are about is about 375 MHz. And that's why we get three and sometimes four modes oscillating uh within the bandwidth of the amplifier which is 1 12 GHz. And just for fun, what I'm going to do is tap on on the mirror gently to shake the cavity. And you can see the contour of the uh of the uh bandwidth of the amplifier which is about as I said before around 1 and a half uh ghertz. So when I'm not shaking the cavity too much then we see the the modes longitudinal modes uh uh stable and and quite clearly the so now what I'm going to do is open up the aperture introduce some high auto modes. So what I would like you to do look at the picture above and and then at the same time look at the spectrum. So I'm just slowly going to bring in now you can see already here even though still looks like it appears to be just the lowest order mode but it isn't because if you look at the spectrum you see that we have uh introduced some new frequencies and these new frequencies are associated with the transverse modes that are now oscillating and I can I can go further now and open up the aperture some more. Here we are. So now you can definitely see uh a number of high order modes and look at the frequencies. Now this there's lots of them and they again they're within the bandwidth of the of the amplifier. There's one thing nice about having a lot of transverse modes is that you can have a lot more power coming out uh from the laser because you have more modes oscillating. So here I'll do it again. I'm going to reduce the aperture size and to get the lowest auto mode oscillating. See again they just get the longitudinal modes of the 00 mode. And now I will introduce the transverse modes again to show that that they have their longitudinal mode frequencies are different from the from the 00 mode. So far, I've only been able to show you a mixture of transverse modes. In fact, the only isolated mode that I was able to show you was the lowest order one, the 00 mode by itself. And then uh I showed you a mixture of transverse modes. Now in the next demonstration I'm going to use a little trick to isolate a single higher order transverse mode so that we can look at it and then we can also look at its spectrum. Now in order to isolate one high order transverse mode I'm going to use a a very thin wire. The wire will place along the vertical direction inside the laser cavity. And in this way, we'll be able to prevent the lowest order mode, the 00 mode from oscillating because we'll place the wire right in the center of the 00 mode. So, it's providing a lot of defraction loss for it. But for the next high order mode, the the two spot mode, so-called one zero or 01, depending on how you count these modes, that one will be able to to oscillate if the wire is thin enough because this wire is going to be placed right where the field is zero. Now, to make that clearer, uh I'm going to show it to you on the screen. Before I do this, I want to show you where the wire is placed. The wire is placed in a holder here. And the wire is about 50 microns wide and it placed vertically uh inside the laser cavity. I have an adjustment here. I can move the wire in and out horizontal direction. And also I have another adjustment here that rotates the the orientation of the wire from let's say vertical to to horizontal. Now let's go look at the screen and see what sort of transverse mode I've been able to isolate. Now here on the screen you see that I've isolated the the next uh transverse mode. It's called uh either 0 1 or 1 0 depending on how you count these modes. Uh and this consists of essentially two two spots with zero field uh in between. And remember I used a vertical wire right in the center of the of the mold. So that this particular transverse mode doesn't need any gain in the middle and uh and therefore can oscillate with the wire in place. But uh most of the other modes like the lowest order mode and so on cannot oscillate with this wire in there because that provides too much uh defraction loss. And that's why we've been able to isolate this this one particular mode like this. Uh now if we look on the output of the spectrum analyzer as shown on the on the oscilloscope below you can see that we have two and sometimes three three modes uh that correspond to the longitudinal frequencies of this transverse mode just like in the case of the 00 mode just clean single transverse mode. Well, now you've learned something about some of the problems of lasers and uh and what we can do about them. Now I'd like to turn to uh another topic and that is the the types of lasers you know and uh because we have all kinds of lasers and I would like in this in this uh short course again without going into too much detail but just gives you a flavor of how uh these different lasers uh function. All right. Now there are all kinds of lasers. They called gas lasers, liquid lasers, solid state lasers, semiconductor lasers, you name it. Uh chemical lasers, eczema. Now we have gas dynamic, even a T laser stands for transverse electric atmospheric. Uh there's also coffee laser. Um EBA beam with electron beam uh pump lasers, free electron lasers, and fiber lasers. And now we even have waveguide uh waveguide lasers. All right. There are all kinds of uh of lasers. And uh so I'd like in this uh as I say in this brief time that I have is just to give you uh some some uh flavor. U what I would like to do first is to classify they all depend on the pumping mechanism and uh because a cavity is a cavity but the it's the pumping mechanism that makes the lasers uh different from one another. So, so we'll classify them then according to to the type of pump and the the first pump is that I will consider is the uh is the optical pump. Now the optical pump means uh let's have a diagram here means that again with our knowledge so far of uh of lasers uh here's a three-level system that we talked about and here's the pump. Now in this case the pump is is a beam of uh of light whether it comes from a laser or it comes from u you know some incoherent light source like a discharge lamp and so on. So let me introduce you to the way one talks about these things. Here we take the atom A let's say our gain atom A that has these three levels and uh and we say there's a photon that comes in or a light wave that comes in of uh of energy h new h being plank's constant new being the frequency and when you have a plus h new when the light interacts with with the atom then if the conditions are right then the the atom goes to a star a star means that there is a population inversion between some pair of levels okay so that's what this little formula means means that that it the it's the pumping is is optical excites the particular atom or molecule or solid or what have you and then uh and then you generate a population inversion and as we said earlier that is the key thing in gain is you have to have a population inversion you can have everything else working fine but if you don't have a population inversion forget it so this is the example here's a gain medium it could be pumped say by u light from the side or light along the axis es and so on. That's not the issue. The issue that it's optically pumped and there's a population inversion then the spontaneous emission then we'll start it start the lasing and you'll have lazing as we've discussed before. Now there are many lasers that uh behave uh that have an optical pump. For example the the first laser they have a first laser is the ruby is a ruby laser. Then we the YAG lasers, glass lasers, die lasers and today the fiber optic all fiber optic lasers uh wavegu lasers and so on. They're all uh optically uh optically pumped uh uh lasers again with some three-level system or some uh variation on that and but the pump is essentially is is a light pump. Now the u here is uh for example here's an example where uh uh let's say a yag laser or a ruby laser and so on where you have essentially a flash lamp CW or pulse that that uh flashes then and sends the right light into the into the material here that gets pumped and generates gain. In this particular case, it's what we call longitudinal pumping where the pump laser is is outside the cavity and it's uh and pumps the medium along the axis of the uh of the of the laser beam and uh this way it's a very efficient way of pumping it because you're not pumping the rest of the medium like here you're pumping parts of the game medium that's not being used by uh by the laser cavity. Here this is efficient but you have to go through mirrors and so on. So you have to uh uh pay attention to uh to problems arising from the way you uh you pump things. Now I have a a demonstration uh for you the die laser. So uh which is a very widely tunable laser, lots of colors. So I want to show you that. But before I show you that I want to give you a little little background so again so you can uh enjoy the uh the short demonstration even more. The um the uh the die laser essentially has uh the the game medium is a die is a liquid that's flowing here and it's placed at a at an angle like this so that again to at Brewster's angle to minimize uh reflection for certain polarizations as we mentioned is one of the demonstration the pump is an optical pump. So in this case the pump let's say is an argon laser uh that pumps this die. This die could be ronomine 6G although there are all kinds of other dies and uh and then when the pump then uh the optical pump is focused into here then you you generate gain and uh and the gain then will uh due to spontaneous emission will oscillate then within this cavity. Now, if you looked at the the bandwidth of this of this uh die amplifier, it's it's uh it's huge. Uh and here I show it to you from green to yellow to orange to red and so on. It's it's almost covers the entire uh visible range. And uh so here is here's essentially the gain curve. Here's the loss line. Now we have all these thousands and thousands of modes that's under this uh this gain curve. And again as we mentioned before if there are more gain than loss then all sorts of modes uh uh can uh can oscillate. And so here you can see there are all sorts of colors uh in these modes. So the light that comes out uh has a broad band of uh uh of of colors. All right. Because the amplifier is is so wide. So the uh so the first thing you want to do is that is that you want to do something about this because it's nice to have a very broadband amplifier but if the output consists of all these uh frequencies and colors sometimes it's uh it's not very uh very useful. So you need to cut down that uh that gain to start with and and be able to tune it. So let's see how how you might do it. Uh here is that cavity again. But what we do here, we put a a prism here or a dispersive element like a prism or a grating or I don't want to get into details, but basically something that disperses the colors. And I hope your set is your TV set is set right so you can see these these colors. So here we have the the these colors broken up into into various uh into the spectrum into the various colors and uh and the mirror here is adjusted so that it only reflects uh one of the colors. So the the color that that hits the mirror at a normal angle then will be reflected back into the cavity. The color that's that hits it at a slight angle due to the dispersion here will will not go back into the cavity will will just miss it and will and the laser cannot oscillate let's say in the red here because uh there is not enough gain to overcome the losses when cavity is misaligned for the red. But for the orange or whatever the color that appears on your screen but for the orange then the cavity is well aligned. So the orange will be selected. So let's see what it looks like uh down here in the diagram with the modes. So these are the basic modes of the of the laser we had before. But the prism you see the prism only allows just a few modes let's say in the orange to have more gain than loss and they are the ones that oscillate. All the others as I said before the the loss is too much because the cavity is misaligned for them. So they do not uh they do not oscillate. All right. So now then by rotating the smear here we can select any any color we want. uh in in this particular case of course we have uh we can have several longitudinal modes but if we put an ethlon here just like uh in the uh in a little earlier when we put an elon here we can even select one frequency and uh so we can get out of this huge bandwidth from from this uh die laser we can get single frequency operation and then we can tune it along along the entire gain curve and the tuning is tricky because uh what you have to do in the tuning You have to tune certainly the this uh mirror here to to move to move the uh the the lazing color or whatever or the lazing bandwidth uh with respect to the to the bandwidth of the amplifier. Then you have to tune the uh the cavity the the length of the cavity so that it is you have one mode within this bandwidth here. And then if you had an addon you have to tune that also. So it gets sort of complicated but uh but it uh it works. There's few feedback loops are involved and uh and it does work. Uh now uh let me um let me now uh get closer to the demonstration. Now in the demonstration the the cavity is a ring cavity of the diler. The cavity of the diler is a ring cavity and but it has this jetream. In this case it's jetream because windows are a pain in the neck. So you need where the pump laser is focused into the into the gain medium. It's it's actually just a sheet of liquid about third of a millimeter in thickness and so on which is flowing transversely here. So there no windows at all but still it has to be placed at Brewster's angle. So in here we have a uh a ring and it has lots of advantages and right now we really not going to get involved with that but basically it's still another cavity whether it's a ring or linear cavity still another cavity and there's a tuning element in here this is uh slightly different from what what uh I have in the previous slide but it's still it's a tuning element it's like a dispersion kind of element that separates out the colors and the output of the die laser comes out here. So what we're going to do in this demonstration, we're going to take this and uh and scatter it onto a screen and then tune the the element here and then we can go through the various colors of the laser and say if your if your set is is adjusted over there then I'll call out the colors as we do the demonstration. If it's adjusted then you you can maybe see the same colors as we see in the uh in the demonstration. If not well you get different kinds of uh colors. All right. So, I think now we're ready to to look at this uh fun demonstration uh of the tuning range of a die laser. Now, I would like to demonstrate to you a very widely tunable laser. In this case, it's a die laser. The die being rotamine 6G. When pumped with an argon laser, the die laser can be tuned from light green to yellow to orange, red, and even deep red using just that one dye. So, in this demonstration, then what we're going to do is fire up the die laser and then and then tune it so that you can see all these colors right on your screen. Again, you have to be careful. Make sure that your monitor is is adjusted so that you can see these colors. All right. Now, the die laser is right here behind me. And uh when we come back, we'll have it all set up ready to show you those beautiful colors that come out from this die laser. Now on the left you see the argon laser pump that pumps the die jet. Now as we zoom out we see the entire ring die laser. So let's look at the diler in a more of a closeup. Here's the pump coming in into the diler. Here it is is the pump the argon laser pump and pump gets focused into into the diget over here. The fluoresence from the dig jet then is picked up by mirrors close to to the dig jet and then sent around this ring ring cavity. is there's one mirror here is the laser beam and there's the other mirror here and then the other two on either side of the of the jet. So here's the output of the die laser. What we're going to do with it when going to pass it through a diffuser to dramatize the the display or the color. Here's the output of the diffuser. And I'm going to let it fall onto the screen over there. Now, right now, the diler is putting out an orang-ish uh sort of color as you can see on the on on the on the screen. So, now I'm ready to tune the diler so that we can observe this huge tuning range. And in order to tune the laser, we have inserted a breringent element over here. And just by simply uh adjusting the angle using a micrometer, we can tune the wavelength of the uh of the laser. But first, let me remind you that the colors you're seeing depend on the setting of your monitor. Right now, you should be seeing orange. Okay. Now, I'm going to tune either side of of orange. Now I have yellow and going towards greenish greenish yellow. Here we are on the screen. I see light light green color and I hope you see that also. So here we are from light green. Now I'm going to tune towards the red. You know what's becoming yellow now? Orange. And now even stronger orange. Now it's becoming reddish. Now it's nice and red and getting in fact deep red over here again. I hope your monitor is going to show you this huge huge tuning range. Now I will well I hope you uh you like that huge tuning range because uh that is that's very large almost covers the entire uh visible range and when you think in terms of communications and bandwidth that you need this kind of bandwidth is is incredible. and put uh millions and millions of uh of TV channels in in a bandwidth like that. Okay. So that was the uh optically pumped uh laser and as I mentioned there are lots of lasers that are optically pumped whether today you know we have a lot of semiconductor uh uh solid state lasers that are pumped by semiconductor lasers and as in fibers and micro lasers wavegu and so on. lots of lasers uh today that are pumped by uh by uh light and usually other other lasers like semiconductor lasers, argon lasers and and what have you. But still they still behave like lasers and they satisfy the same conditions that we've been uh discussing. All right? So don't feel that uh uh they're going to be too difficult to understand. I mean the basics are basics. you need population inversion and uh that's brought about by uh by the gain and you need to get rid of the bottlenecks and so on that below the uh lower level or of the lower level and and below. All right. So now let's look at other techniques for for generating gain or other pump types. All right. And this one here is the what do we call the electron collision pump. This is the pump that that depends on on electron collision to to uh create the uh the population inversion. Again, I'll show the three-level system. You know, the basic our basic system, but now the pump is not light. It is an electron. So, so the idea here is to get an energetic electron to collide with the atom A here with this gain with the A and create takes the atom from the ground state into this excited state in level three. So that you have a population difference between three and two. So you can get lazing on the 3:2 transition. In terms of an equation, we write it like this in a simplified form. We take atom A, which means it's a ground state atom A colliding with an electron with say energy E2 and after the collision, the electron separates again from the atom but leaves the atom in an excited state. through the collision the electron was able to transfer some of its energy to the atom and and and and excites it and then the electron of course gives up energy and leaves with energy in this case E1 which is smaller than E2. So a neutral uh ground state or shall we say a ground state atom colliding with this energetic electron then can be excited to the uh to this excited state here with a population inversion with respect to level two uh leaving the electron with lower energy. Now you of course you have to tailor the right energy of the electrons with the right atoms. Obviously, that's uh I don't need to uh overemphasize that. But uh when you find the right system, that's basically what's going on. And in this case here, here is let's say a discharge tube. Uh and uh in this particular case, by the way, lasers work like this on pure electron collision, the argon laser, krypton laser, xenon, nitrogen, copper, vapor, and so on. There are lots of lasers that that are that only depend on electron collision for their pump. All right? You see here I didn't mention helium neon because I I'll get to it in a in a couple of minutes. But basically here this is pure electron collisions and uh so you need a discharge. You want to generate the electrons and then the right energy and then you put the right atoms in here and then you can get the population inversion. You can do it through say through a discharge or through electron beams and so on. But uh that's not the issue. The principle is that it is an electron that's colliding with that atom and causing this uh this population inversion. Um now the the uh the next uh the next one is uh is what we call atom collision. All right atom collision that causes the uh the gain. So uh so what uh what goes on here? Well, in an atom collision, by the way, every time I say atom, uh, I mean also molecule. So, don't hang me for not saying molecules when I say atom. Especially the chemists here like to to use molecules instead of atoms. Well, let's back to our uh gain system here. Here's atom A with all the ground state atoms. Now, in order to get it up to level three, this is not now electron collision. This is atom collision. We collide it with an atom B in the excited state. Because if you just collided with atom B in the ground state, the two of them are not going to create much much energy uh in the in atom A unless B is going so fast. So so generally nothing much going to happen. Maybe A will start moving faster and so on but really it's not going to be able to excite it to level three. So so what you need you need atom B to be in some higher level here what we call the metastable state. M for metastable. Now when you get an a B in this level collides with atom A. Okay, that's what we show here B metastable colliding with with atom A in the ground state then you can and if the energy of the if the energy level of this metastable is close to the energy level here three uh E3 here for in atom A then then there's a good chance that you will get excitation which means what happens here is metastable level in B colliding with A and as a result of this collision B goes to the ground state and A goes up goes up to the third level. In a way, what they do, they exchange the energies. It doesn't happen every in every collision, but in uh if there are more of B's than A's, then you'll get a net effect is that it will be a some A's excited the third level because in a collision like this, there's a whole confusion when the two atoms are are close to each other and they they end up when they separate. uh in this particular case there's a good probability that that A gets excited and b loses its energy and and as I say this is maximized or it's optimized when when the energy of this metastable level is close to to level three all right so that's basically the the principle the question now is where do you get metastables from and what are metastables in any case well metastables are uh are uh uh levels that uh that excited levels that take a long time to decay. So there's not something magic. It's just that uh you know before we said there's spontaneous emission and spontaneous emission depends on the strength of the interaction or the coupling between these two levels. It can be very fast or it can be very slow or sometimes it just doesn't decay at all. There's no spontaneous emission. So if you look at the decay time, if you put let's say 1,000 atoms in let's say level two and you watch them decay, then then depending on this coupling between level two and level one, uh they can either decay very fast or not decay at all. All right, this is shows the decay as a function of time and that depends say on the lifetime or the relaxation time between level two and and level one. This is uh basics of of atoms or or or molecules. Now we call a metal stable state when the lifetime is is very long. What does he mean very long? Longer than a millisecond or so is usually called very long. But they can be much longer than that. And so if if the lifetime is very long then we call it a metastable state. All right. Now here I also have it in terms of uh instead of instead of time constant I have it in terms of relaxation rate which is one over the time constant. So when when the relax when the relaxation rate is is then uh is then very very uh uh very high then the lifetime is very short and when the relaxation rate is is small then the lifetime is is long. Okay. So that's basically then the metastable state. Now comes how do you then generate a a metastable state? All right, we're not done yet. We're not done yet. So how do we generate a metastable state? Then uh let's say this is the metastable state that we want to generate. So what we can do, we can use a pump or some excitation mechanism. It could be optical, it could be electron collision, it could be whatever. And and then we can go up to level three in this particular case now in this beam atom now not a and then let's say by spontaneous emission we come down to here. Then now we've created atoms in this metastable state and because the lifetime is long then they're going to stay here. They're going to run around with with energy in this level and uh and then when they collide with atom A then we get that excitation. So this pump as I say can be can be any kind of pump. Sometimes you know we could have direct excitation again depending on the particular system and the particular pump. So uh so now we've seen uh how to generate a metastable state. So let's go over it again. So we first have uh uh we have to generate the metastable. So the equation for that is let's say atom B and this particular case let's say I'm going to look at electron electron collision and uh like in helium neon for example. Now we get to helium neon or the carbon monox carbon dioxide laser CO2 nitrogen or helium cadmium and so on. All these lasers depend on atom collision or molecule collision and basically uh they're done at least the simpler version simpler versions are done with electron excitation. So you take let's say in this case would be helium helium is B and helium you in the case of helium neon laser and you excite it with electron in a discharge and then you generate helium metastables and then these helium metastables then collide with with neon in this particular case a is neon for the helium neon laser with neon and that generates neon in the in the excited level here with a population inversion. Once you have a population inversion, you have gain at this at this frequency and uh if you have more gain than losses, then the cavity uh then the laser takes off. All right. So that then explains the the the helium neon laser. Of course in the case of CO2 is the nitrogen that are the supplies the metastables to excite CO2. And the case of helium cadmium again it's the helium just like in here the helium that that supplies the metastables to excite to excite uh cadmium and there are other kinds of lasers that depend on on these collisions. Uh another another type of uh of pump is the is the chemical pump. All right. Now, chemical pump. Now, we're getting into uh into a lot of uh uh tricky uh treatments here, but I just want to be uh uh very brief as you can see in this kind of a course without any any real math and and uh and detailed explanations. Now a chemical pump is when uh uh again the uh let's say the uh the uh B2 uh let's say we have a molecule B2 and we we either chemically or whatever we interacted with let's say atom a could be a excited or or or a energetic or so on or what can happen here that when A uh interacts with B2 you can generate sometimes you can generate if you know your chemistry right you can generate Now a new molecule that's made up of AB and and this new molecule is born so-called born or created in the excited state or in a state where you have a population inversion. All right. So so again as a result of a chemical reaction between these two molecules you can create a new molecule that that will be that will have population inversion and then the lazing will take place uh at the at the transition where there is there is gain. Uh another type is where you start with an excited A atom energetic A atom and colliding with a BC molecule and then creating again uh an excited state or a population inversion AB uh in AB molecule and so on. This can gets very complicated very quickly but the idea is that the the the the gain medium comes as a result of a chemical reaction uh rather than just a pure electron collision or or optical pumping. The types of lasers that are like that are uh HF, hydrogen fluoride, uterium fluoride, argon fluoride, krypton and so on. These are all all basically uh depend on this kind of uh interaction. Now the uh uh one one more laser I want to mention uh briefly and that's the semiconductor uh laser which depends on what we call electron current injection pumping. And again, it's a complicated laser to explain quickly, but basically all I want to uh show you here is is a uh simple uh diagram of such a laser. It's one of the smallest lasers there is. And uh and basically it's as I say, it's current injection. You're passing current through essentially a PN junction. So we call the active layer. and and over here you get the uh you get the gain generated and and the mirrors are actually the the reflection uh the fel reflection at the at these surfaces because you have air and and the medium and if the index is high enough you get about 35% or so uh reflectivity. So so you don't have to do anything. All you have to do is cleave them and then you get uh plain parallel cavity lasers. If you apply the right current you can get uh you can get lasing. You have a little threshold here and it comes up. Uh and so uh and these lasers as you know they used for all kinds of things today and uh and uh now they're also used as optical pumps for other lasers. And uh and I think my time is running out. That's why I'm I'm hurrying up. And uh so at least in a way I've I've exposed you now to the various types of lasers. So you don't have to be uh too puzzled uh when you hear about a laser. All you have to ask is what is the what is the what is the pump and uh and uh how does it uh how does it create a population inversion and then you have to know how much gain you can get and then with that you know how much power you'll get and and so on but from for that you need to to consult the books and go into into more depth.