The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Just before the break, we were talking about the need for a light amplifier, an optical amplifier to make a lasing possible. All right. So, here we where we left off, we had the cavity or the resonator that gave us these modes and uh the spacing between them is C over2 L as we mentioned. And now we put the amplifier within this cavity to overcome the the losses. And let's say in general the the losses come from from uh the mirrors. And uh if there's enough gain here, let's say this is the the location of the gain in frequency. And if there is enough gain at this cavity resonance then we will get lasing and we'll get the light output by uh making this mirror not 100% reflective but uh little bit has a little transmission this mirror here so we can leak some of the light out. So the uh then the the spectral width of the laser then narrows down from initially this to to uh this uh essentially this delta function this delta f going close to zero and then in the time domain we get as a result of this narrowing we get a a wave that's a pure sinosoid constant in frequency and constant in amplitude and that's the sort of the output of a of a typical uh well shall we say an ideal an ideal laser. So now if uh if somebody then asks you where does uh where why does a laser have a very narrow spectral width then one can uh then say that it comes from the fact that we have an optical amplifier you know within a uh within a resonator with enough gain to overcome the losses to give us this extremely uh narrow line width. Now uh I'm going to then uh tell you about how the next property the one that that has to do with uh defraction limited columnation and focusing and so on. Where does this uh property uh come from? Again in a in a simple-minded way at this stage and later on we'll go into it in a little bit more more depth. Well, the the the this the spatial properties really come from the fact of course that we have an amplifier within within the resonator and we have these two mirrors. Let's take two plane mirrors for example. And we'll see later that that indeed the uh the mode that can be supported uh within that within that cavity is is uh essentially a parallel beam that gets reflected backwards and forwards between these uh two mirrors and and the amplifier then overcomes the losses in the cavity and this mirror has a little transmission. So the output here you would expect to be a uh a columnated beam a plane a plane wave with defraction limited uh uh columnation and if you put a lens will be diffraction limited focusing. Now not all laser cavities have plain mirrors. Some of them have curved mirrors like in this case two concave mirrors. Again the mode shape as we'll see later will be will be different from this will be something like that. And then if we let some of the light leak out through one of the curved mirrors, you'll see it will be diverging. Just because it's diverging, it doesn't mean that it's a bad beam. It it it just means that with lenses, we can convert it to any size beam we want and focus it and and so on. So it's really it's the cavity plus the amplifier uh that that gives us this very uniform uh wave that we uh we we talked about uh before. In fact, if uh we can shape the the output of uh of a laser beam is these two outputs, excuse me, with uh with lenses and then we can create here some small focus spot here maybe slightly bigger focus. We can then create a a narrower columnated beam from what we started with or a larger columnated beam and so on. It's all done with with the use of good optics outside the the laser cavity. So this uh all these properties to do with the with the spatial effects of of the laser beam then come from from the cavity plus the amplifier. All right. Now we want to talk about where where does high power uh uh come from? Excuse me. Well, the high power uh comes from uh obviously from the from the amplifier because it's the amplifier that that uh gives us gain to overcome the losses. And if we have more gain left, then that can be converted to uh to power out. So, so the the bigger the amplifier then the more power we'll get. As simple as that. So, sooner later we will find out about how an amplifier works. So, if we can come up with a bigger amplifier and how to make a bigger amplifier, then we'll really know the secret of making making high power uh lasers. So it's in the hands of the of the amplifier the the tuning the tuning range where does the tuning range come from? Well, let me give you again a very simple uh simple uh explanation. Let's go back to to the laser that we had two mirrors separated by distance L and a cavity. And then we had the cavity mode over here. And then this is the uh the amplifier bandwidth. This is where the amplifier likes to uh uh provide gain. And then we said that the output of the laser would be would be this delta function at the cavity resonance. Now these modes here are not fixed because they depend on on L. So if I change L the length of the cavity I can move these modes around. So if I move this cavity mode around if I moved it just a little bit here then this frequency here will be dragged. The laser frequency will be dragged with it. And the tuning range is really the width of the B of the bandwidth of the of the amplifier. because if I tune the cavity outside that I get no output output at all. Now here is a an amplifier that uh has a bandwidth that's bigger than what I showed you before which means now that the tuning range can be can be wider now okay depending again as I say on the width on the bandwidth of the of the amplifier and if I in this particular case if this mode leaves the amplifier at this end there's the other one that will come in so I will always get some output from the laser but uh the intensity can can vary depending on where I am with respect to gain curve. While over here in this previous one, if the mode is outside the amplifier bandwidth, I get no light output at all. So then so then the in summary then the tuning of a uh of a laser then depends on the bandwidth of the amplifier. The wider the bandwidth the the wider the tuning range. Okay. So now the the remaining property that we talked about before is the is the very short pulse width uh generation. So the question is where does where does this come from? Again in a simple simple-minded way again here to explain this I need to to uh uh give you a little bit of a background and then uh start with uh with what we've done before. So if you had a delta function in in frequency space uh the in the time domain you have essentially an oscillation a cinosodal oscillation with a constant amplitude and a constant frequency. This is what you know we've been talking about before. Now if I looked at the intensity remember this is now at optical frequency maybe 10^ the 15 hertz or so. So it's very high frequency. I cannot observe I don't have any way of observing it. But if I looked at the intensity associated with this using a uh square law detector, what I get is essentially a constant output constant intensity output associated with this wave. So if I have then a delta function in frequency, I have then intensity would be would be constant. So this is completely opposite to generation of short of short pulses. This is essentially you know a CW CW laser. But now let's let's see what happens to this constant output when I add when I add another frequency. If I have now two frequencies let's say that's that are oscillating one at f_sub_1 at f_sub_2 here they are difference in in wavelength a difference in the frequency separated let's say by f subs now in the when I look at them when I combine them and look at them in the time domain I get something like this which is like a beat frequency or is a beat frequency the the uh the period between these peaks t big t is just simply 1 over uh f subs the separation in frequency. But the if you look at the intensity associated with this wave looks something like this which is the envelope of of this beat. It's no longer constant just by simply adding uh two waves at different frequencies. And we're all familiar with beating effects of uh when two singers sing with two different two different frequencies then you'll hear the uh uh the beat. So basically now I've transformed a constant intensity to a to a sinosoidal uh intensity. It's not quite a short pulse yet, but it's it's sort of getting there. All right. So now let's look at let's look at what happens when we add another uh yet another frequency. All right. Here it is. Now we have three f_sub_1, f_sub_2, f3. Here they are in the time domain. I add them up and they give me some waveform like this. When I square this, I get the intensity to look like this. As you can see, now this width is beginning to look like a pulse. But again, not quite. Again, the the the repetition between these two peaks. The period between here and here, the time between the two peaks or the two sort of pulses at this stage is again one over fs where fs is the spacing between these modes. And we're assuming they are constant uh constant spacing between these frequencies. Now you can think you can add more and more frequencies and let's see and let's see what uh what happens. Uh now I've simplified the picture and I just put the intensity output that we've had before. Remember when we had only one it was constant intensity when we had two we we have this sinosoidal behavior. Three is like this. Four if you add four it begins like this. Eight if you eight then now it's beginning to look like a pulse. And then when you go to 16 frequencies that are constantly spaced, then indeed it begins to really look like a like a pulse. The period okay the separation between these pulse trains is again 1 / fs the uh frequency spacing between the modes and the pulse width which is the key thing here. The pulse width pulse width is given by one * n the number of of modes uh times fubs. So n * f subs is really the uh the total uh separation in frequency between the first and the last and the last uh frequencies or modes. All right. So then then you can see here that the shorter the pulse all right if you want a very short pulse then you want to make n times some fs very large which means either n is very large or f subs is is very large or certainly the product has to be very large. So when that's the bandwidth of the essentially the u of this of the spectrum of these uh of these modes. So the key thing then is to have let's say in this case lots of modes lots of modes extending over a wide frequency range and uh and then that would give us this u this uh short a short short pulse. All right, big question now is where can we find all these frequencies uh from in a laser. All right. So, so let's uh let's go back and remind ourselves what we just mentioned about lasers. We said that if we have a wide gain bandwidth gain medium amplifier and we have then lots of modes lots of cavity modes under the this this amplifier then and if there's enough gain to overcome the losses in all these modes and I would get essentially four four frequencies. Well, before we only talked about one but now I can generate four frequencies out of this amplifier if the amplifier allows me to oscillate at all these frequencies. That's all very nice. So we can see that this is the beginning of of having many modes. So if you can imagine an amplifier that has this has much bigger bandwidth than this then I can have more and more more of these uh modes oscillating. All right. And then so of course if I have just to remind you if I have uh you know 16 of them then essentially and uh and a certain spacing uh between them but basically I can get a a uh a narrow pulse coming out of of the laser here without essentially uh doing anything. Now the uh I I didn't mention a certain key key issue here and that is when and and we can go back and and show you when we when I combine the sine waves let me let me go back to this uh uh to this viewraph here. when I combine these sine waves here, you know, the the the uh these waves had to be in phase somewhere, they had to start start together. And if they don't, then you wouldn't get uh this kind of behavior because if if if the relative phases are are way off and different, then then you're in real trouble. So So the uh let me see if I can find my uh view graph here. uh and this shows that what happens when uh when uh all the 16 modes in this case are all in phase or start together then indeed this is what I'll get. I get this pulse width as given by 1 / nfs. So there's a special condition I have to satisfy in order to generate this narrow pulse width. And here's an example. What happens if only 10 of the 16 start in phase and not all 16 of them? then I get a messy looking output like this and uh it's not like this at all. So in order to to generate very short pulses out of uh out of lasers then then I need to uh get all these modes under the gain curve to start together and that is the the topic of uh of phase locking or mode locking and we will talk about that later. So, so lasers can generate very very short pulses only if you can get all the modes all these modes to go and and they have to start together. They have to be phase locked or mode locked and and so on. And with that that's the output of the laser becomes the series of uh short pulses and if the bandwidth of the amplifier is very very broad then you can get these short pulses like picosconds and uh and shorter. All right. So now we've talked about uh so far we've talked about the unique properties of lasers. We talked about uh in a simple way how these properties uh come about. Now we're ready to to put all that stuff together and see how how a typical simple laser uh uh really works. All right. So now let's uh uh let's start talking about the the u simple laser. So here the title of this session as I had before is the operation of a of a simple laser and uh I have even a demonstration for you uh at at at this stage the uh the uh the lasers that that that we have simple ones called helium neon lasers and because the amplifier is a helium neon amplifier and we'll talk about how that works in a little while. Now here the the there have two kinds of lasers. one where the the amplifier tube uh is terminated by the two mirrors and uh and the uh called internal mirror uh laser and the other one uh and this is quite typical for a lot of lasers where the the uh the amplifier is terminated separately not at the mirrors and the mirrors are are again uh separated from from the from the amplifier and usually these are windows called uh there's a funny angle of rooster windows so at to minimize uh reflections. Again, we'll we'll mention that later. But basically here, what I would like to show you in in this demonstration is simple ampl uh simple uh uh lasers uh like these. Now, this one here, for example, it can't do very much because uh it can't adjust anything. It's all fixed. But this one here, if this mirror is is on an adjustable mount, then I can uh um adjust and move the mirror around, misalign, and so on. You can see how how easily it is to to stop the laser from lazing and also what happens as a function of u uh mirror adjustment. So let's uh let's now uh uh go to uh to the uh demonstration number one which is essentially on the uh on on on some simple-minded laser and show you how uh how it works from close. So now let's go look at this demonstration. Now we're ready to take a close look at a laser and see how it ticks and why it ticks. We've picked on a helium neon laser because a helium neon laser is a very simple one and also it's one of the first lasers. In fact, uh the first laser was the ruby laser and helium neon was uh was right after it. So it was the second laser action that uh that was observed. Also the red light from a helium neon laser is familiar to almost every one of you uh especially when you go to the supermarket and see it at the uh at the checkout counter. Usually a helium neon laser a red helium neon laser is used. So, let me start by showing you what a helium neon laser looks like. Here is a uh helium neon laser, at least a helium neon laser. They all uh different. Uh now what I would like you to see here is that uh it's made up of a a discharge tube which is this which is the the amplifier that is necessary for laser action and then the discharge tube is terminated by by two mirrors. Here's a mirror on on this side. You can see it. Here's one mirror and and here is here is the other mirror. Okay. So, it's a it's a small this is a small laser and and the mirrors are sealed right onto onto the discharge tube. Now, let's see this laser uh in action. And we have it already set up for you over here. And then all I have to do is to uh turn the power supply on and count to five and the laser will come on. And here it is. Lasers on. You can see here is the the glow in the in the discharge. And you see a a a pink streak. And that's where the light goes backwards and forwards and gets amplified. And and here is uh the output mirror. Uh the other mirror is uh is sealed and the output from the mirror here then goes onto uh onto onto the screen and that's that's it. As long as we power the discharge and have enough gain to overcome the losses and we choose the mirror transmission appropriately the uh you'll get laser action. Now, with this kind of a laser, it's very difficult to uh to adjust anything and to play with it. So, what I'm going to do just so that you can see uh a little bit more uh of how a laser works, I'm going to go on and uh and and have a laser that that the mirrors in which the mirrors are external to the to the tube. Now in order to to have to separate the mirrors out from the from the amplifier from the discharge tube in this case we have to seal the we have to seal uh the the discharge tube. Now here is you can see here if we take a closeup at this here is a a sealed discharge tube doesn't have mirrors on it but has windows. Let's let me show it to you again. Here is here's the here's the amplifier section and here is the cathode and the anode is is over is over here. So the discharge then runs along uh this line over here. Okay, this capillary tube over here. Now let's focus at at the ends. We don't have as you can see we don't have square mirrors. You can see the the we don't have uh windows, I should say, not mirrors uh because we're going to have the mirrors external to to the discharge tube. But you can see that the windows are sealed, but they're not uh square to the to the tube. And uh the angle in fact is called the Brewster angle because at that angle there is no uh reflection from the glass surfaces for a certain polarization. So that's why one uses windows at a Brewster angle so that uh so that there is no uh no reflection at the windows and you can see both ends. Now if you take a look look at the other end over here close look at the other end you see that again both windows are are at uh at Brewster's angle. So here is then the uh the amplifier tube and now we have a another one a similar one that is placed and I'll position it in the same way that is placed uh over here that held held in place over here in this setup and uh and there's wires running to to run the discharge. So here is then the the uh the amplifier tube inside inside this laser and let me again point to the mirrors. Now here is here is one mirror and here is the other mirror and each mirror is held in a hefty mirror mount and the adjustments are over here. We have two adjustments over here and then we have similar adjustments over here. All right. So here is then the tube, the amplified tube. The windows are terminated with windows at Brewster's angle. And and then we have the two mirrors. So now I'm going to turn the discharge on. And here it is. And let's see if the laser is lazing. Right? So if I put a card here, you see that indeed laser is lazing. So what I'm doing here is reflecting it by this mirror here, then this mirror here. Here's the laser beam. and again onto onto the screen. So on the screen now we have essentially two spots. One is coming from the laser with the fixed mirrors. That's this one. And then the other one the other spot is coming from the laser with the adjustable mirrors uh here. So what I'm going to do is first block the laser with the fixed mirrors so that we don't have any confusion. And the only spot then is from the one from the laser with the adjustable mirrors. So now here we are. Here's the laser then all opened up. And now I'm going to show you how touchy the alignment is. So now if you watch the intensity on the screen as I as I slightly misalign you can see the light is out already just by very small very small misalignments. So here we are it's a peak value and then I go the other way and it's gone. So the alignment has to be has to be very very stable. All right. Now I can also adjust uh horizontal alignment again. Show you how how uh how touchy everything is. So here we are. Here is then uh in a nutshell. Here's the here's the amplifier section. The longer it is, of course, the more gain we have. And and the mirrors are placed this case about 50 cm apart. one uh this one is a flat mirror and this one is a spherical mirror and and the the alignment has to be has to be very stable because a small misalignment would uh would create a lot of loss and then we just don't have enough gain in the amplifier to overcome these losses and the laser quits. Now, I hope you've enjoyed watching this first demonstration on what goes on inside a laser. The the of course the key thing is the amplifier. And now I think we need to talk about how does a light amplifier work. So this is what I have now for this next topic is that how does really an optical amplifier really work. The so what what we mean by an optical amplifier, we need light going in to this magic box here and we need the light enhanced or increased or amplified at the at the other end. So the question is what is this magic box here that takes light from one end and actually amplifies it and sends it out at the other end. Right? That's that's the key question. The so in order to answer this we have to uh we have to uh see what we understand about the interaction of uh radiation or light with atoms or molecules. Right? So let's let's start with that. Now we're very familiar for example with light interacting with a material and getting absorbed that we we see that all the time. uh that sometimes completely absorbed and sometimes it's uh not completely absorbed like a piece of glass for example if you send light through a piece of glass if it's unccoated normal incidence and so on you lose about uh 8% or so for both both sides. So uh other materials will lose more and and we see that all the time. All right. So first let's understand what that is and once we understand what absorption is then then let's see how then we can understand uh amplification. So we'll start first by looking at absorption. All right. So here is the uh in order to understand absorption we need a model for for the atom. All right. And as I say in this course we keep everything very simple so that we can get a a a basic intuitive kind of understanding of what's going on rather than complicate things with a lot of math. Now, a model for for an atom, all right, is where let's say an atom has several uh energy levels or orbits or what have you. And the atom, here's the ball, here's the atom, uh is uh is in its ground state or lowest energy state at at the beginning. And all atoms essentially are at their lowest energy states at the beginning. Now when light comes in from over here let's say these are two photons coming in they will interact with the electrons let's say in this atom and will excite the electrons to to some higher state or even higher states in this case I'm only taking a very simple model just two-le system now if the if the light wavelength or light frequency is not correct the the atom will not be or the electrons here will not be excited at all. But if the light frequency or wavelength is a certain value of a certain value then the the electrons here can be excited and now on I'm going to call it the atoms can be can be excited from one level to another level. And when the atom is is excited from one level to another level, then essentially it takes it takes energy from the light or it takes photons from the light to to get excited because now the the the atom itself has now high energy than it started with. And the of course the light gave up its energy to to the atom. So it has less energy when when it leaves the atom and this is generally uh called uh absorption. And then let's say a few more words about that. Uh here again this picture that I had uh in terms of uh just straight waves here is a big wave coming in and a little wave coming out. And that essentially is is absorption. I've I've labeled here E1 and E2 for the energy levels. And it turns out that the frequency where you get maximum absorption or the wavelength of frequency you get maximum absorption is is given by uh the difference in energy E2 minus E1 divided by H which is plank's constant and that gives you the frequency uh that of at resonance and if you for example put put you put a detector out here and you can see that as you tune the frequency of the of this light source you have no absorption at the beginning all the intensity comes through and then when you're close to resonance what you will see a dip like this and back to no absorption. So over here there is some absorption and this absorption occurs at this resonance frequency determined by the energy level difference divided by plank's constant. Okay the wavelength of course is uh proportional uh uh to that as you know uh frequency times wavelength equals the speed of light. So that either you talk about frequencies or wavelength. In this course, I'd like to talk about frequency because it's easier to talk about frequencies than uh than wavelength. The uh now if again uh the the amount of absorption will depend on uh on the number of atoms or molecules that you have and the width for the absorption again depends on the particular transition in that particular atom. Now, if you don't believe me, you can do an experiment. And here is how you might do the the experiment. You take this uh variable wavelength light source and you send it into selected vapor, a vapor cell, and you put a detector at the other end. Again, you have now lots of atoms, let's say, or molecules. You send the light in and some of these going to be excited, going to go into this excited state, and the light is reduced. And that's what what we call as stimulated absorption. And then we generate the same curve as we had before. So if you look at the output of the detector as a function of frequency or wavelength, then you would see you'd see this dip occurring at this resonant frequency. And and this way you check out where this absorption occurs and and the width the width of it. Now the interesting thing here is that you note you'll notice that if this is a glass tube you'll notice some radiation coming out of the the side. Now that radiation is when you see before the the excitation all the atoms were in the ground state and that radiation there was no radiation coming out from the side. But when when you excite these atoms to an excited state, then another process comes in and that's called spontaneous emission. Cuz these atoms that are in the excited state, in lots of cases, they don't like to stay up there. They like to to come down. And when they decay, so-called decay, when they decay, they emit a photon in a in a random d direction. And the wavelength or frequency of this photon is is equal to to the one that brought it brought it up. So essentially the light that was absorbed from from the original beam is now sent into into all these directions. Okay. So now we've learned about what stimulated absorption is and what uh spontaneous uh what spontaneous emission is. Question is what about gain? What we're after is amplification. All right. So let's see how amplification then comes about. Now for amplification to understand amplification of light we reverse the picture. Instead of starting with the atom in the ground state which where it likes to be normally we're going to start with the atom in the excited state. So when when a photon comes in now there is no absorption that can take place but what can happen if the again if the frequency or wavelength of this photon is just right at the resonance frequency of this transition then what what can happen is that this light now will force this atom to come down because there's let's say there's no other energy levels to go up. It can even push it up. If there was an energy level here then it could kick it up. But in this particular case we say we only have two levels. So the only way for this atom to go is down. And then of course when it when an atom comes down remember atom had energy up here. When it comes down it will release a photon. Okay. So so this photon let's say is the original photon here. And this photon over here is due to the release of the photon from from this excited atom as it gets pushed by by this uh source here. So now what we're seeing we're seeing that we're getting two photons okay when coming out when we had only one going in and as a result of of the excited atom has been pushed down to the ground state and this is the the essentials or the basics of of stimulated stimulated emission or gain because now here you see that light light can be amplified. All right. So let's talk a little bit more more about this. Uh as I said before just like in absorption the resonance frequency is again determined by the energy level difference uh divided by plank's constant. All right. Now in this particular case if what you see when you watch at the output you see that indeed the light gets increases now instead of decreases as we had before when you hit when you hit resonance. Again the amount of increase will depend on again the number of atoms that you have and the width will also depend on the on the transition of that for that particular atom or molecule but it's the width is exactly the same as that in absorption that we had before and and in fact the the size of the of the gain is also uh as I said depends on the number of atoms in this case number of atoms in the excited state and uh would be exactly the same as if the process were reversed and all the atoms were in the ground state and the size of the absorption would be exactly the same as the size of the amplification. And certainly the widths uh are the same. And again, if you don't if you don't believe me, you do a little experiment. All right? And you do this little experiment here. You take a a light source and tunable uh light source and now you send it into into this amplifier. uh we we're not saying what kind of amplifier it is right now but basically it's a it's a way of amplifying light. It's an amplifier that can amplify light. So again you take this light source tunable you send it in and you measure the output on a detector. Basically this is the this is the amplifier has all the atoms let's say in the this excited state. you send the light coming in and if you hit the resonance, say we hit the resonance and you start driving some of these atoms down and the output is essentially uh uh going to be bigger than the than the input just like we said before at a certain frequency you're going to get you're going to get the amplification of this light. Now what about the while we're at this what about the spontaneous uh emission because before we said when all the atoms are in the excited state there will be spontaneous emission. Well that's true because if you wait long enough see if if you had a condition like this where there's no light coming in all the atoms are excited. If you wait long enough then all these atoms will decay spontaneously by themselves emitting light in all direction. And that's bad news because there's no more no more amplification. But when when uh when the light comes in, yes, it will interact with atoms and bring them down and and then the light will be amplified. But some of the other atoms here will also spontaneously decay and will emit radiation in all directions. And this is no good to you because these this light is lost and not available for for amplification. So the whole secret then of of amplification is to make sure that the the these atoms here are used up to generate amp gain to come down driven by this field here and not by and not drop down by themselves and and emit spontaneous emission. That's a tricky thing and you have to make sure you can handle that. Now to to summarize amplification uh is the following. we need for for well right let's look at loss first uh when when when we have a loss uh loss lossy device it means that we have uh before we only talked about one atom let's say in in a state here I can put lots of atoms or molecules in let's say in the ground state but fewer in the in the excited state so if there's more in the lower than the upper level then the net effect is absorption so if n1 which is the number in the lower level is bigger than n2 then the net effect is absorption Gain is when there is more in the upper than lower because if if if n_sub_2 is bigger than n1 then we have net gain and from now on I'll be referring to it as a population inversion because normally atoms like to be in the ground state to start with and not in the in the excited state. So I have to as we'll see later I have to do something to put the atoms up here and and the and it's the net difference that will give me that will give me uh the gain. Okay. So now uh it's only a matter of how to put more atoms in the upper state than in the lower state. That will give me that will give me the gain. All right. Question is how does a laser start? So I have gain so what? So, I'm going to sit around uh waiting for for the lasers. How does a laser start? All right. So, that's my my next question is that how does a laser uh uh sorry, no, I wasn't looking at my uh the question is now I should hold off a little bit, but how to make a an optical amplifier? And now uh let me just uh uh I got carried away not looking at my my visuals. Let me uh go back to fundamentals again. Uh I have all the atoms let's say to start with here in a typical atomic system, molecular system. But I need in order to get amplification I have to have more in the upper than than the lower. So I need a so-called pump. This pump could be as we'll see later could be optical field, could be a discharge lamp, could be a laser, could be collision, could be all kinds of things we'll talk about later. But basically for now let's call it a pump. And that's pump. The job of this pump is take some of these atoms and put them upstairs here. Otherwise, you know, right now it's like an absorber. This material acts like an absorber over here. It still looks like an absorber because you have more in the lower than in the upper. And as I keep transferring atoms from the lower level to the upper level, I get to a stage where let's say in this case I have four and four and uh it's no it's neither gain or absorption. In fact, the material becomes becomes transparent. And even if I increase the light doesn't matter because I the net effect is I have equal number in the upper and the lower and we call that saturation and there is no uh amplification or gain. So we started as an absorber and with this kind of a pump we we created less absorption but no no gain. So in order to to get gain I have to do a little trick. All right. So this this trick is is the following. I cannot use uh two-le system. I have to use one more. All right. So, we're going to complicate this by adding three levels to this particular atom or molecule. In this case, to start with, all the atoms are here in the in the lower level to to start with as as usual. Then, if I put this pump and this pump again could be optical pump or or whatever. This pump if it's uh if it resonates with a transition now from the first to the third level, it can take some of these atoms and put them and put them up here. Now if he puts them up here, as soon as you put some atoms up here, there is a population difference between level three and level two. So now you have amplification for for transitions for light at this at this frequency. But but if you look at level one and level three, that's still absorption or what have you, but certainly no amplification. So the amplification occurs as soon as you put one atom in in level three. uh because level two is is is empty. So you can create N3 bigger than N2 which is the condition for amplification as soon as you pump one atom into this into this level. So the amount of gain that you'll get will depend of course on N3 minus N2 on the population difference as we talked before and there will be a constant that multiplies it that depends on again the particular transition the particular atom and so on. But the key thing is that it's a population difference. If n3 is not bigger than n2 then forget it there is no gain. So the the frequency for the amplification for the amplified light will be at the at this transition frequency which is e3 minus E2 divided by by h which is blank's constant. Again if you want to do a uh an experiment then uh then you do the uh then this is the following experiment. You take again this amplifier. You take this uh tunable source uh and the amplifier now has a pump. The pump then takes atoms from here and puts them up here and creates a population inversion. And then you tune this you tune this light source here. And then you'll see that uh when you look at the output you see that again there will be amplification at this specific frequency that coincides to this this with this transition. All right. So, uh, I'm sure now that, uh, after hearing me talk about all this, I'm sure you'd like to see that, uh, indeed ampl optical amplification takes place or or the amplification of light takes place. And and and, uh, I we have a a demonstration for you again using a a helium neon uh, laser as as an amplifier, at least the helium neon part as the amplifier. and and uh and we do we will measure we'll actually measure uh ampl amplification uh of light we're all familiar with with absorption and attenuation of light but in this particular demonstration will be amplification of light so I think now we're ready to to enjoy this demonstration so let's go and uh and look at it as we have already learned the most important important component in a laser or the heart of the laser is the gain medium or the optical amplifier. This is no ordinary amplifier. This is an amplifier for light. And in this demonstration, we're going to show you and hopefully convince you that indeed light can be amplified. The amount of amplification is not so huge, but I'm sure will make it convincing enough so that you get the feel that indeed that light can be can be amplified. The setup we're going to use is is here going to have a a laser which is going to be our light source. Here's the here's the output of the of the laser. We're going to reflect it by this mirror here and then this mirror over here. Now the laser beam then enters this this optical amplifier. Now this optical amplifier is is essentially this is a is a discharge tube helium neon gas mixture uh that will give gain amplification or gain at 6328 anstroms. In fact, the light enters this window here and then comes out at the other end and that's what we have essentially uh uh mounted here right below. Okay. So the then the output uh through the through this amplifier and the amplifier right now is turned off. Then goes onto onto a detector over here and then the output of the detector then goes onto a scope onto oscilloscope over here and and also uh we look at the output on a on a digital uh on a digital digital meter. All right. So we have two ways of looking at the same at the same uh output. All right. Now we're ready to to set to set zero. Right. So first what I'm going to do is then block block the beam of light over here. And let's look at the zero on the scope and the zero on the on the meter. Now the meter says uh08 which is not quite zero. And the reason for that is because we have room light uh hitting the detector. So what I'm going to do to get rid of that, I'm going to put this little hood over the detector. Now we see that the output of the of the meter now is indeed is indeed zero. And also hopefully then the output of the scope here this is will be our zero on the on the oscilloscope. Now if I take this card away and let the light go through, you can see that now the output on the scope has changed and the meter reads around 364 or 63 or or thereabout which is the output of the laser. Now all I have to do is block block the laser beam and we go back to zero on the meter as well as zero on the scope. Here we are. laser beam is back again and then we get the that same value again. Now we're all familiar with absorption of light and uh I just want to just demonstrate it just for reference. I'm going to put a piece of glass in front of the of the laser beam and we know that glass at normal incidence has uh reflectivity of about 4% per surface. So I should get an attenuation of about 8% or so uh when I put this piece of glass in in the in the beam of light. Now you can see the meter has dropped now to 330 uh 300 and well if I can keep it still 320 something. Now if I take the piece of glass away you know we go up to the previous number of 360 something. So you can see we have about an attenuation of about uh 8 or so uh%. Now what I'm going to do now is put this piece of glass uh before the detector also. And indeed I'm going to hold it against the uh the the uh tube here so that I don't shake too much. And again you can see that the attenuation is is also about uh about 8% or so here. Let me put it in the front and and also then I'll put it in the back again and hopefully I'll put it in the same position. You can see this. I hold it still and then take it away and then roughly we get this 8% attenuation. So now we've demonstrated that indeed light can be can be easily uh easily attenuated. Now we come to this crucial uh demonstration of gain. So now I want you to then watch the both the scope and uh and the meter as I turn on the the amplifier. So here I'm going to now turn on the amplifier and remember this number is around 363 or so 364. Now you can see on the scope we jumped a little bit and and the meter has gone up to 380 something which is an increase of about 5%. Let me turn it off again. You can see on the scope went down. In fact, just watch the scope for a little while. I'm going to turn it on and off very fast so that you get a feel that here it goes up a little bit and down a little bit. Since it's only few% it's difficult to see it on the scope the way I have it set it up I have it set up but it's much easier to see it on the meter. So you can see that with amplification we have 380 something with no amplification then we're back to 360 something again roughly it's about 5% uh amplification. Now you may wonder that uh maybe what we're getting is when I turn on the amplifier that we're getting light from the amplifier that hits hits the detector. It's not really amplification. So to prove this, what I'm going to do is block the beam of light going into the so that there's no light going on the detector. We back to our zero on the meter. And now what I'm going to do, I'm going to turn on the the amplifier just by itself just to see if there's any light from the amplifiers falling on the detector. So here we go. Watch the meter and the scope. And here is the amplifier on. Again, you can see that there's no change on the meter or the scope. Here's off. And do it again. On and and off. So indeed, we've shown that light from the amplifier or spontaneous emission from the amplifier is not hitting the detector and increasing uh the output. So again, let me just redo it again for you. Here is here is the light falling on the detector without amplification. Again, 360 something. And here comes the amplification again. It's a little Yeah, it's close to 380. A little bit less than we had before. Maybe the amplifier is getting a little old. Here we are without amplification. We have this value. Summary. Now I hope you've become a believer in that you've seen for yourself that light indeed can be can be amplified. The the uh last topic before we leave this session is on how does a laser start? You know just because we have inverted population we have between let's say level three and level two and but how does a laser really start? We have gain yes but how does it get started? because at the beginning there was no light uh at this at this frequency or wavelength. All right, there's plenty of pump light but there's no light to start the stimulated emission going. But it turns out that the light that uh that starts the laser going is spontaneous emission. Remember we talked before when atoms are left alone in the upper state they they decay to a lower level and they can emit photons all right in all directions. Now the spontaneous emission that the photon that is emitted along the axis of the cavity that's the one that gets the the stimulating emission going and I show it here. Uh here is the spontaneous emission along the axis. It hits another atom here that's in the excited state. So it gets amplified and then hits some more and gets even more amplified and so on. as he goes backwards and forwards then this builds up and and you uh get enough gain to overcome the losses and the laser will oscillate and if one of the mirrors has some transmission then you get you get the output. So indeed that's how an amplifier works and that's how a laser gets started. And then when we come back for our next session, we'll talk about the the laser beam properties and other properties and so