The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Good morning everyone wherever you are. I'd like to welcome you to this short course entitled Understanding Lasers and Fiber Optics. And before I do anything, I'd like to tell you what sort of topics I'll be covering. I will start with the many reasons why we're all interested in lasers today. Then I would like to talk about the key properties of lasers that make all these applications possible. Then once we understand these key properties then I would like to discuss how these properties excuse me come about and then we'll go describing the operation of a simple laser and even show you a demonstration how a simple laser works what you need to make things happen and then we'll look at variety of properties of this uh simple laser. Then we go look at other issues and problems to do with uh with lasers. Lasers are not perfect and if you don't treat them right, you know, they can give you give you some problems and uh in some cases you can get rid of these problems. In some cases, well, you try to minimize them. Then I will discuss the the variety of lasers and what makes them tick. uh because we have all kinds of lasers today and it's nice to get a feel for uh the variety of them and how they work, how they get pumped and so on. Then I'm going to change topics and I will uh switch to the basics of uh fiber optics and to to familiarize you with what's going on in fiber optics. What are the issues and but mainly the emphasis on on on basics and then finally I'll have a few words to say about future developments in uh in lasers and uh fiber optics. Now the uh how will I present uh the material? Well, I will be using a very simplified treatment and uh the reason is so that people without specialized background can uh can follow. uh I will emphasize only fundamentals and uh not uh not the details so that uh the the understanding can be made uh very easy and I will use very little math. I will certainly not emphasize mathematics because I would like to make it very understandable and I don't want to switch people off. And most important, I'll be using lots of demonstrations to to illustrate some of the fundamental phenomena in lasers and also in uh in fiber optics. So now I think we're ready to to start the course. And the uh the first topic that I had is why is there so much interest in uh in lasers? Well, the uh the reason why there's so much interest is because lasers have these unique properties that we're going to discuss and it and it's these unique properties that make all these applications happen. Now, these properties have created all sorts of new devices. We'll mention a few of them briefly and also have improved many existing devices. So the laser has been very nice in in lots of lots of fields. Just to give you some example of of uh just a few applications. Well, let's just just look at them just briefly. The barcode readers. Everybody's familiar today with barcode readers. Now lasers certainly make that possible. And of course the compact discs, computer printers, the laser color copers, all these depend on on some of these properties of lasers that we'll be discussing. Then of course you've seen the laser shows and that certainly uses a specific laser property. Then there is holography. That's the 3D imaging. The hologram that you see on uh on credit cards. Uh that's all due to uh uh lasers. Then lasers are also used for precise control of position and uh and motion. Uh for example uh sensors. Lasers today can measure all kinds of things uh with fiber optics, without fiber optics uh or what have you. The uh the big area of today and the future is fiber optic communication. And again it involves not only fiber optics but also lasers. So we'll see how the properties of lasers are used for fiber optic commu comm communication. Then we have topics like materials processing like cutting, drilling, welding and so on in materials. There is a whole slew of uh techniques for non-destructive testing. This is the destruct the testing of of systems without without having to destroy them and lasers are quite sensitive and they can do that without the need to damage the uh the systems. Then we go to spectroscopy and a variety of spectroscopic techniques have been opened up by uh by the laser chemical processing. Uh then we get to the military application, military systems and we hear a lot about uh laser uh the use of lasers in uh in the military. And finally, least last but not least, we have medical procedures, medical diagnostics using uh using lasers. And all these applications come about because of very few unique properties of lasers. And certainly in this course we want to make sure that that we understand those and how they come about. In fact the we find lasers all over the place today. We find them in the home in the factory in hospitals in laboratory in the the military wherever it is in even in space in the ocean and even in the in the theater. So you can see lasers are playing a very important role in our lives today. All right. So now I would like to go and to the next uh to the next topic and that is the the unique properties of uh of lasers. All right. So what are these unique properties? Well, let's start with property number one. Now some people refer to it as high monochromaticity. What is monochromaticity? Well, that means it's one color. And we have to see what what people mean by that. Others refer to it as as a source of light that has very narrow spectral width. Again, we want to see what what what it means and uh and and others may refer to this property as high as as something that has a high temporal coherence. And we want to understand uh what all what the meaning of all these things are. So let's start first with with uh with the narrow spectral width or the single color here. What I have and I hope you can see it the colors of the spectrum. I did the coloring myself and it's pretty close to to the spectrum with whatever colors uh I had. Now the the visible range as we all know extends from about 4,500 angstroms to about 6,500 anstroms in the in the red which is about what 2,000 anstroms or so and that's that's the visible essentially that's the visible range. Now when we compare uh light sources to this to this range for example the spectral lamp that has a very narrow uh line width or spectral width here it is here's the typical output of a spectral lamp let's say here in the yellow and the width over which there's there's radiation could be as low as one/10enth of an angstrom okay 0.1 anstroms or in terms of uh frequency it's uh 10 10 gigahertz and then you can get uh some lamps that have smaller line widths or you can even get them with broader line widths depending on on the conditions of of the discharge and so on. Now when when we come to to lasers the line width is extremely narrow the spectral width is extremely narrow and it can be in the megahertz but can also be in the micro hertz. Now remember this is 10 theus 6 hertz or even smaller. So the laser is an incredible kind of divi device when it comes to the spectral width. It the line width can be extremely narrow. Now I know in practice that's not what one measures but but if you get rid of some of the effects we'll talk about external effects then you should be able to see line widths as narrow as narrow as that. All right. So so the laser then is is extremely extremely narrow. The u let's see how now let's see how you might uh uh measure the uh the spectral width. So you don't have to take my word for it. Let's see how you might measure it. Well, if you took a t typical spectral lamp here and then collect some of the light from it and put it into a spectrometer or some other device that device that measures the spectrum, then what you get, you get a plot like this, intensity versus wavelength. And here you can either plot wavelength or you can plot frequency depending on the kind of work you do. And then you'll see some blob like this and it has a certain width over which the the uh the source uh radiates and we call it either delta lambda for the width or or delta f. Now when we compare it with a uh with a laser again we'll do the same thing. We'll take the laser and feed it into a spectrometer or some other device. The width here can be very narrow and just like I said before can be uh even as narrow as microtz but these are only on the special conditions but even if it's uh megahertz or tens of mehertz it's way narrower than you get from from a uh from a lamp. So again if you're not sure then you have to do the experiment and check indeed that the laser does give you an extremely narrow uh narrow line width. All right. So that's basically then the the the line width of the of the laser. Now the next thing is what about high temporal coherence? What has that got to do with the line width of the laser? All right. So now we need to explain that topic. Now let's start first with with a wave with a sine wave. Okay. Now this sine wave let's say starts from minus infinity in terms of time and goes all the way to plus infinity completely uninterrupted a pure sine wave. Now if you had a wave like this that has a constant frequency and a constant amplitude then when you look at its spectrum on the in the fre on the fre in the frequency domain what you see you see something that's let's say centered at at f0 f sub0 with a width delta f here very close to to zero. All right. Now, this is a source of radiation. It's like a sine wave like this that has that has what we call perfect temporal coherence or time coherence. And that's the best essentially the best that uh what can happen. Now in in in practice uh light sources uh do not radiate for such a long for long time without any phase interruption. So let's say we have a light source like this that that radiates only for a time tao and then shuts off for example. Now this one because it's it only radiates for a time towel. It's going to have a line width in the frequency domain. It's going it's not going to be a delta function that we had before. And this width if you do the calculation this width in terms of frequency is proportional to one over the the length of this wave ta again I put approximate so I don't get into trouble about the exact numbers but it's very close to delta f is 1 over to so that if toao is very long if toao is very long then delta f is small as we've shown you before but if toao is short then the line width here will will grow Now atoms uh for example because this is where we get our radiation from from atoms they radiate in bursts bursts like like this. Now if they radiate in bursts like this then then toao can be sometimes can be quite short which means that the width of the radiation will be will be uh uh broader. So the shorter this is then the broader this this width. And here I show bursts from other atoms. And and when you put them all together, essentially that's what you get. You get a uh a certain width that's characteristic of the time of the uninterrupted radiation of of atom. And here we get an interruption. Therefore, the towel then is only when the wave is is uninterrupted. Now some other atoms will radiate in in decaying uh sinosoids exponentially decaying sinosoid. It doesn't matter. The calculation is a little bit uh uh uh trickier but again you get a sort of width and for the purpose of this course uh all I'm after is is the uh is the uh the dominant width. And I'm not worried about the sidebands down here just just the width. And again you can say that the width here is of the order of 1 / t to whether it's exponentially decaying or it's looks like this or what have you. All right. Then then to summarize now high temporal coherence means that the radiation time of the atoms without phase interruption is very long because the line width is 1 over 10 would be very small. And when you have uh something that has a high temporal coherence which means very long it means that you can predict the amplitude and the phase of the wave at uh at any time any time because it's a pure wave in fact if I go back to to this uh plot over here. So this is where you have infinite uh uh coherence. It means that if I know the amplitude and phase of the wave at this time, I can only with using a clock I can predict exactly what the amplitude and phase of the wave would be at some other time later. And the separation in the time can be can be very long. when when we get to uh when we get into into sources that radiate like this then obviously within this time I can predict uh the the amplitude and phase of the wave. If I stretch the time a little further bigger than than this towel, then I cannot predict anymore the amplitude in the phase because this is like another another uh waveform that is completely uncorrelated with the first one. So what we call the coherence time now is going to be limited only to this time during which the the uh the uh the wave is uninterrupted. Then you might ask well what are typical applications of uh of of this of this unique property. Well the uh the fact that it has narrow line width can be used in uh in communication certainly that's a key key property here in spectroscopy especially in high resolution spectroscopy in uh interpherometry uh holography and a variety of sensors. So that's a that's a key property for for many many applications. Now what I'd like to do is discuss the second what I call the second unique property of uh of lasers. Now here it is. There are many ways of of of describing it. One way is uh that the laser is has a highly columnated beam and we've seen that in laser shows and what have you that the laser has a highly columnated beam. Other people may use more better scientific language and would call it defraction limited columnation and we want to know what that means. To some the fact that the laser has a very small focus spot is a is this meaning of this property and others may call it again in a better scientific language it's a diffraction limited focusing. All right. So whether it's defraction limited cumation defraction limited focusing or even as others might call it a laser has high spatial coherence they all mean essentially the same thing. And let's find out now what uh what we mean by uh by all these uh words. All right, let's go back and look at a uh a typical uh a typical light source. Let's say let's spectral lamp. We have uh electrodes here plus and minus. We have an arc here. And then we collect the light from the arc with a lens and that's placed at the at the focus of the lens here. This distance here f is the focal length of the lens. So now we try to cumate this uh this light source. Well, what sort of cumation do we get? You can see here that this point this one end of the of the uh of the uh discharge uh is you you collect these two rays from here and you create a columnated beam in this direction. uh the other end of this uh arc uh for example the other extreme will give you a columnated beam in this direction and when you put them together you have this this widely uh diverging beam. Now you can easily estimate the angle of this beam. In fact the angle of the divergence of this beam theta is given by h which is half the uh the size of the source here. In this case, it's an arc. It could be discharge lamp or whatever. Half the size of the of the source divided by the focal length of the lens. And so, so the so if if you don't like if this angle is too big, then the only thing you can do is either reduce the size of the source or increase uh the uh focal length of the lens. Now, if you let's look at the increasing the focal length of the lens. If you increase the focal length of the lens, it means you've got to put it way far from from the source. If you do that, you're going to lose a lot of light. So, you may get a better cumation, but there's not going to be much light in it. The other thing to work on is h the size of of the source. And clearly, if you make it smaller and smaller, then the cumation will be better and better. And that's how pre- laser days that's how one got uh uh columnated beams with a lot of light in them because you try to generate sources that have the very small size. Now let's see what's the best one can do here. Well, the best one can do is called defraction limited cumation. And here if you do the the uh physics of it uh if you have a beam that's of diameter D then the best you can do this is now a perfect optical beam light beam or what have you beam electromagnetic radiation of diameter D I don't care whether it's microwave optical UV or whatever whatever then the best you can do in terms of divergence angle is lambda divide by d lambda being the wavelength of the light dividing by d as simple as that and I make it approximate here because it's just a small factor here which I'm not going to worry about in this in this course. The critical thing it depends on the ratio of lambda the wavelength over d. The shorter the lambda the better the columnation. The larger d the better the cumation or this the smaller is the divergence angle and it doesn't depend on any source size or anything because this is this is due to basic physics of uh of electromagnetic radiation. That's what we call the defraction uh limited columation. That's the best you can do. So keep that keep that in mind. Now let's compare the uh the output of a laser with this uh with this diffraction limited beam. Here's a laser source and with some optics and what have you, I can create a beam that's diamond at D. And if I go check this its size further down, I indeed see that the angle here, the angle of divergence is very close to lambda over D, just like the the perfect light source that we talked about before. So you can say that laser is indeed diffraction limited and and again the divergence is just limited by the wavelength divided by D. While in the case of the light source we had to worry about the size of the source. And then the other important thing here is that all the laser light all the laser light can be put into into that beam. So we don't need to lose any any light because we're not collecting enough. So it's another fantastic kind of uh kind of property. Now the applications of this of this uh property. Uh let's start with the cumation part. The the high degree of cumation can be used of course for alignment. You can do go large distances without the beam expanding too much. Certainly you see these barcode with the lights flashing. If if there was too much divergence, you wouldn't be able to to uh uh scan the bars because the spacing is very small between them. And certainly if you want to do longd distance communication, especially in space, radar and what have you, uh high degree of cumation is uh is very very important. Now the uh the next thing here is that I mentioned before is the very small focus spot or the defraction limited focusing. Now where does that where does that come from and and how does it compare with what we can do without uh lasers? Well, let's go back to basics back to our arc lamp here and then we collect the light as we did before. But now instead of just columnating, let's put another lens and focus it down. And that's normally how we get intense uh spots, high intensity uh focus spots by again taking light from a source and and refocusing. Now, it turns out that because the source has a certain size, you're not going to be able to create anything here that's going to be brighter than the source. And again, if you don't believe me, you have to go look up basic physics. And uh and it sort of makes sense that it's very difficult. It's impossible to make this brighter than here. So you cannot increase the brightness uh uh as uh as dictated by uh by the source. All right. Now, what about lasers? All right. Before we get to lasers, what's the best one can do? Let's go back to our columnated beam of diameter D. that uh that was our perfect ideal beam. Now if we take that and put a lens here with a focal length f and focus it down it'll focus down to a very small spot. Now the this is the smallest spot that you can get and the spot size is given by our lambda over d which we remember from before multiplied by f the focal length of the lens. Now if f is approximately d if you can choose f approximately d then we have a spot size here that's of the order of the wavelength of light. So again without having to study hard or remember hard then we have two things. The cumation is just given the best columnation you can get is lambda over d and the focus spot size is lambda and this is then assumes that it's a perfect a perfect light source. All right. So that now let's compare with with what the laser with with what the laser can do. All right. So now we bring the laser up. So here's our laser giving us a beam columnated beam of diameter at D. Put a lens here. Focus it down. And I go measure the spot size. And it turns out that the spot size, if I'm careful, is very close to the wavelength of the of the light. So this means that the the laser beam is as ideal and as close to perfect as one can get both in cumation as well as in focusing. While with a while with a light source it was difficult to to get something that is that is extremely bright. You can make this of course the spot size small here by putting apertures by putting apertures here. You can make this spot size small, but you cannot have a small spot size with with very high intensity like you can here. In this case, you can put all that laser light and we'll talk about all kinds of outputs uh very soon. And you can put all that into this tiny spot and that's how you can get these huge uh intensities. Well, you might say, what are the applications of some of these small focus spots with high intensities? Well, there are all kinds of applications. There's compact discs for example that rely on a on a tiny uh small spot for the for the resolution certainly for laser printers and again for materials processing as I say for cutting and welding and uh uh drilling and so on and also in medical surgery where the the spot size you know for cutting and what have you has to be has to be pretty small you don't want to make a huge huge cut and also uh because you have to deliver so much intensity you need the uh spot size to be to be small. Okay? Especially like for example, look at the example of retinal uh surgery, retinal welding where you try to weld the retina. The spot size is a key is a key issue because you can almost get any light source to to spot weld the retina. The only problem is it it spot welds the entire retina. But here with a tiny with a tiny beam, tiny focused beam, you can you can only weld just just small areas. Of course, they're damaged areas and you hopefully you can still see with the rest of the retina. So the the the small spot size is is a key thing to a lot of these applications. Now uh I mentioned earlier that uh that some people refer to this property of high cumation or or or small focus spot to high spatial coherence. So let's see what uh what is meant by uh by that the uh here is uh high spatial coherence and and the and the what we mean by that is that the wave is well behaved in space. Now before we talked about uh waves that are well behaved with respect to time. Remember we showed that the wave continues uninterrupted for for long periods of time. That's very well- behaved wave in in time. Now we're talking about a well- behaved wave in in space which means that we can predict its amplitude and phase at any position at a given time. While before it was at the same position at a different time but here at any at any position now any spatial position uh as a function uh of time and also of course of space. So let's look at it. Now an ideal point source of radiation is over here and then it puts out you know these spherical waves that we're probably used to seeing. If the source is is very small then you have perfect sp spherical waves. If uh I don't like a diverging beam and I put a lens here then I can make this into a columnated beam and this will be perfectly columnated beam. Which means that uh for for what we call high spatial coherence means that if I know the amplitude and phase of the wave here in this position in space, I can also predict the amplitude and phase of the wave in another uh position in uh in space and uh and and uh and that's great. So whether it's a diverging beam or a columnated beam or so on, if you tell me what the amplitude and phase of the wave here, I can tell it I can tell you what it's going to be over here because the wavelength is is stable and the the spatial behavior is stable. Well, if this doesn't mean much to you, let's look at what a what a light source uh puts out. And it's back to our spectral lamp here or an arc lamp. Now because we have so many atoms in the source here that's they're radiating that we get a mess of a waveform that's uh that's coming out. So even so if I know the amplitude and phase over here it's uh pretty impossible for me to predict what the amplitude and phase going to be at a different location uh in space and even as a function of time because I really have no control over uh these light sources over here. While in the in the case of the laser, I can get uh pretty close to perfect uh prediction anywhere I want in space, but in a in a in a non- laser light source, it's very difficult. Now, I can improve things by making the light source very small. As we showed you before, I take lenses and focus them down, put small apertures, and can sort of create a tiny uh focus spot. The only problem is there's not much light by the time I do that. While the laser you can put all the laser uh light into let's say columnated beam or diverging beam that has perfect uh spatial spatial coherence. All right. So these are two very key uh properties. Now what I'd like to do is uh is talk about few more uh few more properties. All right. Now here is the next one which is high power. uh the laser as we know lasers have uh incredible power. All right. So let's let's see where that where that uh comes from. Here's again a picture of a laser and putting out a beam of light. Now there are two kinds of uh lasers. There's what we call CW or continuous wave laser and there's also pulse. So if the output is not continuous and it's pulse we call it pulse laser. Some of them can be very short and and so on. All right. Now, let's see what sort of power levels uh that we can get from uh from lasers. And these these numbers, if you're not familiar with them, they're going to really open your eyes out to to what's going on. Now, in terms of continuous lasers, well, we're all familiar, I suppose, with the helium neon laser or semiconductor lasers that put out few millatts. All right? Some of us work with bigger lasers that put out sort of watts and uh not that many people uh uh work with kilowatt lasers. Today these are you can buy these lasers for all kinds of applications and uh you can also generate even megawws of of continuous lasers. That's 10 to the^ six watts. That's huge huge uh uh continuous power that comes out from these lasers. Now in terms of pulse lasers, wow the numbers get really very big. Uh here we're talking about in continuous talking 10 to the 6 watts. Here we're talking about anywhere from 10^ the 9 watts which is a or gigawatt depending where you come from. And then we also have can produce pulse lasers with with uh peak pulse power of 10^ the 12 watts terowatts and even 10^ the 15 watts. And I don't know if you've heard of this word here, pedawatt. And pedawatt means 10^ the 15 this case 10 the 15 watts. And also recently we read that some people have produced xawatt uh peak power which is 10 to the 10^ the 18 watts and these fantastic fantastic power levels. And we'll see how they generated soon and and what we can use them for. But for here I'll just mention just a few applications of of these peak powers. Certainly in materials processing where you want to do welding, cutting and what have you. uh for uh fusion today as we know there's a big fusion program uh for many years now uh that uses that's based on uh on lasers called laser fusion and the military of course would love to use these uh high power lasers whether pulseed or or CW and certainly a lot of nonlinear optics application uh are based on uh the fact that we have uh a lot of uh a lot of power in these uh in these lasers because it depends on the on the intensity Now the next property that I want to mention is the tuning range of uh of lasers. Uh lasers again are sources of uh radiation and can have incredible uh uh tuning range. Now let's see over this spectrum of electromagnetic radiation where lasers are. First of all we have the visible lasers. you know the ones we we we see are basically basically over here and uh and you they may have a certain tuning uh let's say from here to here and uh and and we'll discuss them later. I mean here this is just in a pictorial form. I want to show you where the lasers are and then maybe as we get into the infrared there may be other lasers like this one here some laser here let's say over here is in the far getting close to the far infrared some lasers that have large large tuning range you we go from the visible we can go to the ultraviolet or even to the vacuum ultraviolet and today we've gone all the way to to x-rays so lasers are found all over the spectrum all over the electromagnetic spectrum but their tuning range or their widths over the width the spectrum or the spectral width of the lasers or the the tuning range of the lasers can be can be quite broad and and then we'll discuss them later but today we have lasers all over the the electromagnetic spectrum sure we may have some gaps here and there but there are techniques of filling these gaps by by mixing techniques and so on that will fill these gaps and today we really have no excuse to say that I don't have a laser at a specific uh wavelength because there are all sorts of techniques to uh to create lasers there if there aren't any lasers there already. Now the applications of uh of uh wide tuning range could be in the interaction with specific atoms and molecules where you need to tune the light sources to be able to interact with specific atoms and molecules to reach their resonances and so on. in uh in studying structure of atoms, molecules, solids and so on, you need a widely tunable source in the area of spectroscopy. And then for propagation uh sometimes uh you know if you want to dodge certain molecules in the atmosphere or the water and so on, you need to tune the laser away from uh the absorption of these uh molecules or atoms. And in in uh in medical applications, sometimes you need to uh to tune the laser so that it's at the right wavelength for interacting with tissue or or what have you. Uh and uh and it's nice to have lasers that are uh that are tunable. Now, I have one more key property and that's it. It's going to be just the fifth one. And and here it is that lasers can produce very short pulse width. Now these these are incredibly short uh pulse width much shorter than any any electronic uh circuit can uh can generate. And here we are. Here's a uh laser pulse that one can generate. And the pulse width can be well this is big 10 the minus 9 seconds. It's called nancond. Uh certainly we can prod produce these on a routine basis picosconds or 10 theus 12 seconds and today we're very close the record is that we're very close to 10 the minus15 seconds excuse me which is a phentoc that's incredible because because even 10us 12 seconds very diff it's impossible to reach with electronic sources. So already from from below 10 the minus 12 let's say 10 - 11 or so this is all in lasers because you can do it uh electronically. All right. So again this this is fantastic property of uh of lasers and and let's mention at this stage what are some some applications of very short pulses. We can certainly use them to study very fast phenomena uh where the let's say the relaxation time is so fast that normal uh techniques don't work. They cannot be used to observe them because they're too they're too long. All right. So so in order to study fast phenomena you need very short uh pulse lasers. Then of course the exciting thing about optical computers if they will ever come about is to take advantage of these very short pulses. So you can have can have faster clocks and uh and so on. And for high resolution radar and imaging these very short pulses can give you again incredible uh uh resolution. And so so there are lots of applications of these short pulses and we'll have uh something to say about them uh later. Now I would like to to switch to to the my my next topic which is how these properties how these properties uh come about and uh and again we'll start with uh with the first uh with the first property which is this monochromaticity uh narrow spectral width and the high temple coherence which I hope you still remember from from earlier. The question is how does this property where does this property come from? Okay. So the answer is that the laser is an optical oscillator. And uh so some people might say well what's an optical oscillator? I know it comes out like a sine wave but what's an optical oscillator? Well, the uh what's an optical oscillator is uh the first in order to understand an optical oscillator, you have to understand what an oscillator is. So now we're ready to talk about uh the properties of a of an oscillator and we hope then we can extend it to an optical oscillator and then we can appreciate where that first property of lasers comes from. So here we are. Let's review the basic properties of of oscillators. I know a lot of you know about oscillators but I have to start at some level. So I'm going to start right here. So if we have here a black box that puts out this sinosoidal oscillation this perfect sinosoidal oscillation where the length of this wave train as we've seen before goes all the way from minus infinity to plus infinity very long uninterrupted constant amplitude. Then in in the frequency domain that as we've done before that is that delta function centered at some frequency here that depends on the wavelength of this of this this radiation source. All right. So that's what we generally call an oscillator and especially electrical oscillators we see them on on an oscilloscope. We see this beautiful sine wave on on on the oscilloscope and uh and the the the the source of the oscillation. Well, we'll have to see how that comes about in the case of lasers and and the spectral width is is extremely narrow and we see that electrical oscillators all the time and we don't even think about it. Now, now I would like to tell you a little bit about how an oscillator is made and once we understand oscillator is made then we can extend it to to the optical domain and and then be able to explain how a laser works. Okay. So let's review some background here in in oscillators. Well, there are all kinds of uh oscillators. I'm going to start with with a pendulum. Here's a simple pendulum length length d. And I let it I let it swing. Uh what does it do when I let it swing? Well, it'll go backwards and forwards just like this. It generate an oscillation here of the pendulum which will die down. And the frequency of this oscillation is given by 1 / 2 pi the square root of uh g the acceleration of gravity divided by d the length of the of the pendulum. Now the uh so the the the longer d is the the smaller the the frequency of oscillation. But but as we can see this oscillation dies down. And the question why does it die down? Well why does it die down? because there are some losses and the losses for example come in this pivot here it comes pushing air around and so on but basically it will die down because it's difficult to get rid of uh all these losses so we don't have that constant oscillation that I showed you before now we go to the frequency domain reminding you what we did before because I have a a dying oscillation like this then if the time constant is is tow then the line width is going to be approximately uh delta f which is approximately one over towo and and that is proportional directly proportional to the losses. The higher the losses, the larger larger is the line width and the shorter is the uh the uh the decay time. All right? So that uh if I improve the losses, if I reduce the losses, then I can get this to narrow down and I can get this to last to last uh longer. Now the um uh if I as I just mentioned just now this is in in pictorial form. If I reduce the losses if I'm clever in reducing the friction in this pivot and so on I can make the wave last longer and this width gets uh gets narrower. But in order to make it constant amplitude I have to do something else. All right this is what I have to do. I have to call on this fellow here to to push on this pendulum to push on this pendulum so that uh it stops it from from uh dying down. In a way, what this fellow is doing by doing he's pushing at the right time, it's really overcoming the losses whether at the at the pivot here or pushing air around and and so on. So in order instead of having just this dying oscillation like this what I end up with a constant amplitude because if this fellow here is putting energy into this system and compensating for so as the amplitude here go becomes becomes constant then the line width here uh starts to delta f starts to shrink and goes close to zero. So in this way I produce a an oscillator and in this case of course it's a it's a pendulum oscillator that's used like a clock and uh and so on. But I do need this energy source this person here to overcome to overcome the losses. Now this is not the only type of uh of oscillator. I have all kinds u let's say I have a mass spring system. I can make that into oscillator. Let's say here I have a spring and there's a mass connected to it. And then if I pull the mass away, it's going to wobble backwards and forward. It's going to oscillate. Again, it's going to be a dying oscillation like this because of well friction. The mass frict has a friction between the friction between the mass and and the stable and losses in the spring and so on. The frequency here will be determined by the uh square root of the of the spring constant K and divided by the mass. If I change the mass, I change the frequency and and so on. And so so again, just like in the pendulum, it's a dying oscillation and has a in the frequency domain has a certain width and the width is proportional to uh one over uh one over towa and that's again proportional to losses. If I look at a stretch string here, stretch string, if I hit it, then it it it bobs up and down here in the middle and then the frequency will be determined by the speed of sound in the material divided by by twice the separation between the ends and again it dies down. Okay, this bobbing up and down will die down uh because again of losses and also we'll have will have a width. And then finally here if I have an LC circuit inductor and a capacitor again if I if I inject a pulse into it I see that again I get an oscillation. If I look let's say at a voltage across the capacitor here I have this oscillation that dies down and the frequency is given by in this case by the square root of 1 / LC L being the inductor C is the is the value of the capacitance and the this decay is due to losses. Now in electrical circuit where are the losses come from? Well they come from omic losses essentially dissipation in the in the wires according to uh Ohm's law. So that uh uh the all these kinds of oscillators whether pendulum or or mass spring a vibrating string or electrical oscillator they essentially they all have specific frequencies. All right, they oscillate at and uh but they all have losses and to make them into into an oscillator you have to overcome these losses and as we as we saw that in the in the case of the pendulum you need somebody to push here you may also need somebody to push over here you again you you have to uh you have to keep vibrating the things to maintain oscillation and of course in electrical one we add a uh an amplifier to overcome uh to overcome the velocities Now to uh to then then summarize then we need to make an oscillator then we need a uh a resonator that will determine the frequency for us and we need a means of overcoming uh the loss. So if we have that then we can uh then we can uh get this uh oscillation this nice oscillation that uh that comes out from that black box I showed you earlier. Now what about the laser? Okay, how does the laser work? Well, in in uh in lasers because laser is is an oscillator, we need a a resonator first of all. So, let's look at how we can create electromagnetic uh resonator. Well, just like this is very similar to the to the stretch string, we need uh we need two ends. We need two nodes. And here we have uh to create this we have two mirrors uh here the two mirrors M and they're spaced a certain distance L apart. Now the the lowest frequency that can fit between these two modes and oscillate backwards and forwards between these two modes is the one where half the wavelength where L is half half this wavelength because the wave would be would be about this size. Now such a wave would be able to bounce backwards and forwards between the two mirrors and uh and will be at that frequency determined by in this case will be determined by uh f= c over 2 l because uh lambda time uh times the frequency equals the velocity of of light. So either that the the wavelength is 2 L all right or its frequency is just C over 2L. Okay. So this is then the the the lowest uh frequency that will be supported in this kind of structure with two reflectors or two nodes at the ends just like in the vibrating string. Now this oscillation will die down if I injected some light in here and I get it to to to oscillate like this. It will die down because of losses and again in the frequency domain this will have a width. Question is what uh where are the losses in this case? Well, the losses come from the reflection in the uh in the mirrors. If the reflectivity of the mirror is not perfect, then then every time the light bounces from one mirror to the other, then the amplitude will go down and very quickly it will die down altogether. So in order to to make this then oscillate or essentially lays we need to overcome uh these losses. But before I get to this, I want to talk about uh other other uh modes in in this kind of resonator. The uh so far I've talked about this one where only half the wavelength fits between the two mirrors. But I can also get a condition where a full wavelength foots fits between the two mirrors. These are sort of normal modes uh of uh of these uh resonators. Now where lambda 1 was here was equal to 2 L and F1 was C over 2L. In this case lambda 2 is is essentially L or I like to write it as 2 L over two but I can cancel to the twos and I get L. And the frequency is just 2 C over 2L. So here we had 1 * C over 2L. Here is 2 C over 2L. And and so here I'm spacing it along in in the frequency uh along the frequency scale. Here's my f_sub_1 and here's f_sub_2 and the separation is c over2 l and each one has a width because of the of the losses. Now we can go a little further here and consider few more of these oscillations. In this case, uh I have one and a half waves that will fit between the the uh cavity uh between the two mirrors and or within the cavity. And then the wavelength will be 2 L over 3 instead of 2 L over2. Uh and the frequency will be 3 C over 2L instead of 2 C over 2L here. So now again you can see I'm going to stack them up F1, F2, M3. And the separation is equal between them which is C over 2L. And uh we can uh go to many more and I'm jumping here to to the what we call the Q mode lambda subq and just because the way I was doing it uh previously you can see that the wavelength will be 2 L divided by Q this is the the Q number just like in here this was 3 2 1 and now in this case will be the Q the Q mode and the frequency will be just QC over 2L just like Here we had 3 C over2 L 2 C over2 L and so on. So on the on the on the frequency scale then we have all these resonances that come from that I can excite in in one resonator and can we can be as high as uh as you want it and the width each one will have a width because of the losses. Now not all the widths will be the same because uh because not all the losses will some losses will depend on the wavelength or the frequency you're at. So uh since the mirrors can have loss but the loss can depend on the wavelength and so uh so the these widths can uh can vary. So now this explains the the uh the uh resonator and uh and and just uh let me summarize the uh the uh information here. We have uh a typical now a laser uh cavity which is again two mirrors spaced by L. In this case I'm going to take L as 100 centimeters or 1 meter. If I choose for the wavelength to be half a micron or 5 * 10 - 5 cm then Q comes out to be this Q this integer we talked about comes out to be uh 2 L over lambda from from the uh from this formula here and is 200 / 5 * 10 - 5 which comes out to be about four * 10 6 which means that Q has the value of few million all right which means there are lots of little waves in here in a in a cavity of 100 cm mmters uh separation the frequency associated with that is against f subq from here uh is uh 6 * comes out to be 6 * 10 14 hertz and the width will depend on the losses uh which are uh mainly due to let's say mirror losses and and so on which we'll get into into later. So, so the uh so then to make a an optical uh oscillator or like a laser we need the resonator that we that we have talked about but it has not just one frequency but has many frequencies and it has we have to have a a means of overcoming the loss and and that uh is is uh that comes about with with a light with a light amplifier. So the the light amplifier is the is the key element uh in a las in a laser because without the amplifier you can have all these cavities empty cavities that do absolutely nothing for you. But in order to to make create lasers out of them then you have to put an amplifier. Okay. So here is then then uh the laser here's the cavity that we talked about and then we have to insert this this amplifier and this amplifier which we will talk about uh later in more depth. This amplifier then provides gain for the light that goes backwards and forwards between these two mirrors to overcome the losses wherever the losses come from. And the whole idea is to make the losses as small as possible. So you don't you need to use uh a big amplifier because to in order to generate this gain which we'll talk about later uh it costs a lot of effort a lot of money and so on. So so we want to minimize the the uh the gain that's needed but we certainly have to have enough gain to overcome uh the losses. And uh and here for example I have this this amplifier this this gain of this amplifier located at this particular frequency and over here I have all the modes of of the cavity that we talked about before. But if there is one of these cavity modes under the bandwidth of this amplifier then if there is enough gain to overcome the loss then I can get this to to oscillate. And in fact here it is as we know that this width of the of the cavity comes about because of the losses in the cavity. But if I have enough gain to overcome the losses then I collapse this width to this delta function that we had before and and the output that comes out from this mirror. If I put some transmission in this mirror here I leak a little bit of light out. then that light will will have this spectrum this very narrow spectral width or in terms of the time domain I have a uh this this lovely uh oscillation here that has a constant frequency determined by this cavity mode and a and a constant amplitude. So I think uh the uh this will be a very fitting time to uh to stop for this uh first session because uh because I brought you just to the stage where I think now you want to know where this uh where this gain comes from that makes lasers possible. So when we come back we'll start exactly with that with that topic.