The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. theologian, cleric uh the early 18th century who had a fascination with a lot of the natural theology specul population of the age. So Paley is a is a central figure in many ways wrote one of the most important books very very large uh I mean he wrote many books but including the books that he wrote was natural theology which uh basically expands uh very considerably upon Hume's uh uh speculations and Paley uh was somebody that Darwin was familiar with um natural theology was not required reading for Cambridge undergraduates but uh Darwin read Palley's natural theology um anyway and as as you read the book you notice that it's got a lot of other things than just theology in it. So, one of the questions I have to just start out is, uh, why would somebody interested in science and the order of nature be interested in Paley? I just had you read a very short snippet, but u do you get any sense of this book uh Paley as a scientist? Does he come across with any scientific uh skills, capabilities? He analyzes things in a very like set order that's not Yeah, I there's there's a lot of science in this book. Uh I mean, I didn't have you read the whole thing. Of course, it would take you a month or so, but uh you know, he's got chapters in here on instinct, uh anatomy. Uh I mean, you know, it's it's a it's definitely a book that's uh drawing deeply from scientific knowledge. And of course, you probably how many people have heard of Paley before? I'm just curious. Okay, couple of you. All right. uh you know Paley sometimes gets uh short treatment uh because he's seen as oh well he didn't quite get the evolutionary picture but uh actually Paley's a formidable intellect um he had a a massive capacity for understanding scientific uh data uh in many ways uh a mind that you could certainly understand why sc why why Charles Darwin would appreciate Darwin was a reader, a close reader of Paley and Paley has many explanations in here and many passages that sort of turn up or anyway similar types of passages turn up not that Darwin is uh you know directly using Paley but uh a lot of Paleley's speculations and concerns and questions resurface in Darwin in the origins in in the origin of species. Uh so Darwin had AI my own view of of Darwin is uh that he had a a very deep respect for Paleley's speculations. Paley was a um was was was one of the tribe so to speak. He he he was fascinated with science. Uh but of course he was a theologian and you know for him the science was uh something that uh was something the science was to be put to the purpose of natural theology understanding the world as a realm framed by God. So you know this was very much the science was definitely um summoned in support of a certain view of the world. So in some sense it wasn't simply uh open. So uh Paley is uh uh a a key figure here. Paley came up with the classic uh argument that um um that the the eye and the complexity of the eye was so uh so extensive, so great that uh it simply had to be the result of something that had been designed for a purpose. He couldn't imagine how something like an eye something as complicated as that could come about through chance. For for discussion sake, we may have many many we have we may have a vast period of time to work with and many different organisms may have uh uh cycled through this process. organisms that uh through this time organisms that are no longer with us. But even so, who could come up with an eye in in all that process? Uh how how could that process of uh cycling through all that all that time ever have delivered anything like an eye? So this really becomes Paley u Paleley's key u his his his his key point. Um but there are many others too. Um so in many ways we uh you can see Paley as one of the originators of the what we think of today as intelligent design arguments and intelligent design arguments are what? Yeah. Just said the the world and the organisms were created by a designer with a purpose in life. Okay. Uh yeah, it sometimes gets to that point, but modern intelligent design arguments sort of point I mean they state it a little differently. I mean it's it comes back to the same point and the statement is usually that uh the uh and and Paley really makes a statement similar to this that uh the order of nature elements of nature are are simply way way too complex to have ever been arrived at accidentally. and more specifically certain types of organisms uh organs u are so complex that one can't imagine intermediate steps that would have been any value to the organism. So you know this uh and then also other series of arguments uh that that uh holds that the universe and its constants and the way in which it is structured is capable of supporting human life with consciousness. And in the cosmos, something emerging. The chances of something like that emerging where humans could be sitting in a room talking about themselves with consciousness are are so vastly improbable that uh it's a much more convincing argument to make that this is uh something that had an intelligence and purpose behind its creation. So these types of arguments really uh many of them I mean not that Paley was the first one I mean we've already seen Hume but Paleley's often seen as as the key person to have u originated these types of arguments and like I said u he's a he's a formidable writer he doesn't like this deist view u that you know some great creative force without any kind of personality just some force supernatural force was at the uh was was uh the originator of uh existence. Uh Paley really argues uh and that's what a lot of the people like uh uh Franklin and you know people who are scientifically oriented but also believed in some principle of deity. Uh but they argued well the deity isn't really you know an old guy with a a long beard and flowing hair you know the deity is some principle some creative principle and and Paley definitely attacks this notion he says no the deity is a personality is uh someone who understands uh humans and has created them in uh his own uh likeness. So, uh, Paleley is trying to move back to this more conservative position. Um, okay. So, uh, let's let's have a look at the, um, um, I just I just included one of the passages here, one of the the the key passages, the o opening passage. And, uh, so he's um, and and this is this is where he talks about the stone and and the watch. And he makes the point that uh you know well what do you make of this opening passage says in crossing a heath suppose I pitched my foot against a stone and were asked how the stone came to be there. I might possibly answer that for anything I knew to the contrary it had lain there forever. But suppose I had found a watch upon the ground and it should be inquired how the watch happened to be in that place. I should hardly think of the answer which I before given that for anything I knew the watch might have always been there. Yet why should not this answer serve for the watch as well as for the stone? Why is it not as admissible in the second case as in the first? For this reason and for no other uh that when we come to inspect the watch, we perceive what we could not discover in the stone that it several parts are framed and put together for a purpose. that they are so formed and adjusted as to produce motion and that motion so regulated as to point out the hour of the day. So he sets he sets up this kind of dichotomy between natural objects and objects of human art. And this this dichotomy this uh uh contrast works all the way through the book. And so in some ways it's it's a book with a very simple uh argument. Uh you know it's it's simply saying that uh we have complexity that cannot be explained through natural random process and that that complexity requires some creative force. Uh and so the book is devoted chapter after chapter to exploring those kinds of complexities in organic life. So okay that's I mean there's a parallel here of course with cleanths is there not u but in some ways better stated than uh cleanthys I mean cleansth you know that's very very dense pros and you know when you study it you get a lot out of it but it's it doesn't just kind of communicate to you uh immediately or as paley really pulls you in. And then his famous uh in in in another chapter um um his famous claim that there cannot be design without a designer, contrivance without a contr, order without choice, arrangement without anything capable of capable of arranging, subserviency in relation to a purpose without that which could intend a purpose. means suitable to an end and executing their office in accomplishing that end without the end ever having been contemplated or the means accommodated to it. Okay, so this is his key uh in I mean this is really his key thesis. this is what he's uh and he comes back to this point over and over again and u okay so what uh what sorts of things uh note the keyword um in here um I can find it here intend right here this word is going to come Intent intentionality intent. Intention is going to come up. Why is that so important? What do we mean by intent or intentionality? What do we And this goes right to the heart of design, does it not? Or at least the heart of one aspect of design. determined sort of purpose, right? A for actually comes with fills that purpose to whatever purpose one that's thought of before. Yeah. Yeah. Just so like with the watch, it was intended to be used to tell the time of day whereas we don't really know what a stone was intended to do. Okay. Yes. Yeah. So there the in in the design itself it reflects a a state of mind there there there's so intention takes us from say the material world back into the mental that you know intention is a kind of a word that connects the mind of a maker with the doing in the material world. So this is a bridge between mind and object. And so uh it comes up purpose is is the word that always shows up with intention. But intentionality becomes a a very uh a very big part of uh you know one way of seeing the world is it was intended. Somebody intended it to be as it is. And so uh that then means that through some process often unexplained but some process uh the world did come into existence after this this uh this thought and that's why you know the the the word appears over and over again. Okay. Um, as I was saying, this is just just to show you, uh, this is just the outline of what this book has in it. And occasionally, I've had people in this class who get into pale and they start reading this stuff and they can't stop. I mean, they just really enjoy reading. I mean, because he has he takes all the different scientific fields and he folds in their findings into his argument. and you know he's he's definitely picked up many of the things that u were important. So in some ways he's what we call a syncric. He he he he brings diverse materials together to unify them into a set of arguments. He goes out and he talks about instincts. He talks about botany. He talks about astronomy. He he sort of collects data from around from all the diverse fields that he's aware of to bring them into a unified argument about the existence of God. So this this is a methodology that is uh fairly impressive and fairly new. this kind of uh synretatism. Uh and so um he's got a a chapter on comparative anatomy, you know, the comparative forms and he has a whole set of arguments about why these forms which are similar to each other um are can be used as an argument for the way in which God works. God works by designing something and like a milright can reapply those designs to different kinds of purposes i.e different kinds of organisms. Okay. So you can see here the uh the scope of um and at the core of Paley's work is the subject of anatomy. Is it not? I mean that's what he's really talking about. I mean he goes into one of the sections I asked you to read. Um he uh he takes up the u the eye and what does he uh uh what does he compare the eye to and why does he make this comparison? Yeah. Okay. Well, he he does get into this big argument about the self-replicating watch. We'll come back to that in a minute. But the telescope the telescope. Why? Why does he Why What's the point of comparing the eye to the telescope? Well, I did talk a little bit about like how the lenses were perfectly shaped in form to refract the light into the eye and all that kind of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I only had you read a little section. I mean, the stuff on the eye just goes on and on. I mean it's a very detailed analysis of all the points of refraction and the the function the structure of the eye and so on and so forth and he compares this to a telescope. Yeah. focuses on the on the idea that both the eye and the telescope are instruments. And he has this one quote where it's how is it possible under circumstances of such close affinity and under the operation of equal evidence to exclude contrivance the uh from the one yet to acknowledge the proof of contrivance having been employed as the plainest and clearest of all proportions in the other. And one of the things that I about that is that from when I read that I was like well he seems absolutely right. Is there any reason why there would be an argument against that? And the only thing I could come up with was that that focus is very much on the what what does it look like? How are they physically similar? And it seemed like the argument kind of broke down if you switch it from how what does it look like and exactly how does it work to what is the goal of the thing? what you know and I'm not sure if this is what he meant by instruments because when you switch to um I gave an example in my notes here but um when you look at uh when you look at like a dolphin's echolocation and you look at the human eye they look very different and they don't seem to have any connection but they both have the goal of aiding the organism to be able to see. So I'm just I was curious what he was really getting at with the the idea of an instrument there. So yeah I don't know if you can speak to that. Well, he makes a difference between an instrument as a passive as a passive uh instrument suggests you know something that aids the senses or aids you know some whereas the eye itself is not simply a passive instrument. It's more an active uh source of gathering data and information for an organism. So there is a difference but you you recall what uh what Felo said to Cleanths when he tried to compare the great machine of the universe with the universe itself saying you know these things are so different that making an analogy is just kind of ridiculous. So in some ways Paley is he's he's making a his argument is more shrewd. He's bringing these in these two things that one exists in nature and one ex and one is a a human instrument. They do have a very a very similar kind of set of I mean they're very parallel very similar structures very similar things that they're doing except as you point out one is is sort of a passive instrument that uh human uses to aid the whereas uh the eye itself is more complicated because it's wired into the system and there's a perception in it uh through it and so it's more an active uh organic thing. But the parallel is pretty it's it's a pretty good parallel and it certainly makes you realize that you know right down to the level of detail these two things are incredibly similar. And if we know we find a telescope in the field uh you know we come to the same conclusion as we do if we find a watch. So he's moved off the watch metaphor into the eye and telescope and the eye becomes one of his I mean he he deals with many other subjects in subsequent chapters but this eye is key. Yeah. I think what was frustrating to me uh for a lot of the writing and I don't know if he addresses this in different parts you know that we didn't read but he seems to uh like ignore the fact that you know obviously in the in the comparison between a man-made object and an organic object uh the organic object has like change over its lifetime and and that doesn't occur in the man-made objects and I feel like he never addresses that and then there's also like variance in organic objects especially When I was reading about the eye, he was talking about how perfectly designed the eye was. But he made it sound like all eyes were exactly the same. Like if you look at the human eye, even in the course of a human life, it could develop poor eyesight, it could develop cataracts that changes over a human life. Or if you look at other animals where like, you know, like a cat eye is shaped differently and has through a membrane or or an amphibious eye or or, you know, like uh light sensitive cells on a reptile's head. There's just like there's so many different forms of the eye in nature that I feel like he doesn't address that and he doesn't address that. You know, to me the answer to all of his arguments is adaptation over time. And I feel like he doesn't address you know that there are actually he he does have he does have I didn't have you read it. It's just another part of this big book, but he has a whole section on comparative uh the eyes and their different uh forms for not all not all organisms, but he has several in there. And he notes that they they have different structures uh modifications or they operate somewhat differently although they all share a common set of principles and a common set of structures, but they're suited. But yeah, the notion of the organism in time, the organ in time as a changing fluctuating thing, u is really not where his focus is. Um, yeah. And I think like he especially points that out when he talks about the self-replicating watch in that even if you go back through generations of the self-replicating watch, you know, it still says even at the indefinite point, there still has to be a point where it's designed. Yeah. But, you know, using his own argument, if you go back indefinitely through humans, don't you see change, you know, through through generations? So, yeah. You see what what sort of changes are you referring to? Um well I mean I it's it may be unfair to say evolutionary change to him but but I mean even in you know even in a short lifetime you can see people are born with different traits people are born with different abilities you know uh there's genetic variance where you know someone may have a you know deformity or something like that at birth you know I mean there's just so much that you can see even in even in a short time span. Yeah, I mean he he's uh he's pretty subtle uh and deformities and things of that sort he actually does mention as you know objects uh results of chance but I I think the main point you're getting at is uh there is a kind of uh growth and fluctuation organic uh forms that we would never attribute to you know a telescope yeah it can get wear out or something but and I suppose in some sense you know changes about where uh at least aging uh but you know organic forms really fluctuate in ways that some designed instrument has no capacity to do. And although the objective uh uh examination of an organic form uh such as an eye and a telescope at one moment in time is very very impressive. The more profound fact may be in fact in the growth process and you know and and that difference may be so great. One could argue that it really um outweighs any kind of objective parallel between these two objects at a at a moment of examination. So what you're getting to is this whole thing of growth. and growth. You know, we don't associate growth with telescopes. And that could be as big a difference as the difference that Filelo points out between Cleanthy's uh great machine of the universe and the universe itself. But, you know, it just hasn't been quite appreciated. So, subhuman eyes don't work. When he said just because it it seldom the watch seldom goes exactly right. That doesn't mean you don't we can't say it wasn't designed on purpose. So I mean he he does to me he kind of did address that that point of that there are some people born with with bad with bad eyesight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he says imperfections of that sort don't really disprove or not arguments that uh things are have arisen by chance just because you know there's some defects and maybe that fits to the aging uh but yeah yeah I know how you feel. I think like like what he says about what he says about people who have you know bad eyesight or things like that or I think that almost kind of proves like from a genetic standpoint it's like that's actually the driving force of evolution and change over time is that there are these kind of random variances in the population and I think he he doesn't acknowledge I don't know the change over again I I just kept coming back to evolutionary Uh and it's really not fair to think in that term like when reading him. Well, it it is true that he says things like that doesn't happen by chance. Then I say, well, evolution doesn't happen by chance. Then, you know, there and when he says, you know, that things have to be when he when he talks about all these, you know, forces that there are like natural driving forces in populations and in Yeah. you know, that would create these changes. But yeah, there I mean when we get to Darwin, yeah, we're all sort of sprinting toward Darwin here because you know Darwin when when you use Darwinian arguments and you look back over things you say well I mean depending on whether you really understand Darwin's arguments or not but uh you know you say oh but you know this was explained this has been explained so historically you know we are still uh you know more than 50 years before Darwin published the origin and Darwin read this. But what always interests me is how could we imagine Darwin reading this treatise by Paley and learning something from it uh that you know made sense for his system. It's like Paley's arguments are kind of unsatisfying like logically because for a lot of things he says he just says look at how complex this is and then he says we can't explain it. You know what I mean? Yeah. And I think Darwin and probably a lot of people who read it said why not you know I want to explain it. Yeah. Yeah. I think you hit on something and that's this stuff is like, you know, throwing out something a challenge of sorts. I mean, Paley's a challenge to somebody who says, well, I'm going to try to figure out a way to explain some of these things. I'm going to I'm going to look for explanations uh rather than acquiescing and oh yeah, it must have been created through some process. you know, how can I understand these complexities of organic life that he's talking about throughout the book in very very uh uh specific terms? How can I explain them with how can I come up with a different explanation? How can I find a different approach? And I think I think uh anybody immersed in science is going to see this as you know a whole set of research questions or a whole set of questions you know okay let's see if we can find explanations for it. In earlier ages the body was often times seen as you know a spiritual thing as you know created by a creator. um it lived for a period on earth and then it sought its final end in heaven or if it wasn't uh well behaved in in hell or wherever. But you know the concept of the body through time when we look at the history of thought and the history of art we find increasingly becoming more and more realistic and Paley's a marvelous step forward in that. I mean if you read this stuff it's you know he really goes into the detail the structure of the body and so forth. He's pushing this even as he's trying to use it as arguments for the existence of God. I just have this uh this is just a little ep. This is uh Robert Browning's uh a poem and uh about an artist who is painting for the uh church fathers in the Renaissance. Fripalippi, very famous artist. Uh and uh he was accused of being too realistic and he upset many of his superiors because his uh his art forms in his paintings they could see the faces of people they actually knew. And you know this really upset a lot of the uh the uh clergy in the organization that he was he belonged to. And so Browning wrote this poem trying to capture this moment. And uh this is this is one of the the clerics saying as he's looking at Fra Lipolippy's painting. He's saying that's the very man. Look at the boy who stoops to pat the dog. That woman's like the prior's niece who comes to care about his asthma. It's the life. But there, and this is the artist coming back in, but there my triumph straw fire flared and funked. Their betters took their turn to see and say, the prior and the learned pulled a face and stopped all that in no time. How? What's here? These are the religious authorities. Quite from the mark of painting. Bless us all. Faces, arms, legs, and bodies like the true as much as P and P. It's devil's game. Your business is not to catch men with show, with homage to the perishable clay, but lift them over it. Ignore it all. Make them forget there's such a thing as flesh. Your business is to paint the souls of men, man's soul, and it's fire, smoke. No, it's not. It's vapor done up like a newborn babe. In that shape, when you die, it leaves your mouth. It's well, what matters talking? It's the soul. Give us no more a body than shows a soul. So there was this kind of sense in the emergence of artistic forms of increasing realism and in many ways this is the same thing that's happening in the sciences. You know a greater understanding of of of the world as a natural space a greater understanding of the realism of things. uh the fact that uh the orders that existed had causal explanations that we could look for in natural events and natural explanations. And you know we can look through uh history and we can find advances in time in the broad perception of the world both in the arts and in the sciences. And I would suggest uh I mean the body as organism this is uh Viselius's uh fabric of the human body in the 16th century uh pulling all apart I mean looking inside the body seeing how it functions uh and uh the notion that uh the human body is made up of uh muscles uh organs uh circulation and skeleton and he really pulls all these parts apart and he he captures them with great realistic detail. Again, these are these are advances. There's something happening here. This is very large. There's something happening in in the way uh the body is being perceived. Um Harvey the body has mechanism. I mean you know uh the motion of the heart u the idea that uh the body itself may be really like a mechanical thing. Uh so you can see how someone like Cleanths would say well the mechanism you know and in in some way this mechanism this mechanical view of the body is being used or framed in Paley's work as an argument for the incredible uh ingenuity of the creator. But you can see what's happening. it's becoming more and more material. And there's this sort of uh uh eccentric French philosopher lame metry who who wrote uh treatis in the 18th century uh called uh the human man the machine the human machine in which he argued u let us then conclude boldly that man is a machine and that in the whole universe there is but a single substance differently modified and that's such That's a pretty naked argument of you know that's it just there's just material and it gets ordered in various patterns but that's that's what there is. Um so uh Paley says um contemplating an animal body and its collective capacity we cannot forget to notice what a number of instruments are brought together. So he's using this instrumental view but then he's turning it into the framework of you know a workshop you know somebody created these things these instruments just the way somebody had to create the telescope uh but he's applying this to the body u but yeah what a number of instruments are brought together and often within how small a compass it is a cluster of contrivances in a canary Mary bird for instance and in a single ounce of matter which composes his body but which seems to be all employed we have instruments for eating for digesting for nourishment for breathing for generation for running for flying for seeing for hearing and etc. Um so this this this progression of observations and this growth of understanding of the physical nature of the world is uh for many intellectuals is is not to be resisted. I mean it's it's it's a way of gaining a wider understanding of the world. I mean you know obviously it's not just a nice little march of progress but you know things are coming in from many many different sources and uh suggesting that u you know there's a whole way of looking at the world that views it through a kind of naturalist standpoint of you know using na natural natural terminologies, natural processes for explanation and constantly trying to push that what what what the known knowledge is. There was also uh the the work of uh the great uh French comparative anatomist Kovier who uh did his uh his uh traits, elementary traits uh in the natural history of animals in which he worked on a whole set of observations that compared the structures across organic life. Comparative anatomy is a a subject of uh I don't know I took a course once in comparative anatomy and I absolutely adored this course. It was so much so interesting to see the way in which you know bone clusters and uh you know skeletons and textures and tissues and organs and so forth compared across species. But it became very very clear with Kouvier's work that the order in nature was repeating itself that you know different species shared incredible amounts of uh common traits and that yeah you you could trace the heart back to the three-chambered heart or to the two-chambered heart. But uh you know it was this comparison really was stimulating some pretty profound questions. Why are these things so similar? I mean why can't you know if they were created and and Paley he has some answers for this? Anybody remember what he argued in this uh you know these similarities? Why? He says, you know, this is uh uh well, right here, if if you just look at the middle here, he says uh if the general plan um proceeded from any fixed necessity in the nature of things, how could it accommodate itself to the various wants and uses which it had to serve under different circumstances and on different occasion? So, all these organisms live in different circumstances. Oh, Arkrite's mill was invented for spinning of cotton. We see it employed for the spinning of wool, flax and hemp with such modifications of the original principle, such variety in the same plan as the texture of those different materials rendered necessary of the machines being put together with design. If it were possible to doubt, whilst we saw it only under one mode and in one form, when we came to observe it in its different applications, with such changes of structure, such additions and supplements, as the special and particular use of each case demanded, we could not refuse any longer our ascent to the proposition. Very much of this reason is applicable to what has been called comparative anatomy. So he's he's arguing that it just shows greater ingenuity and the fact that all these organisms uh show such close relationship that just it just sort of demonstrates uh an incredible level of ingenuity that's even greater than just designing one. Certainly the eye was uh uh the eye got a lot of coverage in in uh in in natural theology. And he says right here at the start, were there no example in the world of contrivance except that of the eye, it would be alone sufficient to support the conclusion which we draw from it as to the necessity of an intelligent creator. Period. So all his other his other arguments are supporting arguments, but he goes back to the eye over and over again as the primary the primary u u piece of evidence. Um, and I won't read. I mean, it it's, you know, like I said, there's there's a lot of very sound, interesting uh anatomical science in here. He definitely knows his eyes. He studied them. And uh, you know, I I don't actually know how Paley worked. uh whether you know he actually had done I I don't know that much about his uh prior education but uh he certainly shows vast reading if not careful observation from actual anatomical sessions. So uh okay uh with paley uh we have a we have a sense then of uh what we might call perfect adaptation that is uh everything in the world exists uh forms exists as they do because they're perfectly adapted and this fits into the Christian humanist frame of of of uh of uh the world that is uh everything has its place is perfectly adapted for that place and you know that sort of eliminates any need for change there's no uh there's no uh concept here of u you know insufficiency I mean there is a concept as he says has said, you know, things may be imperfect or whatever, but it doesn't add up to a destabilizing force for the order of nature. The order of nature is fixed. This is an inheritance from time in memorial, the fixed order. And that sort of framework is uh you know it's a very powerful reassuring way of looking at things is it not see everything as fixed order you know the tra tradition of Christian humanism is imagining as the order of nature as uh perfectly adapted or adapted in in a stable sense. So it's you know it's not going to be uh so the word adaptation also means you're fit with your your in environment uh and adaptation also can be used with uh you know instruments and you know they're adapted for a certain use. So the design aspect of uh a you know a stable order had to be created. Um and in that creation it was you know created as something that was perfectly adapted. So yeah, I mean there's a little bit of question about when the history of adaptation and its use as a word becomes uh prominent and it's not until later with evolutionists that it's uh okay. Um Paley as I said uh definitely although he imagines the creation as something that has been made and designed uh he is he is definitely someone who argues for the personality of God. uh this is a section that uh I didn't ask you to read but uh it's toward the end of the book but I just wanted to point out that this is an important aspect of his treatise. Now that uh now that which can contrive which can design must be a person. These capacities constitute personality for they imply consciousness and thought. They require that which can perceive an end or purpose as well as the power of providing means and of directing them to their end. They require a center in which perceptions unite and from which valitions flow which is mind. And the acts of a mind prove the existence of a mind and in whatever a mind resides is a person. So this is uh a uh a uh argument that you know the world as ex it exists and was created was not simply the product of a creative force of some you know impersonal force supernatural though it may be it's an argument that this force was in some sense a humane force or a force that could perceive and could understand and could build in a way parallel to the way in which we understand those activities. So this is an effort to um so okay so and Dawkins himself Richard Dawkins who wrote the blind watchmaker I don't know some of you may he's he sort of argues u I mean he's a fairly strong uh adherent to naturalistic principles He says, but he says, our world is dominated by feats of engineering and works of art. We're entirely accustomed to the idea that complex elegance is an indicator of premeditated crafted design. This is probably the most powerful reason for the belief held by the vast majority of people that have ever lived in some kind of supernatural deity. The complexity of living organisms is matched by the elegant efficiency of the apparent design. If anyone doesn't agree that this amount of complex design cries out for an explanation, I give up. So I mean in some sense that says it all. I mean yeah this is everybody's straining to understand how all this happened and you know we have many many different views and and beliefs about it. But um Dawkins of course took a different approach uh from Paley. Um okay. So Paley u uh uh Paley legacy is really a legacy of uh anthropocentrism in which we use the human form and the human modes of operation as metaphors for how things came into existence. We see the world through our own organization. Um I've given you a couple of uh links here. We don't have time to expl explore them here. So I guess the well it's there's something called the guy hypothesis but then some people refer to it as a theory. Um it was come up with somebody called James Liplock in the early 1960s and then it really came into discussion in the 1970s. Um but it was a pretty controversial idea that was kind of like an ecological hypothesis that suggested that all of the physical components of Earth. So like the oceans, the atmosphere, the Earth's crust, like all the organisms on Earth come together to form like a complex living system. So in essence, it went to say that the Earth was one giant creature and that it self-regulated. Um and so it was kind of an explanation as to why there was life on Earth because Lovelock, um who came up with the theory, he worked at NASA and he did some work with Mars exploration and he saw the conditions on Mars in the atmosphere and there was pretty much no way with the elements that compose their the atmosphere up there, at least from the samples that they got, that that would be able to for life. Um, and then he looked at Earth and it was like despite the fact that you would expect for atmospheric conditions to have changed because of like the reactivity of oxygen and how it would interact with other things, um, there was like some kind of stability in atmospheric conditions. Um, so that was one of his like scientific reasons for why this would be. And so he's saying that the earth which he called Gia like this like self-regulating creature um kind of modified the atmosphere and then also modified like the salt levels in water because you I guess you would have expected for those to go up over time because of like minerals in rivers and ponds that would have gone into the ocean but yet the salenity has stayed pretty constant and if it hadn't a lot that the animals and like organisms within the oceans would have not survived because of like salinity tolerance. So all of these like scientific bases were used to explain the fact that like the earth was kind of like a homeostatic regulating creature. Um, but it was definitely a very controversial idea at the time when it came out and was attacked by a lot of critics because they were saying, um, I I don't know if the word like teological would work here, but he was kind of trying to say that there was a final cause that existed in nature and that the earth itself was working towards promoting that cause and that the earth itself was trying trying to make itself a more hospitable biosphere for things to live. Um, and trying to make conditions optimal as possible for everything. And yet that was kind of arguable because conditions that are optimal, there's like a huge range for different creatures and obviously some haven't survived. So, a lot of people were kind of against this and they had two main conferences back then where it was like a pretty heated debate between people who believed in this idea and people who didn't. But it was just kind of an explanation as to why there's life here, but we can't explain why we can't find life anywhere else. Um, and it's interesting actually because when I initially was looking into this theory, hypothesis, whatever you want to call it, um, I kind of thought it was something that ended back in the 1970s because it seems like a little bit of a ridiculous idea that the Earth is like the most giant creature you could find and that it somehow regulates its own conditions. But actually um I was reading about it and apparently Lovelock published a book in 2006 which is pretty recent called the revenge of Gaia and he's now using his Gaia hypothesis as an like a a means of explaining climate change and saying that because we as humans have disrespected this creature that we are technically a part of. It's like we're kind of a malfunctioning organ of some sort within Gaia that um she it whatever is unable because of deforestation and reduction of biodiversity and all the things that we've done um she can't minimize the effect of like the carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere anymore and so that is why we having these issues of climate change. So, I actually I thought this was really interesting and apparently there's still some pretty strong followers of this theory and I mean I guess there there is some scientific basis to why it could be valid. Um but I don't know do you guys have any thoughts about I are you believers or this guy idea? What do you mean by what does he mean by creature? like just some kind of self-regulating thing. And he initially I think people found it hard to believe because you think of the earth as being made up of a crust and like largely being rock. But then he set up an analogy with like a redwood tree. And if you looked at that just not thinking that it was a bite, it would just look like wood. And yet it's grown and has like caused other things to grow. And so he set up this analogy between trees and the earth. And it's just this idea that the earth, it's not like we can't think of the earth as a creature because we're actually part of it. So there it's not just the living organisms. Everything works together um to regulate like atmospheric conditions. And it's it's interesting what he came up with and like I think there's in in a lot of the books there's some pretty extensive research that was done. So it's not just kind of a crazy idea. Yeah. There's a lot of atmospheric research and large scale climate research that uh he participated in and he's he's he's a legitimate scientist and certainly uh his work has uh been cited and you know been used to advance understanding but yeah the the the idea that things are somehow converge into a unity. Yeah. uh and I think Gaia was a word that he didn't invent but uh somebody he knew suggested to him and he used Gaia and by personifying this whole process it sort of got a little a little out of control because people started talking about this you know life force and this you know and a lot of these people were not necessarily people who were scientifically interested in but they were interested in finding kind of arguments for you know the unity of nature and the life force of nature. And then we get back to the sort of uh anthropocentric, you know, using the human entity to think of to think of nature itself. And we're back into the realm of paley in some sense because those types of arguments definitely go beyond any science. But there is a lot of science still uh around uh Lovelock's work and climate uh science is a big field these days and the study of patterns and the way in which uh atmospheric changes are uh uh stimulated by uh the amount of sunlight coming through the cloud uh cover and so you know it's it's an area of of tremendous interest right now and there is something that I read and I I don't know quite where they got this number like apparently since life began on Earth um the energy supplied by the sun has increased by like 25 to 30% and yet apparently the mean global surface temperature has like relative to that increase in energy from the sun has remained fairly constant from where you'd expect it to have gone. So that's like another one of the reasons why It seems as though there must be some kind of regulation going on. But but but uh so and then somebody could say well this regulation is actually being carried out by you know on the other hand a climate scientist would say well there's a process of uh in which these uh feedbacks are stimulating other effects and so on and so forth. And yeah, there's a certain kind of equilibrium that seems to have been maintained over a long period of time. And that equilibrium happens to be something we can live in as humans. Uh but that doesn't necessarily justify concluding that well uh as as Paley might that well that equilibrium is a sign that you know somebody's looking out for us and is I'm just curious other creatures like how there universe or earth. I think what I from what I read he was using this to explain why there is life here and why in other places where we have been able to examine the conditions there isn't. I don't know what his thought is about whether or not there are other such entities. I'm not really sure. That's a interesting question though. I think it uh works his idea works a lot better in the context of a system and systems biology rather than as a global life force where it can be almost universally agree that there are feedbacks and the way that Europe is self-regulated but the claiming that because it does that it's one farmer whatever he calls it sort of akin to how says Because this is so complex, it has to be a creator. Yeah. So because this is identity, there must be a life. Yeah.