The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. So, molecules have three kinds of uh structures. electronic, vibrational, and rotational. And my goal is to give you a sense of how do we predict each kind of uh structure? Not how do we calculate it but how do you have it in your head so that you know what are the the expected patterns and how do you use one pattern to uh help you with a decision about what another pattern means. So electronic structure is a combination of big stuff and small stuff. The big stuff is basically the spectrum of hydrogen or the spectrum of H2 plus molecular ion. Uh that these are patterns one kind of pattern that is uh uh possible to remember but the more electrons we have the more complicated that will be. But it's useful to have a simple picture of what it ought to be and how it gets disguised. But there are little things too that also provide crucial clues what the electronic structure is like fine structure hyperfine structure spin orbit spin spin spin rotation things where uh the spectrum gets a little complicated but it's really small splittings and often they tell you a lot more about the nature of the states you're looking at than the big stuff. And so you want to be able to to deal with both. And so I'm going to present my unique view of atomic spectra uh with the view of making it useful to you for understanding what you're going to encounter in molecular spectrum. So Bob, can I ask one quick question now? Yeah. So we talk about electronic, vibrational and rotational structure. Yes. And typically only these three. And by electronic structure we really mean like veence electronic structure. So it basically right so so I is the reason we don't talk about spectra of core electrons because it's experimentally hard to make X-rays or is it because it's really really not as interesting and similarly do we not talk about like the the nuclear magnetic resonance type spectra because it doesn't really affect these other motions or because you know you need a big magnet. The simple answer, we don't talk about them because I don't know them. It's not like as well as I know these other things. The core structure we when we excite to uh very highly excited electronic states by opening up the core, the molecule is never stable and so you end up having continu. Mhm. Uh but in some ways the core structure is simpler because the cores are really they don't know they're in a molecule or they only know they're in a particular molecule through fine structures. And so they are wonderful probes of the chemical nature of a particular the chemical environment of a particular atom and that uh that is useful but it's it's not complicated in the sense that assigning a spectrum is complicated. Basically, you know, where each shell has its uh spectra and and each atom has its different end shells at different energies. And so it it's not you don't need me to help you to assign such spectrum. Those are very easy. It's the kind of spectra that most people who uh are not physical chemists think all spectra would be things that are very very low resolution, very simple to interpret and have direct chemical significance. NMR is of great importance usually for larger molecules where uh uh you you want to know what's connected to what. uh the kind of thing that I'm talking to you about is you know pretty much which what the uh bonded network is and you have some ideas about what the structure of the molecule would be. There may be times when you have spectra of different molecules and you'd like to sort them out according to which is which and in that sense NMR might be of use but usually you nobody does NMR in the gas phase because it need it's a magnetic dipole transition you need it's weak and you need a lot of uh uh molecules in order to get an NMR spectrum so I think the communities who use F core structure. Mhm. Uh and and NMR are different from the physical chemists mostly that are are going to be concerned with the spectra of smallish molecules in the gas phase. But that was a really good question. Okay. So, uh we want to ask two questions when we approach a spectrum. What do we expect and when should we be surprised? Because if the spectrum is entirely what we expect, well then there isn't really any challenge and there isn't anything new. But if we're surprised, you need to know you should be surprised and that the molecule is telling you something that it's worth figuring out because it's violating some rule or it's it's doing something really neat. And so being surprised is good. And so what uh I'm going to begin talking about patterns of levels transitions and we're going to talk about good quantum numbers and things like that. Okay. But the the way we're going to start we're going to talk about one electron atoms. In other words, hydrogen atom, helium plus ion, lithium 2 plus ion. And these are all really simple things. Uh but they illustrate that electronic structure doesn't have to be a telephone direct. It can be just a bunch of related things and if you know one, you know the others. And uh and then life gets more complicated when we go beyond one electron out. So we're going to talk about molecular atoms, the terms in the Hamiltonian, the basis functions we use to express the Hamiltonian, various kinds of scaling rules that tell you how uh properties depend on quantum numbers, some notation and uh transition propensity rules. For example, we have the atomic angular momentum J and for a transition we and the atomic orbital angular momentum L. Uh the propensity rule uh says that delta J ought to be equal to delta J delta L. J changes by + one, L changes by plus one. You can have things violating propensity rules, but the stronger transitions are this. And you get that from a vector model. And I'll I'll introduce you to a vector model uh which uh is the beginning of using these precessing vectors or uh uh things that usually when they when you start to see them you say I want out of this room because I don't really know what these vectors are and why why I'm forced to memorize these things. Okay. So after we do one electron we'll do alkali atoms and those are atoms with one electron outside of a closed shell and they differ from the one electron atoms in an important way a simple way and that's the first step into complexity and uh we'll eventually get to many electron atoms and then we have to do more work to relate what you see in the spectrum to uh the things you'd like to understand. And once we get to alike like atoms, uh there's going to be a little bit of quantum defect theory. It's a topic I'm going to come back to repeatedly in in increasing uh sophistication. Basically, as chemists, we know about quantum mechanics a little bit. We know about Hamiltonians. And most of my approach to the problem is in terms of effective Hamiltonians, which are just a toy version of the real thing. There is another approach which is more of a physicist approach which is scattering and there is a way of using scattering to learn about the structure of things and that's where quantum defect theory comes in and it's more powerful for certain classes of problems and we see that okay so bottom of page one the one electron atoms are called hydrogenic So the Hamiltonian is a function of spherical polar coordinates and spin coordinates which are just something that uh we don't really know what they are but so uh it's a central force problem and central force problems are all related and the Hamiltonian is expressed in this In this way we have z^2 r cubed 2^2 c^2. So this is the kinetic energy. This is the potential energy. And this is my very good friend spin. It's an example of small stuff that helps you a lot in understanding what's going on. So, it's it's perhaps an extra level of complexity, but it's it's something that we uh care about. Now, one of the neat things you notice right away is this is 1 / r cubed. And so that actually turns out to be a very important simplification because it says spin orbit whatever that is happens near the nucleus and we don't care that much about what's going on outside. So it is if it's happening near the nucleus it's where things are pretty simple and so this is why it's such a valuable probe. Okay. Kinetic energy. Well, there are some things a lot of things in the kinetic energy and one of them is angular momentum. So we have orbital angular momentum that's included in here. And when we write a basis set which includes L as one of the quantum numbers that part of the angular momentum has this form. We still have uh uh we still have r 2 as as a variable but this is now a quantum number and this has taken the l that taken the uh the angular part of the problem out and we have now something that although it comes from the kinetic energy we stick it into this the potential energy and we say we have an effective potential which is a function of r alone. And so it's a it's a central force problem which has been dressed up with something that has some angular momentum dependence. And so we say this generates a centrifugal barrier. Why is it barrier? Because it's a positive and as r gets small this gets big. And so it's a barrier that keeps the electron from getting in close to the nucleus. And uh you would Yes. Okay. So we have a central force problem and the wave function can be written as a product of two factors. an angular factor and a radial factor. Now for all central problems you get the same angular factor set uh and and so this is universal and this radial factor is uh unique to the particular atom but not when you have one electron atoms it's basically the same thing. It's only scaled by the charge on the atom. So uh this for one electron atoms this is universal. But generally the wave function is divided into a universal angular momentum factor and a system specific radial factor which is where all the interesting stuff is but a lot of the manipulations get down here. Okay. So C is charge of a nucleus. Yes. Um could you just remind me how we actually include like that spin orbit term into the Hamiltonian because I guess I I'm still thinking like potential energy and kinetic energy. Well, okay. The Hamiltonian is the energy and so anything that contributes the energy of a state gets put into the Hamiltonian. So, uh, you're right to say I I know where this comes from. Uh, this has to do it's actually a relativistic effect. Uh, but the convenient thing is that it behaves as L do S, the orbital angular the spin and it's the angular momentum and the spin of the same electron. And so I'm not going to derive these things. I'm going to tell you uh because you know many courses you see the lengthy derivations and you don't see what they're for. So this is just a contribution to the energy that happens for atoms and molecules. There are other smaller contributions like hyperfine where you have the electron with its orbital and spin angular momentum and interacts with the the angular momentum of the nucleus. That's well that's not that's easy. Can can we think about this as a like potential energy of the uh spin being in the magnetic field created by its own rotation. sol you can do that but it's a little bit dangerous because you know we associate a magnetic dipole with the orbital angular momentum and with the spin and so this looks like a dipole dipole interaction but it isn't quite because uh the uh the uh when it's a relativistic effect has to do with the electron moving very fast near the nucleus and I can't really explain it any better than that and it scales with the nuclear charge and a simple dipole dipole interaction wouldn't do that. So but if you think of it as two magnetic dlesoles interacting you get the operator form but not the magnitude and that's okay. So there, you know, we're always sticking terms into the Hamilton because we need them or we're taking them out because we just assume they weren't there. But this is a really good question. Okay, so now um I have to define some things. This is the charge on the nucleus. And so for hydrogen it's one and for helium plus it's two. And uh uh I want to make a distinction. You might have a particle uh well for one electron systems it is the charge on the nucleus but for many electron alkalike systems it is not uh necessarily either an integer or the charge on either the ion core or the nucleus itself. And so this is this turns into a budge factor in a few minutes. But for one electron systems it's not a budge factor. This is the reduced mass. And the reduced mass is the mass of the nucleus times the mass of the electron over the mass of the electron plus the mass of the nucleus. Now this is always really small compared to this. And so if if you throw that away, this becomes just the mass of the electrons. Okay? So this reduced mass factor is almost exactly the mass of the electron but it isn't exactly because this is not zero. And so if you change the uh nuclear mass from one to 200 to 100 to 200 you can do that uh there will be a very very small effect on this reduced mass. And one of the neat things is okay that's going to change the energy levels by an amount that's proportional to how much the reduced mass has changed. And so it changes maybe by a part in a thousand. Well, that's pretty small. But in electronic spectroscopy, we measure things typically to a part in a million. So it starts to make a significant difference one atom versus another. So it's not it's not uh it's not just the mass of the electron uh but it's so there's a little bit of stuff there. Okay. Now um we have two choices of basis sets and and in which we can look at this problem and this thing here uh is the reason why we talk about basis sets and a choice of basis sets and that there's one good choice and one not such a good choice. And so the uncoupled basis set is uh written as L M L S M and the coupled one is uh written as L SJ MJ. So what is this? These are shortorthhand for igen values of operators that commute with the exact well commute with each other and they commute with the zero order Hamiltonian if they're going to be basis functions. So the angular momentum total angular momentum orbital angular momentum l^2 gives you lz gives you ml etc and j is the vector sum of l and s. So we have these angular random things. These are this is an igen function of L squ where the value of the igen value of L^2 is LL + one. So we don't write LL + one in here. We write L because it's takes less space and it's not it's unambiguous. And the igen value for L subZ is M subL. LZ operating on this gives the function back times M subL. So we have these building blocks and with them whenever we see any angular momentum in this problem we can work out what that what the contribution of that is to the energy level formula. So L+ so we can write um we can write the components of L as LZ plus LX plus L Y and but we like uh to write things as uh in terms of these raising and lowering operators because they're neat because they're analogous to the creation annihilation operators we had with harmonic oscillators and so L+ plus is L X + L Y I Y and L minus is LX minus L I L Y and L do S is L Z S + 12 L + S - L - S + Now, with quantum mechanical operators, you do have to worry about computation, but I just got through saying that these come from mutually commuting operators and okay, well, L+ is not one of them, but L L and S do commute and the components of L and S do commute because they're operate on different particles. So, uh we don't have to worry about the order. We don't have to symmetriize and L+ operating on LML. It only operates on the LML part, not the SMS part gives back L+1 minus. Now, it's just like harmonic oscillators in a second. The non-zero matrix elements of L+ always are between one value of M subl and over here one higher. And so what goes in here is the product of the two values of M subL that occur in a non-zero matrix element. So you don't have to remember anything if you know how to write you know L M M sub L+ increases M subL by one and so uh you have ML over here and ML + one over here if it were a matrix element. And so you have uh m l ml + one minus row time ml. Okay. So this is a little bit more complicated than a dagger and a but the important thing is the thing you don't know automatically is uh which two values of m subl you put in here and now you do know that and now if we write this we know immediately that it's going to this be plus or minus one okay so the important thing is if you're going to have insights into this stuff. You don't want to be constantly looking it up in a book. You want it to be hard, you know, the stuff you need to be hardwired. So, what has to be hardwired? Selection rules. L+ raises M subl. S+ raises M subs. They change the value by one. Uh L+ and S+ LZ, SZ, none of them change the value of L. And the matrix element or the thing you get is the the product of the initial and final quantum numbers. Nothing to remember beyond that. I mean that's pretty simple. Okay. So we have these two basis sets and the only angular momentum in this problem. Well there actually is two bits of angular momentum. I said we get this. Well that came from L squ. Well, L squ operating on L ML is L squ L L + one. Okay. So I I did that without even breathing. But so there was some angular momentum that came from the uh uh kinetic energy term. But the important angular moment is up here. And so I've written L dos S in this form which is the way we normally do it even though everybody knows the dotproduct of two vectors is uh the zz XX Y term and but if you write it in this way you get the plus minus minus plus and the ZZ term. Okay. And so we can uh we have L doss and so we can write L dos two different ways. We can write L doss this way and we can also do a trick and the trick uh J is equal to L + S. These this is vector. Now J^2 is equal to L + S^2. And so that's equal to L2 + 2 L S + S 2. And so rearranging we have J^2 - L^2 - S^2 * a half is equal to L S. So if we're operating in the J the L SJ MJ basis set this thing operating on that F lus that gives well these are these are the operators for which we have quantum numbers here. So that means no work and we have 1/2. I'm suppressing the h bar squares. Angular momentum operators always give you an h bar for every power of the operator. And why keep them? You just absorb them in confidence. Uh okay. And so we get J + 1 - L L + 1 - S S + 1 times L SJ M. So the spin orbit operator the angular momentum part of the spin orbit operator gives this nice compact thing and it's exclusively diagonal. Whereas this guy this other form well this is diagonal in the m subls and m subs but this is not. So if you would like to write down an operator and convert the Hamiltonian to a formula you'd like to have the form of the operator be such that we just get a formula. No off diagonal matrix elements. no work. And so when you have spin orbit, it's usually preferable to use this coupled LSJMJ basis rather than the uncoupled one. But there are many advantages for using the uncoupled basis. And it's, you know, it all comes out in the wash. You do transformations between basis sets. I'm going to teach you about that, too. But right now you know the example is there are two choices of basis set. One uh for one the Hamiltonian is completely diagonal for the other the spin orbit is off diagonal and in an innocuous way but it still leads to work you have to do. Okay. Please ask me questions about this uh as it's going by. Can I ask you about the H bars again? Yes. So with each H bar has units. H bar has units, right? So every time you apply those operators, you not only get some quantity of angular momentum, but you get But remember last time I talked about we had some matrix element expressed in terms of quantum numbers. Mhm. And trash. Mhm. And you can we care about the value of the trash, right? But that's a separate bookkeeping matter. And that this is too remember the Hamiltonian generally has energy units, but if you're a spectroscopal centimeter unit, so you got a factor of HC also. So why not just stick all the stuff that you don't care about into the constant, the spin orbit constant or whatever it is that you're going to be manipulating. Okay. So if you apply the operators though different numbers of times, you end up with different units. Well, not really because Okay. So so that that's what I'm asking. How do you get around all of these terms have dimension of energy? And so uh uh you notice that I had an L squ. that came from the centrifugal barrier that has dimensions of energy when you divide it by uh 2 m r^ 2 okay and spin arbit l dos s multiplied by the that has units of energy we always have products of two angular momentum and the only time you have one angular momentum by itself is for this to say this zon interaction but then you have uh a vector the the field uh dotted into the angular momentum and so it all works out and so you know people like to use atomic units where h bar is one and then you have to just take it on face and people haven't haven't given you a a bum formula which doesn't have the right stuff in it because you can't check anymore but angular man always give you a factor base h bar for every uh every time you so this gives you one h bar and this gives you h bar squared and uh you can always reconstruct things but I you know I just don't like to write h bar a lot of times okay so another way of saying some of the stuff that I uh uh said before we have this operator LS which we need from the spin orbit and we can write a computation rule uh and we know that LS commutes with L squ and J squ um and it commutes with JZ. So, so you can have this, this is going to be diagonal in a representation where you have L², S², J^2 and JZ. But L do S commuting with LZ is not zero because you're going to get an L+ and an LZ and the computation rules for angular momentum says well that's too damn bad. You you know they don't commute and the S doesn't help you. So, uh, you if you're going to get diagonal matrix elements in some basis set, it's because the operator commutes with all of the quantum numbers or all of the operators that correspond with the quantum numbers in that basis set. Are we all okay? All right. Next is a a handy dandy formula for all the energy levels of one electron atoms. And the reason I give this formula is not because you don't know it or couldn't, you know, couldn't figure it out, but because it gives you an idea of how things are built. And as soon as we go from one electron system to more than one electron system, we're going to have to make each of these terms a little more complicated. But the insight comes in seeing how you get back to this one electron picture. Okay. So we have energy levels or matrix elements of the Hamiltonian. So we have quantum numbers. The principal quantum number orbital angular momentum quantum number the spin J MJ. We decided that was a better basis set than the other the uncoupled basis. I actually like the uncoupled basis because for doing simple algebra using creation using latter operators it's always more convenient to have an operator a a magnitude and a projection for each operator L and LZ S and SC but you can do much more as soon as you give that up as soon as you have three magnitudes in one projection you have to do angular momentum transformations, 3J coefficients, which we'll get to sometime. So, but I like to always use tools that I can do in my head rather than having to look at a book. And sometimes I waste a lot of time doing that, but usually it's a good idea. So h over C and uh N ls M U okay so these are the matrix elements that we're going to care about the energy and so uh the first thing that we know is that the the Hamiltonian for a spherical object is spherical. is totally symmetric. That means it cannot change any angle moment. Therefore, we immediately write down uh L prime L S prime S prime J. And uh it's a scalar. It can't even change the projection quantum numbers. So, and uh we're going to set the zero of energy at the uh dissociation energy. So, we're going to have a minus sign here because everything is lower than that. And now this all multiplies a factor. We have mu over me, the reduced mass over the mass. Now remember this is almost equal to me. So this is almost one but it isn't quite one. And then that multiplies uh 109,000 737. There's some more digits but I remember 109 737. It's you know I know that and the you know the telephone number of the house I lived in when I was five. But uh uh but this one I think I know I'll never forget. Um so um so this is the Rber constant and this is the big stuff in the electronic structure of uh atoms. So this is about one this is 100,000 wave numbers and this is the charge over the principal quantum number L E A L principle it's like nuclear and nuclear you know if you get it wrong you're an idiot and the next term is the spin and that has a scale factor and it goes to the charge to the fourth power and the principal quantum number to the fourth power and n over j + I don't normally work in these in in this in this way I have to look that up but notice we have an n here and an n 4th here and so this is overall n 1 / n cubed and almost everything in uh uh Ridberg land which is really hydrogen atom goes as 1 / n cubed or 1 / n^ the three halves depending on whether you're talking about uh an amplitude or a thing an energy or an expectation value. So we have that and then we have uh that's it. So this is E N L J and uh I guess we lost something off the stage Z mu. So this is the universal formula for the energy levels of a one electron atom. Big deal. Uh it it's you know the energies are determined by N L and J. uh except that L is gone through electron atoms because of a surprising symmetry. You would have expected it not to be gone uh but there's a cancellation and uh uh and so then there's a weak dependence on the charge on the well not a weak dependence a charge on the nucleus and a dependence on the medium. Okay. So the these are the energy levels for a one electron atom. We have the big thing and we have the small thing. And we have a weaker scaling with the principal quantum number and a stronger scaling with the principal. Okay. So we have the energy levels and uh and each of the energy levels is is a state. So, and the the states have names and so we label the states of a u one electron atom um like this. So this is the multiplicity 2s + 1. This is the principal quantum number. This is J and this is an interesting pneummonic uh for L. The values of L can be 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 S B F G H I K. Why don't we put J there? Because we use J for something else. So, but everything in spectroscopy uses the alphabet except occasionally you have to make a a glitch. Okay. So, so if you're at L equals 8, would that also skip out on? No. No. For some reason, J is excluded, but you have L states. I don't know why. Um so we uh we generally use lowercase letters for one electron and uh uppercase letters when there's more than one electron and so that this is enough to completely specify a state and uh uh okay so we could have a spin orbit splitting which would be two delta P 3s minus the energy of 2 delta P 1/2 and uh those scale according to the Z Z to the 4th and so the value of that splitting for hydrogen here's some more notation so this This is called the first spectrum of hydrogen and that's the neutral. This is called the third spectrum of lithium. The first spectrum of lithium would be lithium neutral. Second would be lithium plus one and the third would be lithium plus2. And this unfortunately disagrees with the way chemists label things. So you just have to be careful to find out whether uh the uh the atomic spectra uh labeling scheme is used or the chemist scheme. Okay. Now the spin orbit splitting for the the two WP state in hydrogen is 0.37 wave numbers. For lithium it's 30 wave numbers and for sodium it's 5400. And it's just reflecting the Z to the 4th scale. And since it's determined near the nucleus, it's a kind of us universal measure of what is this orbital that is open shell that's giving us this thing. And so it turns out to be a very very useful uh signpost for what state is this? What are the the the orbitals that are involved in generating this state? And so um So um if we have one electron wave functions uh practically anything we care about can be written as some function of the quantum numbers. So if we have uh an off diagonal matrix element, one can write uh remember spin can only have value of a half. So it's silly to write it as prime. But uh so anyway, you could you could write any quantity as an explicit function of the quantum numbers especially n and and so now what I'm going to talk about is some of these formulas for how things behave. And one of the things you care most about is the coordinate is the uh coordinate of the electron relative to the nucleus. Okay, this is the coordinate of the electron. It operates on spatial coordinates. It doesn't operate on spin. So immediately if I write down an operator that is some function of r, it's not going to do anything to the spin part. the spin is acting like a scalar relative to this. It's just a constant. It doesn't see it. So, uh r only operates on uh spatial not uh uh spin coordinates. Now, you know about scalers and vectors and tensors. If you don't know, let me just tell you a scaler is like a constant. It doesn't have any angular event. It's just a number. And uh if you have some angular momentum representation, one of the things about it is that it doesn't care which uh which projection quantum number you've got. It when you calculate its expectation value, it's going to have the same expectation value independent of projection quantum number. A vector is you know has three components uh and we can understand vectors. You can imagine going to something which we call a second brain tensor and that's sort of like a d orbital. Uh and uh we can classify all operators according to their tensorial rank and that's called spherical tensor algebra. And this is useful because the tensorial rank is just like an angular momentum. And so if you're coupling an angular momentum of one to an angular momentum of two, there are certain formulas for how to do that. And so it's very useful to look at an operator and say, "Oh, I know it's tensorial rank. Well, this is one. It's like an angular momentum of one. It couples to other angular momentum." And in a sense they can change their the the total angular momentum by plus or minus one or zero because you can tell that this is like a vector and we know vectors are rank one. Okay. And we'll you'll see eventually things with higher tensorial rank. Okay. Another thing about this is if we ask well what happens to r this vector if we invert through the origin it changes sign that means it has odd par is an important quantum number two and so by writing this down you know it does not operate on spin it has odd par if it looks like an angular moment of one and so that tells you a lot about its it's uh uh nonzero matrix elements. So the matrix elements of this have uh selection rules and uh the reason it can't change L by one is because it has odd parity and if you I mean the reason it can't change L by zero is it has odd parity. If you take the same L twice that's got even parity and so the integral is going to be zero. So R by alone will just will change L by one. uh it can't change s uh surprisingly it can change j by zero or plus or minus one and that comes from vector addition between these things and like that it can't change m subs and it can change m subj and uh N is not an angular momentum and so you can have any change in M uh for this kind of an operator. Okay. So now for hydrogenic functions there are there are two kinds of matrix elements of R that we care about. One would be the operator that enables you to have a absorption of a photon the electric dipole operator. So in continent shortly which is a wonderful book just because it's filled with formulas which for many many cases and it's also filled with obscure derivations which you mostly don't want to look at. So you just look at the formulas and it's organized in a very transparent way. Uh uh so one of the formulas is the thing that tells you about the transition from the ground state of any hydrogenic system to any possible excited state. Since we're starting in S and L can only change by one, it's NP. So these are this is the uh transition moment squared. This is what determines the intensity of transitions. Uh and only transitions from S to P are allowed. Uh and this has the uh uh magnitude N^ 7 N -1 to the 2 N - 5 power. You know, you can derive these things, but you got to be nuts to do it because they've already been done. uh n +1 to the 2 n to the minus 2 n - 5. Uh and so when you look at this and you say well at least they're both just about n and we so we get n^ the minus 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 n 10 7 we get 10^ theus 3 which is what you sort of expect for transitions among electron from one from n= 1 to n and I'll soon explain this nus 3 is the source of the nus 3 scaling factor in rubric. Uh I won't do that today. So then in another table and that's uh expectation values of the scalar quantity uh magnitude of r not the vector to the k power and we have the radial factors uh r. So this integral uh that also can be tabulated and there's something very interesting about that. I'm not going to write it down on the board. It's in the notes. Uh what you discover is that when when so when k is minus one that's the the uh uh the rberg formula that's the energy levels of redberg states. So this is going to go as n^ squ when k is minus2 that's the centrifugal barrier and it's also the interaction of electron with a dipole. If there were a point dipole on the nucleus, this would describe that when you get k is minus3 that's uh um spin orbit. And it turns out for k of minus3 and all small all other values of k smaller than three you get basically an n to the minus3. You see for example in the k uh k is minus4 you get an n^2 in the numerator and an n to the five in the denominator that's 10us 3. So for everything of higher negative power than three uh you get this basically it's telling you all it cares about is what is the amplitude of the wave function near the nucleus. And the amplitude of the wave function near the nucleus scales as n minus3 halves as I will prove next time. And that's where you get this universal nus 3. You never knew that. You never find that in a book. Okay. Um what time is it? It's time to quit. Uh let me just do one more thing. Let's talk about the vector model for a second or a vector model. Suppose we have J here and L here and S here. So L + S is J. Now suppose we stick a photon in uh and remember the photon only knows about L. So we have a choice. We can put a photon in with its angular momentum because it's like an angular momentum of one pointing parallel to L. So we could do that. And uh what does that do? Well, it it shifts S up by one and up and so it increases J by one. Propensity rule. Now, if we do this, if we put in the photon perpendicular to L, well, that doesn't shift S up. Mhm. And J doesn't change. So this simple diagram as long as L is long compared to S uh you you get this very strong propensity rule and so you can you can understand why delta J is approximately equal to delta L for transitions. There are other more complicated uses of these vectors but that's one of the nicest simplest ones. Okay. And so um I'm going to stop now and tomorrow morning I will do a little bit of explanation of the n the minus3 halves amplitude factor for the amplitude of the wave function near the eye core. That's beginning of quantity theory say. So, I'm looking at the notes on uh page three, and at the very bottom, there's the H1 and lithium 3 and sodium 11 energy levels. And you say that it obeys the Z to the 4th scaling relationship very accurately. I didn't say that. I said it ought to. Does it or Okay. So, so this is sort of curiosity. So the um exact relationship for the first two should be 1 to 81. It's actually 1 to 81.967. So basically 1 to 82. Well, but 30 is I just wrote 30 down. I don't even know how I got that 30 whether. Oh, really? Okay. Rounded it off. How many significant figures is that man? All right. All right. So So maybe I'll look it up tonight, but And then the other one should be 180 and it's 180.75. So I was just curious where did I get these numbers? Well, that was one thing, but also if it doesn't obey it exactly, where else is it coming from? Like what what else could be changing? Cuz even if you if you wiggle around the wave numbers a little bit, there's there's still some deviation. So is it is it coming from isotopic effects because you're measuring you know not just one isotope of sodium but a few like what's the dominant other thing other than next to the I think relativistic effects the I said spin orbit is relativistic but there's several levels of relativistic one is just saying the interaction between this uh this moving magnetic dipole near this charge uh that produces an interaction that's looks like a dipole dipole interaction. Mhm. Uh but there is also a contraction of the thing is is spinning. Yeah. And and so there's it probably the deviations would probably be of relativistic origin. Now, I've been teaching this course for a very long time, and I don't know where I got those numbers. I probably multiplied uh uh Z to the 4 and rounded it off. And that's pretty good for a one electron system. So, you know, that's safe. Yeah. And you know, you got to be a little bit crazy to think that sodium with one electron is going to be relativistic. So I I think I used the formula. I didn't look them up. So with your selection rules there, is it worth noting that J prime equals 0 and J equals 0 is excluded? I mean it's kind of a minor point. Oh, but you can get that from this. Okay. But is it okay? um you can't have a transition of a vector operator, right? Uh so you you have a system which got no angular momentum. You stick an angular momentum in it. It's got to have something. It's going to have an angular momentum. So this J equals 0 to J equals0 transition has to be forbidden, For electric dipoles. Yes. Does that vector model hold? So that vector model is true when L is large. I said that I but when I said it I thought well how do I where did they okay it was my memory unchecked which you know could be wrong but I think but when but when L is you know if it's like an S or a P orbital then that propensity rule does not hold as well when L and S are about the same length I think that uh uh it the relative uh uh intensity of propensity rule uh violating a propensity rule obeying transitions are about the same. Okay. Okay. And you don't really need this because uh we can also derive these formulas using angular momentum coupling. And so the matrix the explicit dependence of the transition probability uh on uh J L and S that can be worked out in a universal sense. So but it's nice to be able to to say okay what's this trying to do and uh so any but I must admit I made that statement without working it out but I'm pretty sure it was correct. It is correct. Are we content? So, tomorrow morning early I will attempt to uh finish talk about alkali like uh spectra and uh uh begin bringing in some of the concepts of photo detector. See you then.