its implementation, its fast execution, uh the FA the FFT, the fast 4A transform and if time permits, I'd make some comments on the discrete cosine transform and it's it also can be implemented by the FFT. So, uh it's equally fast. Um so actually this is pretty much the final where we're at the transition now toward uh wavelets. So the previous lecture was about uh forier transforms. This one focuses on the discrete case and it's still in the applied math book. Uh section 55 is the FFT um solo and chapter 4 has the material on fora transforms in general. Um and of course you know that I'm going to uh give a matrix in expression to to the main ideas. The main ideas being the transform, it's fast execution is a factorization and then convolution. The the central ideas of of the subject and familiar to many of you. You you probably could get the formulas right more often than I. Um so uh and then the second lecture today will really begin the move into the wavelet book uh discussing filtering uh actually in the same lecture I'm going to have filters in the time domain in the frequency domain in the Z domain uh so filter the basic tool of signal processing Okay, so here is certainly a basic tool and I've written up uh so we have to decide how many samples we have capital n and sums will run from 0 to n minus one typically in indices will go from 0 to n minus one. So we have n samples and we want to find n foriera coefficients discrete 4a coefficients that reproduce them. So so the the number this complex number e to the 2 pi i / n comes into the everywhere here. So let's just be sure we've got that number pinned down. Well, in the complex plane, let me draw a circle of radius one, the unit circle. So, of course, this is the real axis. This is the imaginary axis. So, that that number right there would be I uh and now where is the number w? Is it on the circle? Yes. Everything of modulus one abs of magnitude one is on the circle. This is an e to the i theta. So theta the angle is 2 pi / n. So where does that go? Uh 1 nth I mean the whole angle is 2 pi and we want theta to be 2 pi / n. So we go let me take n to be 8 let's say. So that would be e to the 2 pi i over8. So that's W. Maybe I should really call it W N to indicate that it's determined by that number n. Okay. And now you're going to see powers of W. So let's just be sure we've got those down. Where where is W ^2 for example? You you notice I don't write the uh rectangular the real and imaginary parts. I could cosine and s of 2 pi over 8 cuz when you're multiplying numbers the the this form is this polar form is much much better and when those numbers are on the unit circle so that the polar r is one uh then there's absolutely no question it's superior. So r is one. We're just adding angles when we multiply. So if I square that one, what number do I get? I get I. It doubles the angle. That angle was 2 pi over 8. 45° doubles to I. So then the cube of it would be here. Add another. When I take the cube, I multiply by another E2 pi I over 8. I add that angle once more. Here's the fourth power. So this is W8. Then there is W8 squared which is the same as W4. And that's the big deal actually the fact that W8 squared is the same as W4. And in this example I so I'm eventually in the fast for a transform I'm going to be interested in the in the uh in in the in the halfs size transform. So this is anticipating what's coming. uh that uh um here's n= 8 here's m= 4 and the point is that w n squared is wm and that's the trivial but all important link between the transform the 8 by8 transform and the 4x4 that we can take great advantage of okay I better finish the powers of. So there are eight roots. There are eight There are eight. This is like a tongue twister. There are eight eight. Do I spell that with a Did I do that right? I'm too close to it. Okay. 8th roots of one. uh the equation is w to the eth minus one equals zero and like every polomial of degree 8 that has eight roots and uh they're all very nice and uh so we have the we've identified those w's okay so now uh this may take a little looking but it's completely analogous to uh say say this formula for the for the uh for the discrete for a coefficients would be completely analogous to the to the u to the say the the for a series case where instead of our finite number of y's eight y's we would have a function and this d and well let's just write down what the for a1 is so what's the k coefficient in of f ofx we take f ofx * e the minus i kx right dx and possibly we divide by a 2 pi and I I guess what I'm hoping is that you think that this is maybe somewhat even more than somewhat analogous to this one here's our data Here's our if you think of what W really is and W bar of course makes it a minus I. And I could even do better. Um and uh Bob Nichols is contributing to the to the course web page a proof of the pluson formula and he puts a 2 pi up there and cleans up this part. But let me stay stay there anyway. One can connect the discrete with the continuous but we don't really have to. The discrete stands by itself and I want to express it as in matrix language. Let me express this one. So this is saying that the vector y y 0 down to y n minus one is some matrix. This is the this is the reconstruction formula. This is the formula that gives the coefficients also the two or so uh easily flipped that uh probably uh you would see both interpreted as analysis and synthesis but I'm thinking of this as synthesis colle use the coefficients to reconstruct the y's. So somehow these there's some matrix there multiplying those coefficients C kn1 2 C well let's call it eight well seven in this case. So right since n is 8 we have vectors of length 8 count numbering from 0 to 7 and we have an 8 by8 matrix there it's the forier I'll call it the forier matrix of size 8 and I just want to ask what it is what are its entries and this equation is supposed to be a copy of this one I I don't know if you like to see sums and indices or if you like to see the matrix kind of well it's pretty equivalent because what's the what's the what are the entries now of this forier matrix they're the things that multiply this so this is row j multiplying ck K hits column K of the matrix. So those are the entries of the matrix there. F. So let's let's write out a few. What's what's the first row of the of the forier matrix? All ones, right? All ones is exactly. Thanks. Because J is zero in the first row. Okay. So it's all one. Eight ones. And the first column also. Why is that? Because K is zero. Okay, I see I'm going to get crowded here to get an 8 by8 matrix in. But let's get the second row and column in or the depending how we want to count that. If we count that as the zeroth, maybe this would be row one. What are the entries along that row? So now J is one. So the entries are one, right? and omega or w^ squar cubed and finally 7th right there are these numbers one right sitting around the unit circle and now to really pin it down what's the next row j is 2 now so we've squaring them so we have w^2 w4th and it's symmetric Of course, actually. So, so this this is going to be down to W7th this way. W4th, W6. Well, let's really pin it down and find the last the last what's the last number here. W to what power is sitting in the in the lower corner there? 49. Yeah, seems right. We're in the 7th n - 1^ 2, right? 7 * 7. We're at the we're at the end of our rope here. W to the 49th. But of course, w the 49th is an alias for for some other smaller power of w. What would it what would it be in that particular case? Just the first power. Is that right? W to the 49th is one. That's interesting. So w to the eth is 1. W Yeah. W to the eth power is 1. So w to the 48. Yes. Right. 48th power is one. And w to the 49th. Yeah. It's just w. Good. Okay. So anyway, w to the j k. Those are the entries. All right. And what's the inverse? Well, you might say, "Wait a minute. Uh, this is a full matrix. No zeros at all. How do you expect to inver find the inverse of an 8 by8 full matrix?" Uh oh and a little thought is coming to my mind which we we will find the inverse safely and of course it's got to be revealed by this formula because that's this is the formula that goes back from the y's connects the y's back to the c's. Can I just throw in a comment here because I like to uh mention also some things that I think are not as clear as you would think. I mean the whole world has studied this matrix and and you guys have seen it and so on. its igen values uh well I I know what its igen values are and and we could we can we can see so this is a digression because the igen values of the matrix don't don't play a big role uh in uh in the theory but they have a role they have So it turns out the igen values it turns out that the fourth power of this matrix is the identity if I've normalized correctly. Actually a a better a sort of more symmetric normalization would put 1 / of n there and 1 over of n there and then that would give us a 1 over of n. I I I usually don't include that in the in defining the fora matrix but we could. So if we do then we've normalized this matrix so that its fourth power turns out to be the identity. So that's pretty nice. Now on the carrying on this digression just uh because some of you will know all too well the DFT formulas. Um what about the igen values of this matrix? If if the fourth power of a matrix is the identity, what does that tell me about its igen values? What what are the possible igen values of a matrix F? It could be one. The possible values are one and minus1 and i and minus i. True. And no others, right? No others. Why is that? Just let's just see why that is. Why? Suppose we had an igen value and an igen vector. I suppose uh so the re this is the reason then why why reason why if if fx= lambda x I'll apply f again I would have f2x equals what do I what do I learn from f2x it would it would be lambda squared right because it would be lambda fx but the fx is another lambda So I'd get lambda^ 2 x and then let me jump to f4x I would learn that that was lambda to the 4th x. But now if f if I have this incredibly special situation where the fourth power has come around to the identity then this would be x. So I learned that lambda 4th so lambda the 4th is has to be one and if lambda 4th is one those are the only four possible lambdas. Okay. And so first of all we have 8 by8 matrix or actually we have a n byn matrix for every n the this is true. These are the four values. So what what puzzle could remain here that I'm going to ask you about? Yes. I for any it's true for any n any Yeah. It's true for any n. Uh and that is I agree. Uh yeah. So that I you might try to prove that I guess maybe f 2 is - i. Is that right? Anybody remember? I I if f2 is minus i then then we're certainly got f to the 4th nailed down. I think maybe f2 is minus i and f4th is i. Yeah. Yeah. That that would be that should be fun to to prove. But um but let's take that as something we can check and then that tells us what the possible values are. So what other questions could I ask? I could ask about the multiplicities. Exactly. And that's there's an answer for that. You know, let's see if in the 8 by8 case since four goes evenly into eight, I suspect that the that they're each multiplicity too, but my memory doesn't uh you know I this isn't a problem I really know about but I think and then otherwise there's you know then then the if it's n byn then and n and four doesn't go evenly into n then we've got some you know we've got to make the count right but it's known what isn't known in a satisfactory way at least as far as I could tell and I had just had occasion to look through various papers is what are the igen vectors we got the I mean this seems amazing to me we've got the igen values we know their multiplicity I mean that is checked out but what are what's It's a nice description but straightforward description of the igen vectors and uh that um of an independ you know the right number of independent and poss and should be ortho or orthonormal vectors. So I'll just leave that as a puzzle and I cannot swear that in some paper the answer doesn't appear but uh I read through a whole series of papers on this topic and they all had a sort of shot at it but none of them were really satisfactory. So there you I mean if if legal lab comes up with a with a good description of the iggon vectors will be or you will be uh deservedly famous I'd say. Okay. So that's a digression on this uh short bit there cuz it's not the igen vectors it's the inverse that we really want. Okay. So how could a matrix be easy to invert? Let let's put let's put this square root of n in for the for the present here as as I've done now. Okay. So how could it be easy to invert? Well actually one way here is to say well what does that tell you about the inverse of f? It's f cubed. Right? The inverse of f is f cubed. But we don't want to deal with the cube. We really want to see that the inverse of f. So here's the main point that the inverse of f is the conjugate complex conjugate of course that so that symbol by that symbol I mean replace i by minus i every time you see it. Okay. So that so that its entries the ent entries are the complex conjugate of these. So its entries and I'm putting in the square root of n now are the complex conjugate of those which is war to the j k. I just take conjugates. Now, can I just be sure on this picture that I know where W bar is? So, where is W bar? The conjugate of W and and its powers in in the uh in the complex plane. Are they on the unit circle? For sure. They're reflected in the x-axis. Exactly. So, this will be w bar, right? It will be e to the minus 2 pi i over 8, right? So it'll be the same as w to the n minus one but w bar is much cleaner. Okay. All right. Now, why why so so I'm claiming that uh um really why the the point is that f is well well so what I'm claiming is that yeah I guess I'm just claiming that f bar * f gives me the identity right That's that's it's just it's just as simple as that. I just have to check that fbar if I take this matrix and and uh it would be more familiar to have fbar transpose and we and it's symmetric so we really do have fbar transpose. Yeah. So, so I I'll put a transpose up here. I was going to say in light letters, but if I do it in yellow, it'll be uh visible. Uh the transpose has no effect because the matrix is symmetric. But but what kind of matrices have this? We have a name for matrices like this. Well, you take a matrix F and you take what's a matrix for which frose F is is the identity. Unitary is the word we use especially when the matrix is complex. We use the word orthogonal matrix and certainly have in this course for the real case but and we could stretch that word but it's better to use the word unitary that's a sort of signal to the mind that complex numbers are in there and and you not only it's not it's not frppose f in the complex case as always you one of the factors should be conjugated that's just a fact of life in in a fact of complex life. It's it's conjugate one of the factors to to have the proper analogy with the real case. And uh now just just tell me what identity so this what if I write that out what what does that tell me? Let me multiply let's take a typical row. So I take row Yes. Oh to get the diagonal. Yes. But how why do I get zero off the diagonal? So the two questions why do I get one on the diagonal? And that is should be not too hard. So like let's let's do on the diagonal. Suppose I take this guy with this one. Oh, but one of them is conjugated. So on the diagonal. So, so on the diagonal, let's take a typical case. 1 * 1 W * W bar and so on. W7th * W bar 7th. What does that sum equal? Yeah, it's n, right? Every term is one. So it's 1 plus 1 + 1 n times and I divide by the square root of n twice and I get the one on the diagonal. So that that part is good. Now what about off the diagonal? Just just uh okay. So now what do if I'm off the diagonal? What am I looking at? The diagonal you end up getting all sums of all the powers, don't you? Let's let's see what we get. Let me take an example. What what example shall I take? W shall I take the W ^2 times the W's? Just just for the heck of it. Yeah, let me do that one just for the heck of it. So I'll do I'd have 1 * 1 cuz they all all the rows starting with 1 and then say W^2 * W bar and then W4 * W bar squared and finally I guess I when do I quit at see you see what I'm doing I'm taking this row times times this column conjugated Right. 1 W ^2 W4 up to W to the 14th maybe times 1 W bar W bar 2 W bar to the 7th. And what do we claim this is without without thinking why first? We're hoping for zero. The the the favorite right hand side of all mathematicians, right, is zero. Yeah. Uh so why is that zero? It's the sum of of all the powers. You can sum ah yes okay now why is that a w one w will cancel a w bar right and two w's will cancel two and seven w's will cancel seven. So it's this is in disguise as really 1 + w + so on + w to the 7th in this particular row and column that we chose. We got those numbers and why do they add to zero? The picture is one way. Yeah. How do you take the equation w 8 -1 and factor out w -1 right? That's right. So this is this is really w 8 -1 / w -1 which we could see if I multiply up by there I'll have the w 8th I'll have a w the 7th but then there'll be a minus w the 7th which is like telescoping and then finally the minus one with a one doesn't telescope and yeah so this would be I mean that's a formula that one picks up and then drops in high school, right? Uh the sum of uh a geometric series. It's just a geometric series. Um and uh and why is it zero? Well, because w is one. So this is this is zero over wus one. And of course that's our big zero, right? Okay. And similarly if I had any of these other product any of these other row times columns would give me zero in a similar way. Okay. Well so we have really I think that's really not bad idea to actually check that this this is true. And then of course we've identified and the transpose didn't matter. we've identified the inverse matrix and then that that's the we put it here in the formula. uh it's the inverse is just the complex conjugate and that and that's uh what's the analogy in the fora transform case you remember there's a over an infinite interval you remember there's a minus e to the i kx e minus e to the minus i kx in one direction and e to the plus i kx in the other it's exactly like this Yeah. Okay. What about the fast for a transform? So, two steps are kind of remarkable for a full matrix. One is to be able to invert it to know right away that it's inverse is just its conjugate. That's pretty remarkable, but pretty old. The other e highly important step was the fast 4 transform. So I'm ready for that. Now what's the fast 4 transform going to be? Okay, so the fast for transform. So we have this matrix fn the n byn this is the n byn of course fora matrix and we it's full but it's possible to factor it into into matrices that have a lot of zeros and that's the key idea of the FFT and the reason it's we're going to relate fn to two copies Let me leave enough space. So I'm going to factor this matrix into three factors. One will be have a lot of zeros. One will be half zero f two copies of the halfsize transform and one will be really simple just a reordering a permutation matrix. So before I write in those two pieces, let's see what the main point is. The main point is that I can connect the n byn for a matrix to two copies of the m by m1 and then half of that matrix is zero. I can do two m by m1's if I just do the multiplication out uh that way. Of course, I'm going to pay a price uh in whatever complexity is involved in these pieces. I might say that the uh 8 by8 is a standard choice in signal in image processing and 8 by8 is just about the close to the borderline where depending on what hardware you want to create what the chip wants to do whether you use this FFT idea and reduce to four by couple of 4x4s or whether you just go with it you say okay I can do 64 I can deal with 64 nonzero But we're going to get down to well under 64 uh numbers and of course for higher end it pays off tremendously. Okay. So what are these factors? Well, these are the identity. This is this is the identity of size M is sitting here and here and here is a diagonal matrix of size M and here is its conjugate I think. Yeah. So, so I have to say what is this diagonal matrix? It's the matrix 1 W^2 to W to the MUS1. It's diagonal. And uh well maybe it's just this maybe this isn't conjugate. It's just minus the thing. Yeah, I think it's just minus. Okay. And I I'll come back to that matrix. This matrix is the is a permutation that puts all the even coefficients 0 to this this permutation p here. P is P takes uh the numbers zero the the indices in the order that they come and and produce puts them in the order evens first 02 46 uh 1 3 57. So it evens before odds. So in other words, this FM acts on the even indices and this FM this half-size transform acts on the odd indices. I really should have uh I mean you know what I mean. So this is P. So so the matrix has one in that position, one in that, one in that, one in that. That's that's the zero, second, fourth, and sixth. Then one in the first, third, fifth, and 7th. That would be the 8 by8 of although sorry I jumped ahead to 8 by8 here. Uh and but that's it. And uh there's the uh why don't we just be because this is the key. Can you tell me what it will look like breaking up? So, well, it's there's one more key idea here. And what is it? If I have Yeah. So, if I have if n is a,024, let's say, let's let's take that as an example. 2 to the 10th. I'm I'm using I'm doing the FFT radics 2. It's actually the only one I know. Um uh Schmool Winterrad created by number theoretic tricks uh efficient FFTs of prime powers prime order. Mine are the these are the very opposite of prime and these are probably the most used. So suppose n is 2 to the 10th. How many how many multiplications? So, so how many multiplications would it take to multiply just flat out by the matrix F of this order? So, the operation count would be what? And what's the number that we're trying to trying to improve on? So if I just multiplied an n byn matrix by a vector, if I just did this or did this and I've got how many how many terms have I got to n squ, right? Because I've got n terms in each sum, but then I've got n of these there are n squ entries in the matrix. Okay. So, so I'm trying to beat N squ versus now and and what does the FFT lead me to? I'll try to Okay, so this single step led me to half n^2. Cut it in half and I won't count that because those are just ads. Uh and here is just uh an n /2. There's just multiplying by those both multiply the same since they're in the same column. They both multiply the same lower half of the vector that's coming out here. So um so I just do one multiplication and then reverse sign. So you see a big saving. What's the next idea? Do it again. I mean, if there's any message in modern uh uh algorithms, it's recursion. Just repeat the same idea. So that each of these would then factor into an F into a couple of F2s. If this is an F8, two F4s, then the next step we'll have four F2s. And if we really went crazy, we could go down to eight F1s. So that in the end, the this part is not it's costing nothing. It's then the question is how much do these parts cost and um how many of those parts are there? So, so this is this is n^2 versus what? Yeah. Can can you can you do the count for the 48 for the FFT? What is it? Let's see. We might I don't know if we Well, that would be fantastic because that would add up to n now I think. Yeah. And it's it looks deceptively that way. But I think we have each I think this n /2 shows up every time because even the next time uh these will be half as big but there'll be you know so I think we so it's n^2 versus n /2 and now how many how many factors of those? right which is log in. So, so, so I'll put numbers in a minute. Log to the base 2 of n. So, it's n log n. That's the famous thing. It it's a,024 squared versus so n is 10 5 * no versus Yeah. Well, n is a thou 1,024 and then then the log is 10 as you said and we even get that times five. Well, boy, that's pretty amazing. Uh, and it really is true. Not only you know it's not it's not um a mirage that you uh in place of 1,024 squared which is a million operations we got 5,000 and uh that you know that's saving that's a factor of 200 saved right there and really truly saved because uh we get the exact answer and uh it's stable And uh and it gets hardwired and it's very efficient. Very efficient. Yeah. So, and you see how all that's you see where that's coming from then that that we you keep breaking this down. So, you keep having more and more of these factors and more and more permutations. So, if we put we could put all the permutations together into one single big permutation which is called bit reversal. that we can interpret the the 10 the product of 10 permutations uh as as a single permutation. Could could I just before I leave this let's see what does this factorization precisely mean for n= 4 and m equal 2. Can do you mind just uh just uh if we I hope that hope the camera has got the lecture um plan and I've reached this far and I'm going to move now to these but let's just uh take the 4x4 one and uh factor it. So what's the 4x4 matrix n= 4? What is w? What's what's W for? So the 4x4 matrix is one one one. And what's W? I the fourth root of 1. I 2 I cubed I squar I 4 I 6 I cub I 6 I 9. And the factorization is what goes in the middle factor. Uh let me put in the that that that and that. And what's goes in the middle factor 2 by two. Right? The two point DFT twice. And what's that one? Yeah. The row of ones, the column of ones. and the and minus one minus one right minus one and another copy. So that's a reduction of the fourpoint DFT to two copies of the twopoint DFT. So minus one is w M is the square root. Okay. And then here we have the identity the identity 1 I and 1 minus I. So, I guess I I'm risking my I won't say my reputation, my memory maybe on the fact that if you multiply those out, it comes out right. Um, well, there could be a factor two in this uh for square root of four. I wouldn't be surprised. Oh, you're right. So that I think that is right. Yes. So I didn't risk my reputation on the on the other one. Now I'm now I'm uh ready. I think that's it. I think that's it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh I I won't uh take lecture time to multiply that out and find out what is there a factor two. But anyway, you you see the idea. And of course, we we know we know that the DFT the the FFT uh we can just call it. So, it's a a little it took a little time to say what it does, but and and I could draw a flowchart instead of a matrix factorization, but anyway, there there it is. All right. Now, convolution cyclic convolution. So cyclic convolution means in goes a vector of length n and another vector of length n and out comes a vector of length n same output. If normally if I had a polomial with n coefficients so I guess its degree is n minus one and I multiply by another such thing what do I get out some higher degree right but now I don't want I want n numbers in this cyclic convolution so so it is like multiplication but it's it's the polomial is a polomial in w maybe That's the good way to look at it. Uh so let let's let's see. So we we uh got this inverse. Okay. So here's convolution looked at one way. Well, it and of course there's a convolution rule that connects it with multiplication. So, so if I multiply y's by z's or something, then I'm multiplying a polomial in with coefficients c times a pol polinomial with coefficients d. Let let me let me just think of multiplying polomials. So suppose I have a sum of C K W to the K and I want to multiply that by a sum of D uh better DL W to the L then I'm the these polomials are of the degree that we're always interested in here. Okay, what's up? So, I'm multiplying a couple of uh of polomials which we certainly know how to do. But now W is not just a you know a placeholding variable. W is this particular number. So that what happens when I multiply say suppose let's take n to be three. Let's let's take n to be three. So I'm multiplying c kn + c1 w + c2 w ^2 times d + d1 w + d2 w ^2. And what what's the main fact about W? This particular number W, it's not just a symbol. It's a number. And what's the key fact about about it? It's a root of one. And I've chosen N to be three here. So it's W. It's a third root of So W cubed is one. Okay. What's the constant term? What's the constant term in the answer? Well, you you would say C 0 D0, but there's more to it. What what else is there? The subscripts add to three, right? We're working modulo three cuz why? If the subscripts add to three, then w cubed is just one and and we've got a constant. So, it's c1 * w2 d2, right? because that's and then C2 * D1. So the it's again as with convolution in the last lecture this the key is the sum of the but those all add to zero 2 + 1 is zero. Now what's the coefficient now just to say what's the coefficient of the of the W term? Well, we could see zero C 0 D1 and those add to one. C1 D0 and finally what's the other one? C2 D2, right? C2D2 because that's W4. But W4 is W because W cubed is one. Let me put that in yellow. Okay. And finally, we've got another guy here. This is the W ^2 term. Uh C kn0 is a W ^2. Good. Well, so what's the convolution then? It's these three coefficients in yellow parentheses. Those three numbers are the outputs from so so this is the convolution of these three numbers C 0 C1 C2 convolved with the three numbers D 0 D1 D2 with n equ= 3 as our as our count three three counts. So vectors two vectors go in and one vector comes out. This vector now I'll just forget the the what they multiplied and just say there's the first component, there's the second component, there's the third component. Don't need a comment. Okay, it looks a pretty tricky operation, right? And actually how many to to yeah let me ask that same question again. If I wanted to convolve a vector of length n with a vector of length n as here and get a result as here. How many multiplications do I have to do? N squared nine in this case. Every C multiplies every D somewhere along the line. But there's a smarter way to do it, right? Well, nine. We could deal with modern computers can do nine multiplications in a in a reasonable time. Let's go up to,024 at least. So again, we're in the same situation. If this if our vectors are if we have a if we're up to 1,024 times 1,024, then if we did it this way, we'd have a 100,024 outputs, every one would involve,24 multiplications and adds, and we're up to 1,024 squared right away. And that's not the way to do it. So what's the what's the good way to do what's the good way to convolve a vector of length,24 times another one? Use the FFT somewhere. Right? So what what's the idea then? We would use these we would use the convolution rule, right? We we'd combine the so it's an end run. We would take those C's, put them in this formula, and find three Y's. We would take the three D's, put them in the same formula, and find three Z's. So, so, right, this would lead us to Are you with me? We're trying we're we're we're beating N squ again and we're going to do it the same way with the with the convolution uh the convolution rule and then letting the FFT take over. So this goes to three Y's Y 0 Y1 Y2 and these three go to Z0 Z1 and Z2 by these this by by the DFT. This this was a DFT. So how many operations does it take to do this? If I give you the C's and ask for the Y's, that's that's the FFT. I'm asking you to multiply by the 4 A matrix. And we know how to do that fast. And so we have to do that here and we have to do it here. But now what do I do next? Now you see here's the beauty of it all. I'm in I'm in the transform space. So in that space this convolution becomes uh shall I use mat lab notation point in mat lab notation point star point sorry star point is it oh god I'm revealing is it point star or star point okay right so what does that mean that point Do every element do it element wise. In other words, you get y 0 is the first component. Y1 z1 is the second and y 2 z2 is the third. Big difference from what we had to do the convolution. This is just element wise. So no cost. I mean cost is is uh is n and then what then we have to go back with one more fft to the answer we want c star d c convolved with d and and yeah can you that's a d there okay so there were three ffts transform transform inverse transform. three of these n login and one uh n but of course I mean we saved enormous amount here if we saved if this was a factor 200 quicker well we had to do three of them but we're way way way ahead okay so that's convolution the convolution so actually this is how you could if I had two very very long numbers or if the computer had suppose we're suppose we're um not rounding off at cutting off at 16 bits or even double precision suppose we're keeping full precision for for algebraic coding or something then uh and then we have to do these multiplications in full if I want if I want to multiply a 128digit number by another 128digit number well It's a convolution and I could use the convolution rule to to do it. Yeah. Okay. What's remaining on my Hi. What's remaining on my uh um list for this lecture? Circulate matrices. I want to express this I I want to express that convolution as a matrix. What what matrix is multiplying what vector to give that vector? Yeah, it's nice. It's I'm happy that we see the three the three components of the answer. Now I just want to see it as a matrix multiplication. some matrix is multiplying some vector to give these three this this this vector of I'll use the this this this is this this is the the convolution three components you could delete the parentheses around them if you like really it's just three components and I claim that that is some matrix of C's multiplying some vector of D's D 0 D1 D2. What's the What's in the first row of the matrix? Well, it must be C 0 see Yeah. What's the first row of my matrix? C 0 should multiply D 0. C1 should multiply D2. And C2 should multiply D1. So the row looks funny. I should have looked at columns. D0 multiplies what? What? What's the column? What's the zeroth column here that D0 multiplies? Well, D 0 multiplies C 0, C1, and where is it? C2. Yeah. And then in the second one, D1 multiplies C2 C 0 and C1. And then the third one, D2 multiplies. D2 multiplies where's D2? Uh D2 multiplies C1, right? C2 and C 0. Oh well look the pattern is this is my circulent matrix. This is my circulent matrix times my vector gives the same result as C convolved with D. That's that's my point that these matrices a matrix of that time of that type is a convolution matrix. And what do I mean of that type? I mean that down the di it's you remember we use that word triplets for constant diagonals but this is constant diagonals modulo 3. The first diagonal is the same as the minus2 diagonal and the second diagonal is the same as the minus1 diagonal. So this is then this is a circulent matrix. Okay. It's a convolution. It's a it's a it's a cyclic convolution convolution with wraparound whatever whatever adjective we is most expressive cyclic periodic wraparound those are all telling us that it's not five independent diagonals because we don't want five indep we don't have five independent things it's three independent numbers there the three components C 0 C1 C2 do. Okay. I the it's it's really valuable because filters in the next lecture this afternoon are going to be templates matrices and you'll see well they could be infinite so no wraparound so I could I'll start the lecture with n equal infinity so you won't they I won't call them circulants anymore I'll Let's call them tuplets because the diagonals will go forever. But if we have a finite image, which of course we do, then there has to be some closure. And one way to close it, one way to close it is wraparound. Make it periodic. So this is the period periodic version of of a of a filter. This is a filter with wraparound. Uh any points coming to mind about that matrix? I guess I do want to ask you about one point even though it's as usual my lecture is running a little over. That's a matrix whose igen vectors I am interested in. That's a matrix whose igen vectors are very important. And the beauty is that the igen vectors are the same for every circulent. So there's a little little world of circulent matrices of of a given size n and it's vectors are of everybody in the world has in that little world has the same vectors. So that's what I so so what I I want to say the igen vectors of of C of of my circul we haven't really understood the the right now I I introduce circulants just as a matrix vector shorthand to to produce the convolution but We see these matrices we've been the course has been actually what so have we seen these matrices already uh almost right in our in those first lectures the minus1's twos minus1's well but now did we see it with minus1's in the corners maybe uh in the notes we the periodic version. Yeah. Uh okay. What are the igen vectors? 111 is an igen vector. Good, good, good. I mean, good. Uh all right. So the igen vectors, I mean, let me make a list of them. There's an igen vector 11 one. How does everybody What's the igen value if I multiply this matrix by 111? Let's just just see. Yeah, sure enough, this is an igen vector. Multiply by 111 and what do I get? So, I'm really convolving you could say with the 111 vector and what happens? Well, the igen value is C 0 + C2 + C1* 111, right? Right? Every row adds to this same number. Okay? And what is that number? Well, so I just not want to ask you to identify what we've what we've just discovered. One of the igen vectors and and its igen value are what? This igen value is a column of my 4A matrix. It's the DC term. It's the 111 column of my F3 4A matrix. And and so this is going to be the point. The igen vectors of C are the columns are are the are the columns of F. So f the matrix F contains the igen vectors of every circulent. It it'll diagonalize the circulent matrix. In other words, okay, so what's the Yeah, you have to let's just this is so wonderful. Take a circulent matrix multiply by its igen vectors and do you remember this this process with igen values and igen vectors? You take your matrix you multiply by the igen vector matrix. So that is nice because c multiplies the igen vectors. Then you multiply by the inverse. And anybody remember what comes out of that process? This is for any matrix now with its igen vectors there and the inverse of the igen vector matrix. It's what is it? It's diagonal. Yeah, this is diagonalization. And what do we some values that sit on that diagonal and and those are since those are little lambdas we use capital lambda for the matrix. So this is diagonalization. So another way to say this is the forier matrix diagonalizes every circulate matrix. Different circular matrices will have different values but the igen vectors are always those same guys. So if I multiply one circular matrix by another one I just get a third one and the igen vectors don't change and the igen values just multiply. All right we we got the igen vectors. Have we got like one minute here? What are the en values? Hm. Okay, that's I don't know if I've given you enough to go on. Oh, well, let's find the second one. We got the first. Yeah. Well, tell me what was that first? Yeah. So, right. CN plus C1 plus C2. What is that actually? That's over here, isn't it? in some way where would I get C kn plus C1 + C2 out of this when when when J is zero yeah so so the so this is I guess I'm saying this is the first component of the of the DFT we ought to we ought to multiply what's the second IGEN vector or do we take this risk the second igon vector vector or another igon vector. Let's say another igon vector will be what? One. Yeah. W^2. Yeah. And if I do that multiplication out, I hope I'm going to get a multiple of 1 w^2. I guess I said I would. So, what's the multiple? Well, maybe maybe I just uh Yeah. Do you see what that multiplier would be? So, yeah, it'll be some Y. Somebody's going to say Y too. And that's probably right. Yeah, it's right. Yeah, that's okay. Sorry, I'm I'm I've gone blank here. What what number do I put in? If this is true, it's something like is it something like C 0 plus C? It's the first the first row of the matrix times the column has Oh, yeah. Well, I knew there had to be a good way to look at it, right? Since we're getting a one here, if I multiply that by this, I should get Yeah, that is what I have to put in here. So, it's C1. Yeah. So, it's C2 W C2 W and C1 W^2. Okay, we're getting Yeah. Uh, can I call this guy W ^2? You don't mind if I give that a new name? switch the powers on your W's. Yeah, I've got them right here. And it's just it it's just now let me write this in terms of W bar. Uh let's see. Did I multiply C 0 C2 W and C1 W ^2? Sorry, I'm not surprised that this is coming out a little funny because it's it's the this is this is really C 0. This is C2 W bar 2, right? W is the same as W bar 2 and W ^2 is the same as W bar. So it's coming out with the with the there's a little switch between there's a little conjugation happens in this don't let that spoil the end of the lecture. Uh what's the main point? The main point is the igen vectors are the fora matrices are are the fora matrix and the igen values are what? are the DFT of C, but it might be the inverse DFT. We we might be doing the W bar instead and I think we are doing the W bar instead of the W. The textbook I think gets it right. But the main point is that and do you see that this was this was our this was our trick here. This was our trick. You remember our trick here that involved three applications of the FFT. Well, I've got three here to do. If I want to if I want to operate with C, let let me just finish this thought here. This this matrix C put I'll put the rest over on this side is F lambda F inverse somehow. So if I want to do a convolution that means I want to multiply by C. Instead of doing it n squ straight out, I do what? I take 4 a trans. I take a for a transform one way or the other. I need lambdas. That's a 4 a transform. Do you see that? Each of these three I could do with an FFT. So there's three FFTs in is an FFT in in each of those factors. That that's an FFT to multiply by F inverse and FFT to multiply by F. And where does the FFT where is the FFT needed in that factor which is a diagonal matrix? It's to get the lambda to figure out what that diagonal is. I have to do the FFT. So anyway, this is like a matrix fanatics's way of seeing that a convolution which looks like an n squared operation can be done with three FFTs. So three of these three of these plus one uh simple step. So really fast. Okay, I this is uh quite a lot of symbols, quite a lot as I look at it, but uh probably quasi familiar already. And I hope that these sections of the book 5.5 and 4.2 two would uh uh give you a reference to to sort of check it out because we certainly did get a little twist here between W and W bar. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So let's break there and then start uh pretty directly with filters at uh