Good. So, welcome to today's lecture and today we're going to talk about representation learning. So, we're moving into the next kind of third of the class. So we covered you know basic approximation and generalization properties of MLPS and then we talked about different architectures transformers and RNN's and so forth and now we're going to come to kind of a new perspective on deep learning which is uh the idea of representation learning and generative modeling u and this is a perspective which is kind of associated mostly with deep deep neural networks but is actually could be construed to be broader than this You could do representation learning and generative modeling with other architectures that are maybe not neural networks. But this um but most of the techniques have been developed intimately in conjunction with neural networks. And this field of representation learning it usually goes handinhand with with deep learning. Okay. So we'll talk about um the idea that deep nets learn representations. What does that even mean? We'll ask why should we learn representations? And then we'll look at um one kind of representation learner called the autoenccoder. We'll look at the relationship to clustering and what's called vector quantization. And we'll look at the idea of learning representations via prediction and what's called self-supervised learning. And then in the next lecture we'll talk about a different type of representation learning which is called um metric learning or contrastive learning where you learn about similarities and distances. Okay. So this is going to be the new picture for uh deep learning for the next few weeks. We have data that comes into a system on the bottom and then layer by layer we change the representation of that data until we get to an output at the top and we'll call the output an embedding or representation. But actually each layer is a representation of the data. So layer by layer uh the deep net takes your raw data x and turns it into f ofx and then f of f ofx and so forth. And um each layer is a different representation. So the data will be differently distributed. It'll be transformed somehow. Okay. And the forward direction through a neural network will be called the um encoding direction. So it's going from data to maybe simpler, better, more abstract representations. And that's the direction in which representation learning operates. It tries to find a good mapping from data to embeddings. And the backwards direction is not going to be back prop. Now you know back prop tries to find the gradient. The backwards direction is more like the inverse of the forward direction. in this context and that's called generative modeling. It's going from abstract um representations and latent variables uh to data and we'll talk about generative modelings in a few weeks. Okay, so these two things can roughly be thought of as inverses of each other and we'll clarify that connection as we go. But today we're just going to talk about the first direction going forward through a network um and view that as learning representations. And one way to um like just like one label for this idea is um data tovec. So xtovec x is your data and people have developed xtovec for all different modalities. So the most famous early version of xtovec was called wordtovec. You want to go from words in English or some other language to uh representations that are vectors. But you can do this for images, you can do this for sounds, you can do this for molecules, whatever you want. And here's an example in an image. We take our data as input and then now we're thinking layer by layer we get a vector representation or maybe a tensor representation of the data and let's investigate what that representation is. What each of these is indicating a neuron or mathematically just a scalar uh dimension of a vector and we can investigate what those actually represent. So we'll we'll talk about the layer three representation of this image is if I go through three layers of neural processing three convolutional layers for example what is the tensor of activations I get out that's the representation at layer three and then we can talk about other layers too okay so the representations will be a vector tensor of neural activations and in this example they might be representing you know that there's a car or there's a a ground or so forth a building a road um so we're going to try to see how representations might map onto these kind of semantic representations that we think about in our head. Okay. Question >> with this family of two factors, how are they feature extraction? >> Yeah, feature extraction is the same um is another name for the same thing. Yeah. So, um Xtoc it can also be called you know extracting features uh from input data X and the features are in the form of uh vectors or tensors in this case. >> One more question. Was XTOvec traditionally only getting from bigger data sets to smaller representations? >> Yeah. Well, so the question is was X is XTOvec always going to smaller representations, lower dimensional representations? Uh well that one of the classic ways of doing it often the representation you want should be um a smaller object, a lower dimensional vector than the input. But that's not the only way of doing it. You don't have to do it that way. Okay. Okay. But that the the intuition here is is I'll use these cartoons a few times over the next few weeks or we'll we'll use them in a few lectures. So the data will be this blue blob. It's some complicated object highdimensional um you know weird topology that's like the space of you know images. It's this weird manifold, right? Um and the representation will be this uh orange or or reddish circle. And the it's a circle because we're going to make the point that the representation is often times a simpler space. So the distribution of over uh embeddings is often going to be a very simple object. In fact, it will typically be a Gaussian distribution. So Gaussian is a circle in high dimensions or a Gaussian high dimensions looks like a circle. Okay. Uh so this is the this is a picture where somehow learning embeddings are simpler. They have a simpler distribution than the data distribution. The input blob is like the data distribution. Okay. And we call the mapping from data to representation in encoder. Okay. So I'm gonna um now show some visuals and I want to introduce a different way of thinking about functions than what you might have learned about in like grade school. So you know when you first encountered functions you we learned this way of representing them. You have on the x- axis the input and on the y- axis the output to your function. But that's not really the only way that that's basically telling you what is the mapping from X in to X out or from X to Y traditionally. But in this class we usually talk about X in to X out for some layer. So this is just telling me that if I'm at some point on the X axis, where do I map to on the Y- axis? Right? It's telling me something about the mapping. So we're just going to rotate the y- axis to be um at the top. And now we'll look at this mapping as mapping a set of points on the you know input dimension to the set of points on the output dimension. And the identity mapping now looks really simple right it's just straight lines nothing changed. So I don't know why we decided to go with this way of representing functions as opposed to this way but I think both of them um have some interesting properties and advantages in terms of clarifying what's going on. Okay, but the second way will help us to visualize um some of the mappings in neural networks. Actually in some of the earlier slides we already showed a few examples of this. Um so here here are a few different neural layers for a scalar input to a scalar output. So this is like the width of the network is one in this case. And what does you know um a linear layer do? the linear layer can sorry it can if the linear layer has weight too it will just expand it'll it'll take your input data and it'll make it you know scaled up so it'll just like spread it out uh what does a relu do okay relu is kind of interesting a rel takes all of your data in the negative half space and maps it to zero so this relu has this property that the density of of data that will get mapped um to zero you'll usually have a spike of density at zero which we'll see on on the next slide And the sigmoid um will map most of your inputs to either zero or one but in a kind of soft way. Okay. So I like thinking about functions this way because I think it helps to understand kind of representations and distributional transformations. Uh so think of think of your functions as taking a set a distribution of input data points and and doing these geometric transformations squishing them and skewing them and remapping them. Okay. Okay. And so here are some of the functions that we've seen. Uh some of the the basic neural networks uh layers that we've seen in this class. Uh so we have the linear, the relu, the um normalization layers, softmax layers. And uh activations are going to be colored in this red font and parameters are colored in the blue font just to kind of clarify what is actually being learned. So the only learnable parameters are the weights and biases in in these layers. Okay. So here's the wiring diagrams. Um, so let's look at the mapping diagrams for these layers just to get kind of build up this intuition. Okay, so we're always mapping from X in to X out. Now, one nice property of this other way of um plotting functions is I can I don't have to only plot scaler to scalar functions. I can I can plot 2D to 2D functions. Okay, I don't have to plot 3D to 3D. That's where it breaks down. But at least I can go to 2D to 2D, which you can't do with traditional plotting. Okay, so here's the mapping. I'm showing it in two different ways. On the left, I'm showing how each point on a grid of input values maps to um the output. And on the right, I'm showing how each point in a Gaussian cloud over the input space maps to the output. Okay, so 2D data goes in and what does the linear layer do? It's going to be an aphine transformation and geometrically it will just look like rotating, squishing, scaling, um anything like this. So it's like a geometric transformation of the input data. That's all it's doing. Okay, what does a ReLU do? So, uh, a ReLU looks like this funny shape. So, there's two important properties to notice. So, one is the ReLU maps all data to the positive or font in this case. So, in high dimensions, it's just going to be like a little um, you know, the the the subspace where all the dimensions are positive, right? Because anything that's negative gets mapped to zero. And two, as you can see how there's like most of the points get mapped to these axes. You get this what's called a sparse representation. So ReLU has this property of making things sparser because most of the inputs or or uh in each dimension half of the values will tend to be negative and half will tend to be positive and the negative values will get mapped to the um the axes here. Okay. And there'll be a lot of density right at the origin because that will correspond to anything in this strictly negative or end. And in high dimensions I think this effect becomes even more more extreme. Okay. So what does um L2 norm look like? And this is one I think I showed in the in one of the last lectures uh but I didn't really fully explain it. what L2 norm will look like and same with RMS norm um and same with layer norm which is you know variation on this is it will take all of your data and it will map it to you know unitary vectors it'll map it to vectors that have norm one and so in this particular case with the uklidian norm it will map it to uh points on this on the circle and in high dimensions I'll map it to points on the hypersphere okay so so that's what these layers do and that's nice for various reasons but one of them is is that we just we know that um the numeric are going to be uh bounded somehow. Uh the vectors will not go to infinity or not go to zero. They'll all get you know into a unitary range. Okay. Uh so what does what does softmax do? Can anybody uh now I'm going to ask you can anybody explain why does softmax look like that? What is that line that's showing up in the softmax graph? So I have input data, two dimensional data, and I'm doing a soft max of those two dimensions. Let's uh let me see if somebody else Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yes, exactly. So the answer was that's the line that uh x x1 plus x2 = 1. Uh so or you know x plus y equals 1 if you think of one dimension as y and one dimension as x. And that's the simplex. That's the uh is that the onedimensional simplex or the zero I think that's the onedimensional simplex I can't remember how to define simplex but anyway um the simplex is the set of points in RD that uh where the dimensions sum to one and the output of a softmax is going to be a point in the simplex okay so that's that's what that looks like this is basically going to be like your probability is high of one class if you're at that point and low uh for that class if you're at the other Okay, so this is what neural networks are doing. Those are our basic layers. Uh it's a little more complicated with attention and you know other kinds of layers, but these are the basic ones. So let's now look at what an MLP um looks like plotted this way. So here's a let's see this is a three layer MLP because there's three linear layers. So our convention is three layers. And the input data is going to be a cloud of points at the origin with label red and a circle of a hemisphere of points around with label blue. Okay, so we're going to try to do a uh binary classification. So this will be training with cross entropy loss doing softmax regression and we're going to look at what training actually looks like. So this is a nonlinear classification problem because there's no linear hyper plane that separates the red cloud from the the blue cloud. Okay, so layer by layer the representation of the data the distribution of data gets transformed and what you're going to see happen is that the red points will move away from the blue points and and this is what it looks like. Okay, so after a few steps of gradient descent, they start to spread out like this and um you know at this layer we're kind of shifting things over and then the red loo snaps it back onto the axes and then we you know skew things in a different direction and eventually we get things to kind of spread out on a line and then the softmax clamps that back down to this um this implex and so the red points are all heading toward the point one zero and the blue points are all heading toward the 01 and those are the one hot labels for your data. So this optimization is actually working at segregating the blue points to be classified as class two and the red points to be classified as class one. Okay. So let's let's look at that animated. So this is what it looks like. This is every single layer has width two. So we can plot everything here. There's nothing hidden. It's not like I'm doing dimensionality reduction or visualizing. It's just the raw, you know, activation values at each of these layers. And each of the layers now can be understood as a different representation of the data distribution and a better and better representation for solving the class of segregating the red points from the blue points which is the classification uh task. Okay. Uh oh yeah so yeah just for fun I didn't really really um have a deep insight to take from this but just for fun you could say you can compare the optimization using SGD gradient descent to the optimization using uh the spectral descent method that you worked out in your problem set two. So in the spectral descent method, you are uh normalizing the updates by their spectral norm and you can see there's some interesting different dynamics. Uh it's a little bit hard to read too much into this. Well, the spectral descent is descending faster, but you know that depends on the learning rate. So there's some caveats, but it is getting to a lower loss. The loss is tiny little font up here. It's actually segregating the red and blue points better. So you can understand that different um optimization schemes actually do have to um perform differently and there was some reason for working out what you worked out in your problem set. I think something that might be interesting here is it looks like this first linear layer is almost like a uh rotation which is a orthogonal transformation and if your updates are kind of orthogonalized then maybe that somehow relates to this first layer um finding this orthogonal transformation. It's just a rotation but it's also scaling. So uh yeah I think it might be fun to see if you can get insights from this but I didn't it's a little complicated. Okay. Um so we can also try visualizing uh more advanced nets in this way and this is where the power of representation learning really come in like not when I'm just having an MLP over two dimensional embeddings uh but when I am having a very um highdimensional feature space. So this is the clip neural network. It's uh a vision computer vision system that uh is quite good at extracting good features from images. Uh and we'll talk about that a little bit later in the course. Um and now the embeddings are not two dimensional but I'm doing I am doing uh a dimensionality reduction technique PCA to show what they look like. So it's a bit of a cartoon rather than just showing you the real data. But the point is that layer by layer and these are vision transformer layers or a block of three vision transformer blocks like we we you know in the transformer you have attention and then layerm and then softmax and then this and that right >> [snorts] >> um so this is an entire block a sequence of layers but what happens is as you go deeper and deeper into the network you end up segregating these different colors and the colors are corresponding to the class of images in a computer vision data set. So, is it a cat? Is it a dog? And you see that at the top of the network, they're all very separated from each other. And that's because this network was trained for classification. So, it's trained to find a way to disentangle all of these different classes and have the the representation in some high dimensional space, get all separated so that then at the very end, I can just um take a soft max of that and they'll be cleanly u they'll be cleanly separated to the the vertices of the simplex, which is the the one hot labels for these classes. Okay. So it's a little bit hard to see because again it's doing PCA so it's not actually showing the simplex but it's something kind of like that. Okay. So the the whole point is just to kind of build up the intuition of how we go from entangled complicated data at the input to a neural network to layer by layer gradually morphing disentangling it these geometric transformations until you get clean uh kind of separation of your semantics of interest that can be read off into a prediction for example classification. and the output space is a simpler object than the input space. That's that's the point I'm trying to make. Okay, cool. So, any questions about the the general idea of representation learning and what these neural networks are doing and what these visualizations represent? Okay, cool. So um one uh of the initial inspirations for deep learning of course was to understand the human brain and in neuroscience people have studied um how representations are learned in the brain. So I wanted to make this m make this connection. Uh so this is a map of the visual cortex a cartoon of the visual cortex of the human brain and it goes through a sequence of layers. The layers are just like the layers in our neural networks and they are kind of linear followed by pointwise nonlinear operations plus some extra complexities that biologists debate over the whether or not these extra complexities are important or not but for us it's just linear relu linear relu uh and in visual cortex there's about six of these layers or five or six of these layers and then there's a final layer called it where that's kind of thought to be where the semantics are segregated where object recognition has occurred. Okay. And so we have first layers extract do kind of filtering to find edges and the next layers look for conjunctions of edges and disjunctions uh and all kinds of combinations until you get pattern recognizers. And if you look at the neurons and you poke into the brain and you measure what they're responsive to, you'll see that as you go deeper into the brain, they become responsive selectively for more and more complex patterns. So let's see, do deep nets, artificial deep nets do the same thing? What do they learn internally? Okay, so let's say I train a deep net to do classification of images. Now I'm going to try to probe and interpret the representation that's learned in order to perform that that that classification task. And we'll do it just like the neuroscientists do. So we will stick artificial probes into the neurons and measure their value as a function of the inputs and see what uh what inputs these neurons are responsive to. Okay, so in the brain we would stick an electrode in and see when the neuron fires. That's like when the relu is above zero, but it might not be exactly a relu in the brain. It might be some other threshold function. And we're going to do the same thing. So for which inputs does the neuron turn on and for which inputs does it turn off. Okay. So uh people have been doing this for a while. Uh kind of one of the modern names for this type of work is like interpretability or mechanistic interpretability sometimes. So it's it's a really interesting area if you've come across those terms. uh but it's it's an old problem and um I'll show you some results from this ZLearn Fergus 2014 paper on trying to interpret the units within a CNN. Okay, so the first layer of um in in the CNN that they were working with this was just a kind of vanilla convolutional network with you know five or six layers. Well, the first layer has a set of filters and we can look at what so the filters will all um output a feature map, right? So each filter will output some spatially varying set of activations and we can look at what input patches in the image are most strongly activating uh one of the filters to fire. So what is the filter looking for? Okay, so here are um nine filters in this montage of nine sub sub grids. And on each of these sub areas, we have uh the top nine input patches that most activated that particular filter. So this is like channel one filter. And what what do you think it's doing? So what what is this a filter for? This this top left one. Yeah, it's like an edge detector. It's looking for an oriented line, a bright followed by a dark transition. So, right, filter. What what is the idea of a filter? A filter is trying to filter the out something from the data like find the thing it's looking for and throw away everything else. That's kind of that's the what the word filter means, right? The English word filter. So, that's what it's doing. It's just it's responding to some things and not to other things. And what it responds to is is edges. Okay. Uh and then we have other like this is a different orientation of the edge and this is like a greenness detector. it fires selectively when it sees green. Okay, so it looks like at the first layer of processing in a deep neural net, uh you get these kind of simple feature detectors. Okay, so the next layer, what is that going to look like? So turns out not so different than what the neuroscientists came up with when they were studying animal brains. So the second layer looks like it's um having neurons, filters that are selective not for edges, but for some kind of conjunction of edges, higher order patterns. So if I have two channels that detect two different orientations of edges, the next layer of my network could look for a conjunction of those two orientations like a cross. And that turns out to map to, you know, maybe even more complicated things like gradients or circles and so forth. Okay. So then as we go layer by layer, we're going to get more and more complex pattern detectors. So here are the um image patches that most strongly activate nine different filters on layer three of this network. And already you can start to see like just layer three we get selectivity for fa for faces, right? Uh and it's it's not because it's like really recognizing humans necessarily, but maybe it's because it's recognizing like little circle of darkness around a bright background with a like broader like torso thing underneath it. So some like blobiness detector, but it happens to uh be an okay template for a human. Okay. Okay. And then as we go deeper we get much more selectivity and um eventually we start actually detecting selectively you know segregating dog faces from human faces for example. And again this is 2014. This is the fifth layer of a convolutional network from that era. If you run the same types of uh methods on modern networks which are you know dozens or hundreds of layers uh you will get you know very uh precise uh detectors deep in the network that code for very specific things. And that's that's this area of mechanistic interpretability where people are trying to understand you know what are the emergent detectors in these in these systems. You can do it for images or language models or other things as well. We can say is there like a neuron within a language model that codes for the um the sentiment right there was a famous paper called the sentiment neuron that found a neuron that codes for sentiment but now this is well known that this just occurs in all of our modern deep nets. Okay. So uh the rough story is that you know deep nets and the neuroscience um models of the brain are quite in alignment here. Uh the first layer of the human visual system or monkey visual system to be more precise will have these like edge detectors and the next layer will have you know shape and pattern detectors and then finally at it at the sixth layer or so we'll have like dogface recognition. Okay. one difference. So there are some differences between brains and machines. One interesting difference is that the brain seems to only have about you know seven or I don't depends how you count but maybe like seven layers of convolutional filters and our modern architectures have you know hundreds of layers of um filters and other operations. Okay. But the brain has recurrence. So it it uses those seven layers over and over again. Okay. Okay. So let's um now get a little bit more formal and define what what a representation is for the context of this class. Okay. So we're going to basically restrict oursel to representation is a vector embedding as a vector. Uh or it could be a more general tensor object. It could have multiple dimensions but most canonically it will be a vector. Okay. And there's two different ways we're going to use the word representation. So the first way is we'll say a representation of some data domain X or maybe a data distribution uh P of X probability of X is a function that maps from data in that domain to embeddings in RD vector embeddings. That function F is called the encoder and it will assign a feature vector to every element in the input domain and we'll say that that function F that's the representation of that data domain. Okay. So what what is actually parameterizing F? It's the weights and biases. So if I have a neural network, the representation by this definition is its weights and biases. That's a learned representation of the data distribution. Okay. Another use of the word representation will be the representation not of the domain or the distribution but of a single point. And that will just be a vector Z in RD and where Z is equal to the encoder applied to F. Okay. So people use both of these definitions of representation. If you want to be clear, you can say the representation of a data point versus the representation of a data domain. uh but I wanted to point out that distinction because we'll talk about uh oh the learned representation and when we say the learned representation we usually mean f uh okay so that's the learned representation is the weights and biases uh of the data that fit the data okay so that's the formalism we'll work with um for the next few lectures so why why learn representations so there's uh a lot of answers you could come up with but Maybe the simplest is that to do more learning, right? So we learn to learn, right? It's interesting. Uh it seems a little bit circular, but this is this is usually the context in which we're going to use representations. We're going to use them to accelerate future learning. We'll have a few lectures on transfer learning where we get into more details, but I have to introduce a little bit of this now because the main use of trained representations is to accelerate future learning. Okay. So quote from Ian Goodfellow generally speaking a good or the deep learning book a good representation is one that makes subsequent learning easier. Um and I think that this was kind of a this was a a strange misconception in the early days of deep learning. It was that um we will make deep networks that act as blank slates. They come at new problems with no no pre-trained prior information. uh and people would complain about deep learning as being very data hungry. It would take massive data to apply a deep net to your problem and and they would say well humans are uh much more sample efficient. We we only take a little bit of data to solve a new problem but it was kind of a you know it wasn't apples to apples. So humans are born and you in this class are coming to learn new information not as a blank slate. You've gone through, you know, billions of years of evolution, uh, tens of billions of years of the physical evolution of the universe before that, right? Before even biological evolution, and you're also having, you know, 20 plus years of pre-training in your lifetime. You've learned like very good internal skills and knowledge and representations. Okay? So, you're not blank slates. And deep nets also should generally not be used as blank slates or that this is something that's changed over the last decade. That used to be we thought deep nets required a lot of data because we'll start from scratch. will initialize them randomly and they'll be blank slates. But these days, this is not really what we do. We start with pre-trained representations. Okay. So let's let's look at that idea. Okay. So very often we will have let's imagine that you're working for some music company at Spotify or something and you will train your neural network to classify the genre of the music. Okay? So you'll have an two parts here for your network. you'll have some um encoder f and then you might have some extra readout operation at the end to do your classification. Okay, we'll think of W as just being like a linear layer on top of a representation Z. But we can actually select any layer in the in the network to be called the representation and any prior layers are the encoder and any subsequent layers are like the readout. Okay. Okay. But often what we're going to be tested on is not going to be the same as what we're we're we're trained on. Maybe we invested a billion dollars to train the Spotify im uh sound uh recognition system. We don't want to train use a billion dollars to solve a new task because maybe the next year we realize actually we also need to predict if users like the music or don't like the music so we can give them recommendations. So the trick is that we will just use our same encoder up to some layer in the network and we will only retrain the final kind of readout and that might in this case be a linear operation which would be called a linear probe or it could be uh MLP or something else. Okay, so we're not going to retrain from scratch. We're going to initialize our network with the pre-trained representation. And in this case, we might just freeze that pre-trained representation, no longer updated, and just learn like a linear mapping onto our new prediction problem. Okay, so these are the two kind of phases. Now they have a they have new names for these uh pre-training and post-raining. Uh but we used to call it like there's a lot of different names for this, but you pre-train and then you postrain. Okay, so another thing you can do is not just train this readoff head, you can actually uh update the parameters of your encoder as well but initialize from the uh the prior f. So you just uh continue to do backdrop to update uh to find you know some fine-tuned perturbation of your parameters uh that will solve the new problem. Okay, so this is called fine tuning. I'll talk about that on uh the next slide as well. Okay, so we initialize fprime not with like rand random weights but we initialize it with the same weights as f and then we keep training. That's the whole idea of fine-tuning. Okay, and here's the transfer learning paradigm. This is what uh is typically done for like real world problems. You know for toy problems you can train from scratch but for real problems you generally can't. Okay, so you have three phases. You have now not just train and test. You have pre-train which is can be thought of as learning a representation. You do that on a lot of data. Uh and typically you can do that on a lot of data. You can afford to do that on a lot of data because the pre-training phase, the representation learning phase doesn't require as much knowledge about what the final task is going to be. We'll see that autoenccoders and contrastive learning are these pre-training training methods that don't require knowing what the final task is going to be. But then you adapt to your actual task of interest. uh and you can do that on just a little data because you already have learned a good representation of the domain f of the data domain x through this function f is the representation okay and then you test right that's that's just regular you deploy your system out in the real world okay so I think a lot of you have you know probably done this because this is just a practical thing if you're if you're ever going to you know play with deep nets you'll download a pre-trained system and you'll find tune it right so a lot of you I'm sure have done this uh but it's worth kind of understanding why and how it works. Okay, so fine-tuning extremely simple recipe. Pre-train a network on task A resulting in parameters W and B, weights and biases. Those weights and biases are your pre-trained representation of the data domain. Okay. Then you initialize a second network using some or all of the weights and biases. You could initialize some weights from scratch, some from your pre-trained weights. You could you can do all kinds of interesting network surgery on that. And then you'll train the second network um to result in parameters w prime and beta prime. And this is often called fine tuning because we assume the w prime is just like a minor modification of w because we only fine-tuned on a little bit of data. Okay. So the kind of point here is uh the way I like to think of like a lot of people think of deep learning as the thing you do when you have a ton of data. But I think the real point of deep learning is it's the thing you do that enables learning from little data. So deep net and deep learning to me is really all about how to learn from little data. And the way you learn from little data is by pre-training on massive data. So yes, you have to pre-train on massive data, but once you do, you get a very sample efficient method which is just update the representation a little bit to solve the new task. And this is this the kind of the best known way right now for a lot of problems to do learning from little data. To do learning from little data, you have to pre-train on massive data. That's the weird um that's a little trick that happened that people didn't quite expect. I think for a while people thought there might be some algorithm that's just better at learning. You don't have to pre-train that algorithm, but but this works better. Yeah. Question in the back. >> You talked about massive data versus little data. like roughly what's the scale of the amount that you're >> Yeah. So what's the um scale for massive and what's the scale for little? Uh so in practice the kind of par is always the the ratio is always becoming more extreme I would say but you know um there's not going to be a precise answer but I would say in practice uh each year the pre-trained representations get trained on more and more data. So that will be like a language model trained on 10 trillion word uh tokens or words on the internet right and the fine-tuning is typically something that you can do on collab yourself in you know a few minutes or hours. Um now uh it depends what kind of fine-tuning you're doing. So we'll talk about linear probes and low rank fine-tuning methods but that will come in in a future lecture. But it'd be like a trillion pre-training tokens and you know a million or less fine-tuning tokens. So the ratio is like many orders of magnitude. >> Uh there's a question in the way back. >> Yeah. So for a lot of applications like there are obviously pre-trained models on specific types but let's say like you're in some scientific field and there are not Great. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Very good question. >> So, uh if I can rephrase the question, uh what if you're in a domain where you don't have a lot of pre-training data for that domain? What if you uh are in a scientific domain where it's like very specialized measurements? are you allowed to use a language models pre-training that's trained on like internet talking and text and the the um empirical answer is yes that often actually works decently well so you don't have to pre-train on the same type of data or even the same data distribution as you're going to fine-tune on uh there's often a lot of shared information between one data modality and one distribution and uh other ones that might look very disparate but your mile you know your mileage may vary It's like um if you have a really really big gap between the type of data you pre-train on and the type you fine-tune on, then it might not work as well. Uh but I would say in practice, the surprise has been if you fine-tune a language model trained on the internet on almost anything, it will help. That's kind of been the the current finding. It might not be the best way of doing things, but it will be better than initializing the network from scratch. >> Yeah. Question. Um yeah I want to ask what's the theory behind this fine tune um framework you know like there is no um guaranteeing for similarity between test A or um test B and the yeah what's the guarantee for this kind of par >> so the question I think is what is like the theoretical guarantees about fine-tuning. So the the the big question in this area in transfer learning, we we'll have more on this later, but the big question is when and why does training on task A on data A help on task B and data B? What is the property of A and B that has to be alike for this to actually work. So empirically it just generally works pretty well more than people maybe thought. Uh theoretically I would say it's very much an open question. U maybe I'll point you to uh Sanjie Vorura has some papers and some talks that phrase it the way I just gave it like when does training on task A help on task B and he tries to develop some some theory out of this uh but I would say it's in its early days. Uh okay, let me move on. We'll come back to question more questions later. Okay, so that's really just all motivation setting up kind of the concept why we actually care about this. But now let's get into a few algorithms and and see how how representation learning actually actually can work. Okay, so um right so but just first you know what are properties of a good representation? The optional reading for today gives um some ideas. Um so let me give two or three and then I'll I'll ask you if you have any others. So what what are properties of good representation? What are we looking for? Uh so I said that if I I can pre-train somehow but what how should I pre-train to get the best representation? Right? What are the properties I'm looking for? Okay, so one property is that you often want your representation to be somehow small. Um you want it to be something that is compact so that you know there's two there's two reasons for this. One is that this will just use less memory. You can you can store lowdimensional compact features on your disk with less memory than the raw data itself. That's kind of the most obvious one. The other one is kind of an aams razor like generalization theory um uh type of analysis where you would say that the more compact representations will be somehow simpler and generalize better or learn more abstractions that generalize better. Okay, but you all you don't just want your representation to be compact. You also want it to be explanatory. And one of the technical uh terms for this is sufficient. You want minimal and sufficient representations. minimal. They're very uh lowdimensional or low information but sufficient that they are sufficient statistics for solving your task. They actually are informative toward the tasks of interest that you care about. Okay, so this cartoon on the right is meant to be like a minimal and sufficient representation for like semantic understanding of a scene. Just three things and where they are, but not like all the weird phototric details that might not actually matter for um driving a car or for the semantic problems of interest. Okay. Uh another one might be that your representation has kind of disentangled the interesting factors of variation in your data into kind of independent dimensions. So axis aligned representation. Uh we'll talk a little bit about that. Uh I have two more but I want to query the class now. What what are your ideas? What would you want in a good representation of data? What what else is there besides this? you know, minimal, compact, sufficient, disentangled. Yeah, let's go. >> Somehow human interpretable. >> Yes, interpretable. You've got exactly the one I was thinking of next. So, you Yeah. Uh there's other considerations. We're going to have to interface with these representations. Okay. Another one. >> Similar dimensional size dimension like or something. >> Yeah. You maybe want your uh vector embeddings to be like um unit variance or some have some nice numerical properties. That's a good one. I didn't think of that. >> This would be explanatory and interpret explanatory and interpretable. By explanatory, I meant um that it is explanatory toward the automated tasks of interest like the machine will be able to use that representation to solve problems and make accurate predictions. By interpretable, it meant a human can use that representation to solve problems and understand things. They're definitely related, but that was the distinction I was trying to make back here. >> Context aware. >> Context aware. Yeah, you want your representation to kind of know as much as possible about the universe when it's making a decision. >> Another one, >> something similar. I was going to say like resilient, >> resilient, robust. Yeah. So, you want representations that um are not going to be uh fragile and like vary a lot when the world when the input data changes. you want the representation to maybe become be stable and you don't want it to be like you can just add a little noise to the data and suddenly the representation will go crazy. Um okay and so those are all good. I just had this one final like yeah it should a good representation fundamentally it's just something that makes subsequent problem solving easy. Okay think of like the 4A um transform. It's a representation of data that makes convolution really easy. It makes convolution just into a product. So that's like a classic representation but all representations have this property or should have this property. Okay, you can think of more. Okay, so um so how do we learn representations? So one way is you just train your neural network on whatever task you want like music prediction and you hope that it learned a good representation and that that's okay that works sometimes. Uh that's just like supervised learning and it will find an F and maybe that F is a good representation. Um, but we're now going to talk about methods that don't target like some supervised task, but they just try to learn good representations generically. And we sometimes call this unsupervised learning or self-supervised learning, where we have input data, which is not XY pairs, but it's just X. There's no target, but I want to still learn a good Okay. And so what what would a good representation be? So maybe it's some embedding vectors. I said that's the main one we'll focus on, but there's other things it could be too. could be clusters. It could be uh distance metric. You could learn a a proper distance metric for your data domain x. Okay, a metric is a function of x1 and x2. So it's a biariate function as opposed to an embedding which is a uni univariate function just as a function of x. Okay, we'll talk about metrics in the next lectures. Okay, so there's um so we're going to talk about the vector embeddings and there's kind of two in my opinion there's two general principles for how to learn a good vector embedding without having an explicit supervised task. Okay, so the one principle is compression. Just compress your find a way to find a good compression of your data. And the other principle is prediction. Be able to predict missing data when you hold that data out. We'll talk about both of these and um in the reading there's kind of a cat catalog of some of the methods we'll see and how at least in my view they can all be understood as compression or prediction and if you want to you can actually even see the compression versus prediction as fundamentally the same. I'm not I'm not sure if there's really a difference but u at least it's useful uh you know intuitively to think about compression versus prediction. So let's see both of these. Okay, that's a question for you to think about. Is there actually a connection between compression and prediction? Okay, so learning via compression will work as follows. We'll take our data and we'll try to you know find that compact mental representation. But what is that going to actually do uh uh mechanistically? So that we're going to take our data, we're going to find a vector embedding and then we're going to find a lower dimensional vector embedding and a lower dimensional vector embedding. And we'll just do that by constructing a neural network uh where the width decreases as a function of depth. Right? So each new layer will be lower width. Okay, so that that is all fine. I'll learn a lowdimensional compressed representation, but I also need it to be sufficient and explanatory of the data, right? I don't want to just map my input to zero, right? I want to map it to something that actually still can reconstruct the data. Okay, so we call that um that embedding vector canonically, we'll call it Z. Uh, and we also want to be able to decode the image from the compressed representation or I I'm using a lot of image examples just because I like images. I often work on images, but think of image as just a placeholder for whatever data you want to put there, whatever domain you care about. Okay. So, what is this thing called? It's called an autoenccoder. And this is the like um representation learning algorithm 101. Just the most basic vanilla one. And also my favorite and probably the best one and I think it'll just win out in the end like this is so many things in machine learning can be uh viewed as some kind of autoenccoder or some variation on an autoenccoder. So this is a very fundamental concept just map the data to a simpler form such that you can decode the original data from that simpler form. Okay, autoenccoders is just such a beautiful idea, right? Um, you know, Hinton was one of the, this is not the original reference for autoenccoders, but uh, Hinton, who just won the physics Nobel Prize, of course, was one of the, uh, people that, you know, really helped develop autoenccoders um, in his early work. I'm not sure there's like a single inventor of autoenccoders. That would probably be Yeah, it's it's an idea that's existed for, you know, centuries in some form or another. Um, okay. So, that's that's an autoenccoder. So, let's look at it mathematically. So we have our input data distribution which is all complicated. We map it to a compressed lower dimensional representation. So so uh I'm drawing it as a circle because it's a smaller object. It's a lower dimensional thing. It might not actually be like a Gaussian object. Uh in order for it to actually be a Gaussian circle, we'll have to do something called variational autoenccoders. We'll come to that later, but just keep in mind that autoenccoders do have a way of actually mapping to the circle. uh but we'll talk about not just vanilla autoenccoders for now and then we'll train the uh decoder G which will predict the uh data in such a way that we minimize the reconstruction error between the uh reconstructed predicted data and the input data. Okay, so here's our objective function. We're just going to say that encode X into a lower dimensional format decode it back to the original dimensionality should be an identity. g of f should be an identity and that should just be um reconstructing the raw data x and expectation over the data the training set. Okay, so that's an autoenccoder. So uh here's like a kind of learning diagram of what the autoenccoder objective and hypothesis bases. So the thing to the critical thing to note here is that the autoenccoder objective just says I'm going to define big f as being the composition of uh the decoder and the encoder. So it's encode and then decode becomes this one big function f. So the kind of funny thing about the autoenccoder is that this big function f should ideally just be an identity. It should do nothing. So the objective is kind of trivial. The objective is like you just don't do anything to your data. Just learn an identity. just it's if I had no constraints on the architecture on the hypothesis space the autoenccoder would be a trivial thing to learn and it would have no utility. It would just spit out an exact copy of the data. Okay, but the the key thing is the autoenccoder works because you put constraints over the architecture in our in our formal language. We'll call that the hypothesis space. So the key thing is that we're mapping from a highdimensional space to a lower dimensional embedding and back. So typically m should be less than n. Now there are variations on autoenccoders where you don't need that. You can impose simplicity on the embeddings in other ways than dimensionality reduction. But for vanilla autoenccoders m is less than n. And so for an image you know it looks like this. We have a low dimensional representation z. Okay. So um question question for the audience. Uh what if f and g are both linear? So I learn a linear transformation to a low dimensional space and then I learn a linear transformation that tries to invert that. What do what do you think that is going to result in? Does anybody know it's a model they've encountered in previous machine learning or statistics? Yeah, >> that will be another linear function. Yeah, that that's right. Um okay, but yeah, so that's one good response. Any others? Uh let's go over here. like the biggest like the equivalent of PCA but >> yeah equivalent of PCA okay right okay so you're you're on to this like if I want to what is PCA doing PCA is trying can be understood as trying to kind of maximize the variance I'm capturing in the signal uh via some you know transformation linear orthogonal transformation of of the of the vector and if I'm maximizing the variance I'm able to best reconstruct and that actually is exactly equivalent to um the L2 reconstruction objective. So PCA can be understood as doing uh essentially the same thing. So if they're both linear, we'll just replace it with the encoders of matrix W, the decoders of matrix uh WG, and the encoders matrix WF. And we're trying to say if I pass encode decode, I will obtain my original data matrix again. Okay, that's the objective of an autoenccoder written with linear fng. Okay. And and PCA uh is a variant of this where we um we assume that the encoder and decoder are the same matrix W and they have this uh this property that it's an orthogonal matrix. So that's the con that's the constraint. It's a slightly different setting but it's almost the same. And so this is the objective that PCA tries to minimize tries to find W such that um you know this transformation will result in uh decoding back to the original data. So you can you can kind of work through the math. If you're more familiar with PCA is maximize the variance in the projected uh space then you can kind of work out that um this thing under this condition uh is equivalent to minimize the variance in x minus the variance in the transformed version of x. And then since we're we can instant maximize uh to and change this line to be uh plus instead of minus and then we can remove this term because this term doesn't depend on w and we're maximizing over w and then this is just maximize the variance captured in uh in the reconstructions and that might be a more familiar PCA that you're used to. uh and what can be proven is that the embeddings learned by a linear autoenccoder span the same subspace as the embeddings learned by by PCA. Okay, so this is kind of the rough the rough argument there. Okay, so vanilla's most uh you know intro statistical model that you can think of the most like standard one that's been around for hundreds of years I I believe or you know quite a long time PCA well an autoenccoder the very best representation learning method in the family of reconstruction based representation learning is just nonlinear PCA that's that's it's like a generalization of PCA to nonlinear uh representations okay by the way I was um trying to to work out these equations and I found that chat GBT has gotten incredibly good at this. So if you're a little bit confused about uh I didn't put in like every single step here, but if you're a little confused, um ask ChatGBT uh like proved what's the connection between PCA and uh auto linear autoenccoders and it will just give this wonderful like derivation of everything. I think it's correct. Um I did I did check I thought about it. Um but my point is that these tools are getting a lot better. So if you're confused about a concept in this class, not a homework question, but a concept, just ask chat GPT or Claude or whatever language model you prefer. They're really good at explaining concepts. Anyway, you know, of course they can be wrong. You have to be very aware of that. Uh but I I'm just finding it to be quite a nice resource for for teaching and I'd recommend it for students too. Okay, so let's do a little experiment. Now, our autoenccoders actually learning good representations or you know, it sounds nice. learn a lowdimensional compressed representation. But is there any point to doing this besides just compression and um saving memory? Like okay, obviously I save memory by doing this. I have a smaller object to put on my disc, but do I get any other advantage out? Right? We said that we think we might get representation learning where we actually get a meaningful representation. So do we? So here's an experiment. You'll do some of these experiments on the same type of data on your pet 3. So it's a data set of colored shapes. We have, you know, uh, three different shapes, triangle, circle, and square. And we have, uh, you know, nine or so different colors. And we're going to try to train an autoenccoder on this data. Okay. So, we'll encode some X. And then we will, um, uh, we'll visualize uh to understand the representation, we're going to do this this particular probe called like a nearest neighbor probe. We're going to look in the representation space. So we're going to embed X into Z and then we're going to look at the nearest neighbors to Z. U we're look at the images whose Z vectors are the nearest neighbors to our query image. Okay, so in the representation space Z, the nearest neighbors to this triangle are going to be these other triangles that are roughly the same color. [snorts] And the nearest neighbor to this square will be, you know, blue squares. So what is this saying? This is saying that our representation space has organized the data in a in a way that seems kind of meaningful and seems to match human perception. So nearby embeddings and representation space actually are similar images according to their color and their shape. So it looks like the autoenccoder did learn a meaningful representation that encodes properties of both color and shape. Okay, another thing that we can do is we can um look at where that representation becomes effective. So we can now ask well we we'll measure the quality of the nearest neighbors by using um them to do classification. So we'll do a kn&n or actually one nearest neighbor classifier. So what is a one nearest neighbor classifier? That just says is my first nearest neighbor in a in a data set the same class as the query. So is it the same color class and is it the same shape class? Okay. And I'm plotting accuracy of the one nearest neighbor classifier for the shape class and the color class. And I'm plotting that at every layer of a um encoder. This is a convolutional encoder applied to this data. So what's going on here? The accuracy at shape is getting better, which kind of makes sense. Like I'm learning a better and better representation so that similar shapes are embedded near each other in representation space. Why is the accuracy at color getting worse? Anyone have an idea? Yeah. in a very clear way. It's perhaps learning the principal components of shape and separating it from the principal component of column. >> Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's learning something like the principal one principal component dimension is shape and the other is maybe color. That would be like if I had the linear autoenccoder that might be exactly what it does. This one's nonlinear, but it's going to be something kind of like that. Um so anyone have an idea for why why color did not improve as I go deeper into the network? I mean it didn't it got worse but let's just ask the question why didn't it get better >> yeah you don't need that much stuff to >> you don't need that much stuff to decode color right that's the answer okay right so in pixel space pixel space is a representation of the data it's just the raw format that we take the data in and color is very superficial and explicit in pixel space and the nearest neighbor image in pixel space to this query is going to have the same color is explicitly represented in that space shape is not explicitly represented in pixel space. The if I do L2 distance between two images represented as pixels, just a vector of pixels, it won't put similar shapes near each other, but it will put similar colors near each other. You can think about why that is, but this is the general kind of uh the general point is that every representation is good at some things and bad at other things, and there's trade-offs. So in this case, the pixels are a very good representation of color, but a bad representation of shape. And the embeddings are a good representation of shape, but a a worse representation of color, in fact, because the pixels were already kind of, I guess, the best you could do in this case. So autoenccoding doesn't strictly result in better representations. It results in different representations. That's that's a fundamental principle. All representation learning is making trade-offs to reformat the data into a way that makes some tasks easier, shape classification, and other tasks harder, color classification. in this example. Okay. So, okay, I said autoenccoders are the deep learning version of PCA and now I'm going to say that another model is the deep learning version of K means. So, PCA and C means are the two most important like models and everything else is just a generalization of them. That's that, you know, that's just some opinionated statement. Um, okay, but that's one way of thinking about it. So let's let's look at clustering now. Um so clustering is the problem of taking data and um outputting assigning each data point to a cluster. So a representation learning lens on clustering is you're learning an encoder that doesn't output a vector, it outputs an integer. So for every data point I output an integer which is the cluster assignment still is an encoder. It's still representation learning. Okay. So at inference time um you know if I just apply my learned encoder that outputs integers to some data points it will tell me you know this is the third class and I'll color that red and that has identified clusters. Okay so clustering is learning an encoder to integers. Okay so why is clustering a good representation? So from the the representation learning angle clustering is learning a function f that outputs an integer. We'll represent the integers as a one hot code uh in this example here. So we can think of it as a vector embedding but it's just a one hot vector embedding right that's isomeorphic with the integers. Okay for a finite set of integers. Okay. So what's the best representation that this is another subjective statement. What's the best representation that humans have come up with so far? What what do you think? What's the best representation that the human brain has discovered? words. Okay, that that was my answer. You can disagree. I don't know if this is true. I'm u traditionally I come from a computer vision background and so this is kind of um blasphemy I suppose but I think language is just the best representation of the world that humans have discovered. There's other representations that are good and have their trade-offs but language is like the pinnacle. Okay. And words are the atoms of language. you know there's grammar and there's uh structures between words but words are you know the important component of language and clustering is the problem of making up new words for things that's one way of understanding it right a word is like a symbol that um at least you there might be some linguists that would quibble about this but one you know rough definition of word is it's just like it is a symbol that denotes a set and that's what clustering is doing okay so this is like saying oh um I will map every image like this to this cluster and I I can just label it arbitrarily with a word. Okay, language has more structure beyond the words but this is um but words are an important part of it. So clustering is the representation learning problem of finding new words for for um concepts. Okay, let's talk about K means. Um so this should be review. I hope you I hope you've seen PCA and K means before. So if you haven't like go back and review those because as I said the deep learning is just generalizing those representational learning is just generalizing these concepts. So what does K means do? K means finds um you know K different clusters in your data and each cluster is represented with what's called the mean um which is just going to be the average of all the data points in that cluster. So it maps data points to integers and it does that in such a way that each data point is as close as possible to the mean of the um data points in the cluster it is assigned to. Okay. So um here's the representation learning view of K means. I'm going to train an encoder that will output one hot codes and then my decoder will just be uh like think of it like a lookup table. It takes in a one hot code and it outputs a vector and it's trying to output the vector that will reconstruct the input as as best as possible. So what is the if I only can output a single vector for every item in a cluster, right? The cl every item in the cluster goes to the same one hot code. So now I can decode that into just a single vector like think of G as a matrix W applied to a one hot code. It selects a row of that matrix. Um what is going to be the decoder that minimizes the uklidian distance reconstruction error? The L2 reconstruction error. What is the what is the name for the vector that minimizes the distance to all points in a in a in a set in a set? The L2 distance. Yeah. >> Me. the mean. Okay, I think a lot of you know that, maybe some of you don't, but yes, the minimizer, the vector that minimizes the L2 distance to a set of other points is the mean of those other points. You can show that. Okay, so that means that K means is an L2 autoenccoder. The only difference from the other autoenccoder that I showed you is that the hypothesis space doesn't have a low dimensional bottleneck. It has an integer bottleneck. Okay, so um that's just a mapping of C means onto autoenccoders. They're the same model with a different hypothesis space. Uh K means this hypothesis space is not differentiable. It has some properties that are um can be exploited, some structure that can be exploited. So we do we optimize it with um a different algorithm than SGD. But and that's where you might have encountered like the expectation maximization method for doing K means and and so forth. And um yeah, that that's just because this problem has some special structure. Okay. Okay. And then the deep learning version of K means is called a vector quantized autoenccoder. Uh so vector quantized autoenccoder is exactly the same as K means except that F is nonlinear instead of linear. And there's a whole bunch of variations on VQ models. There's VQ GAN, VQVE, etc., etc. These have bells and whistles. But this is the gist of it. I'm trying to learn an encoding into a set of integers and a decoding that minimizes reconstruction error. and uh f will be a deep network or f both little f and and little g are both going to be deep neural networks. Okay, so you can read up on exactly how that method works, but it's kind of just k means with deep nets. >> Yeah. >> In this k analogy, does the autoenccoder learn to find the best k? >> Um no. Yeah. So, so does the autoenccoder learn to find the best case? So K is a hyperparameter and typically the user has to define it. Uh now yeah you can you can have methods that try to automatically determine K but that's beyond the scope of these vanilla methods. Yeah. Okay. So data compression that was the first way of learning representations. Um and it shows up in PCA and K means in VQ VA and VQ GANs in autoenccoders and so forth. There's another thing you can do and that will be the prediction method. Okay. So now rather than learning representations by compressing data, we're going to try to learn representations by predicting held out data. And this is actually the kind I started this lecture with. I said that we could just pre-train a network on like music classification. That's a prediction problem and it induces an okay representation for music classification. But we're instead going to do something else which is we'll say we didn't want labels. We don't want to be we don't want a representation that is tied to a specific task. So we don't want to have to have humans label some narrow task. We just something much more generic that doesn't require annotations or task specificity. And one way to do that is we say we're not going to predict labels. We're going to predict the raw data itself. And this is called self-supervised learning. So it's called self supervised learning because it's using the machinery of supervised learning. meaning predict Y from X except that we define Y as being raw some part of the raw data as opposed to some label. Okay, so this is like an autoenccoder except I'm predicting half of the data from the other half of the data. Okay, and interestingly this this works really well. This tends to work a lot better than autoenccoders. So here's an example of this setup. Uh this is the colorization problem I showed you before. Try to predict the colors from a black and white image. And this is a um self-supervised method that tries to break part of the raw data, the color channels from another part of the raw data, the the black and white channel. Okay, so we can now take that model that's just trained to, you know, do this self-supervised prediction of the missing colors. Now, it's it's kind of free labels because color images have the colors, you know, built in. I just took the color image, I split it into the luminance channel and the color channels, right? So it's it's cheap. It's easy to run this on just raw unlabelled data. Um, now I can investigate did this system actually learn a meaningful representation. So we'll do the deep net electrophysiology. I'll poke my probe in there and ask what are the neurons uh sensitive to. Okay. So here uh I guess I'll ask ask the class what do you think uh remember that when I talked about the Zealer and Fergus model I said that there were like you know face selective neurons and dog face selective neurons and other things. What do you think the neurons will be sensitive to for predicting colors? And let's look at layer five of a network. So kind of deep in inside the network. What do you all think? Yeah, over here. Textures. Okay, good. Yeah, textures seem to be color is kind of low level. It seems like it should be something that's a phototric property like texture. Any other ideas? Yeah, in the back. >> Objects. Okay. Yeah. So why why objects? Uh different classes of objects. >> Yeah, different classes of objects have different colors. A strawberry, if I if I know something is a strawberry, I can say it's probably red. So knowing the object category tells me a lot about the color. Anything else? Okay. So yes, it turns out objects is is uh is one of the answers. So here are our three different neurons and this is looking at the the feature maps and we're just shading we're blacking out all the parts of the feature maps where the activations are below a threshold. So this is like where are the neurons firing at some convolutional layer layer five of this network and yeah on lower layers it is textures and other things like this but the interesting thing is that it doesn't really matter how you train these networks. If you train them to predict classes, if you train them to predict colors, if you train them to inpaint missing pixels, like just break the right half of the image from the left half, it the units that kind of carve the world as disjoints that are predictive of everything uh turn out to be objects and semantics and the words that humans have. So it's like words are not arbitrary. We have the words we have because they're you very predictive statistically of missing data. Okay, so this is like discovery of semantic words uh without any semantic labels. Okay. And this has been the big kind of finding over the last decade um that led to this kind of revolution in how we do deep learning which was the move from supervised learning to self-supervised learning. So the self-supervised learning is you just uh we used to try to do what was called unsupervised learning which is just learn from raw unlabelled data. But then we switch it into the mathematical machinery of supervised learning by just predicting some fake labels which are just raw data which we call pretext labels or pretext task from the the data itself. Okay. And there's so many different ways of doing this learning by prediction. Um so you could just predict class labels that would be called supervised learning of representations. You could do um predict the next frame in a video of the future. You could uh predict the next pixel in a sequence. And the same thing for any other data modality too. Uh so the two on the right are self-supervised because no human had to provide the label target. They just it's the next frame in the video, the raw data. It's the next pixel in a sequence. Uh and as you probably know, the way that language models work is uh they predict the next word in a sequence. So they're mostly in the family of this type of um learning. And we most people still call language models self-supervised because we don't they're just predicting the raw data. It happens. The raw data is semantic and is words, but it's it's still in that context. It's not like they're predicting the sentiment. They're just predicting the next word. Okay. So, all of these um self-supervised tasks can kind of be understood as something we call imputation, which just means take your data. It could be a matrix, a tensor, some data object. A video would be like time by X by Y. A sentence would be like time by you know the the content at that time, the word at that time. and mask part of it and put that into an encoder, decode it to predict the masked part of that input. So masked prediction or imputation is kind of the the standard pretext task that people like to use these days to learn representations. Okay. So spatial imputation just predict the you know next pixel from the previous pixel. Temporal imputation predict the next frame from the previous frame. uh channel imputation predict the colors from the uh black and white uh and again on other modalities you can do the same. Okay. So um yeah you can do this in a way that frames it just like an autoenccoder again but it will be called now a mask autoenccoder. So masked autoenccoder is you you take your data you mask random chunks chunks of it uh and the the little interesting trick is that in mass autoenccoders applied to images uh you're using a vision transformer and the vision transformer already tokenized the image into the first remember we talked about vision transform we said that we are going to create a set of tokens by chopping the image into patches and then um mapping those patches to vector embeddings or tokens that then get processed. And so they just said, well, what if I just remove some of the tokens and then I predict the missing tokens, right? So I and the really interesting thing about the attention um architecture is that uh I can mask different ratios. I can I can only keep like four of these tokens, but then the attention mechanism will uh kind of scale in a way that is proportional to the number of tokens. Like each token will attend each other token. So if I have four, it'll be four attending to four and it will output predictions for four. If I have eight, it will be eight attending to eight. So it has this nice kind of architectural um invariance to the number of tokens you put in. And then I decode I try to uh I just have some blank tokens I put into another transformer. And then I uh you know have trained it so that those blank tokens get filled in with the um with the prediction of the pixels in the missing tokens or the prediction of the data in the missing tokens. Okay. Okay. And masked autoenccoders are just a new name sort of for uh another model which was very popular called BERT. Um so there are differences and like getting engineering this to work on language versus vision is is you know a very important difference but conceptually they're almost the same thing. So BERT was a language model that was very popular some years ago. Uh it's gone a bit out of fashion but BERT is is roughly the same thing on u on text. So I just take my text I tokenize it. I mask some of the tokens. I run it through a transformer and I predict all of the tokens. So I'm now doing masked prediction with language. Okay. And um the auto reggressive models that try to predict the next word in a sentence are just the same except they're only masking the final word as opposed to interle words. And that has some advantages in that I can kind of decode in auto in sequential order as opposed to in like out of time order. Okay. So yeah question. Um, why is Bert getting out of fashion? >> Why is Bert getting out of fashion? So, I think it's because masking the final token um naturally can be used for generating uh sentences auto reggressively which we talked about before. If I mask the interle then it's like I'm generating um words out of temporal order. So if I'm talking with a human like time is an axis that is you know important and not symmetric with other axes like I I have to answer the question after the question's been asked by the person I'm talking to and so having these causal attention mechanisms where the masking is in causal order. I'm only masking the future and conditioning on the past. It just fits into uh language models which operate in causal order. And once that became popular, the biggest models were all masking only the, you know, the tokens in the future and given the tokens in the past. And because those are the biggest models, they just worked the best. But if I want to learn like a sentence embedding, I bet the BERT method is still going to work better if scaled the same amount. Okay. Okay. So, um, here's an interesting empirical finding. uh this is going back to that colorization paper but it's been shown in a lot of work which is that masked prediction just tends to always work better than autoenccoding. Okay. So if I I'm going to look at the accuracy I'm going to uh look at the representations at each layer of an autoenccoder versus a masked prediction network for colorization in this case and I'm going to assess performance using a um seeing how well I can linearly classify given the representation on that layer uh imageet categories in this case it's like a probe just like we were doing with the shapes where we had the nearest neighbor probe now we have a linear classifier probe okay so here's what happens as I go deeper in the network you get this separation we're autoenccoding learns an okay representation, but masked prediction learns a better a representation which is more semantic. It's it linearly decodes image net categories better. And this is something that um I thought I had a good explanation for and then I realized I don't. So I'm going to call it ongoing science and leave it as a a puzzle for for the class and maybe this would be a good final project. Why does masked prediction work better than autoenccoding? Okay, so here are three hypotheses to think about. So one is that okay autoenccoding controls compression via a dimensional bottleneck. Math prediction controls compression by the non-overlap between the outputs you're predicting and the inputs you're conditioning on. Okay. So the only thing that's useful for predicting the outputs is like the mutual information between the inputs and the outputs. And if these are separate then I will just forget all the stuff that's specific to the the inputs that's not relevant for the output. So it's kind of that's how it does compression. Okay. So it could be that just controlling compression via dimensional bottlenecks is really hard to make work. It's very finicky. It requires a architecture that has constraints on the dimensionality of the embeddings. And we know that lowdimensional things anything with like low dimension and in deep learning just is hard, right? It interacts with optimization in weird ways uh and interacts with batchorm and layerorm in weird ways. So lowdimensional embeddings have some bad properties and maybe it's just really hard to use dimensionality of the embeddings as the way to learn a good representation. Okay, hypothesis two is um autoenccoders are learning shortcuts. So in order for me to reconstruct this signal like okay imagine this. What if I had an autoenccoder with skip connections with residual connections? Would that be a good idea? What would be wrong with that autoenccoder FG but that just have some residual connections in between F and G? >> Not forcing this dimensional representation. >> Yeah, it just it skips the bottleneck. So there's all these like little gotchas like that. And it could be that autoenccoders just have this tendency to kind of copy the like local information that they're processing and and and that will be a decent solution even though um it'd be better for them to capture global properties in order to reconstruct the entire signal. Um, and then maybe math prediction is just closer to the prediction problems we actually care about. So somehow it's like closer to the actual use case. We're going to try to predict the future from the past or something like this. So I don't know. Um, I asked Kiming uh who's a professor here who um was the first author of the mass autoenccoder paper and he said well you know at the end of the day it's just empiricism. So mass prediction works better than autoenccoding. And I think it's a really interesting um question theoretically why that should be the case. >> Yeah. It's worth at the beginning of lecture you said that in the scope of like representation learning you think this like framework of autoing autoing is simplest and will win out if you could talk a bit as to like why you think that is >> yeah so ultimately it it just goes back to kind of some first principal argument that I can't really prove but there are arguments along the lines of you know alams razor right and like um formalisms of that that the most com the compression is somehow equivalent to um prediction and the most compressed representation will make the most accurate predictions about the future and autoenccoders are just like a simple embodiment of the idea of take your data compress it as much as possible and um remove all redundancies and it it just seems like you know there must from like first principles like if compression is all you need then autoenccoders are all you need but I think there's more to say about that I don't have time right now so let me just um so yeah still an open question I'll end with I think this is a idea that Yan Link put out some years ago which is that intelligence is like this cake. A lot of you may have seen this where um the bulk of the cake is representation learning. You spend a lot of data and a lot of time coming up with like a really good representation of the world in a self-supervised way or an unsupervised way not tied to any specific task. Right? So self-supervision is is about not having labels but it's also about not being narrow and tied to a task. just generally compress the universe into uh something that's predictive of the future and is uh compact and then the icing and the cherry are all the rest of machine learning supervised learning adaptation post-raining reinforcement learning so he's making the point that representation learning is the bulk of intelligence and I agree with that point so I will end there summary you can read online