In that case, I'll I'll move on to introduce uh Colonel Gordon Fullerton, who got his bachelor's and master's degree from Caltech uh in mechanical engineering uh did ROC and went on to the Air Force where uh well I guess he uh in the course of his career about a 135 different types of airplanes, 16,000 flying hours. Uh he um he flew F86 interceptors um B-47 bombers before going to Air Force test pilot school um in the mid60s. uh in ' 66 he was chosen by the air force for the manned orbiting laboratory which was going to be the air force's uh space station. Uh that program was cancelled in 1969 and the uh well uh some of the astronauts came over to NASA and became NASA astronauts. Um that was in the heyday of Apollo and Gordon was support crew on the last four Apollo missions. Then went on to be the uh test pilot on three of the first five uh approach and landing tests. If you remember, that's when the uh shuttle Enterprise, which was not designed for orbital flight, but was designed to test the basically the last 50,000 ft down to the ground, was dropped from the 747, uh went on to pilot the third shuttle flight, which was one of the orbital flight tests. That was the flight which landed in New Mexico and then commanded STS-51F which was the first uh it was the first flight of the instrument pointing system. That was also the flight uh I'm trying to think that was the flight where you lost the engine. Yeah, we which we talked about that was the one the one flight where where we had an engine. We went over that in in some detail. So they was Well, that's fine. I mean, because I think they should hear about it from what it seemed like inside the cockpit now that they they've heard kind of the technical details. In any case, uh after leaving the astronaut office, uh Gordon has moved into pilot's heaven, which is Edwards Air Force Base in the Dryen Test Flight Center, uh where he basically spends all his time, well, not all of his time because there's management stuff as well, unfortunately. that's the price you pay. But basically, he gets to fly airplanes for a living and uh lots of different kinds uh including the carrier aircraft and the B-52 which launches uh various test aircraft and uh and a whole bunch of uh of other airplanes. Um so if you remember you know in the whole systems engineering uh approach to things we talk about the conceive design manufacture test and operation. So this is basically the final lecture and this is the test and operation of the space shuttle from a pilot's point of view. So with that I'll give it to you Gordon. Okay. Thanks. I uh I was sitting in uh in your uh place back uh 1958 when I was a grad student at Caltech for a year before heading off to the Air Force. Uh wow, almost 50 years ago. But uh the real blessing of my life is to be able to do what I love to do for as long as I've done it beyond all reason. And uh anyway, I hope to share some of that with you this morning. This is my first time through this pitch. Uh feel free to to holler out any questions as we go and we'll stumble through it together. Uh I plan to talk about uh three different uh phases of uh the orbiter test program. The first were were called ALT, the approach and landing tests. They consisted of really uh 13 flights, five captive inert flights where the uh Enterprise was flown on top of the 747, but nobody in the cockpit. Controls were locked. Uh that was to clear the envelope for the the uh kind of unlikely looking combination of a 74 with a orbiter on top. Then there were five captive act or three captive active flights where we were manned up in the orbiter where the systems running the electronics the uh hydraulics were active the controls were free to move a little bit not full throw and we uh also determined how high the uh combination could get because altitude was uh and it wasn't 50,000 ft it was more like 28,000 ft max even with the the the 74 engines over boosted. That followed by five free flights where we uh actually pushed a button, launched off the top and uh and glided to a landing. The orbital flight test part of the shuttle program oft consisted of four flights uh STS's one through four of varying durations. The first STS1 was planned for just a couple days, get up and get down and um have a look at how things looked after it flu. STS2 was supposed to be five days. They had a fuel cell problem that cut their flight short unfortunately for the crew. Uh then uh I was on STS3. We were scheduled for seven days and because of a of a raging dust storm at the planning planned landing site, uh we got an extra day. a real blessing with the no uh no tests to do. We had a free day in orbit and uh ended up with eight days STS4 planned and flew seven days landing on the 4th of July with uh President Reagan out there to watch. And uh then there were then we get into operational flights of which there have been a lot something over a hundred. The last flight to fly, the return to flight uh was STS 114, but the numbering system got uh went through a couple phases. So, uh there haven't been 114 flights. I don't know how many it has been, but there have been a bunch. So, I'll talk about three of the uh well, more than three flights, but the the ALT flights. Uh the crew patch, you always got to have a crew patch. That's a major hurdle that you uh uh have to overcome when you're assigned to a cruise, get the patch designed, and then get it approved by upper management. uh my uh part of the uh OFT STS3 in 1982 and finally uh then an operational flight 51F in 1985. My job uh prior to any of these flights uh I worked into was a dream job for uh really system engineering I guess and uh for a pilot. I'd been to test pilot school. I was intrigued with all the airplanes I flew with a cockpit design and uh was very aware of the flaws of cockpit design. Uh seems like uh sometimes engineers lay awake nights trying to make it hard to operate subsystems. So I uh got in uh at the beginning of uh of the orbiter uh crew interface and became uh before it was over sort of the ZAR uh was responsible to sign off all the drawings, lots of uh reviews. It was a great uh responsibility because I was uh uh immediately and early into subsystem design because you have to know what the subsystem does to make any intelligent choice of what the controls and displays should be. This is a view of uh an orbit, not the Enterprise, but uh probably the uh whether it's a simulator or the real airplane. They look alike, but uh one of the orbital capable shuttles. Uh lots This is like the the little old ladies always say when when you're out on static display for armed forces day and oh, look at all the the uh things. How do you remember what they all do? Well, that's that really is a challenge uh to make make things straightforward and uh uh I became painfully aware especially later on when we had a lot of experiments coming in that engineers in their little ivory tower building a system in the lab so totally personally familiar with how their stuff works that it doesn't bother them that the switches are unlabeled or labeled illog logically and they bring that all in and want to put it in the orbiter and uh and when the crew says wait a minute uh I have to remember that before I turn on switch A, switch C and D have got to be turned on in this order or the whole thing will blow up. And they say, "Oh yeah, that's the way it is." And they know it so well personally. And yet when you're overwhelmed with a whole lot of experiments, I'm sure you ran into it on your flight. Uh that that all the stuff that is just uh uh totally uh familiar to the guy that invented it becomes a challenge when you're faced with a whole lot of them, a limited amount of time to learn it. And uh so standardization of what uh the the scheme especially in the software most of the Well, there are a lot of gadgets. In fact, if you count all the switches, uh, gauges, circuit breakers upstairs, downstairs, and the med deck, there's about 2100 total in the orbiter cockpit. Uh, but the real challenge is what shows up on the screens here. Uh, and so the software was a bigger thing in making them all play together. Here's a higher view. And the overhead panel above your head and the forward cockpit has a lot of other switches. Uh an example of what I'm talking about. Uh this array of switches right here controls the reaction control system valving the uh and then the orbital maneuvering system. uh back in Apollo, which I worked on when I first came to uh Johnson Space Center, I learned uh while lying many hours in the uh Apollo uh crew simulator that that had the worst cockpit ever designed by man. Uh as an example, uh it had a a pressurization system, a helium pressurization system to push the propellants for the reaction control jets out of the tanks and then the valves that went to the various array of thrusters all around the command module. And uh one would think logically, okay, if you have something to turn on the helium, you'd label it helium on off. And uh then the manifold, the next branch in the Christmas tree manifold would be uh system A versus system B or something like that. And in fact, it had names like that, but they put the switches in a long row and they labeled them A through H right there on the panel. Uh no clue as to what you were throwing. So every move you made in the cockpit, some of these things were critical, required you to either be, you know, a metal giant or open a checklist and say, "Okay, to pressurize system B, I've got to throw B on and then A next and then H last or something like that." So uh obviously unacceptable and became my uh career and uh mania to try to improve that. The first orbiter simulator uh built was called the OAS orbiter aeroflight simulator. It was a on a moving base platform like the the standard airline uh simulators you see today. Uh this is uh Fred Hayes and I sitting in the cockpit. This one was built originally to be uh the Enterprise. And the Enterprise uh was uh OV 101 in the scheme of things uh a numbering of orbiters as they were built. Uh 101 had only the systems it needed to fly approach and landing tests. The plan was to retrofit it later to make it into an orbit capable. But for the uh ALT program, it had just what you needed and only that to fly in the atmosphere, very short flights. But this is our first chance to look at uh what we had uh and what we're getting into as far as uh pilot concerns. I guess you've had all the subsystems, right? You're all completely briefed and experts on subsystems by the people that have preceded me here in the course. I'll give you though a quick uh quick review here. Uh the avionic system the the shuttle is built with a inside the outer mo line as a the pressure vessel that is roughly uh back to the forward bulkhead of the payload bay and uh is embedded inside the uh basically aluminum structure with a thermal protection system applied to the outside. And most of the avionics are in racks right up here, right in there with you in the cockpit on the on the mid deck. The storage lockers are aft of the uh racks full of black boxes and lots of wires. And the other place there were avionics is back here just after the aft bulkhead of the payload bay. And there are some areas where they put uh items like rate gyros and accelerometers uh a long way back. it uh from a systems engineering standpoint. Uh we Fred Hayes and I were out at Palmdale where they built all the orbiters. uh late one night. Seems like that the testing always happens uh after 2:00 a.m. Uh the tests would run round the clock and uh we were out there way after midnight in the cockpit participating in the first time. They're going to close the loop between the rate gyros and the flight control system which is contained back up here in the nose and the uh general purpose computers. Uh the whole orbiter was suspended on some some big airfield bags so it had compliance to move and uh hydraulic system was on uh powered by a facility hydraulic source. So the elevons were powered and the rudder speed break was powered and uh and the process let us down for the very first time that uh we're going to close the loop between the software up here and the rate gyros particularly acceler accelerometers mounted back in the back and it was a milestone and we had people stationed around the back to see if anything uh without hydraulic fluid or whatever. Uh anyway, we uh we went up to the glare shield, pushed the button to go into CSS, control stick steering, which hooked the stick up now uh to the flight control system. Um I'll never forget, we pushed the button and a uh a rumble started and the rumble built very rapidly to a violent rumble. I We were being bounced around the cockpit. This is 150,000 pounds of airplane is dancing on these rubber bags and uh uh it didn't take us long to say this doesn't feel good. We pulled the button that down modes back to direct control. So there's no feedback. And the upshot of it was that these ra arrows are mounted on this flexible bulkhead and that hadn't been uh taken into account properly. And so there was a a structural resonance that uh was just diversion pretty. In spite of all the ground tests down at Downey and the Ironbird mockups and everything, we put it in the real airplane. It it tried to jump off the uh supports and uh uh Fred and I were in the cockpit. Our eyes were big and we call the control room which were people back in ajacent room. Seems like most spacecraft tests traditionally are done. The engineers are all locked in a windowless room. No view of the real hardware down at the Cape. They're miles away. uh when the spacecraft's either out on the pad or in the uh the main checkout building. And so uh they they said, "No, procedure says this is okay. We want you to re-engage." So we tried one more time and this time the guys stationed in the back that were watching said, "This doesn't look good." They started hollering on the loop. So we pitched it off and we went into a raging argument whether we need to complete this test the engineers were saying and said we don't want to break something and they got people out of bed down in Downey California the controls engineers and so it was a a uh a memorable night. Uh the uh the resolution was finally uh a redesign of uh the mounting area back there and and a reanalysis of the uh vibrational modes of the FB bulkhead sorted all out. Uh there's what we had back in uh for crew interface. As you saw in the earlier picture up front, three CRTs, monochrome, green. That's a that was either green or nothing on the screen. And we had a keyboard, two keyboards, three CRTs. So, there's always this little uh concern when you're punching on a keyboard. You want to be sure it's selected to the CRT you think you're doing something on. Another marginal design. But that's that's what we ended up with. You notice we don't we got a hexadimal keyboard here. Uh we got some strange keys called item uh an electric and ops which had to do with this uh truly unique way you cause things to happen through software and lots of things were critical through software and then this uh rather dim green screen. This was way before the days uh I guess Bill Gates was still here at MIT or maybe even hadn't registered yet. I don't know. It was way before Windows uh 1.0. And so uh it seems almost conical now when you compare it to even modern airliner crew interface with glass cockpits. But uh uh we were breaking new ground here and it it even at the time seemed because that's all they were willing to uh embrace in the way of uh of computer control and design and it was unique and it caused lots of uh uh headaches and delays. Uh the big thing about the orbiter with its uh I'll go back uh data processing system the decision was made Everything is going to be done in these all powerful general purpose computers of which there were five in an array that work together. Flight control, system management, navigation, uh inertial subsystem control of everything. And so the result was the software loads as they were built had lots of flaws when they came down. Yeah, we couldn't fix them. You know, we had cases as as dumb as a display that showed the freon loop a pump on and it when it got through all the software build, it was backwards. It would say off when it was really on. Seemed like a simple fix, right? Go back to the programmer and rewrite the code. But we couldn't do it. We had to live with it for a long period of time through training until another whole load was built because the load that would fix this dumb little ble mistake uh was also the one that steered you during asset and they didn't want to. So everything was frozen and there was great fear of changing anything that would ricochet through something truly critical. And so even when we got to uh SDS3, we flew with a book about this thick of program notes uh that that told you line after line what was wrong, you know, what was backwards, what was uh was a a trap. And uh really a big challenge for the crew to embrace and live with because there just wasn't time in the program to build another load, check it out through all the different labs that had to certify it. That's a vote for modular software where you can you can change something here and be assured you're not bollocking up something else in the same machine. Ohms RCS. This is the the two pods either side of the vertical tail are uh couple big ohms propellant tanks oxidizer and fuel hypergolic. So, we didn't need any ignition system. As soon as these came together in a thruster, uh you had thrust and uh there were I think 44 main thrusters. Here's four y jets uh firing out to the side. This would be pitch jets. Uh the same thing repeated on the other side and up in the nose of the forward RCS. Uh so they had jets that fired up and out to the side and down and Uh I mentioned the controls in the cockpit which we did. One of my uh great successes was getting the orbiter uh panels to be arranged in a in a plumbing uh layout so that you could see what you're pressurizing when you turn on the helium for a given leg and that sort of thing. Helium tanks are what pressurized and a really clever system of uh of O control that is when you're in zero G and you got propellant floating around randomly and you turn on the helium to push it toward the outlet. If the outlet's uh uncovered, the helium's going to square right up. But they an elaborate system of surface tension kind of baffles that kept and trapped fuel near the uh near the outlet of the tank. So that when the thrust came on and all the propellant went down where it should, it sort of recharged this uh chamber at the bottom of the tanks to uh to keep it uh flowing smoothly and not uh not lose all the pressurization. Uh, I remember the first my impression of of what reaction control jets would be like is based on science fiction movies where you see the spacecraft out there and there's little squirts of jets, you know, that nudge nudge you around. And we went out to uh the uh ground test facility at White Sands on a field trip out there where they had a actually had the forward RCS set up and they were going to do real firings of of the main jets out there. And uh we were probably couple hundred feet away from the test setup and we're out there waiting uh for the the sequence of jet firings to start on a test. And the first one, the first firing of one of the main jets, which are right up around 900 pounds to thrust was just a short pulse and everybody went about three feet off the ground. I mean, it was like like you fired a howitzer. It was just stunning. Wham bam. And it just blew you away. and had the realization we're going to be in the cockpit here and these things are firing right outside the windshield. Uh uh they did in space uh the ignition transient uh ricochets through the structure. You can hear this kind of booming effect, but once they're on, if it's a long duration firing, it's silent. And the same way visually you can see a flash when when the uh the fuel is led a little bit in front of the oxidizer to make sure you don't overheat something. And so there's incomplete combustion at the ignition as you can see a flash go out there. But once on during an ohms burn for instance when these ohm tensions are firing and you're looking back at the aft you see the flash and they're on and they're pushing and you can feel it but otherwise invisible. That's the way you remember. Yeah. On the other hand, there are verier jets, little guys. I don't know if they're shown here, but there's little 25 pound thrusters or something that's used 98% of the time on orbit. You really are doing the kind of thing with the verteier jets. And you can't hear those or see anything when they're going off. In fact, we uh got everybody quiet and kind of held on to the walls just trying to see if we could barely detect when a verier jet fired physically in the cockpit. Interesting. Um the orbiter is one giant uh heat transfer machine. uh lots of uh lots of calories of heat energy pumped around from one end to the other. Uh and so there's uh there's a water loops within the cabin that transfer the heat to freon loops that are the fluid is pumped through the radiators to reject heat. Uh there are spite of all these heat rejection systems then there are heaters everywhere. Whole banks of heaters to keep stuff from freezing. And uh then for the landing and takeoff phases there are flash evaporators that that flash water andor uh ammonia. when you get down where water when you're down in the atmosphere the uh you use ammonia to uh cool the loops and of course the payload bay doors are closed. So uh it turns out STS3 was a a major test of it was test all these loops and how the structure responded to long durations and given attitudes with the sun shining on one side and cold space on the other side and how the structure would uh distort or hopefully not distort and how all that system would work. As it turned out, uh, you like lots of redundancy. This is probably the the weak point I thought in the whole orbiter design. Uh, we got three engines. We proved that you can get there when only two. Uh, but the freon loops, there were two. We done it through the radiators. And if one freon loop pump quit, you're in a severe emergency. That means stop everything. power down severely. Turn off all the the computers except one. Uh uh get in a proper attitude and be ready and go into a uh panic reconfiguration to come back and land. Uh originally the design had three freon loops. It could lose one and go on with uh with uh no no concern. But as it turned out uh the heat loads were so high and the weight uh criticality uh determined that all we had uh electrical power to run were two loops and uh so we ended up with uh a single free loop which fortunately as far as I know never failed but if it had it would have been a crash uh de-orbit and uh uh landing under severely powered conditions. So the well it's kind of mundane and people don't worry they don't think about it as a primary system. The uh thermal control really was critical payload bay doors. This is a busy chart but it indicates these are really comp complicated. 60 ft long and something like uh 120 little motor driven latches to uh latch them closed. Uh and you don't just go chunk closed like the Bombay on a B-52 and it's closed to close the payload bay doors. You you uh get them close and then the latches along the bulkhead all in a zipper fashion have to sequentially close and then you go down the the center section to to latch the two uh left and right doors together. All software controlled to uh and there was a lot of concern that we addressed on SCS3 particularly about whether this is all going to work. If you've been uh floating around with these pointed to dark space, would they distort to where the zipper scheme would work? We worried about it enough that uh part of our uh emergency training uh contingency training. spent a lot of time underwater in the neutral buoyancy tank uh looking at a system going out EVA with a uh a series of comealongs, you know, the kind of things you use to pull a motor out of a car. Uh that that kind of thing. uh that we could go down there and hook up and lash the the doors shut actually uh kind of manually get them shut and then latch them shut with these. Uh so uh fortunately that's never had to use and this complex system has worked good but it was scary the first time we flew it on STS3 was a big concern. Okay what I got here hydraulic system hydraulics are uh hydroine powered uh turbines that run at some ridiculous RPM like 200,000 RPM to drive hydraulic pumps back here in the back end. And then they're crucial during uh launch uh because they got to hold the elevons in position, but they also got to provide the muscle to gimble the main engines and keep you steering straight during launch uh during entry. They're what you use to fly when you get back into a dynamic pressure situation. Control the rudder speed brake. And uh the body flap body flap is a big surface all that sticks out underneath the uh main engine bells and is a slowm moving trim device. The body flap is always moved. Uh you go through this Mach 25 to Mach zero envelope and the the uh The trim conditions necessary with these big eleons varies a lot. So to desaturate the elevons and keep them in uh and basically faired with the wing, the body flaps your trim device and it's you know it's like this row of tables long and this wide. I remember asking to see the motor that it's driven a whole lot of mechanical advantage uh by a hydraulic motor. A guy took me around. I couldn't find the actuator, you know, for the body flap. He showed me the motor is this big around and this long little hydraulic motor. So, you can do anything with mechanical advantage, uh, but didn't have to move very fast. Uh, finally on the system pictures here, the RMS, hopefully you've heard about this, was built by SPAR up in Canada. is Canadian's main uh contribution to the orbiter program. Pretty magical device mounted along it can go on either side, but for our flights uh mounted on the left hand side or the right if you're looking out the back windows at it and uh head joints logically called the shoulder joint, elbow, wrist joint. Uh all electrically electric motor driven uh But the interesting thing was a control. You had hand controllers um mounted in the out part of the on the right console in the back where you looked out and you could work in a mode where you were actually driving in the end uh left, right, up, down, in, out without regard to what every joint was done. That's all resolved by the software and uh worked well. The endeector was a a clever uh kind of a hollow cylindrical device that that would rotate inside and uh three cables that would be out out curved around the periphery of the inside this cavity when when activated. You put this over a post on whatever you wanted to grab onto with a knob on the end. you go over the post and then rotate the inner barrel and the cables would wrap up and grab onto the post and then they would retract in to rigidize and that was the grabber on the RMS and we flew this uh on STS3 show you later. Okay. Well, anyway, that's the subsystem review. Uh let me uh show you how things went during pro landing tests. Now, let's see. Got to get back to I've never figured out how to embed video in PowerPoint, so I'm going to be doing it manually. Any questions while we're waiting on this? Well, this is the desert around where I live and a hila monster and the Joshua tree set the scene. And uh here you have uh OV 101. The numbering system, as it turned out, is kind of uh interesting. They built OV99 as the structural test article uh was strictly built to be in the lab. and uh uh do all the structural testing on it. 101 then was the first orbiter uh built the Enterprise being hauled from Palmdale across the back roads and the desert roads to get over to Edwards in these scenes. And uh one of one was the ALT airplane. You can see kind of phony looking RCS. Uh it it had as I mentioned only the systems that you needed to uh fly atmospheric flight. So this was a big thing getting it cross country. Um it had a pedo boom on it. It had just simulated uh thermal protection styrofoam painted to look kind of like they thought the the space vehicles would look but wasn't real. that was put in the uh mating and docking device which is at uh NASA Dryden where I work now hoisted up and then the uh 747 905 the first shuttle carrier aircraft uh was pulled under and they mated them up. I remember flying out to Edwards and seeing this unlikely combination and uh I thought the first time I saw the two together I thought they can't be serious. But then I realized I was going to be in it. So uh there were uh 13 total flights. This is a taxi test. When when you get a aerodynamic test, you can sneak up. So you do baby steps. This was just a uh high-speed run down the runway to see if it would rotate and anything would uh shake alarmingly. And that looked good. So, uh, preparations proceeded for the first of the captive inert flights. Uh, this is Fitz Fton and Tom Merry, both real good friends, and they were the crew on the 747 for this very first milestone flight. A lot of people were out watching and wondering if it would fly, which it did very well. And, uh, off it went. You notice a a longerh front attach structure there and the orbiter is purposely on there at an angle of attack to uh to uh produce lift. I fly the 74 for ferry flights now uh to to haul orbiters back to the Cape when they landed Edwards as the last one did. And uh the nose the front uh bipod is much shorter so that the orbiter's down for less drag for the combination. But uh this setup here was so that we could get the orbiter off the top and not get the tail. There's a rumble. The crew noticed a shaking is still the case when you fly. These uh vertical fins are added onto the horizontal stabs to increase directional stability because the orbiter blanks a lot of flow over the normal vertical. And in fact, they overdid it a little bit. There's too much directional stability which has resulted in a weird situation is your crosswind limit when you have an orbiter on board is greater than when it's not. you got so much directional stability in a crosswind there's a strong weather veining and you run out a normal rudder without an orbiter but uh so you're good only to 15 knots crosswind with the orbiter on uh the limit is 20 knots and it's a good limit I've flown them both ways in crosswinds and indeed at those numbers you run out of rudder as you land and are rolling out the strong weather bing tendency is is leading you off the side of the runway Anyway, that looked good. And so they came back and and we had a a big post-flight party. ALT was great for parties. We had 13 post-flight parties. So, uh after five flight and at the same time uh we're doing the ALT flights, we're developing a shuttle training aircraft. This is a Gulf Stream 2 with big uh side force generators on the belly and it's an airborne simulator. Uh the left seat is set up with orbiter instruments and uh the right seat was the standard Gulfream cockpit. We flew I've flown thousands of dives at the ground in the STA preparing for the the whole idea of uh first time for sure unpowered uh landing that you have to do right the first time. and back in the simulator here for lots more uh runs. And it was it was a great time because everything was brand new. Uh very interesting. Uh this this is a camera and an actual model. This is before the days of computerenerated uh video. Uh so it uh flew the little camera down to landing and we learned a lot about uh characteristics. One that we really wondered about when when you were when you made a lateral input to roll the orbiter in the simulator, it it would bang you. It would there was this lateral lurch we called it. Uh it would jolt you sideways and we thought this can't be real. It doesn't make any sense. No airplane we ever flew does that. Uh we squawkked it. They came back and said, "Well, equations all worked out." So, uh, we live with it and thought it was just a artifact that was snuck in there and didn't worry about it. Uh, now the captive active started where we actually got in and uh, cranked things up. Uh on the second flight I was chasing in the T38 and Engle and Truly were in the cockpit and I noticed uh shiny looking uh on the side. That big X on the CRT is what happens when the computer that's driving that CRT quits. That's sort of the uh the panic symbol when the X shows up. Uh anyway, I noticed uh a leak as it turned out to be. Had a severe hydroine leak. Hydroine is bad stuff to have leaking. And uh one of the APU uh supply tanks let go. Plus they had an overtemp. Uh so we uh we found things that were wrong. It would have been uh it made these captor flights worthwhile. Uh if we just gone and launched off on the first one, it could have been more exciting than it needed to be. So we had five of those and Fred Hayes and I got the oddnumbered flights one, three, and five. Five more postflight parties and then we decided we're ready to go. So it was on uh well this is the last of the captive active flights. The the scheme by which we planned to get off of here and not take off the tail of the 747 was that the 74 would go as high as it could go. It could get up to around 27,000 ft uh with engines over boosted. Pratt went said you can go this long with extra power and then uh nose over and speed up to 240 knots. It was climbing maybe 190 200 knots with a with a little downhill push. We got up to 240. At 240, the the SCA pilots would go to idle power and air brakes up to put drag on the carrier at that condition of 240 knots. And that the angle of attack of the uh orbiter, it was actually lifting its more than its own weight. So the the result is we really dropped the carrier. As it turns out, there are three quarters of a G difference between the two. And so when Fred, we get a lot of views for some reason of Fred's left shoulder. He's in the left seat and he mashed the separation button after the after Fitz and the carrier aircraft hollered carrier ready. That is they were back at idle with the speed brakes up. uh push the go button and bang off uh all seven uh explosive bolts would blow. Control room was in Houston. Strangely enough, we're talking to people back in the uh in the old JSC control room when we're out at Edwards flying these flights, but it was just like they were there. Okay, we're coming up on a condition and this was in August of 77. All the ALT flights happened in 1977. Uh you notice there's a tail cone on here. The tail cone was flown on the first three flights. Uh it makes a big difference. It smooths the flow so that the buffet on the tail of the the carrier aircraft was less and it just double the L over D of the orbiter. Uh, okay. We're going to arm and uh we'll get there. Get a go from the patrol. And we had two chases. One off to the right and one in trail separation just like uh the engineer said. And the load cells that we head on there testing exactly which way the thing was tugging before we did it. Said we would do straight up. This is slow motion. Nothing's leaking. This is vortexes off the wing tips causing condensation. And away we went. And the next I mean simultaneously with this bang that shutters through the airplane when all these explosive bolts a big X and a CRT in front of me. So uh we had cards and I had uh we practiced this and my job while Fred flew. He uh he actually got a vertical clear from this chase pilot and then then rolled into a bank and a lateral clear from the guy that was chasing from behind and knew that was okay to push over because we're only now at 200 knots and we wanted to get to 300 and it took a considerable pushover to get up to speed. Meanwhile, I'm pulling circuit breakers on rag giros and turning off accelerometers at our pre-planned uh uh procedure to uh accommodate flaws in the redundancy management. When you lose one computer, you also take out part of the sensors and the flight control system. And to be sure that a subsequent failure wouldn't put you in worse shape, it took about a minute's worth of manual reconfiguration on my part. And I kind of missed the whole first part of the flight. When I turned around, I realized, hey, this thing is flying good. It's smooth and uh it's on speed and Fred was uh flying. We flew a rectangular pattern out of a down one leg here as we nosed over. And I got my chance to roll into a left 90 degree turn and and fly base leg. And as I put the stick over to roll, they got this big lateral arch just like the simulator said. Uh I was it just stunned me. So again, they were right after all. Uh it's just the nature of something flying at high alpha and rotating about a a uh stability axis and the cockpit gets slid sideways. It's got big So, it flies like a fighter. It really does. And you're doing it all with a little stick that doesn't move much. Anyway, we u came down final at 290, I think it was. Uh flared out. My job is to put the gear down, a critical function. And uh we're landing on Lake Bed 17 and the on the dry lake at Edwards, which is something like 10 miles long. So, we're pretty good margins there. And uh Fred took the airplane back from me. I only got the fly base leg, but uh he we touched down at about 185. I think it was nice and smooth. It was beautiful. The speed brakes come out to help uh cushion the drotation. Those gear down and we raised a little dust as we rolled to a stop. So it was a good day. Now, we had a really good postflight party after this one. You can see the rudder speed break flared there and the elevons full up. And so now Joe Engel and Dick Truly did it again uh couple weeks later or thereabouts, they they uh they got their And they uh did much the same flight, repeated it. And uh oh, one thing you see the pedo boom out there. Peter boom is strictly on the Enterprise put out there to get good air data out in front of this this big blot of an airplane, which is hard to get good measurements. There you can see. Okay. Let me get the next one going here. Figure out how to get out of this because the excitement came later on SCS1. Uh I looked out there when we're on final. I had time to look out and Look at the pedo beam and and it's going through an arc of about three feet at it was built with the perfect resonance of everything else with the airplane and it was just a blur out there going back and forth and I I really thought it was going to break off but u source did good question somehow we had at least derived everything looked good and uh actually it still put out good air speed even though it was a blur and I think the the beta averaged out and so uh anyway it wasn't a problem we noticed uh other than visually it looked like it was going to break off so they they changed and stiffened it up so it wasn't a problem on subsequent flights now you can see here we're we're at freeflight four now which was the other crew uh with the tail cones off. And uh our final project glide slope with tail cone on was 11 degrees. With tail cone off, it was 23 degrees. Halves your L over D. So you're uh really in a a steep dive. Normal uh ILS into Logan out here be two and a half degrees. So, uh, you're coming down, uh, gang busters. And it's it's even worse in ALT than it was on the orbital, uh, missions, which were coming down with the same configuration, but much heavier heavier. You got more gravity working for you, and you can fly shallower. Doesn't seem to figure, but that's the way it is. So, 19 degrees is a normal uh, return from orbit, final approach glide slope. We're up in the 20s. uh kind of catching up a little. One of our jobs with uh uh on the flight preceding this was to try the braking. We just let her roll out on the first couple flights. They wanted to do brake tests and Fred jumped on the brakes after we touched down and another resonance problem. interaction between the structure and the uh antiskid which is and I thought it was going to break the airplane. I it was just violent uh shuddering, shaking, everything rattling in the cockpit and I hollered at Fred, "Get off the brakes. We're going to break something." He said, "No, the card says we got to do max breaking." I was pleading with him to get off the brakes, which he did. Easy fix. When they flew the next flight here, they did hard braking and it was smooth. They went into the change the resistor and the feedback uh electronics and that did it. I mean it was instant fix. Uh so uh it says there still is reason to do flight test because surprises happen. Uh, okay. So, now Freeflight 5. Turns out that um there was a little break here. We're back at Houston and uh Prince Charles uh he wasn't married yet that time, but he came by on a visit and we gave him a ride in uh the simulator. He'd had some flying time and he got into horrendous pio. I mean, it was out of control and crashed in the simulator and felt bad. We said, "Nah, it's because you're not used to the stick and everything." And that was his tour. So now for this flight, he was actually out along the runway. They had him out there so he could watch. And uh the objective here was to land on the concrete runway, put it right on the line. There's a white line 5,000 ft down. And Fred was really working at it, putting in a lot of inputs. Look at the elevons going there. You see him? Uh, and he's making roll commands. And, uh, so we logged a couple landings and down and rolled to a stop. And, uh, And afterwards we crawl out and he came up to say hello and said, "Oh, you made me feel good. You guys did as bad as I did." There he is right there with his binoculars. Well, it scared everybody to death. I It It looked worse from outside than it did in the cockpit. And the the flight control flaw that we found though was serious. Uh you get elevons that do both pitch and roll. So in the software when you're asking for both pitch and roll at the same time it's got to decide which one do I move. I'll uh stop this as a supposition of what would come. Uh the software has to has to give priority and they decided to give priority to pitch and uh role was sort taken second priority when you you had to limit the commands of the eleons to within the the uh capability of the hydraulic system. So the result was a lag in roll response when you're working pitch hard and the lag was up around 210 to 310 of a second. You may be aware if studied flight control system any kind of system that has uh three quarter second delay between uh input and response is asking for a pio pilot induced oscillation. And we had a big time in roll. Fred was clanking back and forth, stop to stop and roll, trying to level the wings after that first skip. I heard the controller banging over there and I suggested if you get off, maybe it'll damp because we're we're doing this. And sure enough, that's that's what he did. He he stopped the inputs. The airplane damp right away. And then it went okay. But uh it's something that we we had to fix obviously. Here's a picture just uh microcond after uh liftoff on one of the last two. Well, the decision there was a lot of debate about do we go back and fix the flight control and fly some more ALT, but this is a huge production. and it was cost and time and we weren't getting into orbit. A decision was made now we'll do it in simulators and in-flight simulators and uh fix the problem but press on. So that was the end of ALT at the end of which when you do flight tests you talk about opening the envelope of an airplane while the envelope of the space shuttle is 400 nautical miles altitude and Mach 25 and in ALT we got the four miles and.3 Mach so it's really down in the lower left corner but worth doing. uh test results. Uh I've mentioned as we went, we had that APU fuel leak, fixed it, didn't come back. Uh the Buffett uh lift the drag was right on what we expected. No surprises there. And qualities were good even with the lurch. It was not a not a problem. Uh mentioned the pedo boom, the antiskid, the SCA did the job, although it struggled to to get us up to With the tail cone off, it could only get to about 18,000 ft. So, this was not a good program to build up your flying time. I got two uh it was about a total of uh in three flights about 12 minutes of flying time. And uh the biggie I mentioned the uh the handling qualities, the PIO tendency that we fixed with lots of studies later and changes in the way the control uh equations were written. And as a final thing, they did some more flights with the the nose lowered down and determined what the ferry flight performance of the combination is. I have later after flying in space checked out in the 747 and still fly it on the ferry flights and it uh does the job. Burns lots of gas. I figured out that the combination cross country uh uh the mileage is uh about 300 feet per gallon. So football field per gallon of fuel uh 40,000 pounds an hour a fuel flow uh it goes about one and a half times its own length on a gallon of gas but gets there. I don't have to buy the fuel. A lot of people said, "Wasn't this scary ALT?" Actually, uh, from a risk standpoint, we had ejection seats, so if anything had gone wrong anywhere along the line, we could have pulled the handle and jumped out. The scariest part of it was uh when we got in and during the uh captain flights, we just walk up the stairway and crawl through the hatch and same way getting out. But after the the uh captive active flights, we'd land still on on the orbiter. And they had this cherry picker to get us out. Now, the the situation here, it's a round hatch hinged at the bottom. Uh they only they only wanted one person at a time on the the end of this uh thing. So, you open the round hatch and then they bring this up. behind the ground and he doesn't want to get too close and ding. So, he leaves about this much of a gap from this round hatch which is 60 feet above the ground that you got to crawl out on your knees and then stand up and then make the leap across the uh thing onto this wobbly cage up there. But, uh that's how our captive actives went. Yeah, we're wearing regular flight suit helmet like you would in a F-18 or any any fighter. Yeah. Not pressure suits. We didn't have a severe cabin pressure risk at 25,000 ft. I put here uh some uh let me get into the full screen mode here. some thoughts about what's different when you test an aircraft versus a spacecraft. With air airplane, you can do little baby steps, incremental tests. You can do static runs of the propulsion up to the full power in the airplane itself. Then you taxi it slow and then faster and faster down the runway. You can rotate the nose a little bit. Uh the first flight you'll fly slow and leave the gear down and then land soon and check everything. And you can hold off perfect day to do it. Uh, and then you go faster and faster to expand the envelope. If anything goes wrong, you can peel off and get back on the ground quick. And, uh, as I mentioned, you can always pull the handle and bail out if things go really bad. You got a spacecraft, it's all or nothing. Uh, you got to use the propulsion at at its uh, full power. uh all the critical systems that subsystems have got to work. Uh you can't make a quick abort long delays like days are sometimes required to get back to the conditions where you can make an appropriate landing and uh the weather can turn sour in the uh at the time. So when you're gonna going to flight test a spacecraft, you got to have a lot of redundancy in the design to allow for the bad day. It has to carry you through a several amount of time and necessarily got to test everything to the limit. Uh wind tunnel, CFD, thermal vacuum is the environment is uh lots more stressful. got to have a lot of instrumentation so that you can tell what did go wrong or be sure that everything went right. You're talking about an army of controllers in a control room to pull pull it off with a complex uh system like the shuttle and lots of simulation to get everybody trained. A biggie is to verify the software. I mentioned the software is guaranteed to be wrong uh on the first release and several subsequent uh it's just the nature of building software. So getting that checked out is is a major one and procedures. Um when we flew uh the orbital flight the uh the checklist the stack of checklists just laid on top of each other was about this high. for a 51F and it weighed 210 pounds just to uh called the flight data file and then lots of time and expense getting everybody really ready to go and uh and the ensure that when you're going into a unknown part of the envelope that the margins on the flight control are adequate. So the surprises and the aerodyivatives that that hit you can be accommodated. I've uh rambled on a long time here. We could we can take the five minute break. I can answer questions. However you want to do it. Maybe it's time for a stretch. Two minute break. All right. Break's over. Okay, the the next assignment for me was being put on a orbital flight test and specifically STS3, twoman crew, Jack Lasma, a uh a Marine and uh myself from the Air Force. We were uh in pressure suits you noticed uh there and on ejection seats in the Colombia. This is uh OV 101 102 101 was the Enterprise 102 uh the Colombia and our countdown went smoothly. This was in March of 82. And this is a uh signature moment in your life when the SRB is like uh it is there's no doubt. I mean, it looks smooth and nice as you as we're flying through a cloud here on launch. Uh vlogging weather time, I might add. U but it's uh it is rough and noisy and rattly and uh the acceleration is right away and it builds up to 3Gs when the main engines are throttled back the whole 3gs and so it's no doubt you're on your way somewhere really fast wherever the solids want to go. Uh everything worked good right up to uh Mo and the external tank as you saw drifted away and then here come uh the first order of business uh opening the payload bay doors so we can get the start rejecting heat with the radiators that are mounted on the inside. Uh we're tail down and as you watch here we're going right over Los Angeles uh at the time. This is just north of LA. You can see the uh right this is LA and uh this uh sorry this is uh Santa Monica and LAX and Palis Veries right there. Anyway, uh the first thing we had to do is get out of theolyte. That is a sighting device that surveyors use and and take a daunting number of readings on on little targets that were pasted around inside the payload bay and on the doors as to measure where they were. And we did that through the flight every all the way along. Uh wasn't fast enough. Out in front of the nose there were some dark patches. That's where tile were, white tile, and fell off during launch. They actually found some washed up on the beach. Fortunately, none of the black tile on the bottom fell off, but we did lose some on the top. Uh zero G is really one of the delights. There's two really good things about flying in orbit. Uh weightlessness and uh the view out the window. And that's like nothing that you experience even flying high performance airplanes. We had the uh RMS cranked up. That was my job as the RMS operator. And we had a package in the back, the plasma diagnostic package to grab and move out there. There's some scenes that show you the housekeeping area. In the corner there is the uh John and long duration space flight exercise is important. It's really not a big deal on a 7-day flight. Now, Jackson's a marine, as I mentioned, he he's got to have his daily ration of push-ups. So, here we here goes. How about a one-handed push-up, Jack? How about a no-handed push? Uh, this is a quick summary. We went our seven days and uh the lake bed at Edwards had a really wet spring. It was unusable. So, we went to White Sands, New Mexico. First day uh right as we're about to light the engines to uh start de-orbit. They said, "Hold off because this terrible dust storm was going on." And we waited a day, a delightful day with nothing in the flight plan uh much to enjoy ourselves and then came down the next day. Now, I found another gotcha in handling qualities here. Uh right here, Jack thought the nose might be coming down too fast and tried to stop it and ended up doing a little wheelie. And subsequent analysis showed that the whole response of the vehicle changes when you're down on the main gear only. And nobody thought of that. even though it would seem like uh well uh they're worried about pitch in the air but not while you're rolling on the main gear trying to drotate. So it resulted in more software changes. Another thing we learned they were pushing u pushing for auto land and so we flew the the whole turn onto final and down final hands off in auto land program wanted to uh take this out of the hands of the crew. So, here on the third flight, they uh they had us sitting there watching the airplane fly down to pre-flare and then the first chance Jack got to grab the stick was at the last minute to do the flare and landing. That was dumb when you look back at really dumb. And so now all flights, uh commander, if it's been auto down to, uh 40,000 ft where you go subsonic will fly manually all the way down to get a feel for the airplane. makes a lot more sense. So that's the way flights are done now. Uh here's where we started from orbit. This is how Cape Canaveral looks. Uh right here is the shuttle landing strip that's down there. You can see it. And the launch pads are these two dots. And so that's where usually shuttle flight starts and ends. Here's a picture of our payload bay on SDS3. And we did have a payload. Uh previous uh crews had pretty much empty payload bay. But uh we had an environmental uh measurement uh thing, a lot of instrumentation. Then this PDP that uh plasma diagnostic package that uh we actually had something to grab with the manipulator arm as you see here. Oh, I looked around. I found uh I don't know if you can recognize this, but that's Cape Cod right there. Picture of MIT. Not a good picture, but there's got to be lots better ones. But uh and here's where we ended up. The White Sands area near Elmagoro, New Mexico. Okay, what did we learn? Uh this is a pretty cryptic uh summary. Uh training was a real problem. The first two crews that flew SCS one and two uh were had all the attention of the training people and the simulators. They had priority properly. So uh we were uh on the third flight had low priority and really struggled and we found when we got in the simulators that they didn't when they didn't work right nobody could explain why whether many times we try an ascent and crash and burn and you always were scratching your head is this real is this the way the orbiter flies or is it some flaw in the simulator. So early on uh you're developing not only the orbiter but the training facilities and the people didn't understand the system. We had more exposure from ALT to subsystems than the people that were supposed to be the experts. So it was a group learning process and a long way from what happens now when crews go in and they get the straight word right from the beginning on how things are. the tiles fell off. Not good. Uh they uh changed the bonding scheme, improved the quality control, and fortunately for the program, no critical tiles fell off. But uh that was alarming. We looked out there, we reported it, took pictures of it, looking at these gaps in and the system right out front of the windshield. But uh uh the ground said, Oh, don't worry. That's a cool area during entry. Entry is at 40 degrees angle of attack, so it is cool on top. Uh they were right. Everything was fine. But uh uh another tile thing was after the flight. Well, actually I'll delay that. It was really more after the next flight. I mentioned how uh how the ride is. Uh first two minutes are rough and exciting. The next uh six or seven are smooth and unbelievably smooth when you get on the main engines and then more vibration and you're getting sitting in the chairs now and just a steady relentless push. It's a spectacular ride but you're back in the uh seat. uh APU oil overheat uh during that 3G part actually about two minutes before MO uh the ground called said we need to shut down one APU. We're up past the point where we could uh live without all three APUs running. So I had a chance to test what I worked on years previously. Uh when the cockpit design you're concerned about visibility when you're squashed in the 3Gs and access and uh the APU switches, we had to put them down here and uh I I worried I remember worrying specifically if we got to get to the APU switches, the guy in the right seat under 3Gs, can he lift the helmet and look over there and find the correct switch? And you do not want to shut down the wrong one, one of the good ones. And uh uh turned out, I guess, with the adrenaline lifting this heavy helmet of 3Gs, I did it without even thinking about it and went right to the switch. So, it uh it worked. Uh general habit habitability was good in the orbiter. Uh first time anybody lived there for uh eight days. A good way to think about living in the orbiter or think of it as a camping trip. You know, you go on a camping trip, you don't worry about hot water and showers and all the nicities of home. You get in that frame of mind and it's fine. Food's adequate. The facilities are okay. Although in in our case, the uh the toilet uh ground to a halt. it it's a drone that rotates to centrifically uh sling all feal material out and contain it and it ground to a halt. So, we were into a real camping trip for a while on that. It worked out. Uh the uh the arm worked great. RMS the uh main jets I mentioned earlier uh are uh unfortunately use the main jets much. It'd be hard to sleep with them booming away, but you use the verers most of the time. Verers are uh critical to smooth operation over long periods of time. All we spent a lot of time uh for instance tail sun uh for like three days. We put the tail right at the sun and stayed in that inertial attitude. And so it cooked the back end while the front end of the orbiter is cold. And we took all the theatellite measurements, opened and closed the doors. All of that uh worked fine. The systems handled it. A lot of it was ground analysis and how the temperatures were were extensively instrumented and uh we did notice a strange thing is not strange but it became apparent when uh when you're in orbit uh when you're on the sunny side of the earth I mean it's as soon as the sun comes up it is high noon bright but there's no atmosphere around to diffuse the light. So when we're tail sun, it's hidden behind perfectly eclipsed by the a structure. And so there's no small sun ball that be seen anywhere even though it's bright sunny from just the reflections of the structure you can see out the window. I noticed looking at the radiators which are very very smooth concave surfaces out there and shiny silver colored and it looked like there were bright diamonds all along the surface when we were tail sun and finally figured out what what the was just little specks of dust on the radiator which you wouldn't even notice normally but tail sun with exactly tail sun's rays are coming right down exactly tangent to that surface and the least little thing on it would flare and uh interesting effect uh which was took me a while to figure out what all these bright spots on the radiators are. Um uh entry on STS3 was done uh to a about nine o'clock in the morning landing at White Sands, New Mexico. So we started the entry halfway around the world. It's dark and most of the entry was in the dark and uh the plasma light show that happens as you get down in the atmosphere and the ionization that happens produces spectacular scene out the windshield. I mean it's it also had us thinking about the missing tile that uh are going but uh uh a night entry is really a show. My next flight was a day entry. Not nearly as uh uh spectacular. Uh mentioned about grabbing the stick too late. Unfair to Jack. And then the drotation. Okay. Now on to part three. How am I doing? We might make it yet. Uh STS51F was uh a whole different uh situation than the earlier test flights. One big difference. There were seven people instead of two. With seven, we had to add a little bit on the patch to put the extra two names. Uh this is the 19th flight. There's 19 stars. It's primary experiment. This was a science flight. It was a space lab but without the laboratory. All equipment in the payload bay full stem to stern with telescopes mostly and uh all the telescopes mounted on the pointing system we had were solar telescopes. So we had the sun and the accurate part of the sky. Uh uh here's uh Orion and uh what is it? Leo the backwards question mark. Yeah. And 19 stars. The 19. A lot of lot of symbology here. Okay. Let me uh a short entertaining video. Do the short one here. Now we had um seven people included three mission specialists which uh Dr. Hoffman uh was when when he was down in Houston and we had two payload specialists, guys who were not uh full-time astronauts. They were solar physicists and they were the experts on solar telescopes that we had and went along to fly. Our first try here at main engine ignition ended three seconds after ignition. We felt the spacecraft rock around the noise and then nothing. And we had a pad shut down because the left uh engine uh the automatic system detected a failure, a slow acting valve and it shut us off. So we're there wondering if we're on fire and whether we ought to race out and so forth. So, it was uh tense for a while, but there were wasn't any fire, just this automatic shutdown. So, we crawled out. Uh we're told there'd be a two-e delay. So, I went down and uh we took the kids to Disneyland and had a good time. Went back home and started the whole training cycle again and came back two weeks later and uh got a good start this time. But not lying on our back on the pad strapped in for five hours because of some software uh glitches that had to be fixed and the computers reloaded and tested and we one of our reports was that five hours is knee limit. I mean you're lying on your back with your feet up in a pressure suit strapped in that's uh more than is reasonable to ask prior to launch. uh on the way up. Well, I'll mention it later. Here's the instrument pointing system. This this baby was built in Germany. It's this device, this gimbal device that held these four solar telescopes and the star treers. Uh here's a physics experiment. Uh the ohms engines are lit. It produces 116th of a G. Uh the uh rest of the orbital maneuvering engines, if you're trying to That's what happens when the elms engines come on. And uh you saw the water going across. Uh it's deja vu. We had the same old PDP package on this but with a difference this time. We we took it out of the PO Bay, brought it up here. That's my right ear. You're looking at in profile uh out the window. It's crowded up there. Seven people up on the flight deck all trying to get a view here, but we let go of it. And then uh it had a uh momentum wheel in there to cause it spin up slowly and we backed away from it and we flew uh couple of uh very challenging loops around it. Here's a sequel to the the hairbrush. This is not me. It's story musgrave. who has the same hairdo as I do and he's getting spiffied up for the TV show. That's all we did is horse around for for seven days. Got extended a day to eight days again. And this landing was back at Edwards runway 23 uh in August August 6th when it was 105 degrees, lots of lots of heat waves. Uh this landing was by far the most forward CG because we still had all that equipment in the payload bay and uh we were almost the heaviest orbiter landing. So getting the nose down before it fell down and crashed and broke the nose gear was one of my primary concerns on this one. Okay. the PowerPoint here. Uh more about the uh the actual launch itself. There's the customary view. They put a camera right in close and got this really close-up view. But it was about it is about five and a half minutes after this picture. We had delayed five hours. It's late afternoon. So very quickly heading out over the Atlantic. Uh we were in darkness and then Bango the uh remember it had been the left engine that got us uh uh on the pad abort. Well, the center engine shut down. There was we were at 3GS. All of a sudden, we're at 2 G's or something like that. Uh instant square wave cut off and acceleration and uh looking there and confirming and the center engine shut down. What had happened was that uh there are a number of sensors on the main engines. The particular one that got us was a uh the uh fuel high pressure turbo pump, a piece of machinery running at 75,000 RPM, high pressures, the high-tech gear that makes the main engine so efficient, high ISP, but but really run at the limits of metal energy and uh technology. And the sensor that senses the output temperature was a series of four platinum wires in a cavity in the uh in the output of that turbo pump. And they had had some tendency for the wires to burn through. When they burned through, they they showed overtemp was the electrical result of a burn through one of these sensors. Well, we had two burn through and the software said that's That must mean there's two sensors say you're too hot. Shut the motor off. And it did. Uh there was no reaction. We just kept going straight and smooth. Uh but it was um now put us into uh what's called an abort. Well, here's the here's the crew. I got seven of us. Uh I'm uh need to practice this more. But anyway, it was a two shift operation. We're going to work around the clock. So, we had a red team and a blue team. And I was a commander, so I had a strike shirt. Abort to orbit. We had to call from the ground, confirm what we knew already. It means uh turning that rotary knob to atto. Abort to orbit. Kind of an oxymoron in a way. It's not really an abort. It's passing on uh pushing the button behind it. It mods the software in to do a couple things. Lower the insertion target. We've tried to tried to get as high as orbit as performance would permit, but now we're going lower. Uh engine down cost you total performance. Uh and uh we also started dumping ohms fuel. We had to turn on the ohms engines and we ended up dumping 4500 pounds of ohms fuel. a little bit of extra thrust but a significant loss of weight to allow the remaining performance to get us to an acceptable orbit. And the last, interestingly, the last sim we did and training in Houston before we went to the Cape to Fly about two days before was an integrated sim where we're tied into all the controllers and everybody's working at a team and the very last run we had was a an atto on a board to some gun. That's what we did. We always had trouble uh starting a watch and you try to do everything internally on the crew so that if you lose calm with the ground you can can complete the emergency uh properly on your own uh on atto's before we had to start a stopwatch at the time we started the ohms dump and we had a chart to go in to find out how many minutes of ohms dump we needed to do given at what velocity we lost the engine and uh Story's job was to do the watch and in excitement of all the other stuff we had to do to get the elms on, we'd always forget the watch. But this time, he got the watch going. So, we actually did it right. And uh we knew that when we got to uh where we burned out all the available fuel, which we did, we went to a fuel depletion cut off uh that uh we'd be really close to having to do a right away another burn to get an acceptable orbit. Uh we're right on the boundary as it turned out. Uh we dumped the right amount of put us every last drop of main main propellant gone. We were just on the boundary of not having to do the first ohms burn and we could relax for uh uh 45 minutes later halfway around the world to do the final circularization. So it worked out good except we're in a lot lower orbit than we had planned. Uh and everything about this space lab flight depended on the orbit. So we into a giant replant. There's a nice picture of uh the IPS also explain the the situation of of the inhibit switch on and off and Oh, yeah. I don't know if I don't know how much you were aware of what was going on there in the there's a switch in the cockpit that uh you have a lot of parameters that are monitored in the software on the main engines which uh which if they go out of tolerance will shut the engine off. In fact, that's exactly why we lost uh the the center engine. Uh but right after that engine shutdown, we're in a state where we really don't want to lose another engine because if we had with only one left, we did not have the performance to get to orbit. We would have had to have gone to Zerugosa, Spain and land in the middle of the night where it was 10,000 foot overcast and raining. And I mean, if we pulled that off, we would have deserved some kind of medal. Uh and uh so as as a pre-planned procedure when you lose one engine before the point where you can make stagger into orbit on one remaining engine uh you inhibit the limits. You throw a switch that that says, "Okay, now you're telling the engines to keep running regardless of over temps or anything because you take the chance, which is a big one, if something let go, uh to to uh not be susceptible to the same thing that got us for the first engine, that is a sensor failure." And so we did that. that we inhibited the limits until we got to a point in the energy profile where we were preto that that's the call pressto which means that you're now at a velocity where you can make it into acceptable low orbit on one engine if you should lose another one at presto then uh the the plan was we'll reenable the limits so we're not hanging it out on a possible second engine failure. Uh, and we'd accept the second engine failure because we know we could make it on one engine. So, we did that. The call came up. We went to enable and then before we got there, we got another call from the ground that said, "Go back to inhibit." Well, there wasn't time to get a full explanation. We dutifully did it. What they saw on the ground is more failures on the the right engine. Remember the left got us on the pad abort. The center engine shut down on the way up. And to make everything equal, the right engine the same sensors. They could see on the ground. It's not visible in the cockpit. Each of those four platinum wires and they saw those starting to go or clearly a design problem here. And uh because they could tell those are going to go and get us that second engine. So that's why we went back to inhibit the rest of the way. So it was u a good war story, but we got there uh and we started operating the IPS the uh platform uh built in Germany uh with all the telescopes. These are star trackers to uh align where it is and this baby could point. Uh the spec was one arcsec of accuracy. An arcsec is the size of a dime. If you're standing at the Capitol and looking at a dime at the Lincoln Memorial, that's how much it tends. But when we cranked it up, it didn't work with a hoot. Uh they just couldn't get it to stabilize or point where it was supposed to. And for three days, the payload specialists and the MS's were in constant communication with the ground and they patched the software in a major way and kept sending up new software loads to get this thing to work. And voila, on the third day, they finally got it right. And then it worked well and got a lot of good uh solar science. Just a an aside, when you're looking at pictures from space, uh you tend to think you walk around out here, the atmosphere is this big ocean of air above you, right? Lots of air way up there. This this little bitty blue line right there, fairly perceptible that always appears on any sunlit picture showing the limb of the Earth. That's the same blue as is as the sky, the scattering that causes the sky to be blue. And that's all the thicker it is. It is just this little thin shell of atmosphere around, you know, at 18,000 ft. three miles up, uh, you've lost half the atmospheric pressure and that's laying on a 8,000 mile diameter globe. And so, uh, and that's where all of human history has happened in that little shell of air laying around the globe. Philosophical point for you engineers. What's uh, flying on orbit like? Well, it's uh it's one of the 215 pounds of checklist here. I'm checking propellant usage against what we got and where we are because we dumped 45,500 lb of crucial fuel that we needed to make the plan most maneuvers had ever been done in the in the orbiter on our mission. And we really worked to we didn't want an extra blip out of an RCS thruster. And it worked very well. We we got through seven days and even had enough to have another day of science on the eighth day. But flying is mostly watching the clock. Everything happens according to time. And uh since you got 16 sunrises and sunsets every 24 hours, you never know what time it is without the watch. Uh, and you're looking at a crew activity plan with everything laid out. And so, we even had an alarm system you could set in the CRT to, uh, make a tone to wake you up. So, a lot of lot of clock watching, uh, to pull off a complex mission like this. That's just the the way life is on orbit. Now, here's uh one of our really serious high level scientific objectives. This was the official name, the carbonated beverage test. Some uh I don't know if it's an MIT guy or not. He's a real serious academic type an Indian I think. Anyway, he built a Coke can that had a lot of pressure regulators in there and lemoner flow annular things. Uh so many so that this coke can only held 4 ounces of coke. But he talked to the White House. Reagan was president. somebody on the staff approved going to fly these Coke cans and see if they had a system to provide pop in orbit, you know, with the regular kind of carbonation and uh dispensial can. So, we got the briefing and we had the forest sto in a locker and I got them out at the start of the test. But 30 days before launch, all of a sudden this big thing came down. Pepsi got wind of this experiment and went to the White House staff and they they got Pepsi put on and Pepsi went into a crash program to fly four cans of Pepsi. So, here's uh Carl Hennai's trying the Pepsi. You notice it looks a lot like a shaving cream can. Well, that's how the Pepsi came out. Just like shaving cream. Just ball of stuff. And I mean, theirs was a last minute deal. It didn't have any uh pressure regulators in it. It just uh blew out there. Now, we we worried about having to make a judgment which tasted better. Well, the the problem was they we didn't have any kind of refrigerator, so they're both warm. So, warm pop is not my favorite. And uh uh so they were not uh anything that anybody fought over either any either kind. But this was okay. If you let the Pepsi float around, it would coales a little CO2 in random fashion. But the the physics of it, Carl found by blowing very carefully on the edge, he could get it spinning up. And spinning cups would would have the froth at the poles and the the liquid around the equator. And we always had a towel guy standing by to in case it drifted into something. Was getting pretty close. This is the end of the experiment here. And how he got it in his mouth without touching any of it. We had that same PDP, but as I mentioned, you saw in the movie, we let go of it. We actually maneuvered all around the orbiter and looked at the wake through the plasma. Let go of it. The proximity ops were very extensive and challenging and many many maneuvers. Uh that's the in the in the Caribbean, the tongue of the ocean, the spectacular coral uh reef around very deep water. Here's Gibralar. The rock I believe is right out here on the point. Mediterranean there in the Atlantic. Here you've heard you can't see borders from space. Not true. This is Israel this way and Egypt this way. The Gaza Strip along here which uh has been in the news as of late. And in the same area, the Dead Sea, the Sea of Galilee. Here's most of Israel in one picture. A little closer to home. This is most of New Jersey, Long Island. There's Manhattan. That's River and East River. This been about 10,000 copies of this picture. This is Southern California. This is San Diego right here. Los Angeles. And in a high-res print, you can see water here, which is San Francisco Bay. And the center of it all is the Analopee Valley right here where uh where I live and where Edwards is right here. This is the San Andreas fault right through here. closer up of LA, which after the at the end of 51F, we we came right by Catalina Island, right up the Harbor Freeway and into Edwards. We went by uh Harbor Freeway at about uh Mach 3 and closer up of the Dry Lake at Edwards and the landing flight test results, which uh most of which I've mentioned already. And uh to finish up, I've got reports on a memory stick here, the pilot reports we wrote as crews uh which you can take at your leisure if you're interested. Uh copy it off and they're available. not great works of art, but the specific things that we learned on doing the flight test and uh these are just thoughts of of transitioning into operation from test mode which I got to see the whole gamut from beginning to uh full operational. So I apologize for running over but uh As you see everybody's very thank you thank you very much for taking