So this lecture is going to be very dependent on on on the PowerPoint slides because if I take the time to draw these cycles on the board, we'd be here forever. So you're so I would say uh sit back and relax and uh because you have you have the slides, they're on the web and try to focus on what the the take-home message is. Um, okay. So, but before we go to biogeeochemical cycles, I want to just briefly review some of the things that we learned in the second lecture. I got feedback from some from some of you from many of you actually on the things that were difficult to understand and from that lecture and those are important uh for understanding these these cycles. And the one thing that uh some people were confused by was this anorobic respiration. Um remember I drew this on the board and I showed a lot of reduction reactions. Uh and I think that was confusing to some people. So let's just go over that very quickly. You've learned in Graham's lectures and in my lectures that that aerobic respiration respiration of organisms where there is oxygen that oxygen is the terminal electron acceptor here in that um electron transport chain and it's reduced to water. So in aerobic environments when organisms uh respire oxygen is reduced to water. If there's no oxygen around the organisms and in this case it's um always bacteria look for the next thermodynamically favorable electron acceptor and so that whatever is dominant in that environment and is most thermodynamically favorable they'll use. So these sulfate reducing organisms use sulfate and reduce it to H2S. uh denitrifying organisms use nitrate and reduce it to these forms of reduced nitrate or reduced nitrogen. And we talked about um iron bacteria that some bacteria can use Fe3 and reduce it to Fe+2, some can use manganesees, etc. Whatever's there and it's thermodynamically favorable they'll use. Okay, so that clarifies that. Some other people said, "You kept talking about symmetry. You kept talking about symmetry. I didn't see any symmetry." Uh, and in hindsight, I can understand why because I just threw that out and I didn't really point it out. So what I was talking about was as we went through these processes you see here these elements sulfate and nitrogen nitrate are being reduced and there are other don't forget that um there are other processes particularly chemosynthesis in which these reduced compounds here's H2S and ammonia are being oxidized. So that's the symmetry that I was talking about. And if you didn't have that, if all the organisms were reducing things, the whole system would run down. You have to have organisms that are also oxidizing things. And that's a key component of all of these bio or not all of the biogeeochemical cycles, but particularly the cycles of of uh nitrogen and sulfur, which have this redux chemistry. So that's the symmetry that I that I was talking about. Okay. Now, so let's talk about um how we think about biogeeochemical cycles. Um can can you see this slide in the back? Do I have to turn the lights off? That was a double question. Can you see the slide in the back? Yes. Okay. Um so so the way we let let let's just this is uh a generic map of of the components of biogeeochemical cycles and we can think of it the earth as a giant uh chemical factory in a sense that has what we call compartments or reservoirs or pools of a particular element or it might be water that we're analyzing and then there are fluxes between these pools. pools. So, here's a a flux, an arrow. So, typically these are diagrammed um with boxes and arrows connecting them. So, we have the and and you can you don't have to use all of these boxes. It could be we're just looking at land, atmosphere, and ocean. I mean, you you construct whatever model uh you want for these. And these are just some useful conversion factors um for the amounts of things that we're going to have flowing between these compartments. And here again, this is something we defined earlier when we were talking about um productivity. The mean resonance time of say an element say carbon um in the terrestrial biomass is the the pool size the the amount of carbon that's there divided by the mean flux in or out of that pool. Okay, it's exactly the same the concept we talked about for carbon. And then the fraction fractional turnover one over the mean resonance time is simply the fraction if we're talking about carbon again in in in trees, it's the fraction that's removed um per unit time. Okay. So um so you can see that when we talk about mean resonance time or of an element in these in these um in one of these reservoirs if the whole system is in steady state. In other words, if the amount in a reservoir isn't changing, the flux in is going to be the same as the flux out. Right? You know that just like a bathtub, if you have water flowing in, water flowing out, the level will stay the same if the flow rate in is the same as the flow rate out. But often in nature, you don't have that exactly. And and if you don't, the size of these reservoirs is e is either increasing or decreasing. So when you're analyzing these systems, you most of the time we're just trying to get a very rough estimate of mean residence time. So if the flow in and the flow out isn't the same, you can either average them and use that as your um flux or you can define your resonance time with respect to the flow in or the flow out. Okay, so these are just gross approximations. So we we want to understand is the resonance time thousands of years, millions of years, days, you know, uh rough rough approximation. And the other thing I want to say before we go on is that all of these cycles, we're going to talk about them element byelement, phosphorus, carbon, whatever, but they're all tightly coupled um in the system. And we'll we'll bring that up again later. Uh before we go on, uh let's just look at the the solar energy budget which is driving this whole um this whole system mostly. there's some geothermal energy energy from the the earth's um the the magma that is also driving uh biogeeochemical cycles but the solar energy is the is the primary driver and if you say that the the total energy from the sun is 100%. Um, it's that energy that's used in evaporation, in winds, and photosynthesis that is the important component driving the cycles. And you'll see that photosynthesis is a tiny fraction. The energy that plants harvest um is a tiny fraction of the total energy that is driving the Earth's system. And yet this photosynthesis which is the basis of the biosphere has an enormous effect on the conditions on earth. Um that's one of the an interesting nonlinearity of the system. Okay. So let's start with the geological cycle. Um which is the slowest moving. People don't even think of it as a cycle because while we're on Earth, we don't see rocks flying through uh well, some sometimes you see rocks, you know, landslide or whatever, but for the most part, you don't think of rocks, it's it's cycling. Uh but they do. And if they didn't, the system would would run down much faster than than it is. And we've all heard about plate tectonics that the surface of the earth uh is made up of these plates that are slowly shifting. And when they shift um you have earthquakes like we've had recently a lot of and and also you have uh volcanic eruptions that bring um material from the inside of the earth up to the surface and it overflows and that's part of this geological cycle. So, um, here's here's a really oversimplified when when the geology professor in our department saw this saw saw that I was showing this, he had a heart attack, uh, by how simplified it is. But, uh, it's just so you get the idea. When he started editing it, there were so many arrows you'd never you could never cope with that. So, uh, here's how you get the just get the idea. There's geothermal energy coming in u from the inner core of the earth uh where you have magma think volcanic eruption uh lava uh which ultimately becomes surface rocks and they're eroded by weathering by rain um and then elements from that go into the soils. Soils eventually become sedimentary rocks. We're talking over really really long time periods uh which become metamorphic rocks. Some of those are uplifted um and some of them are melted and become magma magma. But it but it is a cycle a very slow slow cycle. And in fact somewhere I read um 70 let's see yeah 70 this is you don't need to know this this is not a geology class but just so you have an idea 75% um of the rocks now on the surface of the earth have been uplifted. So it's almost like the earth is on average about maybe halfway through a its a cycle. Um so this this erosion here and weathering as we talked about last time is critical for uh making nutrients available to the biosphere. Um and the force of this weathering is is incredibly powerful. Um, once one number that I found in one textbook, um, is that and that I never knew before is that Niagara Falls is eroding at 3 feet per year. The the cusp of the falls from the water is moving back three feet per year. That's fast. Um another another little factoid uh when I gave this lecture one year stu students asked what what is going to burn out first on the earth the sun or the geothermal energy and of course I had no idea you know this is all going to be over someday um uh the earth is going to be history uh because without the sun and without the geothermal energy there's there's no source of of of energy and um so I went to my colleagues in this department earth atmosphere and planetary sciences and said which is going to burn out first and and they said roughly the same time and we have about two billion years so not to worry yet um but it is you know we are only here for a period of time okay so so that's the geological cycle now let's move on to the water cycle and then we're going to go through the element cycles um nitrogen, phosphorus and carbon but the water cycle is obviously very important in carrying those elements through their cycles and this cycle is actually fairly well understood um I say fairly because not all of these things are are when you're talking about global averages of things it's very difficult but but the weather service is very interested in the global water cycle um so there there's been a lot of uh study done And so we have uh in terms of reservoirs we have uh huge ground. So the the these numbers in black are the amounts of water in a reservoir and the numbers in blue are the fluxes annually of the amounts of water moving from one to another. So there's a lot of water in groundwater, there's a lot of water in ice, and there's a lot of water in the oceans. Um and and there's very little water in the atmosphere. These are the annual fluxes. So you can see if I animated this right. Um so 111 these are in terms of square kilometers of water. Okay that's a lot of water. Um so 111 minus 71 gives you 40. That's the flow. So this is the rainfall. This is the evapo transpiration. And the net result is is is 40,000 that is flowing into the oceans. And in the oceans, here's the evaporation and here's the rainfall going in, which is a net of 40 that's transported from the oceans to the land. So you have 40 40,000 going into the oceans and 40,000 coming back. Fairly nicely balanced. That's good. Um and so let's just use this um as an example to say what is the residence time of water. Let's just calculate this um very we can just approximate it. So the mean resonance time is equal to the pool size divided by the flux. Right? So what's the pool size? What? Who? How much water is there in the ocean? Thank you. 1 35 * 10 to the 9. And what's the flux? Well, we have 425,000 evaporating and we have 40 going here. So, so, so I would add this and that. So, it's balanced. So, I would use 425 4.25* 25 * 10 the 5th equals just roughly how many years? 3,000 years roughly. So order. So, so we would say the residence time the average molecule the average water molecule floating through this system would spend on average thousands of years in the oceans before it would evaporate um and get back into the system. So you should now think about what the average resonance time is for example in the atmosphere and you can see that when the when the pool is very small relative to the fluxes the resonance time is going to be very short right that's something to remember when the pool is huge relative to the fluxes the resonance time is going to be very long so you you should uh think about that as you go through your notes but Um and oceans the resonance time is um is thousands of years. In groundwater the residence time uh again can be can be very long which is why we don't want to contaminate our groundwater because it's going to take a really long time to flush that through. Uh lakes the residence times on the order of decades. Um streams on the order of weeks and um atmosphere I'll let you calculate it. figure it out. Okay, let's move on now to an element cycle. The global phosphorus cycle First of all, there's no redux chemistry in this cycle. That's important. Okay, that's the first thing to remember. And there is it's called a sedimentary cycle. because there is no atmospheric component. There's essentially no phosphorus in the atmosphere. There are there you know everything in this field there's there's always an exception. There's something called phosphine that comes out of bogs that is really interesting but it's not a huge amount. So uh it doesn't really matter in this in this uh analysis. Um and the let's look at it here. We have uh a fair amount of phosphorus in in land plants and there's internal cycling here. We have the production we have the mining of phosphorus from rocks. Uh this is a a fertilizer. Uh no that's not a mine that's a house. Sorry. Uh uh the the the mine is invisible. Here's the mine. Um so the the phosphorus is being mined. It's put on crops as fertilizer. The crops are eaten by the people uh in the house and the the phosphorus ends up in sewage. Uh it's even if it's treated, it ends up in the rivers and it ends up uh flowing into the oceans. Um and there's a little bit in in dust transport here. But if you look at this whole system um there it's basically the phosphorus cycle is a one-way flow to the oceans. The only return in the cycle is this via the sedimentary cycle where you go from sediments uh to those um those are sedimentary rocks to you go to minable rock and and and through uplifting. And this is on geological time scales. So on the earth today, the global phosphorus cycle is really not a cycle. It's one way flow um to the oceans. Well, it's a cycle, but it's a extremely unbalanced cycle. Uh because eventually the the this will will come back. Um it cycles very rapidly in the biota internal cycling in the ocean. So it it it comes into the the the river, it's taken up by phytolanton, they're eaten by zop plankton. Um and that and and then the phosphorus is excreted or or bacteria shoe on dead organisms take up the phosphorus. It's excreted as organic phosphorus and it cycles rapidly um through this system. Okay. Um so the other important um feature of this oneway flow and also humans have altered In other words, the humans are responsible for this basically for this one-way flow uh by by by mining uh the phosphorus and putting it into the the um agricultural system. Okay. Yeah. Then there's the return flux. Okay. Moving on to the um nitrogen cycle which is much more complicated because it has redux chemistry. Okay. And uh humans have also had a major major major effect on on the global nitrogen cycle. So let's first um look at the the the global nitrogen transformation. So this isn't a pools and fluxes diagram. This is a summary for you of things you already know. You already know this. Okay? It just looks different than what you learned in the second lecture. So let's just go through it very quick very quickly. If we think of the um the compounds of nitrogen as being either reduced or oxidized and we think of the environment where they might be found as either being aerobic or oxic having oxygen or anorobic anoxic not having oxygen. We can uh draw a schematic of these processes that hopefully makes uh some good sense. If we start with organic nitrogen um that say it's a dead that dead whale that you saw is organic nitrogen um bacteria work on it and through this process which you haven't really learned about explicitly yet can convert that to free ammonia. Okay. Um that ammonia can be used in chemosynthesis which you've learned about. Okay. The specific type of chemosynthesis is called nitrification where this ammonia is converted to nitrite. Is that a oxidation or a reduction? Shout it out. Oxidation. Yes. Yes, it's an oxidation. This one's obvious because you're you're actually can see the oxygen. Okay. Um so and that nitrite also in chemosynthesis can be further oxidized to uh nitrate and chemosynthesis. So this is a energy releasing process for these these bacteria. Um, now, so here we now have nitrogen in an oxidized form and we're in an anoxic environment and that should immediately tell you, oh, that's an electron acceptor for the anorobic bacteria which are going to dump their electrons on this and convert it to N or N2O. These are gases um and nitrogen gas. This is dnitrification or anorobic respiration. Um which we already talked about and and also can be uh converted through nitrogen fixation into gas can be converted to ammonia. We already talked about this too. Um as remember bacteria and cyanobacteria are the only organisms that can take nitrogen gas from the atmosphere and convert it to uh ammonia for the use of other organisms. Okay. And then there's one other thing here which is called assimilatory nitrate reduction and that is when organisms just take up nitrate and inside them they reduce it so that they can use they reduce they have to reduce it to ammonia in order to use it for uh protein synthesis. So that's another route for in for nitrate to become organic nitrogen in oxidized environment. So these are the important biological transformations in the in the cycle. Um so here's the cycle in all of its complexity and redux is important. That's a feature. I'm going to list these things and then we'll look at them on the um on the diagram has a gaseous phase. In other words, there's an important atmospheric um component N2 N O N2O. And by the way, this is a very powerful greenhouse gas. So the the balance or imbalance in the nitrogen cycle that results in more or less N2O is very important for global climate regulation. Um, nitrogen fixation by microbes and humans. very important. Um and dnitrification is the only way to return nitrogen to the atmosphere. If you didn't have ditrification, this process that you learned in my second lecture that you thought was just some weird way things get through life, uh is incredibly important in maintaining the global the global nitrogen cycle. Um so let's let's let's look at this um the details here. Uh let's see. Okay. So, in terms of nitrogen fixation, um that's taking N2 gas and converting it to ammonia. Um the biological fixation by plants or it's really not by plants, it's by the the symbiotic microbes in their in their roots um is 140* 10 12 grams per year. the industrial nitrogen fixation that is what's done by humans. Um we there's a there's a process called the habber process that's incredibly energy intensive. It takes a lot of fossil fuel to break that carbon not carbon nitrogen triple bond. In other words to take to to to take nitrogen gas and convert it to ammonia you have to break this triple bond which is very energy intensive. Um but that the they figured that out during World War II basically or was it World War I? Anyway, one of the wars. Um uh how to break that bond and that was the the beginning of the nitrogen fertilizer industry. So this is human um nitrogen fixation uh uh that is used to fertilize crops. So this is a huge fraction of the natural fixation that that I mean this adds a huge amount of nitrogen flux to the system. Um okay. Oh and this in this flux here this is cultivated legumes. So this would be uh agricultural bean plants that naturally have nitrogen fixers in them and that also import nitrogen into the system. Uh so we consider that part of the human the human flux. Okay. To balance this we have dnitrification um which is as I said done by microbes on land and in the ocean. So looking at this is it balanced is nitrogen fixation on a global scale and ditrification balanced. No. Did I hear a no? Which is greater? Denitrification. Yeah. If you add this, this and this, you get you get you get 260. Is that right? Yeah. And then you add this, this, you get 310. So there's more nitrogen now going into the atmosphere than than we're taking out. Um, and people don't understand this. uh they think that denitrification has been uh disproportionately stimulated by this huge flux of nitrogen into the system. Um but this is an important imbalance that a lot of people are are studying very hard. Okay. Whoops. Um yeah, that's the that's the ma major feature that you want to look at in this system. And then if we compare this figure is from your textbook comparing the biological nitrogen fixation plus lightning fixes a little bit um compared to the human you can see that humans are now responsible for an equal amount of nitrogen flux on a global scale as the natural system. This is a dramatic perturbation and that's only in the last uh 50 years or so. Dramatic perturbation to the system. This amount that we're doing is a 140 gigatons is equivalent to 10 million trucks of dry nitrogen fertilizer that we're putting into the system with completely unknown effects. Okay. Um the next series of slides are just to uh illustrate the in one ecosystem the importance of the biota in maintaining uh nitrogen in the ecosystem and also to show you uh the the the importance of experiments in ecology. And this is the Hoverbrook uh experimental forest which is up in in New Hampshire. Some of you might have even visited there. This was my first uh job as a graduate student was actually working in this forest. Um I was measuring phosphorus concentrations in these streams. And what they do there just like that experimental lake study I showed you here they're they have uh permits from the forest service to clear cut entire watersheds. Wershed is just an area that collects the rainfall and directs it into a single stream so that you can you can you can collect the rain and measure what's in it and you can collect the water coming out and measure what's in it and you can the difference is what the ecosystem is actually doing. Um so what they did is that they have these two EOS these two wersheds that were the same and they clearcut one of them. They cut all the trees down and they asked uh what the influence of this clear cutting was on the quality of the water coming out of the system. And to make the long story very short, it's a really fascinating study. It's been going on for for more years than I want to tell you because then you'll know how old I am. Uh but uh it's the the here's the control watershed and here's the water coming out of the devestated one showing massive elux of nitrate from the system as well as other cat ions and your textbook does a terrible job of not explaining this um and I don't have time to go into the details but the the major reason this is lost the the the vegetation is really important in that but it's it's important in also maint maintaining the microbial community in the soil and when it's cut down the microbial community changes and that is is is very important in in resulting in this loss. It's a it's a beautiful study which unfortunately we don't have time to go into but if you're interested I can point you in the right direction. Okay, now let's go on to the the the really important well they're all important because they're all coupled but this is the one that's getting a lot of attention uh the global carbon cycle and it's getting a lot of attention uh because we have had an incredibly significant uh impact on it um and we're worried about that impact causing major global warming. Um, and as an aside, I'll just tell you that I actually think the global nitrogen cycle is a sleeping giant. Um, and that the public doesn't know much about that right now. But in the scientific community, we know that that cycle, the perturbation we've had on that cycle could end up being equally, if not more traumatic for the Earth's climate as this. But that's an aside. So, let's focus on this now. So here's the global not carbon cycle which you've seen now several times uh in my lectures. So here's gross primary productivity and respiration by land plants, respiration by the soils. These are R sub A and R sub R sub H that we talked about before. And in this we have they're balanced roughly balanced. Um and then you have uptake by the oceans and um loss of CO2 by the oceans by your textbook says this is all a physical and chem chemical process. That's absolutely wrong. The biota are central to that. Um and that's another lecture. But you you already know that that the phytolanton are sucking a lot of CO2 in through photosynthesis. Um so let's look at the budget here. And this is the introduction of CO2 into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuel and the by destruction of vegetation. So we have 7.5 um gigatons going into the atmosphere due to human um perturbation. The annual increase of CO2 in the atmosphere is plus uh is 3.5 gigatons. So 3.5 gatons annual increase. And let's see ah if we look at the difference here between respiration and photosynthesis we see that there's two gigatons going into the vegetation actually net into the vegetation. Um, and if we look at this, we see that there's two going into the ocean. So, if we ask of all of this anthropogenic CO2, uh, where is it going? 3.5 is going to increase in the atmosphere, two is going to the vegetation, and two is going to the ocean. And it's this that we're uh very concerned about because it's causing a dramatic increase in the CO2 in the atmosphere. Even though these are tiny fluxes relative to the global bio biological fluxes, they these tiny fluxes lead to a significant increase because the pool is so small of CO2 in the atmosphere. So, this is a trace of CO2 since 1960. Here's a question for you to think about. I'm not going to answer it. If summer and winter are out of phase in the northern and southern hemisphere, why isn't this just smooth? This cycle that we see here is an annual cycle of the Earth breathing. Remember, I showed you that in the first lecture. uh showing photosynthesis greater than respiration during the summer and the reverse during the winter. Think about why it isn't just smooth and canceled out by the two hemispheres. Um okay. And if we look at that same graph, this is atmospheric CO2 um from icecore data as a function of time. This is today. Okay. And this is time before present. It's going backwards. This is 450,000 years ago. We can see that CO2 in the atmosphere, and this is measured in, you take a deep ice core in Greenland or something, and you measure the CO2 concentration um at different slices in the core, and it tells you what the Earth was like back then. And this just dramatically shows you what we're doing. Uh just in the last hundred years, we have increased the CO2 in the atmosphere. um dramatically by burning fossil fuels and CO2 is a greenhouse gas and so we're very concerned about that. Um okay, this is just the uh reshowing that slide uh from last time of upwelling to remind you that the biogeeochemical cycles of these elements are tightly coupled. Remember we talked about nutrients, nitrogen, phosphorus being upwelled from the deep water. Uh phytolanton taking them up, drawing down CO2. And then we had oxygen and CO2 going back and forth in the water. So the oxygen cycle, which we haven't even talked about, is tightly coupled also to the CO2 cycle. I'm not going to show this there. Okay, moving on. Um and I know this is is quickly but this is in your readings uh there is a newspaper article about the biosphere 2 uh experiment which now is is pretty dated to to make a long story short many years ago uh a very rich person um built this system out in the middle of the Arizona desert and put seven and and and it had seven ecosystems in it. It was sealed. it was closed and he put people in it which were called biospherians. Um and the idea was to see whether we could humans could create a closed uh biosphere that would sustain human life and it was a miserable failure. Um which is sad because it cost a lot of money and has since been taken over by Columbia University to use as an experimental facility. But the one thing that they learned um here's what happened. They put the people in um and it turned out that that there was not enough photosynthesis to supply enough oxygen for the people to breathe. Oxygen levels steadily went down. And the reason for that they learned later was that they had put way too much uh rich soil in the system. So the bacteria in the soil were sucking the oxygen out of the atmosphere. Um and and it wasn't you know they were subsidizing this system with rich soil so the people would have enough food. But there was a puzzle because if this was the case you should because these cycles are coupled you should expect to see uh the same amount of if this oxygen is coming from photosynthesis you should see the same amount of CO2 coming into the system and you should see an increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. and they didn't in other words they saw oxygen going down but they didn't see surplus CO2 in the atmosphere and it took us bright graduate student from Columbia University to go in there and figure out what was going on and it turned out that so why didn't CO2 increase it turned out that this this CO2 which was um coming out of the system from respiration in the soil was actually binding to the calcium ium hydroxide in the cement and making calcium carbonate. Uh so the cement another human uh invention uh was playing an important role here. The point is that none of this is only understandable in hindsight because it didn't work. You could go in and figure out what the heck was where where did these imbalances come from, you know? So, it was a very interesting study and we learned that it's not easy to mimic natural the biosphere on a very small scale. Okay. Um, I'm going to skip that one and jump to this real quickly because this was just on the news this morning as I was driving into work. I thought, ah, perfect for this lecture. Um, the UN just announced this Millennium Ecosystem assessment. It's on the web. Um and and it's a the people have been 2,000 scientists have been working on this for over 10 years trying to assess the state of the global ecosystems and their capability to support future generations i.e. you guys and they say the next 50 years and those are the 50 years that you guys are in charge are absolutely critical for whether or not these systems um will sustain be able to sustain human populations. So you can go to the web if you're interested in that. Okay. Quickly to our civil and environmental engineering uh major. I'm just going to say that our new motto is nature tools and toys. Uh one of those. Yeah. Nature is ecology. There's a two series ecology course. Uh tools are mechanics um basics uh fundamentals for analyzing systems and toys is design. the the part of the curriculum is going to be designing instrumentation for uh studying environmental systems. And there are these brochures here and in the back. So, I encourage you to pick those up if you're at all interested in in that major. Now, let me show you this cool clip. Don't leave yet. This is worth it. It's only two minutes. Um, and it's nature at its best. So, all I need to do here is is click play. This the soccer players will smile like this. Oh, why didn't that work? There we go. The sand bubbler crab in the straight. It smile for just a centimeter across. The sand bubbler works at breakneck speed passing sand grains into its mouth filtering out all the myofa and kicking aside the waste. Myofona are little bugs in the sand. Crab will clean every grain of sand within a meter of its endless practice for the best back heel in the natural world. That's my favorite part. The crabs work fast because they can only sit where the sand is back. Remarkably, they work the entire surface of the beach within just a couple hours of the time retreating. See, life is a geological agent. See, that would have been a great kickoff for spring break. But welcome back from spring break. All right, I'll see you in a few weeks.