We have a a very exciting uh group of of people to talk to you this morning. And the way we structure this, as Steve said, is is I'm going to give each uh each person about 15 or 20 minutes to make their presentation and then we're going to reserve about 20 minutes at the end for questions. I ask that you hold your questions until until we finish, but we will uh then be up here as a panel to answer the questions. And the way we've got it structured is that um I'm going to start off and I'm going to talk about a few things that that we're doing at the University of Arkansas and some of the the holes that that we see that are out there that need to be filled. And uh then we have um Simon Langford from from Walmart. Um we have Terry Crawford from Publix and that's the the retailer side of things. Uh then we have Dick Canwell from PNG Gillette from the supplier perspective and we have Klaus Garbish from DHL from the logistics side. So we've we've tried to cover the supply chain with uh as much as possible with our panelists here and and then we'll we'll wrap up then with Brian Subberan from from MIT again. So we'll start with academic we'll end it with academic and and industry in between. So, uh, let's go ahead and get started. And again, welcome welcome to our panelist. And, um, I'll keep myself my my job is going to be timekeeper, so I'll keep myself on time here. Uh, I want to talk about what we're doing again at the at the University of Arkansas and then and to talk about some of the research areas. We we have research in several areas. I'm going to restrict it because of our topic here being supply chain to to those specific topics. But we are we are heavily involved in the at this point technology deployment. Uh we've got some groups that are looking at u developing some technology but but for the most part we are we're very heavy in in deploying that technology static versus uh mobile readers uh gen two uh those type of things. Uh we we've just our lab was just converted over and now was just telling Simon we uh we're now totally gen two uh no more gen one testing for us at this point. Um and that's really from the demands that we're seeing from from industry data analytics. I'll talk more about that in in depth making the business case. I'll talk more about that, but we're doing doing projects in middleware, open- source um development, uh lots of work around public policy, consumer reaction type issues, um animal ID. We've got a group in our a department uh and also with our close affiliation with our friends at Tyson down the street uh doing a lot of in animal ID trailer tracking load status uh trying to move more into the logistics area there and also as we move up the supply chain into manufacturing uh as well. Let me drill down to a couple of areas here and start off with with data analytics. And that's one area that we've spent a great deal of time uh and trying to look at what the data um really trying to tell us. And um we we were I was having a conversation with Jazelle this morning and uh a couple of conversations last night and that's an area that really needs a lot of work. Uh you know, we're getting the technology in place. The technology will come along. We've got a we've got a lot of things we can do there, but it's but it's about creating that data and then turning that data into business value. And so that data is a very very very important piece and uh you know we we first look at this idea of of the 100% read rates and we've we've heard all kinds of things about we've got to see 100% of those read rates for it to make sense. And it really doesn't. You know we there's an implicit read versus an explicit read. Yeah. Did you see it or can you imply that if it went from point A to point C that it went past point B? And um Sanjay talked about yesterday the idea of of this phantom inventory. If you were to miss it, that's extremely important. Obviously, if if you're not going to get 100% reads, can you infer those 100% reads or how can you get that? And I think that's going to be very important as we as we go on that we when we reach this 100% read again whether it's implicit or explicit. You've got to be able to draw some inferences from where you saw that uh the data at this point is is very noisy. Uh and those of you in the room have seen the the data you know there there's there's a there's a lot of noise in that data. You know you may have uh hundreds of reads at a particular reader. maybe maybe was sitting near the reader and moving in and out of the field or maybe it passed back and forth or as the forklift was pulling it down through by the dock doors, it was reading at every dock door. There's a lot of noise there and and you know, we've we've did um early on quite a bit of work in in using um such things as neural networks to try to predict when something might be late or when it's outside of its its uh uh normal schedule or using such things as genetic algorithms to try to pull out those patterns in the data. and the the data is just very noisy. And we can artificially take that data and create some good models, but at this point we haven't been that successful in creating good models with the data as it is. Data has got to get cleaner. We got to find a way to to clean that data up. And one of those starts with business rules for interpretation. Uh I really feel that we've got to have and there's going to be multiple levels of these. There's going to be mo business rules that help us decipher what's a what what was a good read, what was a bad read, how do we make that implicit read then if it's not there. And unfortunately, these business rules, I think there's going to be some that are global in nature, but then there's going to be some that vary by industry. There's going to be some then that are going to be specific to companies. And we've got to have some type of architecture, data architecture that allows us to to specify those business rules all the way down, maybe even to a product level. I'm not sure what that architecture looks like yet. We're still trying to conceptualize what that thing is, but we've got to be able to to do a better job of of um interpreting that data. uh Sanjay mentioned yesterday the idea of control charts and I think that's going to be important is once we can start establishing these patterns and establishing what these these uh products should be doing then we can use this to to help us determine when things aren't operating properly um you know the idea of how much uh data will RFID generate you know there's been a lot of speculation about the the terabytes of data that will be generated and again that goes back to you know once we can get this data filtered and cleansed and and worked on I don't think it's going going to be that much and it's not the quantity so much as it is the quality of the data that's going to matter. You know, storage is cheap, but it's it's really extracting that quality. Um, and a couple issues that were mentioned yesterday, it's going to be extremely important data consistency. uh you know Walmart provides data via their retail link system and uh you know Target has their own system and Kmart has their own system and I know that uh I haven't talked to Simon uh yet but I know that I saw something in the in the news about Target and Walmart working on a program where there might be some some um efforts to make this data more consistent. It has to be that way. I mean we can't have every retailer with their own data format for this thing to work and same thing goes for suppliers. And then of course data integration into one's own own organization. I think we've got a lot of work there into pulling those into the enterprise systems that we have in place. And again with those things, you know, if you pull in in noisy or dirty data, uh it's it's very bad. So along the bottom you see there the idea of filter and cleanse, integrate, interpret and understand. We've got to move toward that model of filtering that data, cleansing that data, integrating with what we have, interpreting what it means and understanding. And that then will lead to action based upon that data. Now making the business case, we could we could spend the rest of the day talking about this this area and the opportunities that lie within and we had some questions yesterday. So, so in in the interest of just keeping it brief, what I've done is I want to throw out a couple of things just for you to think about and and again this is necessarily very narrow so that you can understand the scope at which which we could look at this. When we look at RFID, we can we can view this as an incremental technology. We can go in and we can tweak what's already there. Okay. Now, I'm going to I'm going to kind of look at, you know, primarily the store level, maybe a little bit at the DC level. But one thing we could do is say, "All right, we'll take RFID and it will just we we'll we'll just use it to make our process a little faster, a little more efficient, or we'll use it to to make our process a little better. Maybe our process isn't broke, it's it's just bent a little bit, and we'll use it to just tweak it." Okay, very incremental. We're not we're not radically changing anything. So I I just gave some examples there under the heading of process efficiencies for example promotions you know we we may be good at promotions but if we don't get it out to the to the shelf in a timely manner doesn't matter. So, you know, we can use RFID there. And I think there's been some, you know, you you probably have all seen this, the early studies. I know Gillette uh released some data from a study they did um working with MIT on on some uh opportunities for improvements just based upon promotions. Uh out of stocks is another one of those. Again, getting it to the shelf when the when the customer wants it in a timely manner. So, just speeding up that process that's already in place. We can also use it incrementally to to uh fix a process or or make that process a little better. Product rotation. Okay, we know how to do product rotation. It's not a matter of timeliness. It's a matter of are we doing it correctly? Well, with RFID, we know what's coming in, what's going out. We can maybe fix some of those problems. Uh better use of merchandisers. Instead of sending merchandisers to various stores uh just at random or or better or worse yet just on a set schedule, maybe target those merchandisers to where we see product in the back room or when we see an out of stock event based upon uh the RFID data. Target those merchandisers again improving that process. uh the the manual orders that um for example that that Walmart is um is doing with with RFID trying to restrict those those overrides of those manual orders when we know that something's in the back room um electronic proof of delivery um at the at the DC for example trying to fix that process where we really see what's coming into the DC and then also I'll put out a stocks under the idea effectiveness of of uh not only getting out there as a as as an efficiency of getting out there in a time but also improving that process. Um there was there was some data released earlier uh in 2005 that that from Walmart suggested that you know one out of 12 products was actually making it uh from the from the pick list to the shelf and and Simon you may have to correct that stat if it's not entirely correct but something you know on a busy Saturday you know by the time it got on the pick list and then got to shelf one out of 12. Well, that that process can be helped with RFID. Now again, so if you view it as an incremental technology and some companies are doing that, they look at it and they say, "Okay, RFID is just going to help us improve the speed of our process or help us tweak our process a little bit." Others are viewing it as more as a radical or disruptive technology. And and that is giving us an opportunity to use RFID as a process enabler. Let's go in and and create new ways of doing business that were never before possible using RFID as that technology that drives that. And um I just give you some examples there. It may be that we could use RFID as to radically change the way that retail stores stock their shelves. I don't know what that process might look like, but that might be a possibility. Obviously, as we move on down the line, the idea of the contactless checkout, you know, that's that would radically change that process, right, of of going up and handing your stuff off to a a cashier that swipes your items and puts it back in the cart. Radically changes that. Um, Sanjay mentioned yesterday the idea of the paper scan is radically changing that relationship between suppliers and retailers, changing that supply chain, okay? where where we get directtore deliveries and you know the retailer simply acts as a as a facilitator or a broker of those goods until they're sold. That's a radical change. But but what I think that we're seeing and and if you start looking at the case studies closely, what you what you'll find is that some companies are treating it as a as an incremental and and necessarily so. There there are many companies and and I've worked with several of the suppliers that you know are very very very good at what they do. All the lowhanging fruit has already been picked. So you have to look hard to find that incremental value. Now that doesn't mean they can't use it as a radical technology but there but they first look for that incremental change. Other companies however have actually purposely used RFID as a way to radically change their business. they weren't very good at what they were doing and RFID then actually becomes an excuse to really change what they're doing and uh as with most things the higher the risk the higher the return right so uh with with those following that radical or disruptive path the the opportunity for return is greater but the risk is higher that it won't work right now the the third element that we have to keep in mind here is who are the beneficiary beneficiaries of of these changes. Could it could be the retailer, it could be the supplier, could be the logistics provider, could be the consumer. Now, we we did a an out of stock study working with with Walmart, and we necessarily looked at one particular area that would provide benefit to several beneficiaries. look at a fairly constrained or a fairly narrow area. And that was how we kind of tweak that out of stock process to make it just a little bit better using RFID and in this case creating those automatic pick list for them to go to the back room and find that that product and take it to the shelf. So we so we tweaked it just a little bit. And so I wanted to put it in context of what we studied and and uh many of you I know have seen the white paper that was released because it's it's important that you put this thing in perspective. Keep in mind that what we looked at was an incremental use of the technology in a very narrow domain. It did help I mean out of stocks can help the supplier. It can help the retailer. It can help the consumer. So the beneficiary side was great, but the fact that we found changes that RFID that we could attribute to RFID is tells a lot because we were looking at a very narrow thing. Now to me, that's extremely encouraging because if you've narrowed it down to this much and you still found a fairly uh big difference, then what if we expand that on out? Okay. I think the possibilities I I I think we we've only set a very very small bar to clear and and and we we cleared it easily, but there's a lot more there that we can we can get at. And also keep in mind that that this idea of incremental versus radical, it's going to vary by the company. We're looking at a very abbreviated supply chain at this point. Okay, this is from the DC basically to the back room of the store and and so far the logistics segment has been largely overlooked. You notice that they're listed there, but there's not a lot going on when we talk about the supply chain and how it's involving the logistics arm. Okay. And just uh just very quickly on the on the the out of stocks uh keeping in in perspective of where that was on that chart, you know, the fact that we were able to find, you know, improvements between pre and post RFID and then and in between the pilot and control stores, we we found those differences even though we were constraining ourselves to an incremental change uh in a very small area. Okay, that that's that just give you some things to think about there. I want to very quickly run through, you know, also it's important we're doing the research, but we're also teaching students and others about RFID. We're trying to we're trying to turn out people. Michael O'Shea said uh last year that that the CIO of Kimberly Clark said that uh you know there's such a der of experience out there that if somebody walks by a reader and and says RFID and not riffid, that makes them an RFID expert. Well, we're trying to to stamp out some of that ignorance by by training people and uh so we've got dedicated courses in in the the business school which which I personally teach uh where we have students uh from across the college and and graduate students as well. So it's undergraduate and graduate uh we they're doing live projects for companies uh we've got dedicated courses computer science computer engineering and then and then interwoven into a lot of different courses. So we we've got about this semester or last semester we about had about 80 students uh involved in RFID in some some form or fashion. Uh that's over 100 this semester. Um we also uh provide testing and training services to the industry. Uh one of the things that we do is we help um companies determine tag and tag placement on their products so that it's ready to go through an RFID enabled supply chain. Uh and we've started coupling our testing with training. One of the things we found out was that, you know, people would just send us a box of their product or case or pallet of their product and say, "Here, help me figure this out." But they didn't understand RFID. And our most successful um uh projects were when they actually came in and spent time with us going through the testing and understanding RFID. So, we've actually started coupling that uh now formally where we bring the companies in, they spend a couple of days with us learning about RFID as we uh test their products. Um, our lab facility there at the University of Arkansas, we we're actually off-campus a few miles uh in a working warehouse and manufacturing environment. We have about 8,000 square feet in Hannah's Candle Company uh which uh they manufacture and then their distribution center is there as well. Uh and that's um unfortunately it is in the distribution center uh part. So the there is no control over the temperature. So the temperature inside is plus or - 10° what it is outside. Uh, so we also have um when we have to test stuff in the cold chain, we've got about a 4,500 square foot square foot facility in Zero Mountain, which is a a cold storage facility. And we've got two labs there, one at 36 degrees and one in minus 10. Uh, so we can test stuff there. Our lab is set up to replicate really everything that a that a box sees at this point through the abbreviated supply chain. And we are one of only four labs at this point that's accredited by EPC Global uh as a testing facility and the only academic lab in the world. And just to give you some quick quick pictures here of our lab and I'm I'm got two minutes to wrap up. That's the outside of our lab. A truck backed up to our dock. Uh that's the inside of the lab looking out that that same dock door. Um uh view from our lab. The conveyor system that we have in um in there. We we had actually were fortunate to have a conveyor system that was custom designed and built for our lab that replicates uh um you know sorting and merging and and up to 700 ft per minute. The the whole works um and then um pallet rack and and backroom storage facilities, forklifts, etc. Okay. Uh at this point um I believe the next on the agenda is is Simon. So I'll turn it over to you, Simon. And let me Okay. Okay. Thanks, Bill. And good morning, everybody. um really want to touch on the the opportunities and issues that that we see in the retail supply chain. Um before I do that, just to to step back a little bit and see what uh we've all accomplished in the last last few years. Uh so in 2001 2002 uh we had the auto ID center field trials and uh installation points around a dock door for instance took hours to install and and probably minutes to destroy or somebody to to go move those things. Um so it wasn't scalable, wasn't deployable and certainly wasn't wasn't supportable. Uh but a lot of learning came out of that uh for us all then to focus on what we needed for deployable solutions. And the one key message that we were putting out at the time is that they should be futurep proofed as far as possible knowing that Gen 2 was on the horizon that we wanted to deploy things that were software upgradable. And in 2004 then we really stepped up a notch to to drive for mobile solutions whether that be handheld solutions uh in particular forklift solutions which uh is important both to the retailer and a lot of suppliers. A lot of those things are still in the the early stages especially around mobile solutions. So current situation is we have robust fixed reader solutions allowing us to deploy up to 20 read points in a in a store in a matter of hours in a couple of hours. So taking that time down from days to hours that reduces the cost cost of deployment. So the cost of deployment isn't just around readers and antenna. A lot of the cost is in cabling and actual insulation of the equipment. So it's a little bit like tags. It's not just the IC chip that we can take cost out of. It's that whole process driving for common operating systems so that we can support it centrally and maintain the robustness of that that system. We're starting to deploy handhelds in the the next few months. So getting the first mobile devices out there. And I think that's when our store associates will start to see some of those transformational changes rather than just the iterative process changes that we've had out there in the uh in the store so far. Things that they can actually touch and feel and see the difference with RFID. So our fixed read points are collecting data in the background and suggesting items to pick. But really to a store associate today, what is RFI doing? They don't know. They don't see that as visible. Sure, they're picking more product and moving it out to the the floor quicker, but once we get these mobile devices in their hands, then that will help them home in on where that product is and really start to streamline their process. We're very close to deploying the first forklift solution in our enterprise to read pallet tags and location tags. So, we can have a a pallet locating system in our Sam's Club operation, for example. Taking that learning, then we can then take that to our distribution centers to see how we can use location tracking and putting pallets away and dropping them down and start to streamline processes there as we move move forward in the future. But even those forklift solutions are still at the early stages. So we can read a pallet tag today. In the future, we need to to be able to read cases or the same amount of cases we do today on a dock door from that pallet read on the forklift. That way we can start to eliminate deploying readers around dock doors and reduce our overall costs and just have those readers on forklifts. We're at the very early stages, the infant stages of wearable solutions. So whether that be something that an associate would wear on their the belt or within a vest and the system is reading in the background and talking back to them and give them work to do. And as Bill mentioned, Gen Two is starting to roll out. We're enabled in our supply chain and starting to receive product uh on Gen Two uh tags and prices are falling. tag prices are are falling through the the floor. So what has all that technology delivered so far? What are the benefits of that? So it's allowed the first sort of automation of tasks around pick lists and manual order controls and our associates to work more efficiently. That's improved our customer service and our offering of product on the shelf at the right time. It's really taken the theory out of the lab environment into the real world. And I think once you take that step, that's when a lot of the the real learning comes about. And Bill mentioned the study that they performed on our first changes where out of stocks were reduced by 16%. So you can see from a a nonrfid environment in the different store formats here to a partial implementation that we did uh we had some caps on the number of autopicks that we would actually suggest to to store associates and then to a full-blown RFID solution on those products that were enabled at the time measuring the out of stocks in the control stores versus um sorry the the pilot stores versus control stores. Those RFID stores performed 63% better in stocking the shelves than the control stores did. And within the same store, within the pilot store, looking at tagged product versus non-tagged product, we saw those replenish three times faster, those products with RFID tags. So, as Bill said, those first iterative process changes were starting to deliver dramatic results on the tag product we had in those stores. So, what about the issues and opportunities? Well, the issues remain the same as they did four years ago, 10 years ago. It's all about data accuracy and real-time data. Data accuracy drives both availability of product in the whole supply chain, the speed of that that merchandise flowing through the supply chain and the amount of inventory we have to hold that has a direct relation to to costs. And as Bill said, it's important to to see how we use that data that we don't get swamped with data. We're using it. It's actionable for store associates, for replenishment associates, and for our suppliers. But it opens up a new world of granularity, new windows that we can see into the supply chain that we just didn't realize before. We're starting to drive efficiencies around manual processes, but lots of inefficiencies still exist today. And a lot of changes will only occur say in a distribution center once we start to get a critical mass of product flowing through those facilities. We've got a big opportunity to reduce lead times in the whole supply chain. So in the short term, as I've mentioned, we're rolling out handhelds, but the choice of handhelds today is limited. The functionality of those handhelds is limited. We need to move to wearable mobile devices systems that help us fasttrack product to the sales floor. It's always that last 50 yards in the store where we're most inefficient. So, how do we get what I would turn oneway stock? It comes in, goes straight to the sales floor to the shelf. It's put on the shelf and the box is thrown away. We don't get this double, treble, quadruple handling back and forth from the back room to the sales floor. Bill mentioned about execution tools for promotions, new item launches. So, how can we work more efficiently in that aspect? And that's not just a suppliers responsibility or a retailer's responsibility. It's how do we collaborate together and make that work? driving execution. So I mentioned the new windows and and the the new data streams that that RFI gives us. How do we use that to drive that execution? So in the real world today, people tick boxes and make reports look pretty and say they've done task when they may not have done that task. RFID gives us that ability to see whether that task has been done, whether that new modular has been laid out on the shelf, whether those new items have made it out to the shelf without anybody having to go and and take a a check sheet. Bill mentioned electronic proof of delivery, big efficiency gain for both the supplier and retailer. So how do we we make that happen across all retailers, all suppliers with a common understanding? I mentioned about the pallet locator system for SAMs. The benefits we're starting to see today, as Bill mentioned, it's a very small sort of subset of products, an area that we've started to change. So that is truly the tip of the iceberg. But many benefits are reliant on the technology continue to develop and mature and reducing the cost of deployment. So we start to get that critical mass of products flowing through. Gen two is showing step change in performance, a real step change. I know as end users when we came together we all said well you know we need a global tag but it's no point in in developing this this tag if it's just an iterative process we need a real step change and pleas to say Gen two is is delivering that today but we still need to drive for cheaper faster and added features. So what are some of the barriers to continuing adoption and accelerating adoption? I think if you ask most suppliers, tag cost is the primary barrier. Many process efficiencies require that critical mass I've spoken about and we need to be smart of how we introduce RFID into areas so we're not running dual processes and turning people's worlds upside down. That's what we started to do with our picking list. So it's behind the scenes and it's just dovetailing with the current process. And as we move forward, we need to minimize the impact on associates throughout the supply chain to enable us to execute and to get buy in. So what are the kind of things that that we're looking that that we need to work on and we need to collaborate on? And it's those transformational changes that Bill spoke about. So sensor tags seems like we've been talking about cold chain compliance and sensor tags since a year dot and it's not really becoming a reality yet. So you look at semipassive tags, they're far too expensive currently to put into a a deployable uh solution. So we need to move that up a notch. We'll start piloting some proof of concepts this year again to to show everybody what the benefit would be. But looking at passive temperature sensing. So what is a true real business case? Is it that we want to with a passive uh sensor tag read that temperature as it passes certain read points or in a trailer that may have um RF equipment on board already for things like GPS that we can tie into. theft prevention systems. A lot of work was done on this through the auto center and the labs you probably four or five years ago. But how do we really replace EAS systems because that will start to reduce costs in that aspect. We can't have EAS and RFID tags on the same product. because that's just increasing costs. So, how do we get down to one solution that will achieve both true true sort at high speeds? So, we're close to 600 feet a minute on our sortation systems. How do we singulate tag reads to know it's that case that needs to go to store 50? I spoke quite a bit about mobile devices but robust deployable mobile devices and international we need true global tags mentioned about Gen two being a global solution but I think what you'll see out there today with Gen two is those tags are tuned to each geographic area so the tags that we're testing here I'm sure are tuned to the US. The tags that we're testing in Europe are tuned to Europe. That's not going to work. That wasn't the idea of Gen Two. So, we need to to tune the tags to to one sort of format that will work around the world. And we need to move the EPC network from theory and powerpoints into reality. a lot of talk about farmer and I think there was a a separate session yesterday on farmer which uh I wasn't able to make but in the UHF space you know there's been a lot of focus on case and pallet and large form factors of tags little emphasis on the small form factors but we need to to work on that there's initiatives uh happening right now showing some good results in labs but again we need to move this out to to the field to get real world learning and then have the proper debate whether HF or UHF is a correct method to to move forward with and a big need not just for pharma but other areas as well for security you know so what are the security measures that we would want and need on such products mentioned about international and the EPC network and direction. This is probably my number one um objective for this year is through RFID to sense direction. So, Bill mentioned about read rates, you know, not 100% and we don't need them to be 100% today, but having direction, knowing that something is either leaving this room or coming into this room then actually gives us much more accurate data than we have today. The last thing I want to do is tell an associate to go and pick a case that's sat in the back room of a store and they go there and it's not not there can't be found. That discredits the whole system. So the cleaner data we can get then the better position we are the better execution we'll get and direction will give us that. And there's various uh theories and uh solutions thrown out there from using RFID and complimentary technologies such as sensors that we could use or things like the Doppler effect that we could use through through readers, but really need to get out there and try four or five the four or five of these different methods to see which is most appropriate and cost effective. And then some of the holy grails, reading all cases on a pallet, not possible today, but how can we achieve that in the future? And how do we get to the sub 5 cent tag so that the automated checkout becomes a reality in the future? What do we need to keep doing? We need to keep educating. We need to keep educating governing bodies around the world so that Gen 2 is endorsed in every region, every country so that global tag can be used. We need to educate end users what are the benefits of RFID, how best to deploy it, where to start. There's some great work being done in this area already. And as Bill mentioned, developing and nurturing people today to help in the future uh build these systems and manage these systems and quality improvements. So cost isn't just about this tag's costing me 12 cents. Yield rates are important too because that c cost gets passed on somewhere down the line. and testing testing for true interoperability. Testing for what is the best tag or the antenna design for that product that you're shipping. Bill shared with me a while ago an interesting story from a supplier where there it was two cases of a product, one of our suppliers, and uh it was the same product except a different flavor and uh they were getting good read rates on one and poor read rates on the other and couldn't understand why why that was and uh went along to Bill and said, "Can you help us with this?" And after some trial and error and swapping the product between the two boxes, found out that one of the flavors had some metallic paint within the packaging. And it was that that was that was causing the uh poor read rate on that second product. So to a supplier, it was the same product, the same same packaging as they thought, same density of product inside, but two different results. And so how can we uh test and get best practice out there and so every supplier doesn't have to go through that learning process because that reduces costs overall. And then we should all be mindful that you know as we move forward as we move forward to the sales floor to items to theft prevention that we need to ensure that privacy concerns are taken into account and addressed. This should only equal lowering the cost of implementation. So just to wrap up, we're just scratching the surface today. We need to get mobile devices out there so that people can go about their everyday job and the system is just talking to them and give them work to do in a prioritized way. We need to lower the cost of deployment. And then finally, we should never lose a sight of of why we're using this technology, why we're pushing this technology and driving forward. It's all about the customer at the end of the day. So whether you're a supplier or retailer, at the end of the day, we need to service our customers better. Whether that's working more efficiently and taking cost out of the supply chain that then can be passed on to the customer, that's our end goal. Thank you.