Okay, thank you everyone for coming to the lecture. >> So this was the example on do do people remember this from from the homework? You remember last bit? Okay. >> It's like tricky one. >> Does wait. Okay. If I So if I just tell you that if I write Oops. If I say that the gradient, this is the gradient matrix and it has what we call a reduced SVD. Do you remember what the Do you remember what the answer was? >> Yeah, something like that. But >> okay, I'll just write it or one version of the answer. This is the one. There's other ways to write the answer, but this is uh this is like a simple way to write the answer. So, it's like you can think of this conceptually as let's see taking the SVD of the gradient and you can think about this as setting all the singular values to Y and it's a we call this a semi-orththogonal matrix it's kind of because it's rectangular it's not quite an orthogonal matrix um but I wanted to show you that so there's someone on Twitter called Kala Jordan Zero who calls himself a speedrunner So it's like he wants to train the neural network as fast as he possibly can and he took like a variant of this method um and then add some tricks to it like momentum um low it's like makes it low precision and then in order to compute it's like it's not really obvious how to compute this thing without doing an SVD. And you don't really want to do an SVD when you're training a neural network because it's kind of slow. Um, but so he uses this iteration. Um, so it's a way to compute this this term without actually doing SVDs. It's just kind of an iterative method to compute that thing. Um, and it's it's it's not it throws away this learning rate basically. It's a slight variant, but it but it this is the basically this is the result he's getting. Um, so this blue curve is like is something called llm.c, C which is like there's like a and andre kopathy has like a very fast C implementation of training transformer um which is supposed to be like the fastest way to train a transformer but this guy Kala can train it in like a fraction of the time using this like special spectral gradient descent method. So the full disclosure is like I'm kind of collaborating with Ka so you take take everything with a grain of salt but it's like seems to be actually much faster to use this method and this all happened in the last like couple weeks. So actually after we wrote the homework. So just to say like um we're trying to teach you some things that well potentially ma like matter in practice which is kind of but it basically anyway the thing that we wanted to say is if anyone wants to like look at this for final project. It's kind of like a interesting problem of using thinking about the math of optimization to actually make the optimization go faster. But um anyway, that was just to tell you about that. That's not the main point of this lecture. Um so last time I think that you were learning about uh some aspects of representation learning. Um and there was this idea of developing techniques, contrastive learning techniques that um where you try to learn embeddings of your data and you specifically want to like take basically similar similar data points and map them to like nearby embeddings. And then you want to take a data point from like a very different class and map it to an embedding that's far away. And we call these contrastive learning algorithms. And they're good ways to learn representations often times. Well, um it's a good it's a good sometimes we think of them as somehow unsupervised ways to learn representations. But that anyway, that was last lecture. Um and then I also wanted to remind you um that in like one of the even earlier lectures we were thinking about kind of different perspectives on thinking about what's happening inside a neural network and there was the idea of um kind of neural perspective thinking about tenses and then thinking about spectral properties of of tenses. Um so this is just recapping some different things. Um but in this lecture um not really using that and using just thinking more abstractly as a neural network as being a map between uh from you know a sequence of vector spaces. So every layer of the neural network is you can think of it as a vector space. Um and you know like one one possible goal of doing deep learning is to learn like a really good representation of your data points. And I'm just visualizing that here um as the idea of you know first of all at the input space maybe all the different data points of unrelated things are kind of all mixed up together and not really separated or disentangled. And then when we do deep learning, we're kind of hoping that as we as we move through the network, we kind of get to the the representation at the end where like the data points from different classes or like semantically different data points are kind of separated from each other. And like that's that's you know then we did a good job. Um so that's what this is saying that we want a representation of our data which is perhaps linearly separable at the end of the network. That would be nice. Um, so what I want to talk about in this lecture is the idea that your when you pick what your neural network architecture is, it sort of already has an opinion about which data points are similar to each other and which ones are dissimilar even without doing contrastive learning. Um, so I want to just introduce some tools for thinking about this. Um, and that's that's all this is saying is that the neural architecture kind of already expresses some kind of opinion about how similar two data points are even before you train it. Um, and think about some tools to capture that idea. Um, okay. By the way, as ever, please just interrupt me if you have questions. Um, okay. So this the idea here is like I just give you some data and like I just want you to think about like just from first principles ignoring everything you've ever learned in machine learning about how how you would actually fit it if you wanted to fit a model to this data. Um, does anyone have ideas? >> Do like a line and then the line curves down. [snorts] >> So I could I could somehow just interpolate maybe >> that would kind of do that. Um, yeah, that's one idea is just linear interpolation. and that's yeah that's yeah I I feel like yeah go ahead polomial interpolation which is like maybe harder to draw but maybe I could fit some kind of like quadratic to this potentially. Um it's fun just to like you can just if you just think about this you can invent a lot of different like function classes and just think about what it would mean to do um machine learning with different function classes and it's like it's kind of like a big jump to get to doing neural networks if you just think about things from scratch but that's kind of where we are. Um but a lot of so basically there are a lot of classic approaches to um doing machine learning where people did just invent their favorite function class and say hey we're just going to do machine learning with this function class. Um so a really classic example um is called kernel methods and it actually it's quite related to what we talked about in the approximation theory lecture which was maybe lecture two. Um, but kernel method says we're going to take a a kernel which is basically you could also think of it as a bump function and it's you know it could just look like a little Gaussian or like a little curvy and I'm going to place one kernel on this on the location of each um input if this makes sense. So if I've got four inputs, I'll put four little bump functions. And intuitively, like if I've got four data points and I have four bump functions, then I have enough degrees of freedom to fit the data. So that seems to make sense. And then um and then I'm just going to re rescale them with scalers with scalar coefficients just so that they um just so that they interpolate the data. So it's like four bump functions, four scalar coefficients, four data points, everything checks out. and I I I wrote that down um here. So I I construct my function f ofx by summing over if I've got n data points I need to sum over n bump functions and I denote each bump function using this this notation k. Um so the way to understand okay and then there's also a scalar alpha which allows me to rewe the heights of the different bumps and then you know if I have n bumps and n data points I can definitely fit my data. So it's kind of a natural way to just to explain a little bit about what K of X and X I means roughly if looking at this this would be like K of X comma 0. And then you should think about this x i as like allowing me to translate this bump along the x-axis to like be centered on that i data point. Okay. And that's just uh that's just what this bit says. And then I can define a function space let's call it big f to be the set of functions f that can sort of be decomposed in that form um and and if I let if I let the number of bump functions actually go to infinity. So I consider like all not all possible locations of where I put the bumps and then then I actually allow myself to have infinite bumps. Um then this is this is what is known as uh um they call this function space a reproducing kernel Hbert space. Um, and this was like all the rage like before deep learning or like before the recent or like let's say the last 13 years of of deep learning. It was like before that everyone was doing kernel methods and they were like considering spaces of functions like this. Instead of choosing your neural architecture, the whole thing was like you pick pick a good kernel function. you choose a good kernel or a good bump function that somehow captures um the structure in your data and like all the machine learning sorry slight exaggeration but it was like kind of like it was the there were a lot of machine learning papers focus on kernel methods. Um, so that's just a little introduction to kernel methods. And if you just think about it, it's like not so obvious why we don't still use like why do we use neural networks? Why don't we, you know, why don't we go back to kernel methods? It's like you kind of need to think about it. It may not be obvious. Um, there's a second way like second kind of classic way of of constructing uh function spaces or doing machine learning um where you actually this time you think about sort of sampling sampling random functions. So you come up with a you come up with some way of just sampling random functions. We would call this like some kind of stochcastic process and you just imagine imagine just you just keep sampling sampling random functions from your from your stochastic process and you sort of throw away if it doesn't fit the data you just throw it away but if it fits the data you actually keep it and you sort you're going to somehow end up with this distribution of functions that actually goes through your um goes through your training data. So that's not actually if you actually use this method, you wouldn't actually do that procedure of sampling lots of functions. You would actually do do something called conditioning the distribution of functions on the training data and getting the what we would call the posterior distribution of functions. Um but intuitively this is what's going on with this technique. and there's a special way to make this computationally tractable and it basically amounts to making the way that you generate the functions kind of like a Gaussian thing. And then this thing will become all the computations that you need to do to do this procedure become straightforward. Um, >> yeah, if I remember correctly, I think the optimal thing is roughly like a kernel method itself. Is that how similar are they? >> Yeah, that's a really good question. Um, I have a slide, so let me But so yeah, there's a big there's actually it turns out as it happens that there's a like a close connection between this procedure and the thing on the previous slide with all the bump functions and like that's kind of interesting. yes. And the yeah, roughly it's like if you do if you take if we we've not discussed yet how to sample these random functions, but we're going to discuss it. But let's just say that we've discussed it already. And the point is that if you if you sample all of these random functions that are consistent with the data and then compute the mean of that distribution, you get a single kind of quite smooth function which is the mean of that distribution over consistent functions. And that's that turns out to be equivalent to um the kernel interpolator of minimum kernel norm in some for some definition of the RKHS norm. Um, so there is a yeah, there's a really close connection, but like that should not make sense to to everyone because haven't defined any of those things. Um, okay. But this is just Oh, oh, yeah. Okay, here was the slide. So, the kind of there's there's three ways now that we're going to think about um function spaces. So first of all, this one is the one we just talked about where you sort of think about you sample lots of random functions and then you throw away all the ones that don't fit the data and you just keep the ones that fit the data. And and this will be something called a Gaussian process. Kernel methods are the ones with the bump functions where we like pick our favorite little bump and kind of arrange them to fit the data. and then neural networks. So what the what the class is mainly about and there's the cool thing the the really interesting thing is that there's all these correspondences like there's there's sort of a way to get a kernel method from a Gaussian process. There's kind of a way to get a Gaussian process that they're both they're related to each other and the relation somehow goes both ways. That's all I want to say. Um but interestingly there's a way to get a Gaussian process from a neural network. Um and it it holds well there's there's actually maybe a couple ways to do it but the one that we're going to think about is a there's a correspondence where a neural network in a particular limit is equivalent to Gaussian process and it's basically when the network is infinitely wide. So you take the width of all the hidden layers and you make them infinitely wide and then you sample you randomly sample the weights. So you could think about that as like you repeatedly you just keep reinitializing your network and it keeps giving you random functions. If the network is infinitely wide, it turns out that this distribution is equivalent to something called a Gaussian process. Um so like these connections if you want to like understand more theoretically about deep learning it's like interesting to explore these connections because you can sort of relate um neural networks to these classical machine learning methods that people really cared a lot about. Um then you can ask things like how useful are these correspondences? Are do the correspondences actually amount to things which happen in practice? And um that's something else you've got to think about. But I'm just going to tell you a little bit about one of the correspondences. >> Yeah, >> these are all like equally expressive, right? Or is there some sense in which one is more expressive than the other? >> It's a good question. So the question was, is there a sense in which one is more expressive than the other or all the different function spaces equally expressive? Um I think they may just be different in some sense. Like there are you can look up and you'll find some literature that discusses this and it's things like the smoothness properties of the functions in the different function spaces may just be different like the kernel thing because it's built out of bump functions even though there's an infinite number of them they may still be kind of reasonably smooth functions but I think for a Gaussian process depending on the coariant structure you can have really like horrendous functions but interestingly with that said like if you take the mean of the posterior of the Gaussian process. It's actually a nice smooth function. So, it's like kind of just different. I don't know which one is more expressive, but it's an interesting thing to think about. Okay, let's see what Okay, so now I'm going to introduce slightly more formally what a Gaussian process actually is. Um so this is just a recap of what we just talked about but basically um if we have some data we can think about you know sampling lots of lots of random functions that are the ones that are kind of consistent with the data and we can get this this distribution and just notice is that all the functions are going through the through the data but they're they're kind of random away from the data. Um and then you know given that random function you can ask you know a couple questions like one is what does the mean look like? And it's sort of reasonable that the mean might be a lot smoother than than all the random squiggly functions. Um, and then you could ask what is the standard deviation around the mean? Um, and it's sort of reasonable that it should kind of grow as you as you as you move away from the data and then shrink to zero on the data. So that that's one way it could look. so the point of a Gaussian process is it gives you a formula like just like a simple thing that you can easily code up. It just involves some matrices and some linear algebra but it gives you a formula both for the mean function and the standard deviation. In other words, if given given a set of data like you've got these these like inputs, you can pick a new point on the x- axis, you say like I really care about this point on the x-axis. There's a formula that tells you the value of the mean and and like what the what the standard deviation is at that point. And then you can kind of sweep that point along the x-axis and you can you can get this mean and you can get this standard deviation. So you can b it basically gives you a formula for drawing this picture. That's kind of one way to think simply about what a Gaussian process is. And and basically the shape of the um the shape of these standard deviations and and like quite what the what this picture looks like depends upon something that we call the covariant structure of the Gaussian process. And that's that's what we get to pick as like machine learning people using Gaussian processes is we get to pick the coariant structure. Um so that's the picture. um in informally I think this is probably the most useful like if you just want a quick takeaway and you don't want to go into all the math this is like quite a useful understanding of what a Gaussian process is is just pretend that it's not a pro you don't know what a stochcastic process is like most people honestly don't but you do know what a random vector is so let's just think about random vectors um so this is supposed to represent present a vector which I just turned horizontally so it would fit on the page. Um, and imagine that I have a multivariate normal random vector with some covariance matrix and some mean which is actually zero. Then I could plot like each coordinate of this rand you know I get one sample of this random vector and I just plot it on an axis. So I just plot each um each entry. So like this one corresponds to this one. This one corresponds to this. Okay. And I could do that and then I could just kind of connect the dots and I could call this um somehow somehow building a function from a random vector just by kind of that's wrong just by connecting the dots. So I could do that if I wanted to. Then I could say that's kind of um in this picture it's not that great because neighboring you know neighboring points on the x-axis are like not correlated with each other and usually if I have like a nice function I want nearby points to be like similar to each other. So then you say okay hey I'm just going to choose a covariance matrix with a special structure um so that the covariance of nearby like neighboring entries in the vector is very the the they're very correlated with each other. So I just pick the covariance such that neighboring entries in my vector are very correlated. Obviously if I permuted all the entries in the vector it would break that but I'm not going to do that. So I'm basically going to pick a covariant structure such that neighboring entries are related and then I would get a picture more like this where um when I connect the dots the function um you know it looks like more like a kind of nice function that I like. And then basically a Gaussian process is exactly this construction. But then you let the number of uh kind of grid cells in your vector you let the dimension of your vector go to infinity and you basically pack you pack these these sample points more and more closely together if that makes sense. And it and then it's like more does it kind of does a construction kind of make sense? Just saying like if you have a random vector, you can plot you can plot its coordinates and then you can let the number of coordinates go to infinity and it will just kind of limit to a a smooth like a something that's more like a continuous function. Although does that does it make sense what I've not really like proved anything here. I've just like given you an intuitive description. Um okay. Okay, so that's I think that like if you forget everything else from the lecture, that's basically sort of what a Gaussian process is. Um, so now I want to give you the formal definition. Um, so now we say that we have some input space X which was like our that was like our X-axis in the in in the previous slide. Um and then for every for every point in this input space so kind of for infinitely many points we let f ofx be a random variable. Um, so you kind of think about you think about the function f indexed by its argument x as being like the continuous generalization of a of a a random vector where x is the kind of index about which coordinate you are on on the vector. But that's just an informal thought. Um and then what we say is that because it's difficult to think about infinite dimensional objects, we say that if if we choose a finite number of input points and inspect what the random object f looks like on any on any finite set of inputs. So on any on any collection of inputs x1 to xn where n is finite we can we can consider that to be a random vector like a legitimately it is a random vector because we're we're inspecting the function on a finite set of inputs and if if this random vector is gaussian for any finite collection of inputs then we would say that f is a gaussian process. So this is like the formal definition of a the gaussian process. It's kind of like an infinite dimensional object where if you like take any finite inspection of that object, it's a Gaussian vector which is somehow related to what we were talking about on the previous slide. Um uh yeah. Oh yeah, go ahead. >> Given a random vector, how would you verify whether or not it is? Um it it's more like an analytical like when we use this tool it's more like you produce something which analytically like you know it satisfies this definition. It's not you you're very rarely in a situation where you would want to like check test empirically if if it's a Gaussian. So um that would you would have to verify it analytically most most most cases and I I'm blanking on how exactly you would do that but there are there are ways to do that. >> So you can define like in the construction what the random variables are like what each function is. >> Yes. So if you're going to use Gaussian processes you will build something which satisfies this definition. Um and it's not the thing is what's difficult about this definition is it's not obvious that anything should satisfy this definition and like there's a theorem that most people who use Gaussian processes don't don't know the theory but I think there's some kind of it's called like commog extension theorem or something like this and it's like there's this area of math which is about like proving that these things exist um but it turns out you actually don't need to know that area of math to actually use this stuff. Um >> I was just wondering like precisely what is the definition of a vector kind of like how you're just sampling from a Gaussian constructed but >> yes a a G like the simplest Gaussian vector is like a ID a Gaussian vector where the coordinates are IID and then just for each coordinate you sample a different Gaussian and that they're not related to each other. That's like a simple one. Um and then a more a general one is defined with respect to coarience matrix. Uh and yeah it's I probably going to butcher any explanation I give now but like I I would just yeah go on Wikipedia after the class. Um I can it another way to think about a general multivariate gaussian is to like do the iid coordinates and then rotate the space and like it turns out that's equivalent to I'm pretty sure that's basically equivalent to mult to a general one with rescaling the coordinates as well. Yeah. >> This is just a follow this but the dimensionality of the space within which that gaussium lives would be the number of data points right? Uh yeah but for this definition in in this case yeah that would be if I had a finite thing but this this has this definition is for any collection of n for any n so it has to hold for all possible collections of inputs it's just like quite a technical definition um is it sorry is it is it clear or um >> yeah I guess I was just initially when I first saw thousand I just imagine the Gaussian curve. So I imagine that being Gaussian but obviously that's not what this is and I thought you know maybe something but it looks like you know yeah I understand better now >> yeah it's like conditions on having a set of inputs >> I'm thinking of like a neural network I guess applied on some data points like that's Gaussian in the sense that like the functions that I guess applying on the data points in the dimension have like a space the dimensionality of the data points like I guess larger is like I guess I'm just trying to reconcile this like the neural network not being >> okay >> I'm thinking I'm close but I'm >> I have AI have a concrete example so I think I'm just not sure how how much further into the lecture it is going to be um but I think it's going to resolve this question so let me just like plow on but keep the question. Um, but there's but I just have like a few more high level things to say and then I think oh yeah I have a picture as well. So okay let let me just go I think it's going to I think I'm going to resolve your question. Um so I should have defined what a standard multivariate Gaussian is and that's kind of yeah I'll add that for next time but so a Gaussian process this is just to say that a Gaussian process is the thing that generalizes a finite dimensional Gaussian vector to somehow an an infinite dimensional random function. Um and if if a if a Gaussian random vector is described by a coarience matrix, well actually this thing that we call a Gaussian process is going to be described by something that we call the covariance function which tells us at two different inputs what is the coariance between the function at those inputs. So that's how the coariance matrix gets generalized. Um and a an an example of a you know if in the fi if in the finite case the covariance was like e to the i - j squ then then here the in the continuous case it would be something like e to the x - x prime squared. So that's how that would kind of generalize. Um, so this is this is hopefully this slide will help build some more intuition for what we're talking about. Oh yeah, go ahead. >> By an infinite dimensional function, you just need a function that accepts infinite number of inputs. >> Exactly. Exactly. Um so let me just say again that yeah exactly that we have a think about we've got the x axis or the real line as our input space. So there's an infinite number of things on it. And here we're going to consider two two examples x very close to x prime which is this picture. And basically we're going to choose the coariance function almost always in our Gaussian process such that if I if I sample the random functions and I plot a scatter plot of so I you know I sample one random function and I get this point for f ofx and f ofx prime and then I sample a different random function and I get this point and I sample a different one but because x because We're imagining that X and X prime are close together, the scatter plot that I get is highly correlated. Um, and as X and X prime get closer and closer together, it it should sort of concentrate on a very on on the samples being the same. But then as I like move the point X prime further away, oops, like now I move X prime over here. So, so X and X prime are kind of far apart. the function values that I get from sampling the functions are now kind of uncorrelated with each other um if it's a Gaussian process with a with a coar with this kind of coariant structure which is usually what you have um and basically the it's the choice of what we call the coariance function that actually encodes what we mean by by nearby and for different choices of coariance function that could mean something else. uh and just to give you some common examples of covariance functions. One would be to take e to the negative the squared distance between the in the two inputs and another if we have a multivariate case it could be to take like some kind of dotproduct between the inputs like it's basically the the covariance structure is like some kind of measure of similarity between the inputs and we sort of use that to induce like what the what the correlation structure looks like between different inputs. Um yeah, go ahead. >> Does this work with like language modeling where you're learning an embedded because the I guess the words are not continuous, right? You can't take it off then we have an embedding that's >> yes interestingly that the covariance function. Yeah. If if you have discrete inputs, the like there are ways to define coariance functions even on weird spaces like the inputs don't have to be like the real line like the inputs to the coariance function can be um you know any input set. So like you can extend this construction to like kind of weird input spaces. That was one of the reasons people really like kernel methods as well because they have that same property that you know like the the in some sense a downside of neural nets is usually you know it's not obvious how to apply it to language let's say okay we came up with a way to do it we just you know embed all the inputs and then learn the embeddings but like it wasn't obvious that that was going to work before people showed that it worked so people came up with alternatives and like this is compatible with you know different input spaces basically. But I guess like if we were to say that I don't know an LLM was a Gaussian process or something it would mean that whatever like the solutions it finds are both a Gaussian process in terms of its embeddings and it's also figuring out the right for the solutions process >> because I guess yeah so let me I kind of haven't got to what I precisely mean when I say that we can think of neural networks as Gaussian processes. So I think let's wait to get there and then discuss this a bit more. Um okay. So I think okay maybe yeah things this is the last kind of like abstract slide and then I'm going to start talking about a more concrete example for a neural network. So I hope that that will uh make things a little clearer. Um, but the last thing that I want to talk about is how if you're doing machine learning with a Gaussian process, like how you actually make predictions or like some people would say like how you do inference like in in kind of machine learning speak, but basically how do you how do you use a if you've got training data or you've got inputs and you want to make a prediction at a point that you haven't seen, how do you actually do that? Um and and roughly the idea is that if if you're given inputs x1 to xn and you know the function values f ofx1 up to f ofxn. So that's like your your input data is the inputs and the function values. We want to predict f of xar where xar is like a new test point a new test input. That's what we want to predict. You just think about stacking these um stacking all of the things like all of the things you know and the thing that you don't know into one big vector because it's a Gaussian process. We know that the joint distribution of this quantity is Gaussian because that that's like the definition of a Gaussian process for any collection of inputs including like you know that includes the the the n inputs that I was given and the and the one that I want to predict on. We know that the joint distribution of those things is is a multivariate Gaussian just by the definition of the Gaussian process. And then you can say that hey if I have a multivariate Gaussian vector and I know its distribution one of the standard things that that tells you how to do is given the first n coordinates what is the conditional distribution of the last coordinate. So that's like a standard manipulation that you can do with Gaussian vectors is just what is the conditional distribution of the last coordinate on on all the previous ones. Um so there's just like a formula for that. It's just called like conditioning with Gaussian vectors or something like that. And that that is precisely the formula that gives you this kind of picture because basically you take this point xstar and you sweep it along this x-axis and the formula tells you both oops both what the what the what the mean the the mean of this coordinate is conditioned on these ones and it also tells you what the standard deviation is. And interestingly like it's because Gaussians are so well behaved the conditional distribution of the last coordinate conditioned on all the early ones is itself a Gaussian distribution. So like you know if you if you take a Gaussian vector and you sort of condition on the first n coordinates the distribution of the last one is Gaussian. Um so in particular there's just a formula for this mean and there's a formula for this standard deviation and that's like a closed form expression just involving like evaluating the coariance matrix basically on on the input points. Um so I sort of realize I'm not really telling you explicitly what these formula are but they're things that you can just look at. And I honestly think like if you haven't seen this before, it's maybe easiest just to have the intuitive explanation and you can just like look up what the formula are if you're interested. Um so um now I want to tell you what this has to do with neural networks, which was kind of the point of introducing this stuff. Um, and and there's a result called the neural network Gaussian process correspondence, which is like something that a lot of people have been really excited about over the years. so now forget everything we just talked about and just think about a neural network and we just think um for for the simplest case is arguably like just multi-layer perceptron. So we've got weight matrices W1, W2, W3 up to WL. And what we can do is we can just, you know, sample the weight matrices randomly and it gives me the function. The neural network gives me a function. I write that function down and then I resample the weight matrices and I get a new random function and I write that function down. And I just keep sampling the weight matrices over and over again. And it's going to give me a distribution over functions. And I can ask, you know, what what is that distribution? What properties does it have? Um, okay. So let's pretend that we did that and we generated like a in this case a thousand random functions by sampling a thousand set of weights for my neural net. So I reinitialize my neural network a thousand times and I want to inspect the functions. So I the way I decide to do that is I'm going to pick two inputs x and x prime. And you know, in general, it could be like X could be a a picture of a cat and X prime could be a picture of a dog, but it's just like two two inputs and I fix them. And then I get my um I get my thousand functions uh f F1 up to F,000. And for those two inputs, I just um kind of stack the outputs of the network. So let's just imagine that the output is onedimensional for simplicity. And I just build a a a 2x 10,000 matrix um of all the outputs of my random networks. And I'm just going to plot them on a scatter plot and just see what it looks like. Okay. And I actually did this, but I did it like two years ago. Um, but I did it on this is a this is a truck that's in the CR10 data set. Um, and this was a three layer MLP and the width of the network the hidden the width of the hidden layer was a thousand. Um, and I did it for two pairs of inputs. So input one and input two. So input first of all and then second I did it for input one and input three. Um and the interesting thing Oh yeah. So what input two is actually just input one it's the same truck but like with a little bit of jitter in the pixels like I just added a little bit of noise to the pixels. And then input three is it's the same truck but I just added a lot more noise to the pixels just to get just to just to show the difference. And then for my thousand random networks, th this this is what the network outputs look like in the for the first pair. And then this is what they look like for the second pair. So like the interesting thing is it's kind of um it kind of looks like the thing that we were talking about like the Gaussian process thing where like the two inputs which are kind of similar to each other seem to have more correlated random outputs whereas the two inputs that are kind of a bit less similar to each other. The outputs are slightly less correlated. Um so now um and then you know this is this is displaying it for pairs of inputs but I could instead of having two inputs I could you know I could make this same table but I could put like five inputs and then sample a thousand networks and then plot that fivedimensional scatter plot and then I could ask does that thing kind of look Gaussian? And my claim is it will because of because of this neural network Gaussian process correspondence like for a sufficiently wide neural network these scatter plots actually are Gaussian and actually to to really it's we would actually have to do what Zach was saying is like how do we actually know these are Gaussian that's a good question I don't know there's like tests for Gaussianity that if you wanted to run on this scatter plot and you could do that test but I I didn't know how to do that but my claim is that Clearly they are Gaussian and it's because the neural network is is a wide network that it has to be this case has to be the case. Um so what is the formal claim of the of the correspondence? It's something like this that if we take a neural network and we sample its weights, we randomly sample the weights then so long as the network had was very very very wide um if I if I pick any finite collection of inputs of um basically for any finite collection of inputs the distribution of outputs is actually a multivariate Gaussia. here which is the definition of a Gaussian process. That was the definition. If if you have the for any finite collection of inputs the distribution of outputs is Gaussian then then it's that's satisfying the definition of being a Gaussian process. And it also would explain these pictures. and importantly like what the covariance function is depends on on things like what the architecture of the network is and what the nonlinearity is. So there's like a it's like an interesting result where like given a particular network architecture you can sort of expand its width and there will be a corresponding coariance kernel or covariance function. that is that is basically a function of what the AR what the network architecture is. Um and that's what I meant at the beginning when I said that like there's actually the architecture somehow has an opinion built into the choice of architecture about what data points are similar to each other and which data points are dissimilar to each other. And one way to kind of extract that information is to take the architecture to be really really wide and you kind of extract this kernel function or this coariance function. Um so this this function of performed like sigma x x prime and maybe sigma depends on things like what the depth of the network is what the nonlinearity is and so on. So I guess in terms of practicality, so because they're making it really really wide, really giving it a good opportunity to overfit. But I guess the idea is because we're taking a random look at overfitting that sort of >> that's fine. It's okay. >> Yeah, that's a really interesting question. Let me make some space and just also like I think this lecture is on the shorter side. So the more interesting questions you ask then then like the more learning [snorts] that could be or something. But uh because okay basically um so the question is if the neural network is really really wide then intuitively I would think that it's going to somehow overfit because it has like too much capacity for my data. Um but the interesting thing about the the Gaussian process picture is that let's say that we have some data and we get this distribution of functions with the the you know one interesting function could be the the mean function. So remember that there's not only is there a mean but these functions are sort of going through the data. Um, and because it's random and because it's Gaussy, you can have really there's some probability of getting like a really horrible function. Really bizarre. Like one function um could actually do something like it goes through this data point and then it goes all the way up here and then it comes all the way back down and then it goes all the way back up and then there's some probability of getting that function. But interestingly, it's a very very small because like things can't deviate too much from the mean with like very significant probability basically and and even if they do deviate a lot from the mean let's say the variance is really high oh yeah um well I can always try to extract what the mean is because I know that the mean is a nice smooth function so in the context of this correspondence it's an interesting question to ask like how can I get my um how can I get the distribution of functions to actually concentrate on the mean? In other words, what do I need to do to the neural network to get the standard deviation to go to zero um relative to the mean? If that makes sense. Is there something I can do? And I thought about that at one point. And the the argument is that like if you make the the the standard deviation of that you sample the weights from very very small, then it actually causes the distribution to sort of collapse onto the mean. and then then with very high probability all the samples are very close to the mean. Um but I don't want to dwell yeah it's it's something to think about. Um, but it's it's related to Oh, yeah. There's another answer to that question, which is it's basically like I'm not sure if Philip talked about that in one of his lectures, but the idea of like neural networks being very very overparameterized, but they can still like represent lots of nice simple functions. So, like the fact that the network is very very wide does not imply that you're going to overfit. It just implies that it's possible to overfit. Yeah, go ahead. >> Yeah. Why did they require network for like distribution and they um And for the output, you still can say it follows the distribution. I'm just wondering it seems like you can do the same thing in your network for like the methods like you can learn the sufficient statistic like the mean value and sigma value without training or large. just >> I Okay, so let me try to repeat what I think the questions were. So the first one was in this construction of this correspondence, why do the network need to be infinitely wide? And then I think the second question is it like if there is this correspondence, why do we actually do deep learning the way that we do it? Why didn't we just extract what the kernel is and then just do Gaussian process regression or do some kernel method? Yeah. So they're both really good questions. So on the first question, I'm going to talk a little bit about that on the next couple of slides. So it's it's because the construction relies on a central limit theorem over the width of the network. That's the short answer. So like um for things to converge to this Gaussian distribution, it's because of a central limit theorem and that requires something being large and it turns out it's the width. Um, yeah, the second question, yeah, that's a great question because some people really thought that we should do kernel methods, but it just seems to be not the case from the way that we see things right now is that it seems that even if you have an equivalent kernel to your neural net, maybe for several different reasons, you would actually rather just train the neural net and just tune the hyperparameters rather than um rather than do the the kernel method or do the Gaussian process regression. I think there's probably a few different potential reasons why that's the case. Um one is well first of all the kernel method the Gaussian process ends up having hyperparameters as well because somehow like the architecture of the network is going to affect what the kernel is. So there's it's not like it's really a tuning free thing. Um and then another thing is like the scaling kernel methods scale much worse with the size of your data set than neural nets do. Like I think it's like the cost of all the methods is like cubic in the size of the training set whereas like somehow neural nets kind of scale linearly with the size of your training data. I'm not sure if I mean if you train the LLM you just train it once on the data and you know the computational cost is the cost of a forward pass and a backward pass multiplied by the size of your training set. So it's definitely not a cubic dependence on the number of training points. So that's another thing but I don't know it's a super interesting question why people use neural nets rather than kernel methods. I think there maybe not may still be somewhat open problem. I had two questions. So the first process. >> Yes. >> That's the great. So the question was have people if this is a limiting result that only holds an infinite width like if you have a finite width network do we know what the deviations are from the limiting result? I think there are papers on this question. Um and okay one one answer is like even in the classic central limit theorem there's a result called like the berry ess theorem which tells you about um the deviations from like normality of like a large sum of independent random variables and so on. Like you can just like you could just say okay I'm going to take the berries in theorem and like turn the handle and like figure figure it out. I don't quite know if that actually works but like >> it's like berry I'm probably not getting the name quite right but berry and then I think it's like >> I'm not sure how to pronounce it. >> And then the other question is earlier in the lecture you said that like people were really really excited about this result and I'm wondering like what the larger background the research community has been like how that's influencing what people think about like developing models. >> Yes, that's a great question. I think the short answer is probably very it's had probably actually very little impact on what people actually do in deep learning realistically. It may not be the case but it kind of seems that way. Um maybe at the end I can talk a bit about some of the potential limitations of the result but it's like it's like there could have been a version of deep learning where you're like okay I need to solve this deep learning problem like let me write down what my architecture is take the limit work out what the kernel is study the pro properties of this kernel and like okay now I'm ready to go like but it's just that's just not what it's more like okay just get an architecture that seems reasonable and just we'll just try it. And it's it's like anything that's I think like there's a lesson which is like anything that's too convoluted of a procedure is actually unlikely to be really capturing what's going on. And it just you just don't need I mean one thing is you just don't need to do that because you can just train the neural net and you just see but I think there are also limitations of this result that mean it's possibly also potentially not that useful. Um, yeah. So, the point of this lecture is not to tell you like this is something for your practical toolkit for like going out into the wild. It's more like if you're interested to really get into the technical details of like deep learning theory and you want to think about the different ways that people have come up with to think about neural networks like here's here's one other. >> Okay. Yeah. >> How many parameters do we need to optimizing. >> Well, generally the the kernel the coariance function could have an arbitrary number of hyperparameters. So it's like if you're if you're doing just straight up Gaussian process regression, you're going to pick a kernel function, you get to design it and you get to choose how many hyperparameters it has. May I ask what's the most typical uh kernel function we choose and what what is the correspondence to the neuronet network architecture? >> Oh yeah, I have an example coming up for correspondence to the network architecture. I think like the really simple so the question was is there an example of a straight a typical kernel that people use in Gaussian processes like the the most like the the first one that most people introduce is just the squared exponential kernel which is like e to the x - x prime 2 and then you might introduce a hyperparameter like dividing by 2 sigma squ where sigma is a hyperparameter and it controls the length scale of the correlations that the kernel And like that's that this is a kernel with one hyperparameter. But then you could say oh what if x is multi-dimensional input then I you know something you could say is like what if I have one sigma per input coordinate that would be a way to introduce more hyperparameters or you could have a different functional form. You could add something to this kernel. You could that's like the modeling that's like the modeling decisions that people in kernel and you can read up papers and there'll be like a table of like 10 different kernels and they'll say like if your problem has this structure try kernel X if it has this other structure try kernel Y and it's like it's similar to like oh like use a connet for images and use a transformer for this and it's like it's just like modeling decisions. Okay, I'm gonna keep going because now I think we may run out of time. I'm not sure. So, I didn't actually prove it. I just wrote down a sketch and I think I'm just going to post a reading about how to actually prove this correspondence. Um, but I'm just going to give you the highlevel something high level about how to prove prove that this correspondence happens. So remember the correspondence is that an infinitely wide neural network with random weights induces a like Gaussian process distri like the random functions you get are equivalent to a Gaussian process. Um and the the main tool is something called the multivariate central limit theorem where like mainly you just hear about the central limit theorem for like a Gaussian random variable with one coordinate but it turns out there's a generalization of the central limit theorem to Gaussian vectors and then the proving this result is just like applying that theorem like a couple times and doing the right induction over depth of the network. [snorts] Um, and I think honestly it's been a while since I thought about this, but I think that there's two steps. There's two main steps. One is like you pick a single input to the network and you inspect the network at a particular layer and you show that the activations for that individual input are iid random variables which is kind of intuitive that they should be if you're randomly initializing the network the different activations of this that a particular layer on the same input should somehow be ID random variables but you have to show that and then once you've shown that you then consider that layer and you consider batching the activations over the multiple inputs and you sort of think about each each activation coordinate the batch of examples as being a random vector and then you like apply the multivariate central then you think about the next layer as summing over those random vectors somehow and you do this multivariate central limit theorem and anyway I'm not really explaining it so the the the the short answer is it's like there's a central limit theorem and I I'll pose a a reading if if someone wants to go through the details. Yeah, go ahead. >> Question. Um the first question is you might as go in rescaling when you're >> Yes, exactly. >> And the second question is like you a little bit more about why it's they're going to be independent random variables when you have complex dependencies in the previous layers. >> That's okay. So maybe it's not obvious that they are independent and I think I maybe should not have said that. So I think that's something you got to show and I'm not going to go into it but it it's basically because of the network being so wide at every layer that you have like a central limit theoring happening at each layer and that's going to cause the independence. But I I'm not giving you a a mechanism. I'm just like giving you a handwavy justification. I'm going to post the reading. But the for so the other question was what precisely is the weight initialization? How does it scale with the width? Um so I think I have AI have a concrete example of this result in action. So let's let's just go through it briefly. Um, so this is I think this is the instantiation of the result for an MLP with a reallyu nonlinearity. Um, and it turns out that all of the calculations you can solve them exactly for this model. And one of actually one of the papers in the reading actually solves this kernel for this for this architecture, but it's quite an old paper and it may not be that easy to read. So I wonder if I can like post something better on Piaza perhaps. But basically we set the nonlinearity to like square 2 * Reu. Um and we sample the weights with variance one over fan in. So that's like that's like what we would call somehow like the standard parameterization in PyTorch is is doing one over fan in. It may actually not be the best way to initi I actually think it's not the best way to initialize the weights in practice, but it's for this for this statement to hold that's that's the initialization you've got to use. So one over fan in variance um and and then what you can prove is that the expectation of the network output is zero. This is a network with no nonlinearity on the output. So the so it makes sense that it's mean zero because basically the the last layer anyway because the last layer is a linear layer the the mean should be zero and then the the covariant structure so the expectation of f ofx multiplied with f ofx prime takes this it's called something called the compositional arc arc cosine kernel. So we take the dotproduct between the inputs and then we iteratively apply this function h which depends which okay we apply h like l minus one times where l minus one is the depth. So it's called the compositional cosine kernel. It's just a particular mathematical function which happens to correspond to this architecture. Somebody proved it. Um so this is an example of the result. Actually just to clarification the the whole browsing process thing this is for untrained. >> Yes the the thing that I told you about. Yes. There is a another thing that people the the neural tangent kernel which is supposed to be a Gaussian process characterization of train networks but it's like it also holds under some assumptions and people have sort of kind of moved away from thinking too much about that at the moment. But there is a yeah there's a there's an analogous result which is supposed to hold for train networks but I didn't talk about that. Okay. Does anyone have Okay. I think there's like one slide and then I can take some questions um if anyone has more questions. But basically, if you like really buy into this picture, you're like, "Yes, I believe in the in the Gaussian process correspondence and I want to like take this to the to want to see how far I can take this." You might have questions along the lines of um you know, how does the covariance kernel or the coariant structure depend upon my choice of network architecture? How does it depend on like the way I initialize the weights? and and you know could you actually use these considerations to give you like a theoretical way to inform how we pick our architecture um and you know like how we regularize the weights during training or like can can like this connection actually like inform the way that we do do deep learning. So that was like the hope for this type of result and it seems to have just like not really happened like instead we just do transformer or like you know there's like a list of architectures and you just you just pick one from that list and we've got some so it's just like it was a hope of having like a former analytical way to do like design like principle design in deep learning but just like doesn't see doesn't seem that we actually use it. Um so I had one thing I have a blank slide. So there was one thing that I wanted to talk about at the end which was basically this question of how of of the weight initialization that we talked about. So so the the claim was or or that that result held if we you know we have a layer with a certain fan in and a certain fan out and we and we use this initialization one over fan in which is actually like the PyTorch standard. It's like people call this like Xavier initialization. Um but it's not obviously actually the best thing to do although it is the thing that's built into PyTorch. Um, and there's like I'm just going to give you one quick piece of intuition, which is basically like if I have um Okay, so wait, first of all, why do we why do people believe in this initialization? Why did people come up with it in the first place? And it's basically because it's the initialization that is good at at initialization. And that's that's the same reason that we use it in the neural network goutian process correspondence because the correspondence is about how networks behave at random initialization. And basically this is the way to initialize if you want to preserve activation magnitudes at initialization. You should initialize this way. Okay. But but it it ignores like a kind of fact of linear algebra that if you have a matrix where the fan in is much larger than the um the fan out. So the the input dimension the fan in is much larger than the fan out. Then the special fact about this matrix is it has a huge null space meaning that a lot of the inputs are going to get mapped to zero. And if you set up things such that at initialization the activation magnitudes get preserved well at initialization the vectors are hitting the null space and you're kind of scaling up all the part of the vector which is not hitting the null space. Um but actually like once you get further into training actually the inputs to the layer will kind of align with the non-null space and then this principle is kind of bad because then things are much too large. Anyway, this is related to something that people call like maximal update parameterization or MUP, which is like something that if you're like trying to train giant networks, people care about this a lot. Um, anyway, that's the end. So, if anyone has questions, I'll stick around, but thank you for listening.