The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a creative common license. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. uh finite difference methods for initial value problems that we're coming to the end of and the uh solving large systems that we're coming to the beginning of was to talk today about the about matrices because that language uh is just useful for everything and um so about the homeworks uh Mr. Cho put in a long weekend uh grading the homeworks that were turned in Friday and preparing uh code and output for to go up on the web page probably late tonight or tomorrow. So um have a look to see and I hope that that uh those codes will be useful for the future too. Right. Okay. So uh we'll maybe say more about the outputs and about the projects uh which by the way could grow out of that homework or could go in a totally different direction. I'm thinking that uh the right time to say projects due would be after spring break. So pretty much nearly immediately after the spring break would be and we'll talk about more but just so you have an idea of what's what time table I had in mind. Okay. So matrices then uh so and in particular finite difference matrices. So uh that's the second difference matrix K and I'll frequently use that letter K as I did in 18085 for that very very important and useful matrix. So what are its properties? It's trid diagonal. That's a very important property which we'll see because that means that uh computations solving linear systems was very fast with a with a triagonal matrix uh it's symmetric all its igen values are positive so I would say it's symmetric positive definite and those igen values and igen vectors so the igen vectors for this matrix turn out to be discrete not quite discrete exponentials, discrete signs, discrete sign functions. If I change the boundary conditions, I can get discrete cosiness as the igen vectors or I could get discrete exponentials as the igen vectors by making it periodic. I'll just maybe I'll mention how to make it periodic and then I'll erase it again. If I to make it periodic means that this second difference centered at 0.1 should look ahead to point 2 and look behind to point Z but that'll be the same as point N. So I would put a minus one in that corner and this one similarly it looks ahead and which really brings it around again since we're sort of on a circle brings us around again here. Okay. So that matrix now with minus1's added in the corner I would call C a circular. So I'm I'll leave it I'll leave the letter K there but the right letter is C while these minus1's are here to make it periodic. And by the way so they mess up the triagonal. It's no longer triagonal, although it's certainly got it's very sparse. And mentioning sparse reminds me if you're coding large matrices that are sparse, you should let mat lab know that they're sparse. So mat lab has a whole carries out operations. If you tell it it's a sparse matrix, then it only operates where the nonzeros are are located and it doesn't waste its time looking at these zeros these zeros through all the matrix steps. So uh so using sparse mat lab is is important thing to know about and it just typically an s or an sp will appear in uh mat lab commands for example I'll just maybe fill it in here what's the sparse identity matrix the normal identity matrix would be I of n and the sparse identity matrix is spy of Okay. And similarly, we would create K. Well, we could use 2 * P of N as the diagonal of K and and the two the upper and lower diagonals. Uh and and we could could tell it these two entries. Another thing to say, well, I'll what I said I wasn't going to do, I'll do because I hate to see a K up there while it's not right. And uh couple two more points about this matrix. It's singular. Now, the determinant is zero. Now, I'm never going to take the determinant of a giant matrix. That's a bad thing to do. Much better to recognize that there's a vector X, let's say, and it's a vector of all ones. It's the vector of n1's. If you imagine multiplying this matrix by the vector of n ones, what do you get? Zero. You get all zeros. So that vector of all ones is in the null space. I would say of a matrix null space is just the vectors that get wiped out by the matrix. CX is all zeros. So that vector that's this matrix has a has some nonzero vectors in its null space. And I know right away then its determinant is zero. So the determinant of that is zero. And now that would tell me something about the igen values of the matrix. Well, it tells me about one value. It's it's zero. A a a matrix like C that has CX= 0. Well, I could also say that that's CX= 0X. That would actually be better so that both sides are vectors. And so I'm realizing that that vector x in the null space is a is an igen vector and the corresponding igen value is zero. And um and so that's otherwise the igen values will all still be positive. So this would be a positive semidefinite this. So I would I would call that matrix positive semidefinite. The semi telling me that it isn't quite definite that it gets down and and hits has zero. So, uh and and the matrix is singular, but still it's good to know where all the other n minus one values are. They're all positive. Okay. Okay. about the bandwidth. Let me go back to K now because the bandwidth strictly speaking the bandwidth of C is is very large. The bandwidth is if I'm looking for only one number, that number tells me how many diagonals I have to grow until I reach the last nonzero. So the bandwidth here is is large. And um in general the the operation count the the uh the amount of work to do is going to grow with the bandwidth. Well, of course that having full bandwidth isn't quite the full story for this matrix because it's so sparse. I've got like hundreds of zero diagonals in between and just this one. Anyway, this is a matrix with a large bandwidth, but a little deceptive. Now, here's a matrix with a back to K again. I call the bandwidth just one here. Really, maybe half bandwidth would be a better word. The bandwidth is the number of diagonals uh above or below take the maximum of of the count above and the count below and in this case both counts are one. One diagonal above, one diagonal below. So really half bandwidth I would I would say is one. Okay, just some convention is needed. uh there the crucial point is that the bandwidth measures the the the amount of work to do when you do elimination as as mat lab will do of course um oh one other m thing about mat lab so I'm I'm often referring to mat lab and I'm thinking of its backslash command the backslash which which solves ax= b by just a back slashb. So uh if it doesn't know these matrices are sparse, it will go through all the steps uh not taking advantage of the fact that we've got all these zeros here. If it does know that they're sparse, then it's tremendously fast. Let me come back to that point. Well, maybe actually backslash is smart enough to uh look to see um whether the matrix whether sparseness is available. So I I shouldn't have said I think maybe there's a lot engineered into backslash. Actually backslash also in engineered in there is this le square solution. If you give it a rectangular problem and uh say too many equations so that the uh the you can't expect to have an exact solution be uh backslash will pick the least square solution and and much more. It's that's probably the most most used operation. Okay. So I said something about the igen values and the and everybody sees that if I multiply this matrix by the the uh values of u at successive mesh points I'll get the second difference that corresponds to uxx. Now this would cause this matrix dull. So that tells me I'm taking a finite difference. That plus tells me I'm going in the forward direction. So that's one at the mesh value to the right minus one of the mesh value at the center point. And of course this has to be divided by delta x and that by delta x^ squ. So uh these are these are matrices along with the backward difference and the center difference out of which you build uh the basic um finite difference equations as you've done. I want to make a comment here though about now on this topic of igen values. Igen values for K really tell you the truth about the matrix K. The igen values of that matrix K start just a little above zero and they go to a little before. So the igen values for K. So uh shall I put that here? The igen values of K are between zero and four. Very they come very close to four and quite close to zero depending on the size of the matrix. Of course, let me just do if I took the one by one case, its igen value is two. If I took the 2x two case, its igen values are one and three. Notice uh nice properties there. the the igen values one and three are positive as we said mat the I this matrix K has positive values whatever size and what's more the one and three kind of interlace the two the so what I'm saying is that the igen value for that is in between the the the the value for the 2x two and the two igen values one and three are in between the three values that I would get for the 3x3 k maybe I just write those down they're they're useful numbers so k2 as lambda = 1 and 3 k the 3x3 one I think the ien values are 2 minus 2 which is smaller than 1 2 which is in between and 2 + 2 which is larger than three. And of course, they're all between zero and four. Just a comment. How do I know they're between zero and four? Well, there's a somewhat handy little rule for for getting the location of values that that's just worth knowing as a sort of general principle, but of course, it can't tell you exactly where they are. Well, first of all, the fact that the matrix is symmetric tells us what about the igen values. So, we we learn a very very important fact about the igen values for the from from just looking at the matrix and observing that it's symmetric. That tells us the igen values are real. They're real numbers. And a and actually it tells us something equally important about the igen vectors. The igen vectors of the matrix are orthogonal. A symmetric matrix has real igen values, orthogonal igen vectors. That's a little bit of linear algebra to know. Now, um why between zero and four though? Well, there there's this uh what's his name? Gersin. Gersh Goran pointed out and it's a twoline proof that every value is in one of his one or more of his circles. So where where are the Gers Goran circles? Well, the a typical Gersan circle is centered at the number here two that's on the diagonal and its radius is the sum off the diagonal but you take absolute values. So Gersorn wasn't like doing any of the fine points that really locate the igen values. So in in this matrix all the centers are at two the diagonals and the radi are two also two because that and that in absolute value make two. uh this this first row makes a one and and actually that's what that that by a little careful argument is what gets the I gets the igen values not actually touching zero or touching four. Yeah, it takes a little patience. All you could say from here, all Gerskoran could say would be the igen values are in a circle centered at two. Its radius is two. So they're between zero and four. And uh then it's that first and last row or either the first or the last row would do to to u say that they're strictly positive. And uh of course the the true second difference I should divide k by delta x^2. So the igen values will be divided by delta x^2 divided by a small number. So they will really be much larger. But the the ratio of the biggest to the smallest isn't affected by the delta x^2. And that's the that's a key number. Let me put that maybe on the next board for K. Okay. So, lambda max is about four. Lambda min the smallest value is is close to zero. And how close? It's it's of the order of some constant over n^2. And now I use the word condition number and that so let me write that down. Condition number say C of K for condition number is the ratio lambda max over lambda min. Of course I'm using here the fact that K is a symmetric matrix. Symmetric matrices are so beautiful that their igen values give you a reliable story here. So four divided by this. The main point is that it's O of it's of order one over n oh oh sorry when I divide by lambda min that puts the n squed up in the numerator and it's o of n^2 growing like n squ and that condition number uh somehow it measures how close the matrix is to being singular. because it's it involves this lambda min which which is the smallest value and would be zero if it were singular and it's scaled by lambda max so that if I if I multiply the matrix by 100 what happens to the condition number no change no change because I'm doing lambda max over lambda min both lambda max and lambda min would be multiplied by 100 but the ratio wouldn't be different. So it's this is a useful measure and O of N squared well it's a it's a big number if N is large a big number if N is large and that condition number where does it come in elimination in elimination uh the roundoff error Well, roughly the the rule of thumb is that you would if if the condition number is 10 to the 8th, you might lose eight significant bits in in the backslash. You could. So this condition number measures how sensitive uh your matrix is to roundoff. Okay. So that that's a few thoughts about matrices and that that matrix K in particular. Now what about the other matrix? The first difference the well the point I want to make about that matrix is what what about its igen values? What what are the igen values of that upper triangular matrix? They are if you remember linear algebra but I can just tell you quickly the main point for a for a triangular matrix the igen values are sitting on the diagonal. So this matrix has the igen value minus1 repeated n times. And that that true fact is totally misleading. Totally misleading. The the the values for this triangular matrix don't even notice what I've got above the diagonal. and um somehow they can't give a reasonable picture of what the matrix is actually doing. So maybe that's my warning here that for a matrix which is absolutely not symmetric right I mean not at all symmetric for the sec for the center difference which is well okay what's the center difference I was going to say symmetric but it's the opposite center difference would be let's put delta centered down here center difference would I'd have a one zeros would go on the point that on the for the central value one would multiply the forward value and minus one would divi would multiply that and then I'd have a half and I probably have a delta x. But the main point is my matrix would look something like this. Minus ones and ones on two diagonals. Now that we could find the igen values of that matrix. Do you know anything about the igen values? This is like a chance for me just to speak for a few minutes about the about useful facts that you can tell about a matrix just by looking at it. So what do I see when I look at that matrix? Is it symmetric? It's the opposite of symmetric because the symmetric matrix up there if I transpose it it doesn't change. If I transpose this one, I'll get some kind of a backward difference. If I transpose this one, then the ones and the minus ones will reverse. I'll get the negative. So the the rule for this center difference is so shall I how am I going to call center different dentered for the moment that transpose of that is minus itself the the uh so what does that tell me first that matrix is uh well it's it's the opposite of symmetric but it's actually okay what I mean by okay is it's vectors we're back to orthogonal igen vectors. I I didn't say anything about the igen vectors of of d plus but actually that was the biggest problem. This this matrix d plus has one value repeated n times and it has only one vector not uh it doesn't even have a full set of igen vectors much less orthogonal ones. So that matrix is like You don't want to trust the igen value picture that you get for a matrix like that. Here, this anti-ymmetric matrix can be trusted. Its igen value picture is reliable. It does tell you what's going on. The igen vectors are orthogonal. They they're complex actually. Actually, they'll look a lot like our e to the i kx's. So we don't we don't like panic when we see a complex igen vector and the igen values are do you know what the igen values look like for for an anti-ymmetric matrix they're pure imaginary just the way that when we took second differences I just I'm just uh maybe I'll just put here the the uh the the center difference the centered first difference when we applied it to I want to apply to e to the i kx to find its what factor comes out so I get e to the i k + 1 k + 1 delta x from the plus side. This is the matrix I'm doing with one and minus one. So the minus one will give me minus e to the i k -1 delta x. And of course I factor out of that the e to the i kx's. So it's so I'm left with e to the the the thing that factors out is e to the i delta x minus e to the minus i delta x and what's that? So that multiplies the e to the i kx the igen vector and this is like the igen value. And what do I see about that quantity? Of course, it's 2 I sin delta x pure imaginary and I should have divided by the two which would take away that two. So it's pure imaginary in in reality and in this forier analysis both are are giving this this uh understanding of what I is. So that uh when we did this sort of operation venoyman's uh rule of following the exponentials we got something reasonable when we do it with this one it's venoyman that's reliable and the igen values that are not reliable. So the igen values of this being all minus1's is is nonsense. Doesn't tell us what the what the forward difference operator is really doing. And but vanoyman tells us what is truly going on. Of course that would be the same thing in which this minus one wouldn't appear and the two wouldn't appear. So what would we get out of vanoyman? So this is for delta plus. I would factor out an e to the i delta x -1. That's what would multiply e to the i kx. Oh, e to the i. Sorry, there's like yes. No, that's e that would multiply e to the i k delta x. Sorry, I didn't should have had delta x there, but I wasn't paying attention to that. Here I was paying attention to this and it was pure imaginary. Here I'm paying attention here. Vanoyman at least is paying attention to this. And what's what's he seeing? Not pure imaginary or purely real off in the complex plane. And uh that's really what the the the right the right uh uh uh growth factor or or or uh the the right number to associate with frequency k for this uh forward difference. Okay. So I I guess I'm saying that when does did the right thing to come up with these pictures for uh the growth factors values confirm that and and and really pin it down when they're reliable and I en vectors and I igen values are reliable when igen vectors are orthogonal and that's for matrices that are symmetric or anti-ymmetric. or there there's a little bit larger class of matrices. It includes orthogonal matrices. But uh beyond that uh actually there's been a lot of discussion over many years of uh en values and um uh the for for problems that are not controlled by symmetric or anti-ymmetric matrices. And uh uh the the alternative the the more refined idea of pseudo ien values is uh is now uh appearing in uh important book by trafthan and embry and uh with many examples okay I won't pursue that right so that's this is some basic fact about those matrices all of which are one-dimensional. Now I this board prepares the way to get into 2D and 3D. So I just want to ask what does the and we didn't we didn't really do the heat equation or the wave equation in 2D but we could have the the vanoyman test would be straightforward but now we are I want to think about the matrices what does the two-dimensional second difference matrix look like. Okay, what I'm going to do just to look ahead, I'm going to use mat lab's operation called cron short for chronicer to create a 2D matrix out of this 1D sec center difference matrix. So if I if I think now about center differences, second differences. So I'm approximating uxx plus u y y or really I'm approximating minus uxx minus u yy because that k approximates minus the second difference. What do I what what do my matrices look like? What's their bandwidth? How expensive is it to invert them? These are the key questions. What's the matrix K2D that corresponds to gives me second differences in the x direction plus second differences in the y direction. Okay. So I'll write k2d for that matrix. All right. Let's get some picture of it first of all. So I'm I'm imagining let me imagine that I'm on a square with a with a square grid delta x in both directions yeah square grid let's say let me say n mesh points each way so n I don't know whether I'm counting right now I won't worry whether I'm counting the boundary ones or not probably not. So n I'll say n it point n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n points. So n delta x and in this direction n delta x. So my matrix is of order. It's of size n squared. The number of unknowns. Now I will be a little more careful here. Uh let me take the boundary values as given. They're not unknowns. So n in this picture is four. 1 2 3 four unknowns there on a typical row. And now I have to give them a new number. 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 n being 4. N2 is 16 for that particular square. Okay. So my matrix is 16 by 16. But somehow I want to be able to create it out of 4x4 matrices like K. So K 1D which I'm just going to call K is well K N will be the 4x4 one. 2 -1. So that's the matrix that gives me second differences along a typical row or down a typical column. But now I what am I looking for? I'm looking to do both. Second difference is in a row and a column. So the if I pick a typical mesh point like number 11, mesh point 11. Let me blow up this picture here. It's going to be influenced mesh point 11 by 10 and 12. The second difference is in the x direction. And by seven and 15, notice those are not close so close to 10 or 11, the second difference is in the y direction. So let me blow that up. So here's mesh point number 11 corresponding to row 11 of K2D. So what is so I guess I'm asking what row 11 of K2D will look like. Okay. So here's mesh points 9 10 and 12. So we have a second difference in the x direction from uxx from minus uxx. That means I can put a minus1 there a two there and a minus one there. And now I have the same in the y direction. with 15 and seven. So I have a minus one on in column 15, a minus one in column 7. So I have a min four minus one's and then another two more for the center gives me a four. So a typical row will have it'll be sparse of course it'll have a minus1 in position 7 a minus1 in position 10 a four a minus1 and a minus1 over there in position 15 that's a typical row of k2 it adds to zero if I if if gersorin got his hands on this matrix, he would say that his since all the rows the four will be on Oh, will the four be on the diagonal? Yes, the four will be on the diagonal all the way. Yeah, I I guess let's let's see a little bit more clearly what the matrix K2D looks like. Yeah, this is probably the most studied matrix in numerical analysis because it's a model of what stays nice and what gets more difficult as you move into two dimensions. So some things certainly stay nice symmetries. So properties of K2D K2D will be it'll be symmetric again. It'll be positive definite again. And so what does K2D cont? It's six. It's a it's 16 by 16. And a typical row looks like that. That's a typical interior row. What does maybe if I took the first row, what would the very first row look like? If I put row one above it, let me try draw row one. So what's the difference with row one? It's these are boundary values. These are not these are going to show up on the right hand side of the equation. They're known numbers. They're not they don't involve unknown things. So the only neighbors are two and five. So I'll still have the second difference -1 2 -1 and -1 2 -1 still this fivepoint molecule with four at the center but there won't be so many neighbors. There'll be the neighbor at the just to the right neighbor number two and there'll be neighbor number five a little further along and that's it. It's like the 2 minus one boundary row. It's a boundary row. And a boundary row hasn't got as many minus ones because it hasn't got as many neighboring unknowns. That boundary row would have three neighbors. Row two would have a four minus1's minus one, but not nobody there. So, uh, now I'm going to try to draw K2D or let me let me try to draw K2D. Yeah, I I can do it. K2D will have from the from the UX the second differences along the rows. It will have I'll have a row row one. It'll have another K on row two. It'll have K on a K for each row. These are blocks. Now that's of size N by N. So all of those are so the whole thing is N^2 by N^2. Actually I'll stop here. If I wanted to create that matrix that with the same K on somehow it's it's somehow the identity is in there and the matrix K is in there and that's uh let's see it's one or the other of those. I guess it's the first one. So what's this chronicer product? Now I'm saying what this construction is is very valuable because it allows you to create matrices and if you created K as a sparse matrix and I as a sparse matrix then the chronical product would be automatically dealt with as a sparse matrix. Okay. So what's the rule for a chronicer product? You take the first matrix which is the identity and the rest zeros. So that's the that's I and then so that's 1D and then you multiply each each entry in I becomes a block with entry AI J times this guy K. Well this will be the zero block. This will be the K block. This will be the K block. I take those ones and multiply and those zeros and multiply K and that's what I get. So you see it's now the chronogical product is a bigger guy. If if matrix A was uh P by P and matrix B was Q by Q then the chronicer product would be P * Q by P * Q. It would be square again. It would be symmetric if A and B are symmetric. Actually it would have various nice properties. Its igen values would be the products of the igen values of a times the igen values of b. It's a very handy construction. And here we saw it in a pretty easy case where a was only the identity. Well, let me do this case. What am I going to what does the chronicer rule produce here? Okay. So I take this first matrix and I put it in here. 2 -1 -1 2 -1 -1 2. Okay. So that's the matrix K. And now each of those numbers multiplies the second thing which here is I. So it's 2 I - I - I 2 I - I - I - I - I 2 I and 2 I. Now that is the second difference matrix that does all the columns. And when I add those, so now I'm going to add that to that. They're they're both size N squared. They give me K2D. So the the neat construction of K2D is chronicer product chron of ik plus chron of ki. That's the that's the matrix. And let's look at what it actually looks like. We're seeing it blockwise here. We saw it rowwise here. And maybe now we can take one more look at it. Assemble it. So K2D. Whoops. Wants to disappear. So I plan to add that matrix to that matrix to get K2D. Okay. So it will have since they both have twos on the diagonal, it'll have fours on the diagonal. So fours all the way, but it'll be blockwise. So what's the typical what's the up here? This block is K + 2 I. So that block is goes down to a four. Sorry. Yeah, four. Now the k contributed minus1's next to the diagonal and I guess that's it right k + 2 I has that block as that that's the one one block and why is it so so we're seeing have I got it right? Yes. So we're seeing uh the the neighbors to the right and left but uh uh now let me bring in only now come the neighbor above or below and that comes from this off diagonal block minus I which is then a minus1's to minus1's okay and these are all zero blocks and here will uh minus the identity block. Then another block the the diagonal blocks are all the same and another one another minus the identity. Now we're getting to interior mesh points where where where we see typical rows. So typical row has the fours on the diagonal, the minus1's left and right, and the minus1's far left and far right. And of course, what I'm going to ask you is what's the bandwidth? Here we come to the key point. Now, what's the bandwidth of this matrix? how I I only have two nonzeros above the diagonal on a typical row, but I have to wait n diagonals before I get to the second one. So the bandwidth is n because I have to wait that long. And then the operation count by if I just do ordinary elimination on this matrix the operation will be the size of the matrix times the bandwidth squared. That's we can easily check that that's the right uh count of operations for a banded matrix. This is operations on a banded matrix. Okay. So what do we get? The size of the matrix is n^2. The bandwidth is n and we it gets squared. So we get n to the 4th. Okay. It's getting up there. If n is a th00and we've got a serious size matrix there. Still a very sparse matrix. So it's not like give up but uh the question is does the matrix stay sparse as we do elimination and that's the center of the next lecture. What can we organize elimination? How closely can we organize elimination to preserve all these zillions of zeros that are in between here? They're easy to preserve down here, way up there. But in this uh intermediate, those diagonals tend to fill in. And that's uh not a happy experience. And it's even less happy in 3D. So let me just do this same calculation for 3D and then we're done for today. So K3D, you might like to think how K3D could be created by the cron operation. Let me just imagine it. So what's K3D looking like? I've got three directions. So I have a six in the center and six minus1's beside it. And so six goes on the diagonal of K3D. Six minus 1's go a typical row. And how long do I have to wait till I reach the last one? So the I'm again going to do the size which is the the matrix size is going to be like n cubed. And what's the bandwidth going to be like? Maybe I ask you now what do you think for the bandwidth? How long if I just number it in the in the simplest way and that'll be the key next time. Is there a better numbering? But if I just number a long long rows until the rows fill up a plane of rows and then I move up to the next to in the Z direction to the to the plane above, then I have to wait. Yeah, this this this was the X and Y. So this gave me a bandwidth of N. But that's not the bandwidth cuz I have to wait until I've finished the whole plane until I go up to the next plane and catch this check. So the bandwidth is n squared. And then the operations which are size times bandwidth squared, we're up to n7th. And that is a really horrifying exponent to see n to the seventh. That means that even for a moderate three mo a problem in 3D with a moderate number say a thousand unknowns in each direction we have a we're looking in theory at a at um at a cost that we can't afford. Of course, there's a lot to do here. One, I mean, so there's a lot to do if I stay with direct methods, and that's what I'll do for the next couple of lectures. And then it's in really in 3D that iterative methods become essential. I mean this one I could I could do those by direct methods 2D by a smarter direct method than any I've tried here. But in 3D even smarter uh elimination is facing a serious exponent and uh loses to um iterative methods. So that that's what's coming actually. So today's lecture you see with the simplest possible matrices what the central questions are. Okay. Thanks. And uh I've got homeworks uh from coming back from uh Mr. Cho and I'll collect any that are ready to come in. Okay. And see you Wednesday. That's sufficient.