The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a Creative Common License. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. So, we finished the unit on oxidation reduction on Wednesday. And so, now we're moving into the next unit, which is transition metals. And that's chapter 16 in your book. And following transition metals, the last unit is on kinetics or rates of reaction. So, and that's a little bit of a longer unit. So there's only uh two more units coming up in the in the course. So today I'm going to introduce you to uh transition metal unit and this follows nicely from oxidation reduction since you uh saw a lot of electrons being lost and gained and metals are definitely something that uh will gain um and lose electrons. So uh it follows nicely from that. So today's an introduction and on Monday we're going to uh talk about crystal field theory which is a topic that most people have not seen in high school. At least that's been true in past years. Um it looks a little bit scary sometimes to people because it looks different. It's not something that seems familiar. It's actually not that hard. But um I strongly recommend uh coming to being present in lecture and working the problems. That's how you learn how to how to do this part. And this uh often plays a this particular unit and transition metals is a dominant uh theme on the on the final exam. So you'll see it there. So people could settle down a little. I can't I'm even having trouble hearing myself. Um, so that's that's going to be Monday. And then on Wednesday, we're going to talk about shapes of of uh coordination complexes. And this fits in nicely with the transition metals. So we're going to talk about vesper theory. And then the following Monday, we continue on and talk about how one can use crystal field theory to think about what colors molecules with transition metals have. Uh so these uh these units, it's a it's a little bit of a a strange order this year because of the Thanksgiving holidays, but that's what's coming up. So again, this is a unit that most people haven't seen before uh in high school. Okay. And as I mentioned before, promise nine, which is handed out today, you'll see that it's really quite short. It just covers today's lecture and Monday's lecture. Just has a few problems on it. So, uh, it should it should, uh, just kind of keep you from falling behind with the material, but not take too much time. So, you'll be able to get that done before Thanksgiving. All right. So, today there are a lot of topics. So, that's what happens when you introduce a new area. So, you need to go through a bunch of different kinds of definitions. And so, uh, today we're going to talk about coordination complexes. And we're going to talk about coordination complex notation, coordination number, uh structures just briefly of coordination complexes. Again, on Wednesday, we're going to be coming back next Wednesday and talking much more about about these structures, but we'll give a little introduction today. uh going to introduce something called the chelate effect and talk about isomers and also since we're talking about transition metals we're going to start talking about d electrons and d orbitals. So this is again all in uh chapter 16 in your book. So here's that relevant part of the periodic table that we'll be talking about in the in this unit. So these are what are called transition metals and this is a part of the periodic table that is near and dear to the hearts of many faculty members in the chemistry department including my own. So we study proteins that use these metals to catalyze reactions. And so this uh color scheme is actually out of a book that was published by uh Steve Liippard uh who's a faculty member in the chemistry department. and I'll mention him again later in the day. So he does a lot of work on what's what the area called metals in biology, these transition metals that play a role in biological systems. And this book was also with Jeremy Burke who's the current uh head of uh of the general medicine component of the National Institutes of Health. And so he is somebody else who's thought a lot about metals and biology in his case in particular zinc. So, why are metals important in biological systems? Well, proteins, and I've talked some about proteins already, are composed of amino acids. You have carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, and there's quite a bit of chemistry that these particular elements can do that amino acids can do. But there's some pretty challenging chemical reactions. We talked in uh the unit on chemical equilibrium about a challenging reaction splitting d nitrogen and I told you about the harbor bosch process and how uh we need to do this to get fertilizers and so it's an important uh industrial process that an enzyme can also do very efficiently without the high pressures and temperatures that uh human beings seem to need to get this reaction to go. So that is one example of a protein that uses metals to do the chemistry and the active site of that enzyme is full of different kinds of metals. So um up here says global cycling of nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon. And so often some of the most fundamental reactions are also very challenging reactions and require metals to make them go. uh radical chemistry reactions making various products like vitamins or deoxyucleotides the building block of DNA and we have some DNA here with us today in class uh a lot of these reactions are require metals so in this uh orange uh color here those are metals that are found in biological systems and but there's also uh some metals in gray and and some have both orange and gray there are other metals that are used as drugs or to probiological systems. So there's a whole area of sort of uh metals metals in medicine where people are using say looking at the use of gold for treating arthritis. So there's a lot of relevance of these transition metals or DB block metals uh to to medicine. So let's uh let's talk about the abilities of these metals to form complexes and this is uh important for their ability to function in all systems including uh the human body. So uh a key feature is that they can form complexes and let's look at why and so these complexes then of the metal and their lians are known as these coordination complexes. So you have a positive metal ion and it can attract electron density and that's usually in the form of a lone pair of electrons from another atom. And so when you bring together this metal and uh this other these other atoms and their lone pairs then you form this kind of complex. And so if we look at uh the different roles that things play you have uh donor atoms and uh they're called lians. So you often talk about a lian being coordinated to a metal and uh we mentioned uh lis acids and lis bases when we were talking about acid base and we didn't really do much with them when we were talking about acid base and I said this would come back later. So l acids and louis bases are very relevant in terms of talking about how coordination complexes are formed. So a leis base is going to uh donate lone pair electrons and here are some examples. Again these are referred to as lians and so they would be acting as lewis bases typically by donating their lone pair. So here are some of the ones that you're going to uh see uh in this unit and some of these will become familiar to you as we go through the next uh next few lectures. So they all have these lone pairs and uh the metal is very happy to see these lians coming and uh they will they will coordinate and form these coordination complexes. So then you need an acceptor atom and that's the transition metal. So that's going to act as the lis acid and it's going to accept that lone pair that is being donated by the lian. So let's look at some example of some of these metals and we saw some of these on the on the last uh on the periodic table. So these are all these DB block or transition metals. So then the coordination complex is the metals surrounded by the lians or the lis acids surrounded by the L bases. So here's a here's a picture. we have cobalt in this in the center here and then there there's six uh NH3 groups which are acting as the lians uh and their lone pairs are pointing toward toward the metal and so the again the coordination complex all is meant by that is the metal surrounded by the lians and uh in this case there's a little bracket on the side with a plus three charge and in for this particular complex you might have like three chloride ions hanging around. So, three negative charge ions to kind of counterbalance the fact that this coordination complex has a plus three overall charge. And so, the charge would be distributed, but it's indicated that this this whole complex has this charge by that little bracket and the plus three. So, again, here cobalt is acting as the Lewis acid. It's accepting the electrons that are being donated by the lians. So, it's the acceptor atom. And the NH3 groups are acting as the Lewis bases. They're the donor atoms. So, they're donating a lone pair of electrons. So, now we can introduce a term called coordination number CN. And that's pretty simple. is just the number of lians that are bonded to the metal. And so here there are six. So the coordination number is six. So that would be written as CN equals 6. And you have six lians comprising the primary coordination sphere. We also have three chlorines hanging around, but they're not coordinated to the metal. So they don't get counted in this. So you're only interested in the lians that are actually coordinated in the complex. So CN numbers typically range from 2 to 12, but six is the most common. So you're going to be seeing a lot of different coordination complexes like this. And let me just show you how that would be written. So when you're doing a problem in your book, it's most likely not going to be drawn. you're going to see notation for this instead. And so this particular one would be indicated. You have the cobalt and then you have your NH3 groups. There are six of them. So that's indicated there. Then you have a bracket around the outside with a plus three. So that indicates that the charge of everything inside equals + three. You also might might see this where outside the bracket you have three chloride ions. And so you should be able to think backwards to this and say, well, we have if we have three things with a negative one charge. And you see why oxidation reduction unit was important before this because we talked about oxidation numbers and all the rules for assigning oxidation numbers. You're going to need that knowledge to do this unit as well. So uh you should know that that this is going to be minus minus1 for each chloride. So that would be three which would mean that if this is minus3 this bracket would be + three for this one down here is written to be neutral. So you'll be seeing this and need to back calculate. Then you're also going to need to calculate what the uh what the oxidation numbers of the things within the bracket are as well. And we'll talk more about that a little later in the lecture. So again, the NH3 within the brackets means it's bound to the cobalt. So that would be this picture here. There's six of them. So you would draw them uh as six around. And let me just uh mention a little bit about this particular configuration. So here these uh where there's sort of the thick lines coming out that indicates that it's coming toward you. So um here in this case you'd have two atoms coming toward you the dashed lines here are showing that there are two atoms back behind the plane and then when you have the straight line that's in the plane. So this picture here is showing you this type of geometry which is called what? Ocahedral geometry, right? Okay. So, let's talk about ocahedral geometry and the other geometries that you're going to see most often in this particular unit. And again, I'm going to do much more on this on on Wednesday, but this is just a very brief uh introduction to the structures that you'll see the most in this particular unit. So for a coordination number of six, you're just going to see one type of geometry, which is this ocahedral geometry, which I just showed you. For coordination number of five, you'll see two different types of geometry in uh in this unit. And uh let's take a look at this. The first one over here, the trigonal byparameal. So here here is an example of that and I'll try to have this as it is. Uh three lians are in the plane you have up and down and out here. One lian is pointing out toward you with the thick line and another lian is going back with the uh with the dashed line here. So that's that's one uh there. So let's go. We we talked about uh the geometry and uh I forgot to mention so those are 90 degree angles which I think is pretty easy to see when you look at it that you would have 90 degrees in between those bonds. And what about for this one? What do we have going for the red? What kind of angle is that? 120. And what about from the red to the black? 90. So those are the angles we would see in here. And this is going to become important because we're going to be talking about d orbitals and where the d- orbitals are for the metal which is in the center of the coordination complex. So one of the issues we'll be discussing are where are the atoms with respect to those d orbitals. So geometry becomes important at this point. The other type of complex coordination complex you might see here the metal is gray in the middle and so then we have our lians bonded to it. If you have five lians, you also might see this geometry here. So the square parameal geometry and what are what are the angles between all of the atoms here? All right. So now in the case where you have four lians bound to your central metal, there's two possibilities for the geometry that you'll see. Uh one is square planer. So in this case it's drawn with two lians coming out towards you and two lians going behind. And what would be the geometry between these guys? 90 as well. And so this is one of the easy ones to remember because it's a square and it's planer. So that's a an easy one to remember. The other that you might see when you have four lians is this guy tetrahedral. And what are the angles here? Yep. 109.5. And then if you have three lians, pretty much this is all you're going to see in this unit. And so we have the trigonal um trigonal planer. Again, it looks and it's also quite planer. And what are our angles here? 120. And linear is going to give you what what angle? 180. So you'll see this this one as well. And this this model is a little old. So it's not really so linear anymore, but it's still supposed to be. Okay. So we're going to bring back I'm going to bring these models to class for a lot of the next lectures because thinking about the structure is going to be very important in thinking about uh the properties of transition metals. All right. So what else can transition metals do? What are some of the other things? Um so when you talk about transition metals and coordination complexes, you need to talk about the chilate effect. So we've seen so far lians binding at one site but some ligans can bind a metal at uh more than one site and so then you start talking about chelates. So first a lian that can bind a metal at one site is called unidentate or monodentate and the dent comes from dentist or tooth. So this would be one. If you have a lian that can bind at more than one point of attachment then it's called a chelating liant and the coordination complex that it forms is called achilate and so this is Greek for claws. So it seems like claws are coming down and binding to to the metal. So anything above one would be considered a chilate if it has two points of attachment or three or four. Uh so by dentate means two points and this nomenclature not too challenging. People are usually pretty good at guessing what they mean. Uh tridentate would have how many points of attachment? Three. Tetraentate. Hexadentate. Six. There are some people, this was a question, uh, I think a hexodate on a final one year, people got it wrong. Don't get something like that wrong. Save the things you're going to get wrong for the really hard part. This is really not so difficult. Uh, so that that should be some uh, bonus points there for you. If you remember the dentate, and this term actually gets used quite a bit, uh, you'll be all set. All right. So, what is the chilate effect? So chilates are lians that combined at more than one point of attachment. What's the chilate effect? Well, it turns out that metal chilates are very very stable. And so this is a thermodynamic property that they have. And uh it's believed or the rationale for this stability which is observed is that it's an entropic factor that's going on. So the binding of that chilate at more than one point of attachment is entropically favorable because you're going to be releasing waters as you do this. So we're going to come back and I'm going to explain this uh using an example in a few minutes. So first let me give you some examples of chelates and then I'll show you how this chilate effect could work. So there are examples of chilates in biological systems and it may not be a surprise to some of you that one of the chilates is vitamin B12 and that would be one that I would pick to mention in particular. Uh so here the chilate this is all one lian. This this whole bottom part is attached. It's one lian. So we have uh this called the corin ring. You have cobalt in the middle and it's coordinated by this planer part and you have four nitrogen lians uh coordinating. So it's one ringed system here called the corin ring that is attaching at four points of attachment. You also have an upper liant here and this is this is an adenosil muy and we have a lower liant and we talked about this before with buffers effects because if this lower ligant is detached on the protein it has to fit into a binding site and genetic defects that block that uh impair the activity of the enzyme that was uh mentioned before. So this actually has six different lians and will classify as a keelate or six different points of attachment uh and classifies as as a chilate. So let me just sort of spin that around so you can kind of get a sense of the geometry here. So again here's the cobalt in the middle, the upper lian and the lower lian. And if we move that around, see if you can get a sense of the sort of geometry uh around that cobalt. So you have four in a plane here, one on top and one on bottom. So it's sort of a an ocahedral type coordination of that metal in the center. I thought I would just mention um the person who determined the structure of uh vitamin B12 and uh that's Dorothy Hodkin. um for her work on this and on penicellin she received a Nobel prize because at the time she was studying this structure it was really considered very large for the technique that she used which is X-ray crystalallography and people didn't think she would be able to determine where all those atoms were located in something that was that big using crystalallography. Uh since then we have gone on to solve much larger structures. uh but she really opened the doors for people thinking about this technique as being important in biological systems. Uh she had uh a number of graduate students who went on to do some pretty spectacular things and really helped to establish the field of crystalallography. And I'll just mention one of her graduate students who was not as successful as a crystalallographer. This is what I do. And you know not everybody can do X-ray crystalallography. it's a bit challenging and some people had to sort of find something else to do with their lives. So, one of her students um didn't quite cut it as a crystalallographer. But, uh the good news is she was still able to find a job. So, um and it's actually kind of interesting that Dorothy Hodkin was a real socialist. She was very involved in left-wing issues, but uh she stayed friends with Margaret Thatcher throughout the years, and it would have been very interesting to be in a living room with the two of them hearing them talk about politics. Maybe they would talk about crystalallography. I don't really know if they were together. That might have been safer. Okay, so that's one example of a keelate. Here is another example of a chilate and this is called EDTA. And so it has many points for attachment to a metal. So we have a lone pair up here on this atom. So we have a donor here. We have another lone pair. Another donor site here. Another lone pair. Another donor site here. Also over here and here and here. So there's this lian can attach to something in six places. So here again is uh the free molecule and here's what it looks like when it's attached to the metal. So see this uh this oxygen here over here and then if you follow it down over here this nitrogen is also coordinated. Uh if we go over here then this oxygen is is coordinated. If we come from this nitrogen over to the other nitrogen it's over here. go down to this oxygen. This oxygen's coordinated down here. And then in purple, we have the last coordination. So what is the uh geometry around that that metal site? What what is uh you have these six lians. So what's that going to be? It's going to be an ocahedral. You should have angles around 90. And uh it's also hexodentate. So you have a lian binding with six points of attachment. It would also have a CN number then of six. So uh why is the keelate effect why do why are complexes like that so stable? So the keelate effect could be uh viewed in in this slide. So before you have the EDTA bound we have six water molecules around it. Then we bind one molecule of EDTA and it binds in the hexodentate complex releasing all six waters. So where is entropy greater? When you have one free thing or when you have six free things? Six. So this is entropically favorable. You're creating disorder. You're binding one thing and releasing six things. So that's why these complexes are really quite stable. So we're getting back to entropy now. We've been talking about delta G. We had delta H. Now we have delta S. So that's the chilate effect. We talk about it due to this entropic effect accompanied by the release of non-elating lians usually water uh from the coordination sphere. So one in this case one lian binding displacing fix six things is favorable. So the keelate effect leads to a lot of practical uses. So here um some of the uses would be in medicine. If you discover over Thanksgiving that your uh you know one and a halfyear-old uh niece or nephew has discovered paint on the window sill is peeling and is starting eating the paint off of the window sill. You might want to remember whether uh when that was painted last and if there was lead in that paint and uh rush the child to the emergency room. And when you get there, just in case the people there, you know, on Thanksgiving, it's always dangerous to be in an emergency room. Um, you might say, "Give this kid EDTA." So, uh, that's really what's used. And that will keelate then the lead, uh, out of the system before it can bind to things and do a lot of damage. So, this is one of the chilators that's used. It's a chilate effect. works pretty well uh if someone's been exposed to something like lead which is pretty toxic and you want to get it out of their system. So that's uh one use. It's also in food. It's a food additive. Sometimes it's fun after you take a couple chemistry courses to actually start reading the labels of the food that you're consuming and some of those uh words will actually start making sense. Uh so one thing that you'll will often see is EDTA and it will say EDTA was added for freshness. So uh one uh thing that EDTA can do. So microorganisms, bacteras, other things that you would rather not have consuming your food at the time that you also want to consume it um need metals for life as we all do. So if you add ETA, it's a good way of preventing other kinds of unwanted microorganisms from growing on the food because it'll accelate all the metals and the organisms can't live. So uh added for freshness. It's a more polite way of saying that this food is less likely to be contaminated with lots of uh bacteria growing on top of it. Another thing that it can be used for cleaning, bathtub cleaning, uh or or other kinds, but bathtubs and showers in particular. There's calcium in tub scum. And uh most most kinds of cleaners have something that chelates out that calcium which allows you to clean. So again, over Thanksgiving, one thing that happens uh to a lot of people when they go home is that their parents say, "Here, help us clean to get ready for everyone coming." And so you might be using EDTA then as well. So um I thought I'd tell you a little story about how knowledge from freshman chemistry can make somebody money. So this is a really kind of fun story. So, one day, Robert Black, I don't know if it's around Thanksgiving, it might have been. One day, Robert Black had a lifealtering experience. So, his wife said to him, "Could you clean the tub?" Apparently, Robert Black had never cleaned the tub before that time. Uh, and so he went to clean it. And apparently, maybe it hadn't been cleaned in a while. And he discovered that it's really hard. you have to scrub a lot to get the tub clean. So, we thought, wouldn't it be nice if one never had to clean a tub? So, we came up with this idea. And uh here is uh one of the products that came out of this sparkling shower available at Lever's. Um, and what he did was he put the same ingredients, including EDTA, in that you have in most cleaners, but he had sort of a novel pitch, which is every time you take a shower, just squirt the shower or the tub, and then you never really have to clean it. So, um, in in this patent, he had a a surfactant, keelating agent, EDTA, and an alcohol. So, you had a surfactant to sort of break up the water tension. the chilating agent to sequester out the salts in the in the um scum and an alcohol to dissolve um the more oily ingredients. And so those together kind of got everything loose and ready to go. And the surfactant kind of helped it run off. So if you squirt your shower every time you shower, you'll never really have to clean it. So he used all ingredients that were known before, but packaged it slightly differently. And uh so again EDTA is one of one of the ingredients in these products and so sales of these project of these particular products have reached $70 million every year. So um I think that uh the wife is probably very happy that one day she insisted that uh he clean the tub because this turned out to be a pretty profitable exercise. It's also an example of how some very simple chemistry can yield you quite a bit of money. All right. So, tub cleaner. There's one more that I thought of. Anybody a fan of vampire movies? Not really all that many. It's a little surprising. I'm not sure you're all telling the truth. They're romantic. So, uh, if any of you happen to, uh, see Blade, you might be aware of another use for EDTA. If you remember, you may not have noticed what they were, what they were mentioning at the time, but they came up with a great way of killing vampires. And there were these darts filled with And uh I'm I'm not I think the kind of general premise that you can rationalize this uh Hollywood special feature is that vampires drink blood. Blood has iron. And if they're pretty much all blood, if you give them something that keates out the iron, it could cause some kind of harmful effect. In the movie, they exploded and sort of disintegrated completely. Um, if you take your niece or nephew to the emergency room for eating lead paint, this will not happen. I'm quite sure, but it was really very spectacular. So, uh, here they are of the little darts filled with EDTA. So, uh, again, more knowledge that could be useful on some occasion perhaps. I'm not really sure. Uh I have a feeling that most of you will find the top three more useful but uh here is the complete list that I have been able to come up with for the uses of chelators. All right. So those are some coordination complexes either single single lians bound around a central metal or chelating lians bound around a central metal. There are other coordination complexes which have important features and one thing that we'll talk about are isomers and geometric isomers can have very different properties to them. So it seems like it's pretty much almost the exact same compound but the arrangement of the atoms is slightly different and that can yield to very different properties for those particular compounds. So let's look at one example and uh so here this is platinum and it has two NH3 uh lians and two chloride lians and so that's in the bracket. So those four different um lians are coordinated centrally to the platinum. So it would have a CN number of four and there'd be a couple different uh the the most common shape that you would see for this would be uh this one here this square planer shape. So depending on how you arrange the four different lians 2 NH3 and 2 Cl you get a very different result. So we have in this arrangement a compound called cis platinum. You have a cis arrangement where the chlorides are on one side and the NH3 groups ammonia groups are on the other side. Or you can have transplatinum where the lians are across from each other. So um here are these two different molecules. So here they're cis with respect to each other and here they're trans with respect to each other. One is a very potent uh drug that's used in treatment of cancer. The other has no known function. They're composed of identical atoms. So why is this different? Why are there different functions with the different geometries? Well, as it as it turns out, it's real important to have the atoms on the same side. So, as shown in this slide, and I me I said I'd mention Steve Liippard again, and here I am. This has been a subject of research in Steve Liippard's laboratory here in the chemistry department at MIT for a number number of years. So um so if you have a a cancer cell and you want to kill the cancer cell, one thing that you can do is give it cy platinum. The cis platinum comes and binds to DNA. So here's a little uh cartoon of DNA here. There's the actual uh a model of DNA structure down here in the front of the room. When it when it binds, then uh it will can inhibit transcription. And so this can then lead to cell death. And so Steve has been really looking at this issue, trying to redesign cis platinums to see if you get a better drug, looking at other factors which might have an additive effect. This particular drug is used often in prostate for prostate cancer and it's really been uh quite effective. So why does it matter if they're on the same side? Well, if you look at this uh the complex and the other, you see that only two of these lians are left. Two of the lians were gone. and at those sites is actually coordinated to the DNA itself. So that's why it's important that they're on the same side. You have to have you want to release two chlorides and have it bind to DNA this way. If it's on the other side, it really doesn't work as well. So if we go over uh and look at the DNA molecule for a minute, you see that if you want to have two free sites uh to coordinate um to a DNA molecule, of course, this is the totally wrong scale, but you want these on the same side. If you had uh if I made it on the right scale, it would not fit in the room really. So uh this is uh more or less you can imagine. But if you're going down here and you want to release just the chloride ligans, well, you can't get the chloride ligans to be on the right side for this. So, um, so molecules that have different shapes may have different properties and you're if you're in an environment and you're looking to re react with a particular molecule, you know, if you want to put on show you another kind of view of DNA. DNA is a really beautiful u molecule. So here uh you have something you can carry around and show your friends, but also there's a a smaller uh model of DNA and this is actually an artist uh in Michigan will carve out within these blocks uh any atomic structure uh that you have and you can show the sort of uh bases and the detail. That's what DNA looks like sort of from the top and then from the side. So it's a really beautiful molecule. Um, so this is a nice example. Steve Liippard often takes a lot of Europe students, so it might be something if you're interested in this area that uh you might want to look at his his web page and see if that type of research interests you. Okay. So again, lost my pointer. So the the cy platinum has the effect because you need to release chlorides on the same side so that it can bind DNA over here. Uh this cannot bind DNA because you don't have the chlorides together so that uh they can't be released and you won't interact with the DNA. So again these different isomers have really really different properties. So here uh we look at optical isomers or enantiomers and introduce the idea of a mirror plane here. So when you have two different isomers and if they're not super imposable that means there is a mirror plane and that they are chyro and chyro molecules can have vastly different properties again if they're in a chyro environment such as the human body. So let's just look at these two. So um see that there is a mirror plane. So here we have the green uh on top, the NH3 on top, chloride in gray here on the bottom, and then on the side we have the oxygens, the black atoms here, more chlorides here. On the other side, they're also oxygen pointing out in front. Another NH3 group sort of pointing back. And so they're very very similar, but if you try to superimpose them, you'll realize that it doesn't match up. Uh if you try again other ways, put another uh green over here. No, that's wrong too. And you can uh spend maybe not very long convincing yourself that in fact these are nons superimposable. Uh they are mirror images. So they're chyal compounds. And the idea of chyro compounds will come back and you'll hear much more about that if you take organic chemistry uh 512 or 513. Okay. So now we have to get to some business that we need to think more about the properties of these elements and that is we need to count a lot of counting in these units oxidation reduction and also in this unit uh counting skills we need to figure out how many de electrons are involved in coordination complexes to be able to rationalize their properties. So this is pretty straightforward. One can figure this out what the d electron count is if you know the group number from the periodic table and the oxidation number of the metal. So uh we know how to calculate oxidation numbers at this point and uh periodic table uh in your book. So let's uh just take a look at a couple of examples and uh count some d electrons. So suppose we have a complex a coordination complex. It has cobalt in it. It has three ammonia or six ammonial lians and it has a charge of plus three for the overall complex. So then we need to figure out what the oxidation number of cobalt is first. So what is the overall charge on NH3? And that's zero. This is a neutral molecule. And uh if you don't know that, it's just something you'll memorize as you go through this unit. So what does that leave you for for cobalt plus three? Because it all has to add up just as it has before. And so we figure out the oxidation number first and then second we would figure out the decount. So we need to look at the periodic table and see where it is. And uh here we have cobalt um in group nine. So we have group number nine minus the oxidation number which is three that we just calculated and we're left with six. And you'll often see this written as d to the six for the uh dount number of uh electrons. One year when I had this, I think the first year I actually had uh I think 9 minus 3 equals 5 in the handout and that was rather embarrassing. Okay. Oh wait, I want to do one more example first. Okay. So let's or two more examples first. Let's try just a couple of more. All right. So, there's some that'll become very familiar to you as you do these. So, let's look at nickel with CO lians, four of them written like this. So, there's nothing up here. So, that means that the overall charge has to equal zero. CO, that's one that you'll uh come across. And its overall charge is also going to be zero. It's neutral as well. And so what does that leave for nickel? Zero. So sometimes not very exciting. All right. So if your oxidation number is zero, then we want to look up figure out what the decount is. So we have to see where nickel is and it's in group 10. So we have 10 minus 0. So it is a D10 system. Let's just try one more. Cobalt again. Two molecules of water. and one of uh NH3 and three of chloride to the minus1. Let's put that up a little bit. All right. So, what overall this has to be minus1. What's the charge on chloride going to be? It'll be minus1. There'll be three of them. NH3 was what again? Zero. You want to guess what water is Zero. So, two zeros. And so, what does that leave you for? Cobalt. Plus two. All right. So, cobalt we looked up before and it was in nine. So, over here we have plus two and we have group 9 minus 2 is seven. And so that's a D7 system. So that's how you will you will do those problems and those go into you'll need that on Monday when we start talking about crystal field theory. Okay. So in the last uh couple of minutes I want to remind you of the shapes of d orbitals. So this is leading into what we knew next. Again, we're thinking about the shapes of the d orbitals and the metals. And then we're thinking about the shapes of the coordination complexes, and we're trying to figure out whether the lians are going to be near the d- orbitals or away. And depending on how the lians are arranged with respect to the d- orbitals changes the properties of the coordination complex. All right. So there are five d orbitals and you should be able to draw them. Again, the bar for successfully drawing the d- orbitals is you have to do as well as I do when I try to draw the d- orbitals. Again, it's a low bar for drawing. Uh you just kind of need to get some of the general features right. So, if we look at dz 2, it has a maximum amplitude along the z-axis. And in this course, we'll always try to keep the axis more or less the same to help you out. um and uh they will be labeled so you know where the z-axis is. So here's the z-axis. Y is uh along the plane here and x is coming out toward you. So there's x and then you have a donut in the uh xy plane. So d x^2us y^2 has maximum amplitudes along x and y. So it doesn't have anything along z. The orbitals are along y in the plane of the board and along x coming out towards you and also going behind the screen. So then we have three more. We have d uh yz and it has its amplitudes 45 degrees off the uh y and the z axis. So here's y up and down and uh a z up and down and y uh across the plane of the board. And so these orbitals are drawn to be 45 degrees off those axes. dxy is 45° to the x and the z. So these are coming out towards you and going behind and also going up. And then d y uh dxy is 45 degrees off of y and x. And you'll need to know how to draw these and need to know the shapes and to be able to think about them in 3D so that you can imagine where lians are and how those lians are affected by these dorbitals. Have a great weekend.