So we're on with lecture 26 where I'm planning now just to complete even though that 25 ran over it uh I still have a factorization to do for this polomial and I still have to tell you what's good about that very particular polomial the -1 09 169 0 -1 one and what's better about the one that leads to so this there's the 53 I'm dealing with here and then the 97 that uh is even better. Okay. Okay. So this fellow so this is our p and I factored it and the remarkable thing is and that's why it's so good that's why those particular numbers I mean the zeros you everybody remembers the zeros had to be there zeros had to be there for the perfect reconstruction part but now we've got freedom on these other these nines and minus ones and so forth but so we use that freedom to get whole lots and I've instead of e to the i omega e to the j omega I just wrote z uh so uh just to make it simpler shorter uh so so z equ= minus1 of course this is the z plane and this is the omega circle you could say the unit circle Z= E to the J omega. So there's the and here is the big the important point where we're seeing four zeros. So one two three four zeros at at the big point Z equ= minus one. So that Z equ= minus one is omega= pi and that's where we want lowass filters to be zero. Why don't we just say, "Okay, great. We'll use these coefficients for PN. We couldn't have more zeros than at at pi than that gives than we couldn't have AI mean, it has nothing no waste as far as zeros at pi." But so why don't we just use this filter as the product filter? Factor it, do whatever we like. it hasn't got this requirement satisfied for uh the that we needed in the perfect reconstruction. So if we tried to invert stuff here, we would get into IIR filters. Well, big debate still raging. Actually, I refereed a paper this morning who where the guy suggested these filters and then he said live with IIR in the in the um in the reconstruction step. Well, paper had been rejected by the main wavelets journal for that reason probably, but still there was some good ideas. So, he's rewriting it. Would that give an infinite delay? It it would give an infinite delay if we did it exactly. Uh so he's he's uh it's like Butter Butterworth filters are the are the uh continuous analog famous. So they're quite efficient but but you got to deal with infinity somehow. Okay, here we don't. Here we're really staying finite. So we've got this extra factor. So, so this has the roots of this, of course, everybody sees are are these four. And the roots of this remaining quadratic that we needed to toss in or there's one root here and there's another root here somewhere. Yeah, I could we could locate them. Not hard to It's a quadratic. We could find its roots for sure. Okay, so now what's the what's the deal? We're going to factor this into we're factoring this whole thing into a h times an fnot. So we're we'll put whatever zeros we want with hnot and we put the others with fnot. So what should we do? Well, we don't want to put all these in hnot and those two bad guys in fnot. That would be that would that would wipe out Fnot as as any use at all. So then a natural idea. Well well what do you think? We could put two of these in two of these zeros in Hnot. So So you see what I mean? We could we could let we could let H knot be this could have two of the zeros and then maybe one of the one of the other pair. So a + b z1 what z inverse whatever it would be. I I should know those numbers anyway. But what the heck? You you see what I'm saying? You see the options and then fnot would have the other two zeros of P. This is the whole thing is P. So we've got those four zeros and then the and then the linear the one one more zero the the linear term. So that guy times this guy are are what produces the the quadratic. Is that a good idea? Doesn't that even doesn't who it does. And so this would and what what length would it be? Good. Exactly right. What length would it be? Four. So this would produce a 44 filter bank and it would be the doashi most famous of all filter banks of all wavelet constructions. It's what she became famous for finding these. So she did this balanced factorization where where one of these went with with analysis and the other went with synthesis and that balancing made her filter banks orthogonal, separately orthogonal but not symmetric. Not symmetric because this is nice and symmetric. This is a one two one but this this thing is is somehow uh you know it's a one alpha or something. It's it's it's it's it makes it unsymmetric. So this is 44 uh doashes orthogonal but non symmetric 44. Okay. So that that's quite an important filter, very important filter, but not symmetric filtering. So it doesn't get used in image processing. So what how shall I how shall I change things to make it symmetric? Put them both on one side. Put them both on one side. So So let this be the fnot. And you see that's going to give us the one. This gives us with a square there. This is then the one two one and put the whole other factor -1 4 Z inverse minus Z the minus 2 put that the whole quadratic over on this side and if we multiply that out that's what gives us the minus1 26 2 minus one. We knew this, you know, we knew that we could that one factorization of P not was this. So again, the new question was why is this P not of special interest? And and what's the answer? Why why this P not and not some other numbers? because for whatever for an unexplained but uh per perhaps reasonable uh uh cause we like these we like the fact that it has four zero we like the fact that it has four a lot of zeros at minus one okay so if you were doashi what would you do next going up the going up the line what would the next um p that you would then factor. Okay, so now we're really inventing the whole doashi family of of uh filters. What would the next p not be? Let's see. We want six zeros, right? And then we'll then we're going to have to have some loser uh quadratic may not do the job because if if I go up to six zeros and then try with a quadratic, what will happen? I've only increased the degree by two. I I'm popping something new on the ends. But those are zeros. Yeah, they have to be zeros, right? Because because I need zeros in all. So I have to go up by four. That's the thing. I have to go up by four. So the next one, the next will be up to degree 10 with six zeros at minus one, which is pi. And and a fourth degree bad factor. I'll say bad because it it would be we'd be happier if we didn't need it, but we do. Okay. And that would give us um that would give us another step up. Let me take the next step because that's where 97 comes up. The next degree will be 14 with eight zeros at minus1 and a sixth degree So let's can we draw the that situation? Uh let me let me redraw the unit circle and let's just imagine could we construct this thing. Well, with a little you see what what determines what determines the this 14th degree polomial? Just have we got the picture straight? What determines that 14th degree polomial? Well, this is this determines a good bit of it. Having eight zeros at minus one, leaving us with a sixth degree factor that we But what determines that zero? Those inserting those odd zeros. That's right. The requirement of odd zeros is what determines the remaining factor is odd zeros. I mean these zeros and the next one at minus 7 and so forth or what whatever wherever it's centered probably centered up further along probably f probably the center will be at z to the minus 7 when I'm up to to degree 14 okay so we could do it and we could factor it and that's that's what the FBI used I don't think they did the factorization but they used the numbers and I just had those numbers by email. I could I could communicate them. Uh sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't there a way to automate it to to automate? Yes. So what do you want to automate the construction of P, right? And then the factorization, right? Right. Yes. So these there are nice formulas involving uh binomial coefficients that that produce these pods because those are nice. Everything's nice about those things. The factors are not so beautiful. Well, we got eight beautiful factors here. Eight times. But then we have six more factors to account for. And probably let's see probably there's a couple a couple of real ones and then there's maybe a something and its complex conjugate and its reciprocal and it's comp something like that. Those are the six factor six roots which only uh math works uh you know is we pay them to find those roots. So which they don't actually do. In fact here's an interesting point. If you give even this polomial Did I mention this before? Because I mean I'm a fan of mat lab but I was disappointed when I to put in that polomial which is six roots. I mean I mean it's a expensive program. It can find roots of a degree six polinomial. Well it didn't find these four roots very well at all. It found four roots that were that were in a little square around minus one and vi visibly not right. I mean imaginary parts and everything and then you put the 14th degree one in and that's you're really missing by uh a bit. So it shows that uh the old you know the classical problem of roots of a polomial when you have multiple roots is u very ill conditioned I mean this is low degree and uh actually maybe I just tell you one moment uh I had a really good u PhD student uh a few years ago who uh computed Right? We have we use the formulas and use roots to compute the roots. And when you go up when you go up higher higher degree, these roots are like it seemed like they were lying on a circle seemed plausible anyway that they were and and these ones or at least close very close to a circle and yes sure enough he found the circle that they were approaching and uh quite beautiful identity. So they're very special polomials. But what's the 97? This does tell me how to produce a 97 out of these 14 roots. So I've got eight and six 14 roots. I'm going to put nine of them. No, I I don't want nine and seven roots. Why do I not want nine and seven roots? Because ninth because nine coefficient I only want nine and seven coefficients. So the degrees are eight and six. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm this has this has 15 coefficients you could say. But degree 14 I'm going to factor into fnot and hn knot. Then this will be degree 8 and this will be degree six with then with nine and seven coefficients. Right? Good. Okay. So what shall we do? What shall f not be? Yeah. Take half of these four and give four and two. And now it's clear how we would do the four and two because we want we we don't want to separate these four friends, right? Because if we try to separate them, we're going to we're going to spoil I mean by keeping them together, we keep uh the polomial real. So it'll have complex pairs as roots and we even keep it uh uh symmetric because it because we're keeping these with those but and then the other one will the seven will have four roots there and these two roots. Good. So there you go. That's that's it. And um so everything is explained the we can see that there would be formulas and the book actually gives several uh equivalent formulas for those ps there won't be formulas for the roots but we can compute them. We have really not developed very fully why the zeros and pi are desirable and actually they are that that comes up also in the in the continuous time situation. So we'll we'll we'll tackle that. Yes. About or I said something about being orthogonal, right? Yeah. But what does that mean? That means that the the yes that the that the H knot is the flip because it's like transpose of the fnot. So I can tell you so so I'll put down what these numbers are. The h the hn knot coefficients happen to be 1 + 3 3 + roo3 3 -3 and 1 -3 and the fnot coefficients have them in the opposite order 1 -3 3 -3 3 + roo3 1 + roo3 and if you multiply that polomial or that yeah the polinomial of that coefficient times the one with that coefficient you'd get my friend P again. That that's this those are the those are the are the are the the two cubics that multiply together to give this guy. And notice you see how one is the flip of the other. One is not the flip of itself. So they're not symmetric. Bad point for image processing. But one is the flip of the other. So that so that h knot is the transpose you could say of fnot and we would see similarly that h1 is the transpose of f1. So what does that mean? That means that the that the uh that the analysis bank is the transpose of the synthesis bank which is what orthogonality is that that that analysis times synthesis but but the synthesis is is a transpose is the transpose of analysis is the identity that's orthogonal that's what orthogonality means. Yeah. So and this is called spectral factorization in the in the e literature. So, so spectral factorization is the is the factorization where you where you split these you you keep the ones in the unit circle on one side, you keep the ones outside the unit circle on the other side and u and that gives you orthogonality but it kills it kills uh symmetry. Okay, that was a quick response and not full detail. Uh I I I guess I'm ready to tackle sort of a to pause in the heavy polomials, factors, numbers everywhere and just take uh take a step back and look at the big picture because it's that bigger picture that's uh important to to understand where where wavelets have a part where where they're valuable. What is it? What what is and it and it's associated with this word multi-resolution or the word multi-cale that uh that I want to bring out here and I may not complete I won't complete everything that's to be said about uh wavelets uh but the calendar allowed for that. Okay. Multiscale, multi-resolution. Let me let me take the word multiscale first. If I go to a conference about solving problems of physics and and and and I would expect the same in the applications at the lab. uh the biggest headache in in the in the tough problems is wide variety of scales all contributing which we know in turbulence for example which we know is a a tough problem and it's a multiscale problem we've got big eddies and smaller eddies and smaller eddies and they're all and how are they connecting in physics uh in nuclear physics calculations we've got large uh distances and we've got minute distances. All sorts of problems are producing this. And of course the the difficulty is you cannot deal with the fine scale and the coarse scale in the same way. If you if you're going to resolve the fine scale then you're and not change your method then you're going to do infinite amount of work on the coarse scale that was totally inefficient. Everybody understands this difficulty that somehow we need to deal with multiscale problems recognizing that uh we need a multiscale algorithm. We need an algorithm that that computes something at the fine scale and and looks at the correction it produces to the large scale. But some terms are not going to get are not important and we got to know which are important and which are not. Okay, that's my sermon on multiscale things. I'm just seeing that everywhere. Okay, and and multi-resolution is a way of dealing with it. Okay, so what is multi-resolution? Multi-resolution means that we are really multi-resolution is so let me multi-resolution really is somehow taking my function and writing it as a sum of functions at different scales. Maybe I just write it sum fj of x at scales say from zero well in principle infinity but in real calculations not. So what's fj? It's a it's a function at scale j. It's it's um uh maybe maybe some uh so there we might have um uh so I'm I'm sort of creating things at scale J. So at at scale J what do I have? Uh I have maybe some function And and what does it mean to have I need to distinguish these scales. If it has a two to the J t that that's something at scale j for me. You see, if if I have a function of t, a function of 2t, that that's really what I want you to think about is if I graphed a function of time and a function of two, a function of t and a function of 2t, what what would the two graphs look like? Suppose, let me take a really simple graph for for my own reason. Suppose the graph is like that. So this is like picking a square wave. If that's f of t, what's the graph? Say from zero to one. What's the graph of f of 2t? It's it's scrunched. Scrunched. Right. We don't use that technical term in in wave theory, but that's exactly right. It's scrunched to a half, right? compressed or whatever. So it's on it it's on this finer scale. So this and if I do it J times then I've then I've over two to the J. So this is and now so that function but I want that function and its I want that function and its translates because because if I if I'm just using these single functions that won't do. So, so really I'm I'm going to build in functions of this. So I have J as a scale index, but I also need a a K as a shift index because I'm going to I'll have AI'll have a so FJ of X will be the stuff at scale J, which will be a sum over the K index with some coefficients A, J, K. I guess I need you see I'm needing two coefficients here. position. This is this is K is giving me somehow the center the position of the of the of the function and this is giving me the scale. So my functions have a double index. We're in a we're in a time position or time depending what the whether we're in space or time problem. So we have a sort of a time scale uh picture where it happens and what scale it's on and that would be uh so this would be a term at scale J and now we have another term at scale at at all at every J we have we have these terms. Okay. H All right. I'm still looking at big trying to look at the big picture here. Well, yeah. Yeah. So, here is really the big picture that we that we want to take um we want to take our function and separate it into things at different scales. Let's take that horror example. That would that would the horror example would be a good one. All right, just for vectors because we're doing filter banks did the same for vectors. Do you see that? Do you remember those filter banks? You remember that we had right? You remember that we had the this sort of structure. So this these were something at what a at a at a coarse scale, right? They only used only had it every 16th gave a number. And this was a little this was this was a little this was so these were 16 was the the the scale there. Here we had an eighth. Here we had a fourth. Here we had a half. The the output from a filter bank has this multiscale aspect. Multi this is fine scale down to coarse scale and in continuous time and in our in our in our analysis we could imagine the thing going forever. So that's really what wavelets continuous time wavelet stuff does. It imagines this infinite sequence of scales to get the function exactly right and uh and filter banks. Imagine a sequence of four or five scales to get a vector exactly right. We didn't I didn't say how would you invert just if if you allow me to go back to filter banks for a moment. How would you invert this iterated filter bank? This tree filter filter tree filter bank tree. How would you invert that? Because this is like the analysis. This is the analysis tree where we now we got to this stop and now how do I invert that? I'm I'm reverting to to the previous lecture just because take the top two. Right. Exactly. That and then let this guy come in here and then let this guy add in the new details and add in the new details and you get X back with delay. Yeah. So just so it's clear that iteration is does is does remains everything remains very easily inverted. If we can in if we know how to invert one step then we just just uh uh concatenate those right. Okay. So the idea will be in continuous time that the mathematics would allow allows for infinite sequence of scales um and allows then to deal with functions. And so you might say wait a minute let's this is realistic infinite is not realistic but infinite is a very good guide to four. I mean in the same way that calculus gives you a very good guide to what happens a little later for a function but a whole you'd need the whole infinite tailaylor series to say exactly similarly here um if we know what's going on with the in continuous time then and we know these wavelets and and and these constructions that are like ideal multi-resolution maybe that is By using the word ideal, I'm sort of saying not executable because involving infinity but still very uh clear uh as a as a model. Yeah. So in a way wavelets are ideal filter banks that where you iterate forever. Yeah. Relate to anything. How does the fi relate to anything? That's right. Okay. There's a fi. There's a function fi here and there's a function w. Okay. So now I'll get down to brass tax here. We've got two functions in this wavelet world. One is fi. The other is well I I broke new ground in the book by calling it w. U it's the wavelet. And then the uh usual name has been that but uh I'm with most people in the world not too blessed sure how to say that thing. So and and or or even at a certain age your eyes on the printed page don't easily distinguish those. So well that's my little contribution to the to the so this is this is called the scaling function and this has to do with the averages. So this scaling function has and this is the wavel. So this scaling function now I'll we've got that inverse thing. Let me let me tell you what are what are f and w for har for f and w for har. So the har example. So there are two functions associated with because we got two channels. We got a low pass and a highp pass. So this is sort of going to be a lowass function and this will be a highpass function that gives us details. So wavelets scaling functions this is associated with averages and wavelets will be associated with details. So I didn't this isn't complete yet here what I you said what's fee up here because I just produced it but actually I ran out of energy there because I only gave you the average part and then there's a then there's some W's. Okay. Now, so what are they for? Okay, can I just draw? So Har on 01 the scaling function FE is the box and the wavelet function for her is the alternating box. I'm I'm telling you those in advance of saying what what these mean or where they come from or anything. So I'm I'm I'm uh quite guilty here. But uh um so the idea will be yeah here here's the idea. I want to represent any function. How how what are my basis functions? I'm getting to this word basis. What are my basis functions with hard? Okay. What are my basis functions? My basis functions are this box and it shifts. So all the fee of x or t I'm I'm usually using t and it shifts. Do do you know you realize that if I graph f of t minus 2 here's the graph of f of t here. What's the graph of f of t minus 2? Just so we pin down the role of this uh of that index. It's between two and three. Right here was between zero and one. If k is two, then it shifts it over two. If k is one, it shifts it over one. what I've got now here and if I take their combinations what have I what have I got in this in this bit what kind of a function is that step function it's a steppy function it's a well if we really gave a accurate description it's peace-wise constant and where are the breaks at the integers. It's a function that's that's uh steppy. Okay. Now, I'm going to use now what if I what kind of a function have I got with with these W's? Now, let me put in some BKS W at T minus K. What what have I got out of those? I maybe should have made that yellow. W at T minus K with this W. What is that going to contribute? Well, let me just look over the interval 01. If I combine some multiple of this guy and some multiple of this guy. What can I produce? It would be Yeah. What what will I get out of that? Yeah, it'll I could get any it'll have jumps at a half, right? We're really at multi-resolution here. that we're right on the center of idea here that if I combine some multiple of this and some multiple of this, what can I get? I can get it'll be peacewise constant certainly in that half and that half. But I can adjust it to be anything. I got a two-dimensional space. I got one dimension by by the average and one dimension by the differences, right? I could I could combine maybe you know some multiple of this say say one of that and and and two of that then then then combining those would give me something that would went up to three and down to minus one or something you right out of this this tells me the average and this tells me the detail which was the hard idea. Right? So for functions this is those are the two functions that correspond perfectly to horror that that uh that tell me the average and the details. Now suppose my function has isn't that but has suppose my function has got more detail in it. Suppose I want suppose my real function has details. Let's say it's got more details. It's it's got a this is still but suppose it's got suppose that that guy. How could I produce that function? I need another what do I need here? Wait a minute. How many another scale? I need another scale. And how many functions at that scale? It won't do if I just So I'm now So I keep this scale which will tell me the average. So, so, so with some white dot I would, you know, some some some average that's my that's my contribution from this function and then something from this function. But now, how many more functions and what function shall I have? You need equal one position. I need that's right. I'm going to need exactly I'll need going from zero to one still. I'll want somebody who who's happy on just that half, right? So, this is just up to a half. And then I think I need a fourth guy. I think this has four degrees of freedom. So, I better have four basis functions. And what should be my other basis function? Shift this guy. So, that's what these. Now I'm going to put in 2 to the J there. So J equals 0 gave me this. This was J equals Z. This is J= 1 K= Z. No shift. And then the fourth guy that you're just telling me I get it up there is the same 0 to one but it's on it's the wavelet on this second half and that's so that's J equ= 1 half scale and k= 1 shift one shift do you see that I'm I'm up to two indices here a j that tells me the scale and a k that tells me the position I think this is really worth uh thinking about. And now suppose let me jump. All right, I'll jump. I'll take only one more jump and then I'll take an infinite jump. Okay, suppose my suppose my function is like that. like a staircase. What scale am I on? What basis function should I be using to reproduce that perfectly? I want to keep these the great idea of multi-resolution. It's hierarchical. I I'm I'm these guys still contribute. There's four of those. What do I How many more do I need? I need what? another four because I've got eight. Yeah, I've got eight numbers here. Yeah, but doesn't your first one plus? Yeah, I think what I'm going to need is a the next level will be a J equal to two. So two to the J will be four then. So that's got me to this one quarter scale. And then I think K I think K could be 0, one, two, or three. It's it's one. It's these guys. And and there's a B, J, K. And there there I've now I've I've broken the bank here. uh I I've got at at at the basic scale I've got the scaling function and it shifts at every at the basic scale and it's all the other scales I've got the wavelength and it shifts. So, I've got whole lots of details, but that's what was remember my filter bank had detail, detail, detail, detail, and then one average guy to to uh pull it together. Your base function doesn't split the same way that the base function splitting. I don't split the base function. Right. The fee. That's right. Yes. Yes. I don't split the base function. Now what I'm going to say and I'm not going to achieve it today is well I said that these two functions were the fee. This was the fee and this was the w for the har filter bank. Somehow this fee is associated with the particular numbers 1/2. It comes from those numbers by some magic equation to be seen. And this comes from the numbers 1/2 minus a half in a in a in a in a in a magic way. What am I trying to say? That if you give me another filter pair like 53, there's some associated with that is some f of t and some w of t. and f of t somehow reflects the low pass part and w reflects the high pass part after but reflects also the the infinite number of iterations that are going to enter when we're dealing with functions. Did we did we see that we really needed to get an actual straight line? Do you see that? I'll need all scales. I was able to get this scale with getting this this uh staircase with J equals 01 and two. But then if I want to do have a finer staircase, I need J equ= 3. And if I and the limit when I really want to just say okay suppose my signal is is u steadily increasing then I'm going to need all those scales and and I could produce the signal out of that. I'm I'm I'm kind of making the that jump into continuous time where where you're asking me to reproduce a function. So you have to allow me infinitely many basis functions to do it. It's like the DFT. If I have an eight-point DFT, you give me eight basis functions, I've got it. But if you give me a function of time and say produce that exactly, you have to give me an infinite family of infinite basis to to get it right. So that'll this will be the infinite basis the the function and all its the the scaling function and its shifts and the wavelet function and its shifts and its rescalings. So it's a kind of a unusual basis. It's it's got these two um aspects the fees and the W's to it. Right. Yeah. I feel we've covered quite a bit. Are we are we maybe at a at a pause point because I I have more to say about multi-resolution where these functions come from. What I I mean the point is they're associated with filters by that's the magic of this subject is that that uh if you give me those filters that we constructed they lead to functions f and w that work in continuous time and quite remarkable functions. Oh well, allow me to write down the equation for fee just so just so I've written it down. It's the it's a fundamental equation of the whole subject of the wavelet subject. I mean you could do filter banks without it. The FBI happily implemented the 97 filter bank, but the reason it was good had something to do with the with the scaling function f of t. So here's its equation. Yeah, I can't resist telling it to you. So, it involves the lowass coefficients and the scaling function appears here but down samp down sampled. So there's a 2T and so this is like there's a down sampling and a convolution and that does it. And then I maybe I need a factor two there to to normalize it. There there is an amazing equation deserving of our attention next time. Can I just let's just think a little bit about that equation. Um let's see suppose suppose I example is then my equation becomes what f of t is 2 * what's what are the hard coefficients the low pass coefficients are 1/2 and 1/2 so they multiply the two to give one and one so I have f of 2t t and v of 2t minus one. That's the har example. So this is the famous equation that gives the scaling function for har and in general. And would you like to tell me the solution to that equation? We just saw it right. It's the box. Would you like to tell me the solution of that equation? No. Uh, right. It's it's fantastic. Look, it's a constant coefficient equation. It involves shifts. I mean, what more could you ask, but it does involve this two scales, 2T and T, and that changes everything. That really makes that constant coefficient linear. uh if I could take the for a transform of that equation you think oh boy that can't be that hard but uh the two scales uh makes it makes it a different diff different features entirely in this case we can guess the answer and check it and it is the box because this is the first half box and this is the second half box and the two half boxes add up to the box fine would you like to how What about the one 121? Would you like to guess? Uh so next example. Uh so so the coefficients are one two one coming from the 53 coming from the three. This is my final final guaranteed final thing. Okay. So one two one I divide by four to make them add to one and I multiply by two. So f of t. So this is example two. V of T is so 2 * a quarter a half V of 2 T and 2 * 2 is 1 F of 2 T -1 and a half V of 2 T - 2. All right. I could leave that as a challenge. I'm inclined to say we worked hard uh today and we reached uh at least I've written down the equation for the scaling function which and just said this is this is an amazing equation to deal with. One example we certainly could deal with and and I think you could possibly guess the answer to that one or find it somehow. Can can I is that fair? So that's like the homework problem uh to solve that equation somehow. Uh you could take for a transform if you like. You could iterate if you like. You could look in the book if you like. uh all you could connect it somehow to this equation. Um that's not so obvious. Um but one way or another uh let me start with that example uh and then move back to the big picture. Uh so but but remember this was this function was associated with the filter bank with a filter 121 or 121 divided by four. Is that fair for a for a challenge for uh next Thursday. Uh so I'll still be going on filter banks uh the reasons for zeros at pi and the uh applications. I mean I really today's lecture like threw us into the construction of filter of filter banks that were invertible and finite length without a lot of why why are we doing this and so let me try to add some of that uh in the next lecture. Why why is this whole new world um what does it have to contribute to uh to signal processing? Okay. So for next next uh Thursday we've got some more about wavelets and then the final days will be about optimization s simplex method linear programming other other interesting developments. Thanks.