Okay, I think All set for lecture 25. So we're 3/4 through and we're firmly into the wavelet filter bank uh book. And um let's see, chapter one of that book uh gives the most basic wavelet, the HAR wavelet and and filter bank. And then uh chapter four and five is really the heart of the book. So I'm I'll do a little of chapter one but also draw right away the description of a filter bank. So this subject like the whole course is a mixture of discrete time problems matrix calculations because that's what we actually do and uh continuous time uh function problems which uh illuminate everything. So um let's see and just to mention again uh last time I really covered uh single individual filters and I'll recap those which were listed at first as two two lectures about filters. So um so we're a lecture ahead of the of the uh listed program in in other words. Um so can I recap what we did about filters since individual filters and we were interested in lowass filters highpass filters generally they had coefficients h of zero up to h of n and the filter was simply a convolution. So the output y of n was the sum of these h's times the input at n minus k. That's uh that's the simplest algebraic expression and of course we recognize it as a convolution. It has this magic combination where that index plus that index equals that one. So we identify it immediately as a convolution. In in matrix language it would be a tuplets or maybe constant diagonal tuplets matrix with constant diagonals. And these of course are the numbers that go down the diagonals. constant diagonals. Everything's in these numbers. Obviously, that's what we have to choose. If we want to filter, then we have to decide what are those coefficients. And uh you remember that the key algebraic step was because a convolution is a bit messy in the time domain. that sum goes from k= 0 to n. I'm dealing here with a fir filter finite length filter. This convolution in the time domain you remember goes into a multiplication. So if I take discrete transforms of the output, the filter and the input then this is the absolutely crucial simple description. And what is h of omega? Let me that's the so that's become then the the we use these coefficients in a series h of k e to the minus can I put I or would you if everybody votes for j I'll use j um doesn't matter right e to the minus i omega k all right so that's the that's the function that tells everything and that's the function that we graphed or at least we graphed its magnitude. It's 2 pi periodic of course. So if we graph it from minus pi to pi we've got it. And if it was a low pass and this is zero and this is frequency. And if it was a lowass filter then that meant it tailed way off at high frequencies. and was let's say one at stayed near one and maybe was exactly one if we normalize it at low frequencies. So this would be a this would be a graph of absolute value of h of omega and it would be a lowass example. So low pass filters. Well, we can see what happens at omega equals zero. If we want this thing to be we want h to be one. And of course that's just the sum of the co of the filter coefficients. I'll usually call them filter coefficients. uh a real old-timer or maybe not so old would refer to them as taps which has the advantage of being a shorter word but uh little sounds a little more um specialized then. Okay. And then at omega equal pi where we want h to be zero that means that the at omega= pi the this is going to be e to the minus i pi will be minus1. So that'll be the sum of minus1 to the k power h of k. So these are the conditions then for uh for a lowass filter and the opposite for highpass. Okay, that's uh what we developed last time with some examples. Since that's been two weeks, that's probably good to remember these basic facts among which this is the most uh valuable. It allows us to quickly say what the filter is doing in the frequency domain. Okay. So, what's today's lecture about? It's about combining filters into filter banks. So that's the subject of the lecture and it's obviously discreet time and we have in mind. So here's the general picture that I have in mind that we take the signal X, we do a what I'll call a DWT, a discrete wavelet transform, which just means we take the signal and we represent it in a by uh a different basis by by some choice of of functions. and the signal then the transform takes the signal and figures out the coefficients in that basis. We've seen that step before. So that's the discrete wavelet transform. That's the analysis step, the analysis bank in the in the filter bank. And then comes a step that is highly important but not the subject of this lecture which is to do to process these numbers. We hope that they're I mean if if we're really done it right we hope that a lot of those coefficients are very small negligible we can set them to zero. So this is like this is a lossy step and and uh maybe it's compression where it maybe if we were thinking about this is where we get the compression by by taking those numbers setting a lot to zero actually sort of putting them into little bins. So we hope many many of them go into the zero bin and then others go into uh other bins and there and so we've lost the last digits. It's like we round it off but we have a pretty but these C hats represent that pretty well. And then we do the inverse discrete wavelet transform to get back to a signal x hat which is approximately x. So that's our that's our goal. And as always, maybe you remember the like the two criteria for any any transform, this one or any other is to be able to do it quickly. If we can't do it fast, it's not going to win. And this we hope that it's like good in compression. And we hope that compression uh we get a good com with with a good compression ratio we still get an output close to the input. So that's what that's so good accuracy good approximation is the other property. So speed and approximation speed and approximation and of course they're a little bit um competing. I mean the fastest thing we could do would be to not do any of this at all and uh then we wouldn't have any compression. Uh if we work too hard on a very very selective basis that can't we can't compute quickly that's not going to win either. So we're looking for a compromise and the the wavelet transform has turned out to be a very shall I say very successful compromise. I think it's fair to say very but I don't mean to suggest that it's the only by by no means or even the final winner. people continue to refine these ideas, but it's a rather it's become a rather basic construction. And let me describe then how how we could combine two filters, a low pass and a highpass into a filter bank. So here here is now I'm going to draw the the discrete wavelet transform. This is now what I'm going to do. So I start with my input X. I send it through a lowass filter. I'll call that H0. And a highpass filter H1. So now I'm going to call the outputs well maybe I put a box around those to indic indicate those are those are operations. And then we get some output y naturally called y0 of n and y1 of n and x of n went in. Good. Good so far. But well have to choose a low pass filter and a highp pass filter. That's that's the that's what's uh and and to do it to make a sensible choice, we're going to have to know um what we're looking for. But right now, I haven't finished the transform because far from compressing, I've now got two outputs where I had one input. So, I'm over sampling over. It's redundant at this point. We could say all right but and and redundant transforms definitely have a place in this uh in this transform world. But the neat construction is to go to uh uh cut this in half. Take half of these numbers. These are C's and these are C's. These are all coefficients but we got twice as many as we want. So we take half of those. So there's a the operation now called down sampling is simply what produces every other Y knot and every other Y1. And there we have the transform. These are the C's. Those are the C's. what I've these are these coefficients that's the transform and you see it's fast right obviously this is extremely fast in fact we won't compute the the third component and the seventh component and the first component the oddnumbered components because we're going to throw them away. So we really will only compute the even numbered components of after low pass filtering and the even numbered components after highp pass filtering. And I mean a filter is really fast to do. So, um, in principle, we could do it do the filters. In practice, we we do it just straight because our filters aren't that long. I don't have in mind filters of length thousands. But uh if we had very long filters then it might pay instead of the convolution in the time domain it might pay to go in the frequency domain do a multiplication and by the and then by the FFT switch between those domains but this is this is it. That's it. And let me give an example right away of the HAR example. So this is the example that's in chapter one. Chapter one takes this most basic filtering and goes all the way through the theory uh on to wavelets which we will see in the second lecture because they're continuous time. But so the hard example is just x ofn goes to the coefficients here are 12 and 12 and that's of course coefficients of a lowass filter. So out comes y of n is 12 x of n and 12 x of n minus one. And the low pass coeffic the high pass coefficients have to alternate in sign because they add to zero at DC at zero frequency. So y1 of n will be a half using that half x of n minus a half x of n minus one. Okay, we average and we take differences. But of course, I'm still over I'm still redundant over doing it because I've got two outputs now for every n. But now the downsampling term, why don't I just put in twos here to uh indicate the the to take care of this one. Let's go to y of 2n. That would be I just replace n by 2n everywhere. Hoping that that is clear for you and for the video. So now I've done the total uh analysis step, the forward step. I'm only doing the forward step. I haven't I'm only getting from X to C, which are these numbers. These are the C's. These are these are these guys. Now in this example could you reconstruct the X out of these C's? Do we have a simple way to reconstruct the input samples all of them from the so all million of them maybe from a half million of these and a half million of those? Yes, clearly in fact very conveniently we would just how would we get x of four or something? add we would add half x of four plus a half x of three to half x of four plus minus a half x of three and we would have x of four and how would I get x of three out of that to subtract right so actually you might notice that the add those in a way that's almost like filtering I mean we've the the reverse step involves filters that are not so different from the from the forward filters. But the main point is the information is there. Okay. But but of course HAR is very crude. It's it's like taking the inputs. So what is hard doing? It's taking the input samples at discrete times and basically it's taking them two at a time, those two and taking average and difference. taking the next two average and difference the next two and so on. It's there's no overlapping. It's a twopoint DFT really also equals 2 point 4A discrete for a transform just plus this is the matrix 1 one one minus one for a for the for the DFT it but it doesn't mean that this is I mean it's simple so it doesn't capture all the possibilities but it would actually give you pretty give you some compression because in in probability in in mo in all likelihood uh we we have a smooth signal or a smooth image and uh x of 2n is probably very close to x of 2n minus one. Those are neighboring samples neighboring samples here. So if we if we have audio say and and uh the violin is doing its thing then these two samples that split second apart are probably very close and uh therefore the average will be pretty near the sample and the difference will be pretty near zero if we just set all the differences to zero. So that would give us 2:1 compression, right? If we if we just if we just ignored all those differences and kept the averages, what would that amount to? That would amount to every pair of points, every pair of samples we replace by their average. In other words, we like we're we're uh um obviously we're giving up uh resolution there and uh uh we would only want we we would perhaps do that if the original sampling period had been smaller than and we just really wanted to compress and were just willing to to take averages uh two at a time. But we aim aim for better than that. We aim for better than that. But better than that is going to mean that this simple picture of no overlap just block block is a block transform is is going to go. Well, the the block discrete for a transform could it could go from two points to eight at a time. That's a possibility, important possibility, but that's not the wavelet idea. The wavelet idea is to have overlapping by using longer filters. These these Hnot and H1 will have more than two more than these just two coefficients. and the the uh the the there'll be overlap. And let me repeat uh one particular filter uh h0 and h1 that are of interest. The the coefficients are 1 2 6 2 1. So that's a five tap lowass filter. And I should divide by what do those add up to? Three nine. No, I don't I didn't mean them to I know I'm wrong when they don't add up to a power of two. Oh, it's minus one's. Yeah, now they add up to eight, which is a better number. Okay, that's a low pass filter, right? The coefficients add to one. and the alternating coefficients which would be -1 -2 + 6 - 2 -1 add to zero. Yes, good. So that's a lowass filter and the highpass filter is going to add to zero and I'll divide by four to to make that reasonable. There's a pair. There's an important pair. That's the That's the 53 pair in JPEG 2000. JPEG 2000 is the is the improvement on this sort of eight block block idea. And there are two filters in it. This 53 that I've written down up there and then a 97 pair. That's better. I I just actually by email asked my friend at Los Alamos who worked on the FBI. So the FBI chose this particular 97 filter bank and it's become the sort of standard uh in uh image processing is 97. 53 is shorter, simpler, uh, but not as doesn't allow same compression. 97 is has is is a little slower, of course. So, we give up some speed for better approximation and and this is uh so this is the FBI choice for for digitizing fingerprints. So it was was in a way that was the first sort of real success for Wavelets or for filter banks in in in in open competition because the FBI tried the the uh this the J the old JPEG was an 8 point or 8 by8 of course because it's 2D two 2D D uh DFT that was the old JPEG and the FBI kind of expected to use it but then their examiners couldn't identify quickly one couldn't say yes that's you know that fingerprint matches that from the from the output it was it had lost the little things that in all our fingerprints distinguish us. The little um well, what what do you know about fingerprints? Anybody? Uh they're little I'll just draw some fingerprints here. little little some ant some there's some some dead ends in our fingers and there also some uh bifurcations where where um three lines meet um and also a little there also little sweat now I'm really getting down to details here but we're all born with little sweat pores that that uh pin us down. So um this the wavelet results at the compression of course everything depends what compression you ask for. If you ask for very little compression, well, everything is can do it. And for images, you know, five to one, eight, say 8:1 is not very not asking much and everybody could do it. But if you go up to 14:1, 32:1 and so on, then uh then you really see who can survive with. So what does 32:1 mean? It means that we're throwing away 95% or 97% or something of these coefficients effectively 97% of the of the bits anyway. So that's severe and uh and uh that that didn't uh that leaves maybe only out of those 64 coefficients in an 8 by8 block, we only have two left. If we're if we're doing 32 to1 compression, that was too much. It's the image is no good. Uh but the wavelength image is pretty good if you make a good choice of wavelets. So we really have to understand. So in in this standard, these two are are the winner. So more and more hardware will be built to to implement them. Of course, that's a major step. Anybody who any wavelet who lost that I guess I'm speaking about it and as a person any wavelet that lost in competition certainly a setback because uh manufacturers are going to be uh dealing concentrating on these. Okay. Now, yes. Sure. Always. Well, it's a it's a a few parts. The first thing is is there significance to the fact that number one that there is two more than the high also the addition of the two add up to a power. Well gosh that's true. That's uh yeah let's see what to say. Um and and and the fact that they're odd numbers. I mean, you'll see that I could I could this 53 I could I could create out of it a 62. The two would be hard. Of course, anytime you see two, the only thing with two coefficients effectively is hard. Uh or I could and I might reverse. Well, you haven't seen the reconstruction, but but uh between the wavelength transform and its inverse, it involves a couple of filters, too. And I could do the opposite order. So, I could do 2 six uh and others. Yeah. Hold on till you've seen a variety of the of the possibilities here. Yeah. Yeah, that it adds up to um Yes, I guess that is odd number. Yeah, that's right. Yes, the significance is is hidden in the details in a way. I don't think I can say uh in one sentence why these are winners but I hope in in two lectures to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Even even number filters really perform better than the next odd number one. Is that right? It it Yeah, that's because you lose some symmetry maybe. Yeah, that certainly have symmetry but you're sort of off center. Certainly. I I wanted to emphasize that these are as you see symmetric filters and for image processing that's a very valuable property uh if the there are other filters other wavelets other filter banks that uh are not symmetric I've mentioned the dobashi numbers And those have a value. Those are quite efficient but a little bit lopsided for image processing. So image processing has stuck to filters that are are symmetric. If you look at that z which is your classic limited right function. That's right. If I graphed that it would look a bit like a sync. Yeah. Yeah. It would look sort of as much like a sink as I could make it in with so few uh taps or or roughly and and and and it will have the property that it actually comes down to and hits and in fact it has a double zero here. It has a double zero. We we we mentioned uh well0 for this chap 453. I have to of course I have to tell you which one I'm referring to because the 97 will have a quadruple zero. So I'll put let me well there isn't room room to write that but I'll write it anyway. Quadruple 497. It's the nine actually of course that Yeah. Yeah. So that that that's really quite important that that the number of zeros at pi this is this is as uh I hinted before uh that's going to play that's going to distinguish good ones from not so good the number of zeros at pi. But but why is is a takes a little thinking. Okay. Uh what do I do next? I've got these topics here. Perfect reconstruction to explain that I've got to do the inverse transform. Right? And then I've got a second topic, iteration. Well, that's easy to explain. So let me let me deal with iteration right away. iteration would say okay there we've come through the filter bank got to these numbers hopefully they're these like there and this is really a good good way to imagine them as averages and details. So the average tells you what's happening in the whole block. The detail tells you within the block little little uh fluctuations which we hope are not too large. And now if I wanted to iterate I would say okay I'll settle I'll accept those details but these I'll these averages. So now I have an average for every pair of samples, right? And I could So now I have a bunch of a new signal half as long every the average of each pair. I could say, okay, I'll find its averages and its differences. So I take this and send it through the same 1/2 one 1/2 filter bank followed by the down sampling and the same difference filters followed by keeping half of those. So what's going to come out of that? Well, let's see. Yeah, what what maybe we can even figure out what comes out of that. What will what will so this is average of averages right we we take so we're we're going to like four to one we take the average of these two and the average of these two and average those so so what's the output here for this hard case we can where the numbers are easy what are we getting what are we getting out of out of that uh I Think don't you think we're getting 1/4 of x of 4n and x of 4n -1 and x of 4n -2 and x of in other words the average of four guys with a one with a 1/4 multiplying right that's what would have to be that's the average of this and its neighbor And then the down sampling means I only go I only want every fourth one. So I take the average of that and that. So that's all that's all I've done here is the average. Now I'm taking the average of four. The average of that and that will be the average of the four. The average of the four the average of the four and so on. And then of course out of here I'm getting differences on this on this grander scale. So that would be a quarter of x of 4n and x of 4n minus1 minus x of 4n - 2 and - x of 4n - 3 this average minus that average. So it's the it gives us like the fluctuation between this double block and this double block. So this is like more coarse details. These were fine details here. Fine details. And this would be a coarse average, a big average. Say coarse. We're on a coarse mesh now because we're taking all we're taking, you know, more than before. Have I have I done this picture correctly? Or maybe I've Yeah, maybe I've maybe in these maybe these circles. Yeah, this those circles in each circle involves four values. So this is the average of that and that which is the average of all four and this is a course detail that average minus that average. You you see how I can iterate the picture. This is the Let me draw the uh the the the block diagram just because it's quite clear. We here's x here's I'll just jump to y one of 2n y of 2n the low the low frequency part and then this is what we go to z kn at 4n you could say and z1 at 4n. So this is high. This is low. And this is high. And this is low. Low. And this is high. Low. And I'm not planning to work more on this, but I could have every I mean you're it's a free country. So uh you could imagine doing that too. uh then uh we would be oh we would be getting a matrix of ones and minus ones that probably it's associated with the name of Adamard but this is this tree now we could continue again to eight ends. So do you see after three stages after three stages our filters they got a little longer because what's the filter that's producing this thing what what what's the low low filter that has greater length and is producing out of this original guy is producing this one by in in steps. Well, I guess it's 11 one one one probably divided by 8 is the filter. That's the if we wanted to do it directly from there to there, that's the filter we would use. So, we're we're building long filters by longer filters by iteration and better uh we're sort of like you could imagine this picture in frequency. If if I imagine frequency zero to pi, let's say, you could say that roughly the first stage separates out low frequencies from high frequencies with some imperfection because we don't have ideal filters here. And then the high frequency we leave it. So I'll put yellow for that. Leave it. Now this one we're iterating again. So we're take sort of dividing this into low low and oh I don't know I'm I'm making a mess here out of this. Anyway, something like that. And this little piece here is there and it's okay. That's we're doing a logarithmic chopping up of the frequency. And that's important that it's logarithmic rather than uniform. What the standard um filtering process has been with audio Yeah. with audio. The standard, you know, making CDs or good audio, high quality audio has taken the frequency thing and chopped it up into many many 512 little pieces and uh or modems actually uh company called a wear uh in Burlington is used is developing modems and there's oh there's a lot of interest. I just heard uh a lecture about the the the DS, you know, high-speed, high bandwidth modems. I mean, what goes on there? There are certain uh there's certain frequencies that uh you know, maybe coincide with uh radio transmission or something. So you you chop the signal up in many pieces, many small pieces. And then some of those small pieces you use a notch filter that zero that that kills them, knocks them out and um and uh interpolate because because if you try to send at that frequency, it's interfered with. Oh, it's it's an amazing world that some of you will know uh more about than I. Okay, so you see the iteration idea just and and the and the logarithmic tree of iteration of iterating on the low pass which is the most common but not the only possibility again just just to say. So, so uh in the end we you see you see how these add up to one. This we have 1/8 length here and 1/8 length here and one quarter length here and 1/2 length here and those numbers add up to one. So we're doing critical sampling output length equal input length and um uh very efficient but is it uh is it effective? Well the HAR filter is not the best we could do. This is way better. This this is as Bob Nichols said is much closer. The graph is much closer to uh um closer to ideal but still not ideal. Okay, I'm ready to try the reconstruction step. What's the inverse transform? And I don't know where I'm going to put it to tell the truth. I guess I better this was the end of the analysis step. I better follow it by the synthesis step. So So these are the C's. Okay. And I let that stand for whatever process we may or may not do to the seas. Perfect reconstruction. I'm going to construct the inverse transform so that if we don't do any if we don't lose any information we get it back exactly. Okay. So what do we do? Well these vectors now are half length right? So and we're aiming for a full length vector. Let's say a thousand com thousand samples went in. There's only 500 samples. 500 numbers, not samples. Oh, no. 500 numbers here. Well, we really want a thousand numbers. So, we just put in zeros um in the odd positions. So, we we get to something. I don't know what. So, that's called upsampling. put zeros in and now we have we upsample both of those. So this is like obviously just a s simple operation. No no no hardware involved here to speak of. Uh so now I'm getting uh something. Now I need a new letter. I've used x and y. What about w of n w of n and w1 of n? So, so what's w of n of n is either y not of 2n or zero if right if it's even if n is oh no that's I got to say this correctly it's either y not it's either y not or zero can you can I say it just that You you you see what I'm doing? I'm just putting these zeros in to bring the vector back to full length to prepare it to be to go through another filter and another highpass filter. And then I'll take these two outputs and add them and hope that and try to get X back again. that that would be perfect reconstruction that that that the that the output was the same as the input. Okay. So what do I have to do now to I've got to construct I if you give me these filters for the forward step I'm hoping to be able to construct these filters for the reverse step to give perfect reconstruction that's see my goal and in this horror example we could do it But often it would turn out that if you just if you just give me a couple of filters, a nice low pass filter that you like and a highp pass filter that you like, I can go through the algebra and produce the inverse. I mean, you you're really just giving me a matrix and I'll invert it. But most likely if you just chose zero at random the filters in the inverse will be infinite length and we don't want that. We've if if they are we've lost speed and we've killed the whole idea. So the idea is perfect reconstruction while staying stay with fir stay with finite length. Okay. So we have to figure out the the requirement. We have to figure out the requirement for perfect reconstruction. Uh and I I think I have to go through this bit of algebra. Now any discussion? Uh thanks for questions as I go. I I what I'm planning to do now is go through the algebra of what's the condition on these four guys that gives perfect reconstruction and then I'll hope to satisfy that condition with finite length filters. And I'll I can tell you how it happens. Let me let me let me put these numbers up here because they're they're quite significant. So this so I've told you the two H's here. Now I have to tell you the two Fs and you will see that this H is connected to this F by if I flip signs I get a lowass filter. I divide by four. And this low pass filter is connected to this highpass filter also by alternating signs. I think I maybe I alternate I I I'm now alternating every No, what am I doing? Yeah, I'm alternating the middle the this one and this one and divide by eight. There's this connection here between and you'll see why. So I'm really giving you this example as something to like watch for in the algebra. In the algebra we will discover that this H knot is connected to the F1 and the H1 is connected to the Fnot by alternating signs. So that's makes them special. Sorry. Y R should I and maybe I should have My memory doesn't tell me I could maybe I should be maybe I should have the negative of this which would mean I'd alternate maybe I should alternate that one. Oh, what is that? What I did? Oh, sorry. I'm up here. What I What did I do? I kept that, alternated that, kept that, alternated that, kept that. But maybe I should multiply the whole thing by by uh minus one, which would which would which would invol involve rewriting. So now what have I done? I've I've now alternated, kept alternated, kept alternated, and it's one or the other. And you would think at my advanced age I could remember which. But uh um should be plus one. Good. Now you've you've got the whole picture now. All right. Okay. So could we how Yeah, it's kind of fun to say how do we go through the algebra of this? Do we want to do it as big matrices? Probably you'll say no. And um this time I'll agree with you. Frequency domain is better. So I have to figure out what all these steps do in the frequency domain. In came an x of omega. Now if I'm I'm going to draw that put that whole picture in the frequency domain. Okay. I'm going to try anyway. And let me put it above. All right. So right above the the uh filter bank. So this is the the analysis followed by the synthesis bank. I'm going to put this same thing here in the frequency domain. So my input is x of omega. And now I'm going to ask what's my output y not of omega in the in the frequency domain. What do I have after? No, I I I don't want an equals. I'm just following along here. Okay, so that's what I just erased is what went in. Yeah, I So, let me put X of omega went in. Now, tell me what came out of there at this. I'm just I'm going to systematically follow through as in in a record five minutes the whole uh I'll follow through the top channel and then we'll just change zeros to ones and we'll have the the highp pass channel. Okay. So don't you can all say it in unison here. What comes out after the first filter? H of omega times that it's multiplied by H of omega. H0 of omega. Right. Good. So now I've reached that stage. Now a little dodgy step because I have to figure out what happens when I down sample. Is that going to be a multiplication by some function of omega? No. That's like important point that it isn't going to be that because because this downsampling is not a time invariant. It's not a filter. It's it mixes frequencies up. It aliases. There's going to be an alias thing. And I'll tell you what happens here. And and then I'll push forward. What happens here is that the frequency that's pi that's that's different by pi pops in at this stage because of this maybe we could see that give me two signals whose frequencies differ by per perfectly differ by pi well I guess actually DC you remember here's zero so what's the what's the what's the What's the signal that has totally zero frequency? 11 one one. And what's the fre What's the signal that has totally pi frequency? 1 - one 1 - one. Okay. And now down sample those. Take every other component. What do you get out of this? One. All ones. And what do you get out of this? All ones. So this step has introduced this this introduced these two frequencies made them uh um indistinct mix them up aliased the process and and so what turns out is for this I'm now at this stage there's the aliasing is an h of omega plus pi by uh x of omega + pi is what I've got maybe times a half. Okay. So I'm sorry about that but it's that's what happens. All right. Now, oh yes, uh actually what I've done here includes both this up down sampling step and the upsampling step. So I've actually reached You'll be glad to know I've reached there. Yes. All right. Now you're quite ready to tell me what the final thing will do, right? because that's just an ordinary filter. So what does it what do I have at the end of this at the end of this channel? What's a filter do? It multiplies. It just multiplies by f of omega. So this is what I've got. There's a 1/2 way out. There's an f of omega that's multiplying both the signal we want and the alias that we don't want. So what's coming out of this channel is got is got this aliasing thing in if I drew it in the frequency domain which I maybe unwise to try but somehow the book does it somehow we've we've uh you know our original signal had had some uh frequency description and now we've uh popped in uh its alias. We've now got two two little twins. And of course, if they don't overlap like that, we could probably by sampling sort them out. That's what Shannon's sampling theorem is about. That if I had one signal and it didn't overlap its alias, then I could I could sort I could uh reconstruct. But but in fact, if the if the input signal has a lot of frequency in it, then it will overlap the other one. And right now I'm dead. And so one channel can't do the job. But what we can hope is that the second channel cancels the aliasing from the first channel. And then all this could be well. So let me just draw what's coming out of this the second channel. Of course, I'm just going to it'll be, you know, an F1 is the last guy multiplying an H1 of omega X of omega. That's what we'd like to see. And an H1 of omega + pi x of omega + pi, which is what we are a little sorry to see. But now that's so I've added because the end of the filter bank adds. So I've got I've got to there. I've got to the output. Maybe I should call that output x hat. That's the output. Capital x hat. Okay. So what does it take for the output to agree with the input? I want this whole thing to agree with x of omega. is what I want, right? So, how do what what are the conditions? It's it's I mean, it's a it's a we're it's messy, but when you think about it, it's not that bad. We we we can identify the conditions very neatly here in the uh in the frequency picture. Okay. Yeah. We just look we would like f0 now. Yeah. Shall I write them in yellow? The two conditions. We have one condition that says that f0 of omega h0 of omega that's multiplying the true guy and f_sub_1 of omega h1 of omega also multiplying the true guy should be like one or maybe there was a 1/2 out here so maybe two is actually right and now so that's the like getting it right getting the correct signal out. But what's the anti-aliasing condition? It says that whatever multiplies this alias should be should disappear. So that'll be an fot of omega, an h of omega + pi from one channel and an f1 of omega times an h1 of omega + pi from the other channel should equal zero. Right? So two conditions, four four filters, four unknowns, you could say, four functions to choose, two requirements, we ought to be able to do it. And of course we can. And that leaves us uh a wide family of uh of filter candidates uh to choose from. Not tremendously wide. Let me let me just say that it's absolutely possible and reasonable to have three six eight channels going. So I have eight hes. Now what would the down sampling be like if I had eight? It it would it would take every eighth component because I I would want every piece to have 1/8 of the length. Then I would have eight uh synthesis filters. So 16 filters to choose and uh probably not that many conditions. I I'd have more freedom but this yes. Oh so this is but this is the like a good case. Okay. Now can we make any headway on those uh in a in a few moments? How how could I satisfy this second guy? Suppose I know the H's and I want to choose the Fs. Suggest some Fs that would do the job. Well, that's not Yeah, this is very important. Yeah, it doesn't even need that well in front of it because it's Well, it is well. It's the right. Yes. So, what is it? It's It's F. This guy matching who? This guy should agree with maybe this guy. So, so choose f of omega to agree with h1 of omega plus pi. Was that was that what you were going to say? Or whatever. I just want this darn thing to come out zero. Okay. But I've done half the job. What's the other half? What's f1? as h of omega plus pi. And now, but what little what little step do I still have to take? I've got to I've got to put a minus sign in and I'm done. That just takes care of the bottom equation. That only takes care of the bottom equation. Right. So, so we could cancel aliasing. Whatever two filters you give me, I can we can choose the other two to cancel aliasing. But by no means have we guaranteed uh condition one. So now we're ready to focus on condition one. And now we're really down to the to the heart of the whole process. And I emphasize that this is now seeming relatively straightforward. But when Dobishi did it and found numbers, found these uh things, she didn't do it this way and it was a people doubted it could be done and so forth. Okay. So now I'll put those these choices into here. You don't mind if I uh yeah I can play around a little. Let me see for f I I'll let me keep now. So I'm now going to settle on this. I'll keep f of omega. I'll make my the two that I keep f0 of omega h z of omega plus. Now what is f1 of omega? F1 of omega is oh there's a minus f_sub_1 of omega is minus h0 of omega plus pi right and what is h1 of oh no here I'm trying to get two right let's just be sure I'm okay so so I'm following this line along f0 h0 f1 I substituted this choice and for H1 I'll substitute you to see H what's H1 of omega from this plus pi right because we're two pi periodic so if I if I shift this by pi then I shift this by pi so so it's there's an f0 of omega plus pi that's Great. This is it. We've we've we've got it down to one equation with two filters to choose. And luckily, it involves the product of those. So really, it only involves the product. I could say this is P of omega, the product of that. And this is a minus. And then this is P of omega + pi and that should happen to be two. Okay. So now all I ask is to solve to find some filters that solve that. So now you see the steps now that we've gone we've gone in this forward direction. But now to actually construct design filters I'll go backwards. I'll choose a P not that solves this requirement. So this is now the key requirement and we have to look at it. Then once I've chosen a P, I'll factor it into an F times an H knot. That'll solve this. That'll satisfy this requirement. Then I'll go to these that'll tell me the other two filters and I've got it. Should I say that again? So we now have filter design. We could now like beat top speed design filters design good design FIR filters. That's the wonderful thing that these are coming out finite length provided we can get started provided. So tell me a filter that would uh do the job there. What's what would be a filter? Who has to be anti-ymmetric? It has to be anti-ymmetric. Now that's um I'm sorry to see that well omega plus pi should be the same thing. Yeah, you're right. That left hand side if I if I change omega to omega plus pi I'm reversing the signs. H well you've got a complex conjugate. You got to wipe out right well now here. So there's and maybe it was okay now to realize that that my right hand side isn't quite a two because I have to allow for the possibility that the output that comes back is a little delayed. I I have to allow for the fact that the system might have delays in it and actually it will have delays in it because every if every filter I use only looks backward and I use a bunch of filters then somehow I'm not surprised if you know if I mean electronically in real time it's going to take there's a little latency here like to get through the filter bank takes some time. I the thing doesn't come out the instant it goes in and so so when I took forier transforms uh what what factor appears because I I just had x of omega here as output but really it should have been what e to j omega l which for consistency. We'll call E to the I omega L. Right? So there's an E to the No, we don't. We will call it E to the J omega L, right? Okay. E to the J omega L. That that that's because of this L. So it wasn't a two after all. It was a 2 E to the J omega L. Or maybe actually if I've done it right, there's a minus there. So if we're really getting it, so it's really 2 E to the minus J omega L. And now now we're really got it. So let me identify what's the what we've got here because we really have have have reached the thing. Now as was pointed out this left hand side is odd. If I change omega to omega plus pi, it reverses sign. So now what do I need here? If I change omega to omega plus pi, I want this to this should reverse sign. All that tells me is that l should be odd. L should be some the latency is is an odd number. You see that if if L is odd like three then when I change omega to omega plus pi there'll be a E to the 3 B to the J3 pi coming in which will flip the sign just as the left hand side is flipping. Yeah. Don't lose. Yes. Th this is this is now this is the true equation. I so I cheated slightly by not pointing out this delay term before that makes it odd. Right? Let's let's go through that again. If that L if that number L is odd then an odd number like three then when I change omega to omega plus pi everything stays reason. It stays okay. I change omega to omega plus pi. This left side flips changes the reverses sign. And when I change omega to omega plus pi, the right side reverses sign because I'm multiplying by e to the minus j3 omega minus j3 pi. That's that's the extra factor that came in. Now, what is what's going on here? I I we really have we've got to this point by going full steam ahead here. The textbook chapter 4 will uh repeat those steps. But but maybe you know the most important point for you to see is that they were perfectly reasonable. There wasn't I mean there wasn't uh we just followed the rule here. And we and and I didn't I didn't uh carefully go through that rule that involved the down to and up to bringing in the alias, but we had to skip past somewhere. Okay, let me give you an example of a P n of omega that works. Can I just give you the coefficients of a P not of omega? It's my favorite. -1 16 9 0 and -1. That's a great example of P not now does it have this property? Sure. When you downle Yes. Let's see. I don't know. Uh yeah, I am I thinking that's where the delay of L enters. Yeah, for me the delay isn't there. Th this is the this is this point where the aliasing comes in. Then the delay is because these fs are causal filters. They're lower triangular. That's for for me. All these matrices are lower triangular. And when I multiply them together, I'm I'm I'm down below the diagonal. I'm three in this case. This one is this particular P not is has latency three. It's it's um do you see this? Can can you can you can you see that those numbers work there? Now how how should I show that I should compare? So these are the numbers that give me P not of omega and I I'll tell you in the second lecture why I like them. Maybe I'll just let me just finish this lecture in a in a at the speed of light. Okay. All right. What are the numbers for P of omega? For P of omega plus pi. Well, that alternates. So the numbers for those are -1 0 9 - 16 9 0 -1. Do you see that? I alternated signs. And now when I subtract, what happens? only only that sky is left. The the the the fact that these were zero was the crucial point. The fact that these were zero means because they would have changed sign to minus zero. They did. But then subtraction they didn't mess up. So there was only one oddnumbered component. That's it. One oddnumbered component. That's what P not has to do. It has to do its job with only one oddnumbered component and otherwise zeros in the odd position. So here's the position one, position three, position five. And it has to do its job with these zeros because then when I do this subtraction the what would what would otherwise reinforce is zero. So only one term reinforces and I got 32. So I should have divided by the whole thing by 16 to get uh to get two. You see that this filter that that there is a there's a set of numbers which is a filter that is a great P 0. And now if I factor P 0 into F0 which I'll do right at the start of the new lecture then I'll get these these are actually factors of there no I'm sorry the factors are f0 and h0 not so h0 is a factor the other factor is f0 I I claim that yeah here's a here's a opportunity to do a multiplication in the break or a convolution if you prefer. Uh take those that polomial with those coefficients H knot and this polomial 121 multiply them together and hopefully you'll get P not. So that says that yeah this is a great filter bank. We've we've chosen numbers here so that the product is a P not and and and this P not has this satisfies this primary requirement of perfect reconstruction. There's the condition for perfect reconstruction and you I'll we could even start that multiplication. So right if if I multiply a polomial with those coefficients times a polinomial with those. So the constant term is what? I'm only going to ask you the constant term and the second term. So so the what's the constant term if I take that polomial times this one negative one right negative 1* one and what's the next term? Z zero right zero because negative 1 multiplies two and two multiplies + one and together they give zero and of course we could do the next term minus one would multiply one that would be a minus one two would multiply two that would be a four and six would multiply one would be a six and we would get the ninth so we really do get this polomial from the product of those. And if we started with this one, we could factor it into those. But now, yeah, actually, oh, this lecture is running on far too long. But now, create a 62 for me. Create a 62 for me. Well, I'll just factor differently. I'll this this is a 1 one time a 1 one. So my 62 will be I I'll only keep the one I'll keep one of those factors there and I'll multiply I'll multiply the other one one by this one. So if I multiply that by 1 one I think I get something like minus one one I think it turns out 88 8 1 minus one there's the six two whose product is still my same P that I liked so well and this is a perfectly okay guy um you see that I've what I've done is I've taken unzero at pi away from the synthesis step and popped it onto the analysis step. Well, did I want to do that? Not sure. That's probably 53 was better. In fact, if I've got so many zeros, I might want that to be in the synthesis. I might want to reverse the order and this be the analysis filter and this be the fnot. But anyway, you're seeing the algebra that uh we've reduced to. So, so all comes down in choosing a P not factoring it and then you're home. So that's there's more. Yeah, I mean you could say well look just give me the list of coefficients. I don't need to know all this stuff. But uh you really could see there I think how the the steps go. how this great fact of uh just a multiplication uh made made that made that thing work. Okay, now I really will stop uh