The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Okay, so today we're going to talk about RKR and a few other things. Um before I start though, I want to refer you to uh two wonderful uh documents that are uh that are produced by Bob Loy. Um, and you can get them at to his website and the two that I have here, one is a program called is a document called RKR1. I don't know whether it's RKR1 now because this is dated 1992 but uh it is the definitive RKR program uh and you can download it and whatever it it it contains a write up of what the RKR is which is nominally the purpose of this lecture but also it's a program that works and there's also a thing called level and level among other things starts starts with the uh the potential and calculates uh uh the vibrational wave function and anything else that you would would calculate from expectation values or overlaps of vibrational wave functions. And again, this is the definitive numerical integration routine for diatomic molecules. And so these are two incredibly important uh tools in diatomic molecule spectroscopy and Bob Loy really owns them. And there are a couple other areas that uh Loy is the uh the key person. And so it would be a good idea to uh obtain these documents. And in previous years, I would always assign some kind of a problem where you would have to use both of those programs. And I I don't have the heart to do that this year. So I'm just going to say look at them and maybe use them. Okay. So you have approached the energy levels of diatomic molecules using perturbation theory. And part of the reason that I spent a lot of time uh on this kind of perturbation theory treatment is that everything you do using perturbation theory uh on diatomic molecules transfers to polyatomic molecules. There is an exact procedure for relating the energy levels to the potential energy curve in diatomic molecules and that's called RKR and that does not transfer to polyatomic molecules. So it's a little bit of a bait and switch if I were to to tell you only use RKR because it works and is wonderful uh because you won't be able to take it over. And so I I that's why I invested so much in perturbation theory. Um now one reason you would not just use perturbation theory on diatomics is because they're not accurate enough. uh that uh you really want to represent uh all observable properties and relationships between them uh as accurately as possible through one common thing and that is the potential energy curve. And uh if you use perturbation theory, you you you make a good approximation to the potential energy curve near the bottom. And the higher up you go, the more uh uh you don't really know how good it is what you've built. Okay. So RKR Redberg Klein Ree is a direct product of WKB Wel Kmer's Brew. This is a semiclassical approach. It is a fantastic thing, fantastic tool and it is relevant at least in little in little bits of analysis for polyatomic molecules. you are able to determine the shape of the wave function qualitative features of the wave function without solving a shortening equation. So the basically all you need to know is uh what is the uh kinetic energy at a particular point in space. Now that's not a quantum mechanical idea. That's an a quantum mechanical impossibility. But classically you can ask well what is the momentum anywhere uh in space or what is the kinetic energy and now for a diatomic molecule uh kinetic energy is a scalar quantity momentum is a vector quantity and one can ignore the fact because there's only one direction but in a polyatomic molecule uh what you really want is momentum and that's a vector quantity or it's and uh and what you have really is the distance of your uh the energy above the potential surface and that's a kinetic energy and so you have to be careful but let's let's uh uh look at WKB for a little while because uh uh this is such a wonderful thing. Okay. So semiclassical means that we can define momentum uh classically and and this is not the quantum mechanical momentum but it's a function. It's a perfectly legitimate function. We could calculate expectation values of it. Uh but uh the momentum is uh well the uh the kinetic energy is p ^2 over mu. Right? This is the reduced mass. And uh so to get uh P you have 2 mu E minus V of R. So that's the classical momentum function. the WKB wave function which you can derive by making some clever uh uh uh expansion where you know basically you get quantum mechanics classical mechanics if h is uh zero and uh uh and you get quantum mechanics otherwise uh The WKB wave function as this minus a half. Okay, so this is an envelope function and this is the oscilly function. Okay, and this is a turning point. Uh and uh so uh you're integrating this classical momentum function in from a turning point to where you want to look at the wave function. And the larger this p is, the faster this uh exponential wiggles. And if you have functions that are oscillating rapidly and you have integrals involving functions that are oscillating rapidly, the only place where the integral accumulates is where the two things are oscillating rapidly at the same frequency. And so this is an extremely important thing because it gives you causality. It gives you this is where a react is something is you know if you're using these kinds of wave functions and you're calculating the expectation value of something you can think that the expectation value of something is due to something that occurred in a particular region of space. And this is the way we think about the classical world. And so this oscilly thing is amazingly important because it gets you back to classical mechanisms and uh you've heard of u I won't talk about that and this uh this is the envelope. So the faster something is moving the smaller this factor is. And again that that comes out of a probabilistic uh idea. If you if something is moving fast it doesn't spend much time in a particular place and you can actually work out what the uh envelope function ought to be based on calculating. Okay. Suppose you have we have motion in a potential. You if you can calculate what the the period of oscillation is uh and you can calculate say how long it takes to go through a particular region of space. If you know the momentum at that point, you can calculate how long it takes to go through this and the ratio of that time to the period or to half the period tells you the probability of finding the system in this point in this region. And so uh the probability is uh proportional to one over the momentum and the uh probability amplitude which is what what the wave function is pro is square root of that. So we have something that tells you what is the probability of finding a system in a particular region of space and how it oscillates and these two are enough to build an incredible amount of insight. Okay. So now we have a um we have a problem that we're at some energy and we have a wave function the WKB wave function which uh it turns out uh is valid away in a region of space not near a turning point. because at a turning point the uh the momentum is zero and uh this blows up and that's unphysical. And so if we wanted to use WKB to describe energy levels, we have a little bit of a problem. We're okay outside in the non-class region of the potential. And uh but in the non-class region, the the wave function has to go to zero at infinity. And that's a boundary condition. Uh and we're okay inside. And but we have we have wave functions propagating inside and they have to meet and be uh and and where these two wave functions meet they have to the wave function has to be continuous. And so, okay, first of all, the way you deal with this uh gap at the boundary is that you discover that you can approximate this region here as a linear potential if you're close to it. And then you have wave functions that are uh well, they're functions. Are functions are the correct wave function for a linear potential. And so with area functions you can go across this region and you join up these two things. The uh the wave function having to go to infin go to zero at infinity positive and negative infinity imply imposes a definite phase. And what you end up discovering is that the wave function at a at a point where the WKB is valid on the inside of the potential uh is the WKB wave function you would have calculated from here but it's not valid here plus pi over4 with a phase of pi over4. So the it's a long complicated lecture explaining how you join the wave fun you you get the correct wave function and joining across the boundary is a is a really important piece of that I won't do that then the continuity that leads to what's called the quantization condition because the only way wave functions which go to go to zero at infinity correctly can uh be legitimate solutions is if the two- wave functions are continuous and the derivative is continuous. And so you end up getting a quantization condition. And the quantization condition is I'm going to put the So this is the quantization condition. This is an integral. This this quantity is uh did I blow a sign? No, that's right. This is the classical momentum. So, it's an integral P dQ or PDR. This P Q has the dimension of H. It's also a quantity that is known as action. Now, a personal story. I was an undergraduate at Ammerst College and we all write thesis and and we we have a thesis defense and at my thesis defense uh Dick Frink who uh was a young assistant professor at the time asked me a question which was what is the unit of H? And I said, "Energy times time." And I was right. But he didn't want that. He wanted action. And we went around for half an hour. I was absolutely certain that I knew what the units of H were. And and and he was determined to get action and we never converged. Um but anyway, this is an action integral and basically the quantization condition says there's a certain allowed amount of action that uh at each energy level the action integral is uh an integral number of uh so if we if we kill the the uh the the so if we make this just h over two to V + 1 or H * V + a half. Uh, that looks a little more familiar. So, there's a half integer amount of action when you evaluate the action integral um at uh um the energy of a energy level. And there's also you get for each additional level there's another h of action. And so this is a a very useful quantity and the RKR RKR is built on the action integral. Okay. So the derivation of the RKR method is mathematically opaque especially when I have to present it in a lecture. Um and there are many different ways of uh motivating it. They all say let's start with some function of energy and rotation and um the the lecture not these lecture notes were written in 1975 and revised over the years. My book was written in 199 2004 sorry and uh it's better in my book and I don't know why I uh didn't do this uh earlier. So we can describe this function uh by the quantity that appears uh on as uh where is it? Equation 22 on page four. So we can just define a as this function 2 mu over h bar 2 square 1 / i r - r + and these are functions of energy. Um E minus U R minus H bar 2 / 2 mu R 2 JJ + Br. Okay. So this what is this? This here um I is uh the centrifugal potential. This is V of J of R. Okay, this combination. And so you you have the bare potential and you have the centrifugal correction. And so this difference is the energy. So if we have the potential like this, this is the energy. A is just the area. That's why it's called A. Now there's some other stuff to make it dimensionally consistent. So we have a function that we are going to play with two different ways. one way gives us R minus and R plus at E. So if we knew what A was then we could do something and derive values for the turning points from it. And the other way of processing this is to find out how what A is based on what we know from spectra which are the vibrational and rotational constants. So we determine this from the spectrum. G of V is you know omega V plus a half etc etc. And this is be E minus uh alpha E V plus a half plus whatever. And so we take this thing and we approach it two different ways. One gives us turning points if we knew that and the other gives us that if we knew this. So this to that is where we want to go. Okay, Bob Loy says that the best way to learn about RKR is to read Klein's paper probably in German from 1932 and that uh uh he says also that there's a paper by Kersner and Watson. This is Jim Watson who is as close to God and spectroscopy as you can get. uh um he says that this was rediscovered. In other words, Watson and Kersner wrote basically Klein's paper again in 1992. Uh and so it might be almost as good to read the Kersner and Watson paper. But anyway uh and what and Loy does not like the way I develop this uh by saying okay let's consider this function and process it two different ways but I've been doing this all my life and I'm just I'm just unable to escape that. Now there's given this function it's an exceedingly easy thing to make the connection between this and that. That's a a a couple of steps. The other thing of showing how you can build these two things in to determine that is mathematically tedious and involves all sorts of stuff and I'm not going to do that. But you know the the lecture notes do do that. Okay. So uh let's just take a look at this function and uh suppose we uh take the derivative the partial derivative of a with respect to e. Okay. So, so we get all sorts of garbage out in front. And now we have uh an integral um and so we're going to take the derivative and this this isn't e that's e that we take the derivative that's one. So we get the constants out in front and then we have integral r + r minus the r that's pretty easy integral even I can do that one and so that gives us this constant times r plus of e minus r minus of e. So the first integral or the first uh equation uh we get the derivative the this derivative of this area area just gives us the difference in turning points which is a nice thing. Okay. And now let's look at the partial derivative of a with respect to j. Well, where's J? J only appears here. So, these two terms go away and we get 2 J + 1 times that. So we get all that constant stuff and we have uh an integral uh and we can take uh minus h bar squar over 2 mu out and we can take 2 j + 1 out and we have now the integral from r minus to R + of 1 / R^2 D R and this gives us um this integral gives us one over so this is equal to uh minus 1 / R + - 1 / R us right I'm very bad at integration even something simple like this uh so we have minus sign cancelling that the minus sign I took out here and we get now an integral uh that involves so we have one integral that's the difference in r the difference in turning points at e and this is the difference in the reciprocal of the two turning points points at E. Two unknowns, two equations. Bam, we've got it. And so if we can know A of EJ, we can determine the turning points R plus of E J and R minus of E Z. And that's what RKR is. Okay. So I won't uh I won't go through the derivation because it's I don't like it. It's tedious. It involves a change of variable and integration by parts and all sorts of stuff that you can do and it you wouldn't want to see that on a blackboard from someone who is uncomfortable doing it. And so what you discover is that r + - r minus is equal to 2 h bar 2 over 2 mu square root integral over the vibrational quantum number. Um, that's J. So the difference in two turning points is given by uh at E and E can be treated as continuous. This is the inversion of E of V. And so this can also be treated as a continuous function. So you can determine R + minus R minus as a continuous function of V if you know uh G of V or a continuous function of E. So this is one thing and so you do do that and you can have something like this from polyatomic molecules too. So what is this doing? It's telling you what is the the width of the potential and that's mostly what you want to know. It would be nice to know where this is and where this is. But the difference between them is the most important thing because often you're willing to say I'm going to use a model not a model to that's completely free. A model that is uh saying what is the qualitative form of the potential and the difference between the two turning points is all you need in order to pin down the model and that could be done for polyatomic molecules. One of the problems is what is the potential? Uh what are the coordinates? Uh because you know you are observing energy levels there energy levels or they're levels in state space. There is nothing about the coordinates. And so, uh, there's all sorts of problems of saying, okay, well, we have a we would like a one-dimensional cut through a potential surface, but there's all sorts of issues of, well, yeah, we could determine the width of the potential along some one-dimensional cut, but we don't know what the coordinates are. So, this is interesting, and it's kind of an area where some insight might be gotten for polyatomic molecules. Okay. And the other one is 1 / r + 1 / r minus. And that's again we got this same kind of stuff. I don't know whether except the two mu or h bar squared square root. And now we have So here is an integral involving a combination of the rotational constant function and the vibrational energies. And again, if you know these functions and you can pretend that they're a continuous variable, a continuous function of v uh it's determined pointwise, but so you can determine uh this integral as as a at any uh energy. And so you have this difference of turning points at any energy. And so between the two, you've got it. Now, this is why you can't even think about using this for polyatomic molecules because this is the rotational constant for a one-dimensional oscillator. And for a polyatomic molecule, you have three rotational constants. They're all a function of uh displacements. uh they're they're all affected in different ways by displacements along normal coordinates. You can take derivatives of the uh uh the uh a blast and cruise uh or the uh inertial constants in the a blast and cruise directions. And so you can show how the rotational constant uh constants would change with respect to vibrational exitation. But you can't do something like this. There is no sensible way. Yes. What if you have like a settling where there is only one rotational constant ground state? Yes. But uh you have you still have uh seven vibrational degrees of freedom of which uh and so uh what potential are you sampling? Okay. So you can sort of do this. You can't do that. This might be useful. Okay. Now there are all sorts of issues with uh these kinds of functions. Um uh at the upper turning point here uh the energy is equal to uh the vibrational energy and so this is zero. The integrant goes to infinity. And so there's a singularity in this integral at the upper limit of integration. No problem. But it's something people worry about. But there is one thing that happens very commonly when you do RKR. You generate a potential curve that instead of looking like this looks like that. The inner wall tends to hook. And this is this is a common problem and it comes from uh blindly using BV and G of V. Keep in mind that you're determining the outer wall is moving very fast. So you're you're sampling the energy levels and the outer wall is changing its uh uh it its position rapidly with V. The inner wall is mostly going up slowly. I mean, it's going up vertically. It not changing much. And you So all of the RKR is being stressed by trying to determine this rapidly changing function with perhaps incomplete, perhaps uh defective data. And you almost always get a hook. And so what you do is you say, okay, what is the functional form for the inner wall? and you for constrain the RKR to have the right inner wall and that gives better potentials. There are other things that people do to uh improve on RKR potentials. One of the best tests is okay we have V of R and we automatically get the J dependence of it and so we should be able to calculate uh from it G of V, B of V, D of V and many other things. And now RKR used G of E and B of E to determine this. But we have the potential now we do numerical integration of the we solve for the you know you have a potential you find where the energy levels are not by uh semiclassical methods but by integration of the shorter equation and so you can then uh solve the problem by numerical integration and ask well do the calculated values of quantities uh obtained from the potential are they equal to the input values? It's not a circle. If you uh you are using semiclassical methods to get this and strictly quantum mechanical numerical integration methods to to invert back to the spectrum and the agreement is astonishing and uh so that's that's an important uh characteristic of RKR. It it works. It's a trivial program. it uh even in 1970 it took uh seconds to run uh and on a big computer but you know big computer in those days yes you don't they were pretty slow comp whereas Frank Conan or the numerical integration takes hundreds of times longer now both take no time at all on little on on your uh laptops. So, it's a wonderful procedure and it makes using models in diatomic molecules completely stupid unless you have essentially no data and you want to take a little fraction, you know, fragmentaryary data and get a little bit of leverage to extrapolate or interpolate hoping to find more so that you can verify things. But you the RKR is just a wonderful thing. And often you see people still writing papers questioning the validity of RKR potentials and saying well uh you really ought to take this to a higher order of WKB and you can do that. And in fact that's built into Loyy's programs. So I it's not it's not time to quit yet but u uh it's time for you to ask a question. Yes. So, WB uh wave functions are are are harmonic. No. No. Why do you say they're harmonic? Well, so are way if you have a harmonic potential. Yes. You'll be exactly right. It turns out that WKB is uh invalid near turning points at the bottom of the potential V equals Z. You've got two turning points close together. So you say, well, if there's ever going to be a problem, it's going to be here. However, near the bottom of every potential, it's a good to very good approximation. It is harmonic. WKB works everywhere for harmonic oscillator. There is no Okay. So that that that that that's kind of what what I right but uh at very high exitation you have enormous anharmonic contributions from a real potential. As long as the potential doesn't have kinks or is not double valued you're okay. I mean this WK RKR does not give you the correct energy levels for this sort of a problem. That has nothing to do with WKB. Right. Right. Right. No. Right. Sure. Sure. But R but RVR is scarily correct for very anharmonic potentials. It does absolutely you know the the scary point is down here. everything else, you know, as long as there's there's no twiddles. Uh it's valid. The higher you go, the better it is. That's another thing about semiclass. The higher you go, uh uh the closer it approach approaches you semiclassical. Yes. So um the problems with RKR this one is the most commonly encountered and it's not a problem with the semiclassical method. It's a problem that you're trying to determine uh a very rapidly changing function with incomplete data and and it doesn't know any difference between inner and outer turning points and it just pulls it it nails the difference but uh the the rotational constants uh are what's determining the absolute positions and that just gets overpowered. So is there are there other questions? Should I come up with a problem that forces you to use the AR uh Loyy's programs? The problem with that I've discovered in asking people to use Loyy's programs is Loy writes programs in forrren which is the only language that I understand and nobody knows for anymore. So uh that makes for terrible difficulties in using his programs. However, in these publications he gives detailed discussion of the structure of the input files and the output files. And so basically you can use them as a black box as long as you believe in RKR which I think is a very you know there are many more many other things that you would not want to believe in. uh this is you can pretty much take it for granted. So uh I I urge you all to download these things and have a functioning numerical integration program and an RKR program in your computers and it would be a good idea to do something with them but I'm not going to ask you to to hand hand it in. Uh it might be a good idea to look at the paper by Mance and at all that I cite in the no notes and and take the data set that he uses and just reproduce his results to show that yes in fact it does reproduce B of V and G of V as to the accuracy to about a parton 10 to the sixth or maybe pardon to the eth. What paper do you uh M yeah that man at all that's actually man etc etc is there and uh um so I recommend doing that and if that's it then I'm