The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So what I'd like to do is uh maybe talk a little bit about uh the world into which uh the world that Darwin was part of some of the background and some of the uh things that were happening that help us understand and frame the work of of Darwin. We've already looked at some very important books. Uh I mean we just finished with Mouthys and Mouthys was definitely a figure that Darwin was familiar with. I wouldn't say Mouthys gave Darwin his arguments, but Mouthys was part of a general intellectual background that uh Darwin was familiar with and and uh actually um had read carefully but uh he had read many other figures carefully too. He was a very very careful man. He read things uh he pondered them and he was probably one of the most widely read individuals of his time. Uh he was also a person who was hugely curious about u all things related to the natural world. He had a passion for the natural world. Uh he was very interested in domestic breeding. He knew about horses and all sorts of things that had to do with the breeding of uh special forms and the fact that humans were pretty good breeders. They knew how to take animals and shape them through selective breeding over a period of time. And Darwin was fascinated with this whole problem. And he had correspondence, a huge correspondence with people who were breeders. He had grown up himself in a in a small city, but that was in the that was in a kind of very agricultural area of England in in the northwest uh part uh Shrewsbury. And so uh he was quite familiar with uh you know the countryside a little different than living in London. Okay. So uh and as as we've already looked at we've already looked at Adam Smith I mean people were promulgating ideas of the way in which the economy worked the world so there was a lot of thinking of the style that that relates very closely to the thinking style of Charles Darwin and so u you know just in general there were there there was a massive curiosity about the physical world, how astronomy, I mean the new astronomy of the Hersels, uh there was the geology and the work of geologists uh like Hutton and Charles Lyel and so and then there was uh tremendous interest in in uh botany and identifying the various organisms uh and and and uh not just identifying them but classifying them in orderly fashion. So all this was part of the world that Darwin was uh born into. And so if we're looking for the person who uh influenced and and and uh sort of inspired Darwin, we'd have to say there were lots of things. He was just a naturally curious individual. And so that's really what we're what we're focusing on here at the start. So there's the great voyage, the voyage of the beagle which took place uh over uh an extended period and Darwin was part of that. So it's a great subject. There's a tremendous amount going on in this book and it's a big book and it reads a little different from the way a textbook would read or indeed a paper. So, uh this is sort of Darwin's synthesis of his ideas and he synthesized this in a big book. He called it an abstract. Did you pick up on that? This is this is uh this whole work is is a kind of a summary of a much bigger concept he has. So here's somebody 1859 when it was published um who is uh has been working in this field for uh you know many many years. I mean, at least if we date it from the time he went out on his voyage. Um, we've got more than 25 years of work here. So, Darwin was somebody who was very deliberate and who thought deeply about his subjects and didn't rush out to publish. He was trying to clarify for himself what he thought. And he had many earlier versions of uh these arguments. This was This was his first large organized public statement about the phenomenon of uh evolution or origin of species. Yeah. Claire, if like Casey said there was somebody else working on a similar idea at the same time, do we know if all of his ideas were original or Oh, yeah. Yeah. he uh there there were so let me say a little bit about what what uh some of the things uh at Darwin's time okay so Darwin of course uh the famous voyage of the beagle which uh took place over a period of uh five uh plus years and um this was something that u Darwin recorded in some detail in his journal of researches which was the original title of the voyage of the beagle and uh He had taken this uh this tremendous voyage around the world as a young man and he was able to at this time uh learn about the kind of global perspective of uh the geology and biology that he was interested in. So it uh it gave him uh a tremendously rich experience to think with and indeed this this voyage was uh a profound part of uh Charles Darwin's thinking for uh the rest of his life and he made many observations. You can just see from the uh uh from the quotes I've included here from chapter 17 what sorts of things were on Darwin's mind. Uh the natural history of these islands is eminently curious. Most of the organic productions are Aboriginal creations found nowhere else. It's talking about the Galapagos. So these kind of islands, somebody was mentioning last class of the class before the fact that islands sometimes help you think about things because they put boundaries on things and in some ways the Galapagos is is a boundary and it's got its own set of uh organisms uh and it allows you to see a difference. Darwin could also see patterns that he could associate with uh other forms on the mainland but no longer the same species. So did this island just for some miraculous reason get organisms created just for itself or what's you know how did this all happen? uh how did this come to be that there were these aboriginal forms a aboriginal creations he calls them. So uh seeing every height crowned with its crater and the boundaries of most of the lava stream still distinct we are led to believe that within a period geologically recent and geologically recent could be a long time. I mean it's not just a few thousand years because he's already thinking in terms I'll show you some of Charles Lyle's work u but uh Darwin was a follower of Lyall's work a close follower of Charles Lyle's work and he was familiar with the work of other geologists of the day and they had discovered uh a whole range of things including the uh fact that the Earth was incalculably older than most people thought, more in the millions of years. And so, uh, you know, Darwin had this time framework now in the background. He was aware of this concept of we might call deep time that, you know, the age of the earth was was vast and so there was lots and lots of time for things to change. So incrementalism doesn't mean a whole lot if you're talking about a very short period of time. But if you're talking about vast periods of times, little tiny incremental changes over millions of years can amount to tremendous. Okay. So uh differences uh um most of the lava streams are still distinct. We are led to believe that within a period geologically recent the unbroken ocean was here spread out. Hence, both in space and time, we seem to be brought somewhat near to that great fact, that mystery of mysteries, the first appearance of new beings on this earth. What's what do you make of that? This is uh this is from his voyage of the Beagle. Do you think he's uh what's he referring to here? What I take from chapter 17 is that if you've got a common ancestor living on some piece of land, then for some reason the environment changes, whether by separation of land or whatever, you've now got the same species or group of animals on two different two different in two different environments. And that based upon all the stuff he's already introduced us to when you se put the same animal in two very different environments over many many periods of times those two animals will totally separate and become two new things. So when it says that the appearance of new be the new first new whatever the new beings on this earth I I that's the image I get of what he's talking about is separation and then re like readapting to the new environment and then change for the good. He seems to be Yes, this is this is the the notion that seems to be uh referred to here. He's not quite clear back in the 30s exactly how this happens, but he knows something is happening and that they they are coming from uh the these aboriginal forms, these new forms have some ancestral origin. very likely in the forms of the mainland and somehow they have uh expressed and and developed themselves in uh a new way in these isolated environments where they are in some sense sequestered. So this is a really big idea and this this idea is uh uh one of the one of the often referred to in in the journal of researches. Um so in fact uh part of what Darwin was discovering here is that u there were uh I mean he didn't have this full I'm jumping ahead here because he he didn't have this all worked out at this time but he he had a sense that these finches Darwin's finches are famous because uh he found Anybody know about Darwin's finches? Anything you've come across it in your reading? Yeah. I think what happened was he found a whole bunch of finches on the different islands that had that were each like had very different adaptations from each other, but they were all still finches. I think one of them uh was very good at eating soft like nonshelled bugs and one of them could like only eat fruits and different could only eat like nuts something. They had all these very specific beak adaptations that allowed them to fill this one that fill this one purpose but didn't really work well for anything else. Yeah. So they they have specialized and they were finches. So what kind what kind of what's going on here? What is the phrase adaptive radiation suggest? It's not a phrase Darwin used, but that's an example of what we were just talking. You got one one finch, you know, floating around and you've got all these different islands each with slightly different terrains, landscapes, and food available for the finches that should, you know, they'll adapt to the environment of the island that they're on. So they and they they specialize, right? So this is a, if you will, division version of division of labor. In other words, uh I mean not quite but but uh you know they have specialized into their various in in the in the framework of this environment and what it has to offer. What sorts of forces drive this specialization? Charles, we have um Darren talks about the variation like how things can vary and that like doesn't always come from like they'll be slightly different. And so you take um given that and the limitation of resources and like the powers of natural selection like things not not every finch that was born is going to live. Um and some have to die and the ones that will die are the ones that can't utilize the resources that they can find. So maybe some of a specific beak they find something and they survive and they pass on your trait. Okay. Um it actually just hit for me. I'm a little slow but uh this is very similar to how humans take up different um like jobs and specializations. Um, like how Smith was talking about like it's it's about efficiency and progress and the finch species is trying to propagate by reproduction and so forth. Um, in many ways just like humans are specializing um to help ourselves as a race to Interesting. Yes, that's a good that's a that's a very helpful parallel. U the difference is there there's one key difference here. I mean I mean it's it's it's it's an excellent parallel to think with. Um what is the key difference between the way that humans do it and the way that it happens with finches? Sorry. Well, for the finches, I don't know if they have some kind of plot to take over the world, the finch species, but with humans, often times there's like some kind of drive or motivation like if oh, if we can populate this space, do something here, then like this will lead to so and so. And with the finches, I don't know necessarily that their goal was to propagate about the islands. Do they have a finch conference where they exactly gather here and specialize? It was more that they maybe had too many finches in one place. So then one winter one group migrated to a different island per se and they came across different types of food and those that happen to have a beak that would allow them to eat that food more efficiently than the others. But they I mean they wouldn't have to migrate. They they could just stay where they are. But cross the Yeah. or they if they just crossed the stream and went to the next place and they found some type of new food, then they would just have that adaptation would take place. Correct. Also like it shows up like in humans much much quicker. So like we're saying all humans start out the same generally for the first 12 years or so and then that that those first 12 years represents you know a couple hundred generations in the bird before they start to specialize. So it's really sped up in the human course. Okay. Humans Humans diversify through intentional strategies. There's some kind of prethought to it. I mean, yeah, let's let's create a new product or let's let's do this new innovative thing or, you know, so human culture works through a conscious process. Purposeful is purposeful. There's there's a purpose. Maybe the purpose doesn't work all the time, but you know, there's some kind of uh intentionality behind it. These finches, this is a problem for Dar, you know, why I mean, you know, how how is this kind of radiation? What what's driving it? And he's not quite sure. I mean, you know, he's nobody quite knows exactly what Darwin thought at exactly what moment, but he wrote things out and so forth. And it's it's clear he's groping toward a mechanism here. And that mechanism is going to ultimately be the core of his book titled The Origin of Species. And the mechanism is So how does natural selection relate relate to this? Not that he has a full developed theory at this point with these finches. Later he does. So how does natural selection work in contrast to you know change in human cultures that is driven by intentional efforts. Yeah, Chris, it could have been that the birds specialized in that manner in order to gain an advantage over competing organisms in their space. Okay. How do they how do they get the advantage? By by specializing in does a specialization change them or does the specialization result from some change? Very important to think directionally. Yes. just like random mutations that occur among the species like one day one of the birds is born with a different shaped beak and that turns out to be useful and then helps it survive and since that one can survive better it produces more offspring which also have mutation. Yeah. So uh variation uh in nature chapter two things change uh you look even at things like the gangly of an insect and you can find variations from individual to individual. This is the material this is the material of adaptation. So yes, so uh uh uh part of this uh this work of Darwin and uh and and part of his interest in going on his voyage uh was to study geology. Darwin was fascinated with the geological innovations of his time and uh there were a number of people who uh contributed to the development of geology uh much much more complicated than I can go into here. But uh the fact is is Darwin was quite aware of the the emergence of the science of geology in his time and how advanced and develop rapidly developing it was. U one of his close friends turned out to be uh one of his very very closest friends was Charles Lyall and Lyall had published his principles of geology in 1830 to32. Uh Darren was familiar with the first volume and indeed uh got hold of the second volume on his voyage. Um and he was uh fascinated with this effort to try to understand the earth through understanding the structure of its geological makeup. And at the heart of this was a kind of a discipline of uh strategraphy of understanding time related phenomena through careful understanding of the way in which uh various layers of the earth had been formed in time. And so uh this was very much a subject of uh Lyall and many many earlier uh thinkers as well including Huntton. Um and so Charles Iel himself used strategraphy to uh develop a system for figuring out the time of certain layers of the earth through calculating the percentage of small mollisks remaining that existed in the current time. So as he went further and further down through certain strata, he found fewer and fewer modern forms of mollocks and more and more ancient forms. And you can see some of the forms that was working with down there. You can see how this interest in understanding vast portions of the earth was, you know, you can see the scale of it. We were now talking about a whole new framework of thinking about the physical environment. I mean this was I mean we think of Hume as somebody who was anticipating certain types but nothing like this. This is massive new field of geological science and uh it was developing around a whole series of ways of measuring and figuring out um u the the the age of various layers. So um as I sent in this slide that I sent out to you, I don't know if you had time to read it. I hope you do. So it gives you a little bit of uh background. Um and out of this emerged a doctrine that is sometimes referred to as uniformitarianism. Has anybody ever come across that concept or doctrine? It's part of this naturalism that I've been talking about. This this naturalistic thinking. It's it it fits into a kind of a philosophical framework of naturalism. What is uniformitarianism? It's defined we could we could call it the uh formation of geological phenomena by forces still in action. What does that mean? What are what's what's what's new or different about this approach to thinking? This was a whole new notion that the features of the earth, even even the mountains and the deep oceans had all been formed through forces that were in operation right now. There's nothing new. And these forces right now are still in operation and these changes are still taking place. Why hasn't anybody figured this out or come up with a theory about this before? Chris, they they've accepted that such designs and variations in nature have occurred from some intelligent designer. Okay, that's one. Yes, there's uh there's always the you know, oh somebody things are the way they were made by you know the creator. I mean that's always you know one way of of of putting it. Uh but the problem partially of identifying these forces is humans live very short time span in geological terms do they not? I mean, it's not something you just sort of sit and watch, you know, the cliffs of Dover slowly rise hundreds of feet in the air. I mean, you'd have to live thousands, if not millions of years. So if you could show that they are rising incrementally a quarter of an inch a year or sinking year in in uniformitarian theory that would be profoundly important because just think if you have a million years to work that you know a million times a quarter of an inch starts adding up to real real change. So this was the sort of thinking that uh was being introduced by these geologists that all these features of the land and indeed that the land masses themselves most of them had been underneath the ocean. How did the chalk cliffs of Dover and many of these different uh formations which h how did those form? Where did they form? What's what's the origin of the chalk? How did it form? Think it was birds who ate it and dropped their droppings over period of time or you know where does the chalk come from? Anybody know what chalk is made up of? Is it calcium oxide shells of tell us of uh sea organisms. So where do the chalks where where do the cliffs of do which are famous for their chalk formations? Where do they They come from the ocean. How did they get into the I mean from what ocean? Where? Yes. When they were underground in per year for many many years. All right. Yes. So it became clear that many many formations at and some of them at the very highest level at very very high up in the had been formed under under the ocean. These were land masses that at one time existed under oceans and some of them are thousands of feet high now. So the new geology was beginning to come up with ideas and theories about how these things could have risen. And the concept of the changing land masses became part of that whole set of uh deliberations and it became widely understood that uh England uh many parts of England had been under the ocean more than once. So uh these were these were things that uh were astounding to people. The idea that you know where you exist, what you walk on, you think of a solid ground, it had indeed been under the ocean at some period of time. Okay. So this this came up uh this gave rise to a uh a kind of style of thinking about earth phenomena that was called uh Lyel called it uniformitarianism. It's a form of incrementalism and it's also a methodological approach to understanding the phenomena that you're looking at geologically and you have this vast period of time to work with now. So in his principles of geology um uh Charles Iel started in the front piece. He had the uh this uh temple of Saraphas and u so this was a uh uh this was a temple this was uh uh in Italy. This was a temple in Italy that had all these little right in the right in the midsection. You can see these deformationations. This area of and uh these were the results of places where little mollisks had attached themselves and kind of through ages and ages etched out little kind of uh chunks of the stone. And here they were at this temple that's raised above the ocean level here. So this suggested to Lyel that even in human history, you know, these things have actually happened in human history. This thing has been under the water at some time in its in its long history. And now here it is uh uh above the water and This was kind of his illustration right in the front of that's that's the first photograph the first uh the first uh graphic in this work. It's not a photograph uh and uh it introduced this notion of incrementalism of uniformitarianism. I can never uh pass up this this you can get this as a chart from uh the uh USGS, United States government service u geological service. Uh this is a poster but it sort of shows this whole succession of time but this this notion of time as being something that is vast and goes way way beyond what does that happen to the individual human? How about these characters like Darwin and Lyall sitting in the 19th century trying to place themselves in this world? How does this change the perspective of humans? Where do you think humans exist on this this cartwheel, this spiral here? This makes each of us as individuals seem really trivial. Like but I guess for me the amazing thing is the fact that Darwin one individual contributed so much to like coming up with this idea and explaining like how time had passed. So then that kind of counters the idea that none of us really matter in this like grand scale because maybe the fact that he could come up with an explanation for such a long period of time says that we can make this we like you know why some people like I mean you know it's it's it's fascinating to understand these things but yeah I mean the section in which humans exist is just a little tiny uh fingernail slice case at the end here in time. So, you know, for some people that's it's a lot to kind of try to comprehend. Just easier to say, "Hey, make this go away and I don't I don't really believe it. So, let's just not believe it." It's like it's it's belief. We're going to put it up to I either believe it or I don't believe it. Well, you know, this vast enterprise of science has delivered us to this stage of understanding the existence that we're part of. I'm sure most people in this room at least would say, "Hey, I'll take this understanding over the bliss of thinking, well, I'm the most important thing in the universe." And I I mean it it was thrilling for the people who were studying and learning about this and for the people who could follow them and ultimately larger and larger numbers of people in the 19th century began to understand that you know yeah there's there's this tremendous period of time that we are part of but it really precedes us by knowing millions and millions of years. And that in itself was fascinating. And as people quarry these things, uh many of these these sediments uh reveal all kinds of weird structures that nobody knows how to explain. One of the famous ones was uh Dr. Hoffman's uh uh Mosasaurus. This was kind of a primitive crocodilian form that uh they discovered. U this this was a form that was discovered in 1770 and then it was found in many other many other locations. Here's one of the early Here's an early version. This is actually in a Kansas. Uh, but you can see what they were finding in some of these quaries. They were actually finding stuff that nobody it it didn't rep it didn't represent resemble anything that anybody was familiar with. And so, uh, you know, people were scratching their heads. They were trying to understand, well, maybe these were just quote monsters that I don't know came and existed from some other era that nobody understands anything about. But if you are a systematist and you're like uh like uh the comparative anatomist Kovier who we've talked about in a couple occasions, you say, "Hey, this is interesting. Where does this fit into my chart?" you know, it looks different from anything I've seen that I've dissected live, but you know, yeah, I see those teeth. I can recognize, you know, so there were many people who began to think, well, how can we bring this into the system that we understand? I mean, this is going back to this this principle of, you know, we explain the unknown through the principles of the known. And so this effort was taking place too. And so Moses was just one uh sorry. Okay. So uh and there were many people like Kovier was a the comparative anatomist. Uh William Buckland, Gideon Mantel. These were all people who specialized in thinking about prehistoric era and the fossils that emerged and how to how to put these into some kind of orderly connection with the things we know now. And they had various I mean none of these people was a evolutionist in the sense of Charles Darwin. But they all had a sense that you know these organisms were part of a past that we only imperfectly understand. And you know this this phenomenon was quite extensive. There were many many people studying fossils. fossils became quite popular among just you know people who were fascinated with going out into nature. There was a whole sense of uh uh that you know things had changed dramatically on the on the land that people existed on. Here here's a uh here's a um painting by Henry de La who was a geologist and um it's called a more uh more ancient Dorset. So Dorset is an area of England and you know many of these fossils were discovered. Mary Anning was a very famous fossil finder. she went out and she she knew more about fossils and in the field and how to find them and how to present them and uh most of these uh uh university people. So they actually went to her for supplies and things of that sort. She was uh she was a formidable fossil finder and you know they'd find all these ancient forms. So the fact that you know the place you lived in existed in other shapes and forms uh there were a lot of evolutionary theories before Darwin. Um most of them were teological that is purpose- driven. There was some purpose being sought. Darwin's is non teological. uh Kuvier the comparative anatomist uh he he was not receptive to evolutionary uh the the concept that the forms that he studied so brilliantly had arrived through evolution but uh he did as much as anybody to prepare materials that people who wanted to think about evolution could use. He showed all these different forms. Darwin Buffon uh uh who was another Frenchman who he had a sort of uh he wrote a large collection of works on the organic world which he showed all the different forms. Irasmouth Darwin who was the grandfather of Charles had a whole progressive theory of biological change. Uh Lamar was probably the key person before Darwin. Uh although he was not well wellreceived in his own time. Uh he believed in you know purpose-driven adaptation things in order to become more successful would adapt. The giraffe was an example he used. Many others. All this gets us to the the grand work itself uh which we will of course explore in more detail next time but um as uh uh as we have already heard this is u there's a pattern here uh Darwin had noticed that u there's tremendous kind of variation that takes place under domestic domestication and these forms you know he looked at these uh pigeons And these primitive sunflowers on the left and then the modern sunflower to the right after it had been ollie showed an incredible change in native stocks. So he says in in this first chapter breeders so before I uh what are the two things that drive the change in domestic organisms? What are humans trying to achieve? Why do they change them? Why do they selectively breed them? For what purposes? It's usually either for utility or for aesthetic. And utility is an example of the sunflower. It, you know, as you selectively breed, you get a larger and larger flower. You get more and more seeds. you get more and more oil and nutrients and so on and so forth. That's generally the way that agricultural selection has gone for thousands and thousands of years. When did this start? When does Darwin think this started? In historical time. It's been going on for thousands of years. He doesn't know when. Nobody knows when. I mean, you know, these forms have been I mean, today we can kind of nail down periods because we know more anthropologically and we can go study and we can carbon date and we can do all these different things for certain types of implements and so on. But uh Darwin didn't know. He just knew that uh domestication had been taking place for thousands of years. It was prehistoric and nobody wrote a book and said, "Well, here's how you can do this and you should go out and improve your your herd of sheep and so on." Uh, it's just been done by a process that he calls unconscious selection. people just do it because they know they get, you know, if they've got a just it's it's it's very logical. If if you have a a uh you know, a goat that gives a lot of milk and is very very unusual and strong, hey, you want another one. So, you know, and you got a big uh strong animal that you can breed with it, it's kind of a no-brainer. You just you just try to control the breeding process and uh you know you get offspring and maybe you know of the three offspring you get one of them is really really great and the other two which ones do you end up eating? You eat the ones that are not producing as well as the others. You keep you keep your finest stock for breeding. That's just the way it's been done. And the same thing something similar to that goes for plants. You get a big strong plant that gives a lot. You save some of those seeds. Which seed do you eat? Eat the seed of the you know the average. You try to take the seeds from. So it's just a natural process. So he says breeders habitually speak of an animal's organization as something quite plastic which they can model almost as they please. Uitt who is a breeder who is probably better acquainted with the works of agriculturalists than almost any other individual speaks of the principle of selection. This is artificial selection as quote that which enables the agriculturalist not only to modify the character of his stock but to change it altogether. It is the magician's wand by means of which he may summon into life whatever form and mold he pleases. Well, that's a little over the top but uh you know it's It's definitely the principle and you know this has been so you know nobody's going to argue with this. I mean who would even if you don't know any science if if if you know anything about farms and this is just the way it works. Domestic breeds um the the whole unconscious uh selection is visual. It's it's purposeive in a sense that there's a there's something behind it, but it's not self-consciously purposeive. And so Darwin refers to a lots of early versions that uh uh it's it's a visual process. You select through the information you get visually by uh inspecting your herd. Um, okay. What happens to these uh highly selected uh breeds when they go back to nature? He has this he has this term in here he uses reversion. What is reversion? Well, I mean not necessarily. there's the possibility that they would revert back to their original state just because again maybe like their new traits wouldn't do well in nature and so then the ones that had some kind of trace of what they'd had before would persist and then those would breed. Then there's a chance that like the human changes that had been imposed on the species might have be beneficial. So then they wouldn't revert and they would propagate and the other ones would be wiped out. Uh that's an interesting question you raise. uh in Darwin's framework in his day he had no examples of that they all reverted but in our day we know that you know people are worried about you know changes that we make that are hardwired into the genome and you know maybe they won't go away maybe they so you know the theory has been sort of well if this highly uh altered stuff gets out into the wild it'll just die because it can't compete with the original forms which are uh adapted at a very high level and in Darwin's day that was true. the bone once bred by humans who adapted to the barnyard. Yeah, exactly. And you know, the minute they get out uh the inner breeding process and so forth, they go back to the uh the form that's closer to the ancestral form, the the naturally selected form. So reversion is a very important principle and it shows that these forms revert and reemerge, get reabsorbed. So the plast the principle of plasticity the plasticity isn't in the lifetime of the form it's across a series of forms and that's why some people get have a hard time understanding somebody wants to say well when you show me how a monkey turns into a human I'll believe in evolution and that's just totally weird uh way of putting it but you know you can understand how people they don't see transmission within the individual organism they don't really believe the change. But you know, if you look through the pattern of change over time, it gets added up into very impressive things and you get things like these pigeons which are absolutely beautiful, but they have no function in nature. They're totally bred for aesthetic purposes. U this is called the Victoria crowned pigeon. And pigeon breeders were uh you know very pigeon breeding was a popular thing in Darwin State. It's it still is. A lot of people still breed pigeons. Okay. Then variation under nature. So he moves in. I just had you read a snippet of this chapter, but uh it builds on the last chapter. So what's he saying here? variation in their nature. Like each like if you take each fly between them, the nervous system is way different. Even though the the base of it is the same, each individual one's way different. Something as as uniform as an insect form actually shows variation at the level of uh of the fine anatomy anatomical. And that variation is the substance That is the material available for selection. Why is variation under nature so much more powerful? Variation and selection under nature so much more powerful than artificial domesticated selection. artificial selection. We can't really control what happens within the genome. We can only take what we have to work with and modify those traits. rise in nature something completely random could come up you know like I don't know could sprout a third eye be able to have like okay that's vision whereas we can't select for that and say like oh well this one has an eye in the front this one has an eye in the back so we can add them together like it just doesn't work that way what is selection based on the selection process what is the material available for uh giving cues to selection under domestic forms and And how does that differ for what is available for change in selection in natural selection? I was just going to say like artificial selection is just based on like the surface and exterior traits but natural selection is based on like everything. It could be, you know, the PhD level of your blood or something or, you know, it could be it's everything natural selection. Everything in the organism is up for variation and everything is up for selection and that could be things quite invisible and quite removed from anybody's awareness. So natural selection is just it's a much more powerful process. Yeah, one thing I might add to that is that natural selection allows you to have potentially positive changes that are completely cannot be predicted or expected for because whenever you are trying to, you know, cure or move forward, you know, generations of dogs or cattle or whatever, you can only breed for what you've already seen, deemed to be useful or worthy. But should mutations turn out that you can't expect you know that's one that's a real benefit there is you know suddenly amazing things can happen that you you know you shouldn't be so arrogant as to think you know exactly. No absolutely and and the trimming force of of survival will find it because the thing that can last for uh n plus as opposed to just n amount of time lives to breed and transmit. Also, the pool is just so much bigger and natural. So, you're going to get so many more variations that some really good ones are going to come up rather than domestic. It's a lot smaller pool. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Okay. We have to we have to finish here. So, next time I'm going to uh start with uh chapter three, struggle for existence. But, uh we've we've captured some of the introductory elements here.