The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So, Thomas Mouthys um Mouthys wrote the essay on the principle of population and published it in 1798 and u he was a uh intellectual Uh he was actually uh a cleric and he had uh religious duties and was interested in uh a range of different questions that had to do with ethics. Uh but he was also a mathematician who was interested in applying statistical thinking or the thinking of numbers to the various uh questions that uh arose out of people like Adam Smith and some other figures that he talks about in this book. uh William Godwin is one uh and Condors the French uh philosoph were very were enthusiasts for progress who really felt that human progress was uh almost unlimited could be you know counted on progress uh developing for generations and generations. generations and delivering humans into an era of uh uh incredible uh wealth and comfort. Uh and so uh there was a lot of thinking that came out of the 18th century rationalism. The French Revolution was a problem. Of course, uh Maltus talks about this a little bit. Uh but certainly there was change. change was in the air. It was very clear that uh there were possibilities for growth and development in human societies. And so many of these intellectuals were interested in exploring what the possibilities were and were very enthusiastic about these possibilities. um including Smith, I think you picked up from last class Smith's optimism and you know the sense he had that you know the economy would grow and it would uh deliver greater resources for the common good. This was a very optimistic view of things. And it was all connected to a sort of a rational view of the world, a uh a a view of the world that you know if you really looked at it closely for the facts and the details, you could sort of see these things emerging and that uh rational behavior uh actually led to greater goods for everybody. So this is uh this is the situation which we come with uh Mouthys and Mouthys himself um had read many of these figures. He was he was an intellectual of his time. He had read many of the different accounts and uh he had uh honed in on this concept of progress. As we noted last time, Smith uses the word progress quite frequently in his uh wealth of nations and it's a word of uh optimism progress. We still use it, don't we? You still have a sense of uh the word progress as a important word in our vocabulary. And you know people still think in terms of uh uh progressive uh uh gains for everybody or most people or whatever. I mean there are lots of ways in which you can think about it but uh the general notion is things get better. one of the figures uh this this comes uh a little more in chapter nine I which I ask you to read the early chapters and then chapter nine and chapter nine he takes on condi but convers certainly in the back of his mind as is William Godwin uh I won't say too much about Godwin I decided to pick condra today uh and condi had because he he had AI mean he's a very great man And he obviously uh as as as mouthys says is a very substantial thinker and not to be dismissed lightly. But uh Condor in his work the future progress of the human mind had uh argued that the organic perfectability of races and plants and animals may be regarded as one of the general laws of nature. So we're beginning to think here we're beginning to see conversion some other people thinking that you know nature itself is you know is is seems to be uh developing toward greater and greater perfection. Um, we feel, he continues, that the progress of preventive medicine as a preservative made more effective by the progress of reason and social order will eventually banish communicable or contagious illnesses and those diseases in general that originate in climate, food, and the nature of work. It would not be difficult to prove that this hope should extend to almost all other diseases whose more remote causes will eventually be recognized. Would it be absurd now to suppose that the improvement of the human race should be regarded as capable of unlimited progress? So this this was one of the grand visions u of cond and uh this is simply an example. Smith uh uh was another example um and so was uh William Godwin and there are a few others that he mentions in passing that Meltus mentions in passing. So he, you know, he's he's picking up this this chorus of uh different uh uh uh different figures uh different people, intellectuals who are you know supporting this notion of progress. So he in in uh in in the essay itself which was appeared in 1798 um he uh decides to look into some of the problems with this this view and um in in chapter one he sort of uh you know he says a few things in the preference about this this general optimistic view of things and you know that it's uh it's out there and uh he also says there it's it's clear that the population the level of population has been kept to a certain level. uh the level of population remains at at a certain level over a period of time and yet uh the potential of population growth is so much more vast that something must be happening here. And he points out nobody's ever really looked at this very closely. It's sort of this progress is sort of vague. But uh when you actually begin to do the counting and the numbers he said he points out uh this view of uh unlimited progress and so forth begins to be problematic or it needs to be at least uh reconsidered in light of this other uh so he says here on u right at the beginning of the chapter he says it has been said that the great question is now at issue whether man shall henceforth Start forwards with accelerated velocity towards illimmonable and hitherto unconceived improvement or be condemned condemned to a perpetual oscillation between happiness and misery and after every effort remains still at an immeasurable distance from the wished for goal. So it's not happening or at least not in the way that people um and so he makes his two claims. He says I think I may fairly make two postulatada. First that food is necessary to the existence of man. Secondly that the passion between the sexes is necessary and will remain nearly in its present state. These two laws, ever since we have had any knowledge of mankind, appear to have been fixed laws of our nature. And as we have not hitherto seen any alteration in them, we have no right to conclude that they will ever cease to be what they are now without an immediate act of power in that being, i.e. God who first arranged the system of the universe and for the advantage of his creatures still executes according to fixed laws all its various operations. So he's you know he's a as far as his view of how the world came into being there's no question in his mind that it was created by the creator and that you know he's he has he has a view uh he He has a view of Cleanths as far as the creation, but maybe a little more the view of Felo as far as the actual effect, but um he's definitely somebody who believes that the uh world has been created and that's the way it is. But he sees these two problems. Okay, so what's the problem with food and you know these two these two requirements that humans have? Why is this a problem? Christian, he mentions that uh food grows at a slower pace than uh population. I think he describes as an arithmetic progression whereas the population grows at a geometric progression. Okay. So he he comes he he begins to reason about reproduction and how reproduction works and the fact that everything reproduces that reproduce in the first generation is potential can reproduce in the second generation and that that uh those that reproduce in the second generation have the potential to reproduce in the third generation. So what kind of a growth pattern do we have here? It's what he calls geometric. So why is that growth? I mean we you all have done uh cultures in petri dishes or things of that sort. You see how things grow in biological organisms grow uh and reproduce. And this process takes place rather uh uh vigorously and you know at at a at a rate that's uh quite impressive when you watch it. If you can see something that actually can reproduce uh fairly frequently it's it's uh amazing. These are fixed laws. Assuming then my postulatada as granted I say that the power of population is infinitely greater than the power in the earth to produce substance uh subsistence for man. Population when unchecked increases in a geometrical ratio. Subsistence increases only in an arithmetical ratio. A slight acquaintance with the numbers will show the immensity of the first power in comparison to the second of the second. This implies a strong and constantly operating check on population from the difficulty of subsistence. This difficulty must fall somewhere and must necessarily be severely felt by a large portion of mankind. So this is the basic Malthusian dilemma. And if we just start poking around with some of the numbers and think a little bit about the simple facts and put those together, we don't come out with that sort of uh basis for this kind of unlimited uh enthusiasm for progress. You know, he's not saying that progress doesn't happen, but he is saying, you know, there's a cost. Not everybody shares in the progress in equal measure and you know if you've read those chapters he's talking a little bit you know well who who suffers I mean where oh okay so he says you know that there is a check on the population and here we have some classic you know just things uh about uh collapses of populations and so forth and obviously uh there are lots and lots of ways and perspectives we can bring to this this set of questions. But uh the idea that uh the population can grow at unlimited rates is uh you know preposterous. Um so he says uh the uh through the animal and vegetable kingdoms nature has scattered the seeds of life abroad with the most profuse and liberal hand. She has been comparatively sparing in the room and nourishment necessary to rear them. The germs of existence contained in this spot of earth with ample food and ample room to expand in would fill millions of years millions of word worlds in the course of a few thousand years. The rate of production necessity that imperious allervading law of nature restrains them within the prescribed bounds. The race of plants and the race of animals shrink under this great restrictive law. And the race of man cannot by any efforts of reason escape from it. Among plants and animals, its effects are waste of seed, sickness, and premature death. Among mankind, misery and vice. Well, this is uh he's been called the dismal philosopher for good reason. you know, I mean, you know, when you read when you when when you read Mouthys, you sort of think, you know, that's uh a lot to uh face up to, but you know, that world is ticking even as we're talking here. I mean, things are growing at incredible rates and production is taking place. So, he he points out what he calls necessity. So, how does all this get checked? What happens? What's What kind of a picture is he drawing here, Chris? Um, well, vaccines get created and advances in medicine. Okay, you're back to helping people. Yes, this is true. But I'm I'm what I'm asking you is u let's just stick with males for a minute. We'll we'll come back to what we do about it today. Um, but what kind of uh what is he what kind of picture is he painting here? H how does this how does this all work? Okay, let's see here. Jake, well kind of I mean obviously dark and depressing the way he views the world. I mean he's saying we can grow this much food, we're going to have this many people and that's obviously not going to work. But uh I mean it it regulates if you have too many people not enough food the people are going to die and go back to be in equilibrium or maybe even over compensate be a little under and then back up again and kind of whole periodic nature. So there are sort of oscillations population growth in years of plenty and then population decline in years of uh scarcity and so this sort of oscillation takes place across the Yeah. Damn it. Well, it seems like when he says uh like it's really the the world is relatively small like what it can hold compared to how fast we can produce. Seems like no matter the size of the earth, we'd still run into that problem because if it was bigger we could sustain more people. So population growth will be even faster and might take a little bit longer but eventually we're still going to run into the same problem. Yeah. This is this is why you know when people say oh we'll just go to the moon. Okay what would mouth say? Well you'll fill that up and you know the carrying capacity of the moon is like oh okay let's see that'll take care of uh you know one little village and uh uh so yeah I mean that's not going to solve a population problem. I mean there may be other reasons for going to the moon but certainly not to get he points out you know we haven't observed some of these o the negative sides of the oscillations and part of that is because uh the people who feel the most are not the people who write history. People who feel them most are you know the poor people living in the land and uh up in the highlands or wherever he's he's he's living in England so you know where are the poor? Well, Ireland is one place, Scotland's another. Uh, you know, the the hinterlands of uh this is where the impact of a lot of these famines is felt most intensely and so yeah, there's uh people starve. Yeah. Yeah. I think like him like he was from England, right? So like I think that had a lot to do with this view because you know England is like relatively small island the the human population kind of spread out and and occupied as much of that island as they could. And I think like this was kind of before like America really started to expand out across the country. And so this was kind of like an old world view where, you know, they were used to not having a lot of land to work with. If there were if the population doubled, you couldn't just, you know, build another field. There just wasn't enough room for it. Yeah. And so I feel like like that comes into contrast with with like, you know, the American philosophy where they go, "Oh, well, we have a huge country that we can expand across. Go west." Yeah. When you know the farm and you get too many kids, the kids you send the kids, you know, go go seek your fortune. Go west. Yeah. Uh he does talk about America. Um I remember he mentioned Yeah. And you know he uh but yeah I I I want to come back to your point. I I I think you know being on an island Yeah. It allows you to sort of think a little bit in terms of the boundaries gives you a bound a set of boundaries. Okay. And you can sort of use those boundaries to think a little bit about you know the implications of things. So, you know, this is true. England is an island. Of course, today we would say the Earth is an island, wouldn't we? No. I mean, we're sort of floating out there or whatever we're doing in the uh you know, in in space. And yeah, we're uh we're a globe. We see that when we get the satellites, huh? Space of birth. Yeah. Space birth. Yeah. Buck. Bucky. Fuller. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. So there are limits and I think you're quite right. This gave him some ways of thinking about it because he talks about the agriculture and the population of uh England and you know how much could this population produce and uh as far as goods and how much could it reproduce as far as more and doing the math you come up with this uh uh what he calls natural inequality between the powers of population and the powers of production. And he says this is basically what he's saying is this is hardwired into humans. And okay so the question then is partly how does all this get resolved? What what does it what does this natural inequality produce? Well I mean with America people gradually went west. So they immigrate. Immigration is one thing. So that gives us again the island boundary lets us think about these things. So okay, what do they do? And you know, you're pushed into the sea practically. Well, okay. You start thinking, well, where else that big clipper ship and those ships that uh Hume was talking about, you know, they're going back and forth and around, you know, uh well, there's this idea of immigrating to another place, Charles. Or they can fight and kick people out or just kill people. All right. Do you think that happens? Well, wait. I'm just saying like that's another alternative possibility and that certainly happened in history. Yeah. History is full of uh movements of, you know, one group of people moving in on another group of people and fighting and so on and so forth. Not that that's the strategy that is preferred, but uh sometimes that's the only strategy available. So probably there were you know skirm many many skirmishes that are based on insufficient resources. Um other things they do is uh okay so war is one famine I mean you know when people don't have enough to eat their health uh does not uh stay robust and they become susceptible to all sorts of things and famines we're talking about things like chalera and uh the plague things of these sort which had tremendous impact and this is something that Meltus was quite aware of that you know famines is one of one one of the ways. What are some of the other ways? Well, the four the four horsemen of the apocalypse is uh you know people do these things. Death, famine, war and plague. Uh you know this is biblical. I mean it's been happening since time immemorial. people have suffered and you know this this this uh of course it was the hope of the great post science you know the scientific revolution um and which which led into the enlightenment and these enlightenment figures like Condra are are basing some of their notions of progress. So progress, how does progress impact this kind of situation? Yeah. Well, I guess the populations can become more efficient at living together. Like if you think about, you know, like the really dense places in the world like, you know, Singapore and all these things where people build up and, you know, they they have buildings that have hundreds of people in them over, you know, one block of of land. Yeah. I mean, progress. progress creates more space for everybody. And in some sense, you know, Smith is right. You know, if you can build the economy and create more resources, you know, fewer people have to starve and fewer people have to, you know, uh uh immigrate and so on and so forth. So, progress is, you know, and what what creates progress? What? Humans. Humans. and all the offspring they come up with. Okay. And how do they do it? I'm I'm not quite sure this is uh the right response, but in Adam Smith talks about, you know, self-interest and being being selfish. And the more if a person is more is is more has a greater self-interest, then they'll be less likely to want to dish things out to other people. So in other words, if if every if the society wants to agrees to have a higher prosperity for all of its individuals, then it should naturally quell population growth. Okay. So that but I don't know that that No, no, no. I think that's that's a great comment because uh uh Smith says, you know, benevolence just doesn't do it. You know, you know, it doesn't work. What does work is innovation. That little boy that he talks about in the boiler room is doing more for, you know, humans, uh, and they're than, you know, some, I don't know, some person out in, you know, trying to be benevolent. Uh now we can I'm not trying to say anything against benevolence but uh you know in Smith's view it's through innovation and the section we we'll read uh we're going to do another class on mouthus. So uh mouthus thinks so too and where does innovation come from the scientific revolution. This is what connected this is why these rationalists in the 18th century were saying hey we can we have this thing called this engine called progress. We can expand the capabilities of we can we can make uh more resources for everybody through our development of technologies and roads and communication and this creates more wealth. you can support more people and not only support more they have more individual liberty. So you can kind of feel why some of these figures like Condors and Smith were and and Godwin, I mean they were all kind of they they were enthusiastic about this thing called science technology. these things that were developing that were creating the capacity for production and this still is working today. I mean, you know, really technologies are still being developed that support populations. But so that's sort of the mech that that's what's going on here. But then you got Mouthys coming back in and uh so what's Mus' view? because he's now, you know, he's he's the beginning of the 19th century. He's writing about 50 years uh maybe 60 years or so before Darwin. So, you know, he's coming back in and he's saying something. He's pouring a little cold water on this this uh this you know enthusiasm that had been developed that had been developing and he's saying well not so fast you know you can you can so he uses agricultural production and of course uh agriculture isn't necessarily the place where we get our biggest uh potential for improvement at least in Mouthys' time. Now that's not true in the modern era because the green revolution did amazing things for uh agriculture and of course that's just a generation ago but you know agricultural improvements have been taking place but uh this still doesn't solve the problem as far as mouthys is concerned. Why is that? And of course, we're still staying in Malfus' frame of mind. I mean, we can we can come forward uh in a in a few minutes here. So, I know everybody's breaking to say, well, you know, you can do this, you can do that. We have birth control. You know, there are lots of things we've done that modern modern people have done to try to deal with this problem. But in Malphus's era, you know, this wasn't these weren't what was a form of birth control he mentions. Anybody read mention the celibacy? Okay. Yes. So he has a chapter on sort of uh of uh less developed cultures and then he has a chapter on sort of uh contemporary cultures. And so in less developed they don't have some of these techniques of mo of of contemporary uh English culture but uh in in those cultures those earlier cultures he calls them savage. I don't like to use that word. uh it didn't mean the same thing to him that it would mean to to us today. But uh but you know, he's talking about cultures that are undeveloped in techn in technological terms um or at least in technological terms consistent with what he's familiar with. But in these cultures, one of the methods of birth control was exposure. just, you know, letting children die in in in the wild, just leaving children. Uh there were families that really had no options. That was one of the options. So this is a method he he mentions here. How widespread? Nobody really quite knows. But it is true that uh uh people just like uh other organisms can only raise what they can feed and you know families uh couldn't all starve in order to make sure that uh you know everybody lived. So there were some very tough decisions. I have no idea what the scope of this was but Mouthys mentions it. You know, Mouthus really hit on a really big subject here and it was a it was a powerful so so he says at the end here he says among mankind misery and vice uh the effects. So what is he referring to in vice? What does he mean by vice? I think Chris was saying something about uh in in humanin sort of uh contemporary English populations, the tendency was just not to get married because if you got married and you had children, you suddenly became a hostage to the future and you had to take care of the family and the family had to survive and suddenly you could find yourself slipping from a quasi middle level of society down into poverty. I mean, how many stories have been told of people been dropped into the ranks of poverty through having, you know, through marriage and families? And it was grim. It was grim in in England and in the British Isles in Mouthys's time. I mean to get married and have children was incredible risk and novels have been written great novels have been written on these problems of you know family indigent families seems to be a staple in fact so so what are the alternatives but uh prostitution and things of this sort were quite quite common so that's one of the impacts of having you know this this inequality this natural inequality where people are still driven by, you know, instinct and they get into behaviors. And as a as a as a minister, as a as a religious person, this was a problem for I mean, he saw this as a as a sort of a problem for society. Modern people take a much more casual view about this, but uh it it it it was a it was a major problem. Uh certainly raised in mouth and mouthus. It it caused people to behave in ways that were damaging to themselves in his view. And so something else we come um okay so he says among plants and animals the view of the subject is simple they are all impelled by a powerful instinct. So you see this language of instinct coming in here instinct. How and how do instinct and reason relate or do they? How do they not relate? What is the uh I mean this is partly what he's getting at in here is is you know this great thing of the enlightenment this this this you know uh apotheiois of uh reason this making reason into this capital there's this other thing so what about instinct you can tell from the get-go this is this is spoken by a true cleric I feel like I'm being sat down and told how things should be because you know For in times of prosperity, the reasonable, you know, scientifically rational thing to do is that, you know, you have your wife, you have your children, you don't cheat. You do you just keep within the bounds. You've had two children, you're great, life is good. And opposed, you know, should poverty or war or famine or disease come about. Suddenly all that kind of scientific per rational perfection breaks down. And when all when everything else in your life breaks down, what do you do? You turn to vice and you'll go and you'll sleep around and you'll do all this stuff. and that, you know, it he's still there. This is the only point where I kind of disagree with him because he's kind of still holding up this unrealistic rationalist perfectionism that doesn't, you know, doesn't really hold up. Plenty of plenty of people who are loving parents and good husbands or wives or whatever still sleep around and it's, you know, so it's just you can really hear the cleric inside him coming out. It does come through. It does come through. Uh, and I and I think it comes true in Mouthus. Uh I mean I've always thought well it it comes through but it's it's through a genuine concern for you know human suffering and you know he sort of uh sees this picture. He can't figure out exactly he can paint the picture the problem but he doesn't know how to solve it exactly. He just he just thinks everybody should uh have a understanding of it so that they can get on with things and figure out what to do or or they can at least understand what is happening. And so yeah, he's got uh so but but this this notion uh in the in the second uh paragraph here, the effects of this check on man are more complicated, impelled to the increase of his species by an equally powerful instinct. Reason interrupts his career and asks him whether he may not bring beings into the world for whom he cannot provide the means of subsistence. Will he not lower his rank in life? Will he not subject himself to greater difficulties and he has so reason is trying to and so he sees this kind of conflict. So this becomes internalized in humans in their own minds. There is something there is a dance going on there or a squabble or whatever between imperatives of behavior. So I think what I what I'm uh what I'm getting at here is that the notion of behavior as just being you know driven by you know rational choices is beginning to change into a notion of uh different kinds of different sources of human behavior and part of them being instinctual. Humans are driven by instinct and this was you know this was not exactly I mean yeah people in earlier times talked about uh you know vices and all this but it was sort of vices were seen as sort of well just a failure of reason but mouthys is giving it more of a you know these things are the results of legitimate uh biological forces that are driving human behavior. Humans are driven by instinct as well as reason and this is part of the sort of biologizing of humans. you know, not just thinking them as, you know, something over here, you know, this this rational thing that was created in the image of God, but also this thing that is driven not by the devil. I mean, we could we could say instinct is the devil, but that's but you know, driven by imperatives that are just as organically part of them and perhaps more than reason itself. Yeah. David. Yeah. And this was the same point in time where biologists were starting to create like taxonomies and starting to put humans on the same level as animals. So they were starting to think of humans as animals. Yeah. And and top of the chain. Absolutely. Uh that humans are part of the natural world and there's vast evidence of instinctual behavior in the natural world and humans are part of that. And so uh this has some problems because you know human culture and civilization and society is you know trying to organize itself in some rational way and form of behavior uh sanctioned behaviors that are rational and good for the whole. But there's this instinctual thing that keeps coming in and you know demanding. Uh so this this this division between reason and instinct we're going to see a lot of as he says the peaceful inhabitants of the countries on which they rushed. These are when these these hordes would would uh would start going out. Genjis Khan and you know the great uh all the great hordes moving across the uh well you know they were basically you know coming from places where they were looking for new opportunities. They formed these large u these large or I mean it has to be said Americans say came on the east coast sort of as they move west they encountered native populations and you know there were struggles And uh this is uh this is something that has uh a source in insufficient resources. Uh and that's not to justify it in any way, but it's just something that uh in Melus' framework happens. So he says, "The peaceful inhabitants of the countries on which they rushed could not long withstand the energy of men acting under such powerful motives of exertion and when they fell in with any tribes like their own, the contest was a struggle for existence." Boom. There's that that phrase that we begin to hear here. So uh and they fought with a desperate courage inspired by the reflection that death was the punishment of defeat and life the prize of victory. So okay so yeah it's a it's definitely a fairly grim picture here. And he talks about he uses the word oscillation. Uh oscillation is uh a phrase that uh refers to this notion of feedback. You know the growth in one population and then the population that feeds on it grows and then as the second population gets larger and larger the source of the food gets uh smaller and smaller and then there's a collapse and then the large population. Yeah, I mean that's you know the links in the rabbit and this goes on on and on and on and that's basically how natural populations cycle through uh cycle through time. This notion of negative feedback which is is correct you know feedback that corrects itself simply uh it's it's it's a it's a major phenomenon in the biological world. Our bodies regulate themselves, the temperature and we have all kinds of mechanisms uh built within us that regulate uh things for us and um and some degree uh all the way up to the level of climate. There are all kinds of types of uh and examples of negative feedback where the change gets corrected through uh some other factor and then you know this oscillation process sort of takes place through time. Um when you run these simulations though there kind of is a generalized principle whether the actual data population is right or not. if you've got knobs to be able to manually change the lengths, the initial links in uh hair populations, almost always, in fact, every instance I've ever seen, if you crank one of the knobs just a little too high, everything breaks. So it's you know it's like even even if these models aren't exactly right as predicting when it'll happen I think we can say with a fair amount of certainty that you know some unless things change or the model isn't what anything like this then by turning up human population or you know links population something bad is going to happen. Yeah. So it's yeah and and that brings up the question of positive feedback that is feedback that feeds on itself and that sort of just goes to a a breaking point. Um but uh many of these uh many of these uh u examples of negative feedback are you know ones that we are familiar with through the body and so on and so forth. But yeah there are all sorts of uh elements and dynamics to these things. It's a it's an interesting mode of thought and certainly can tell you a lot about the behavior of things in time and u you know it's an important way of thinking about things in general and also it's also used in many different scientific contexts. uh the the notion the Malthusian notion is is is that there is some kind of arithmetic growth in production and so we're more in something like the curve down below where there are populations that expand and you know there are things that happen but they're so that the populations decrease but there is a a line that's we call progress. Progress gives us this this uh growing this this rising line in which we can support higher and higher populations. Um so are we sort of okay let's see what else did I want to before I come back to okay all right I don't want to depress you too much here okay so so what do we do to modify okay so what's the modern world's answer to mouthus uh you know I mean some people have you know rejected mouthus Ian thinking we have a few here at MIT. So it's good to know that uh people are on the job trying to find our way out of various predicaments. But what have we done? What you know? So mouth the Malthusian natural inequality. How has modern technology and modern uh culture dealt with that? That is you know the power of of reproduction being so much greater than the power of uh production. Making the our food the most efficient possible tremendous tremendous uh growth and uh and and advances in food production. I mean just mindboggling. Uh we can feed the world can be fed. We have problems with distribution and you know economies and all that kind of stuff. Uh you know the food doesn't necessarily get to the place it should be but there is enough food in the world to feed the people of the world and yet we have people starving in various places in the world. So there is there is an issue there but uh it's not necessarily because of lack of food. There have been instances of the government like stepping in to regulate like birth uh like you know births just like either passively or actively like either you know having programs that promote you know birth control or having smaller families or like countries actually saying you can only have one child per family. Yeah. Yeah. Certainly China had the one child per family policy. I'm not sure that that's been declared a success but uh and I think there is an incredible imbalance between the genders now because of uh you know if you have a single child and you know uh you have to make a choice uh some families feel that uh a male child is more likely to succeed and be able to well help. So you know that policy I think has led to a kind of imbalance that is uh seriously problematic. But I'm not an authority in this area. Just know that these these policies we do have of course modern modern technology has developed birth control or methods of uh you know simply preventing uh unwanted births. I'm not talking about abortion. I'm talking about I'm talking about uh other methods but uh you know the the whole the whole question of uh regulating birth has been a big I mean this is a big area of uh u you know development I mean huge I mean drug companies uh and all sorts of people are in this business because population vast rapid population growth is it's it's potentially uh destructive of of societies. So there is yeah Chris think in addition to government regulation there's been a self- selection among families in perhaps more affluent countries who recognize that limited resources that they have limited resources and so having fewer children would invest more resources into each individual children and so that's a form of regulation absolutely people get yeah that that that is absolutely true yeah the other side of things though I've heard of some European countries I think like France who've done things to try and encourage their citizens to have more children because they're of their negative population growth right like more maternity leave or that's right um even leave for dads too yeah yeah so I think uh European countries have all kinds of policies to encourage uh uh birth rate in their in in families because there's a need to uh uh I mean they need a workforce and you know you can't make a workforce out of people who are aging and and retiring and things of that sort. they you know so again this is a this is a very big question and you know we're just touching on these things in in the framework of Mouthys here but but uh the point is is that uh a lot of the problems that Mouthys has identified or the key problem that he's identified has generated incredible range of uh activities in you know technological development uh social development uh uh and behavior in in in societies and cultures. D instead of instead of tackling the problem of population directly because population growth is much more complicated than people just wanting to have children. One of the things that people have proposed that actually has a good amount of scientific backing behind it is trying to rather than imposing regulations give as much education to to populations as possible because there's this strange correlation that when you increase the educational level of people poverty goes down. uh food resources, you know, are are improved and as affluent individ kind of builds on itself. And one of the nice things about that is the more the more as people come out of poverty, as the more educated they are, they make more conscious decisions about how they affect the environment, which in turn allows them to do more with less and maintain the resources of the environment around them. So the one way to do this is rather than tackling it head-on, tackle something that looks like a side issue and it it seems there seems to be evidence to show that it would resolve it, you know, on its own. Building off of that, uh there is research that shows that uh the higher education level is that is achieved by a person, the later on they get married and the less children they have like you were saying earlier about uh the different those statistics affecting how many and how fast you have children. Yeah. But but as as has been mentioned u it uh as Laura said you know the the need it's not as simple as keeping all populations down because sometimes you know that's where the new that's where the energy comes is from you know the young population you know the that's where the growth is that's where new concepts new production so the idea of uh trying I mean we're we are in a bind. We're in we're we're in a population bind. It's it's it's a set of problems that nobody's going to solve. We just and they're going to be presenting themselves every generation. But uh it it's certainly an area that has taken up a huge amount of human resource and thinking uh on you know in in terms of uh what to do, what kinds of policies they have uh how much education, how to how to get education, deliver it uh you know and and all sorts of I think like from Malthusian view like if you were alive today you would say that we're all these advances are was setting us up for a bigger fall. Like with the increases in life expectancy, with the, you know, increases in and all these things, it makes us feel like we can expand and we are expanding uncontrollably. So that when we do reach that capacity, which may not be, you know, within a couple generations, but if we do reach it, it will be even more catastrophic than it was in his time. Well, I I'm I'm I'm definitely I'm in your camp. You know, I I the the ability of politicians and people to make the necessary decisions and judgments and uh policies that could deal with these things seems to be almost nil. I mean they can't even come up with climate uh policy. They can't come up with uh you know various types of uh population, education, all these policies. uh there's very little leadership that's come out of the political center uh of and so you know these are big problems. I mean look at I mean we're we're talking about population growth at incredible rates and you know the the notion that u uh you know these problems will take care of themselves is ridiculous. they require some kind of uh thought and action and and uh uh resource but uh I think uh that's one of the big problems is people just don't grasp the nature of this problem and therefore they kind of uh just figure well my parents are okay I'm okay and you know life is going to go on but you Now things are changing in the background and uh this this growth issue is is a big one. Um and we don't really have what most people would consider a rational approach to dealing with it at the government level. So um okay. So yeah, I was so I was born in I was born in uh in between the 1930s. So I contributed to the third billion of human population. I expect most of you contributed to the sixth or was it the fifth? How many how many fifth? Uh are you you're in the fifth? Okay. Okay. So some of you contribute to the fifth billion and some of you contribute to the sixth. So you know the fact is we're we're all sitting in the same room and we contribute. I mean just think about that a little bit. It took uh 30 years for my cohort billion cohort in the world to uh but look at the time look how this is is is shortening. So yeah, we need we need some kind of we need to think about these things rationally. We need to deal with them. And uh this is why Mouthus is sort of sitting back there wishing he were wrong and hoping somebody will show him. But you know it's it's it's continuing