So um today we're going to continue our discussion of uh enforcing modularity and we're going to in particular if you remember last time we spent a lot of time talking about um last time we spent a lot of time talking about how we can create a virtual memory so that we can have multiple programs. running on top of one piece of hardware that all appear to have a separate address space or a separate memory. So, uh, two lectures ago we talked about having one module per computer. Um, and then last time we talked about this notion of wanting to have a module per virtual computer and we saw this notion of virtual memory. Okay. And now this time what we're going to do is we're going to talk about the other piece that our virtual computer needs which is a virtual processor. Okay. So the idea that we want here when we're designing a virtual processor is to create uh have our programs be able to run on one on on a single physical physical processor but have different programs be able to run as though they were the only program that was executing on that processor. So we want the programs to be written in a style where the programmer doesn't have to be aware of the other programs that are running on the machine and where the machine uh creates a sort of virtual processor for each one of these programs that's running. So that uh each program uh has its own sort of set of instructions that it's ex executes and those instructions appear to be independent of all the other programs that are running. So in order to create this illusion of a virtual processor, we're going to imple introduce a very simple concept. Um we're going to have each program run in what's known as a thread. Um and thread is really short for a thread of execution. And a thread is just uh a collection of all of the state that we need in order to keep track of what one single given program is doing at a particular point in time. So a thread is a collection of the instructions or the program that the module is running um as well as the state the current state of the program. In particular, it's the value of the registers on the processor. Um, including and of particular import for this lecture, the program counter and the stack pointer. Okay, so there's a bunch of registers on the processor, say you know your there's say 32 registers. Um, and it there also are these special registers. the program counter that keeps track of which instruction is currently being executed and the stack pointer which keeps track of uh where on the stack uh values are currently being pushed on pushed or popped from. Um so this is these are really the things that uh these things combined together with the stack are really the things that define one single thread. So um if you think so and the way to think about this is if you think about a program that's running you can really encapsulate almost everything about what that program is currently doing by the state of its by sort of uh the instructions that it has to execute the value of the registers that it is that that are currently set in the program and the state that's on the stack. Now programs may also have some sort of uh data that's stored in the global memory in the sort of say global variables or things that are stored on the heap that have been allocated via some memory allocation call. Um and so those things are a part of the program as well although I don't want to explicitly list them as being a part of a of a of a single thread because if two programs as we'll see two programs can share the same address space and if two programs are sharing the same address space then they're going to share those global variables the stuff that's stored on the heap of the program. So, um, think of a thread as the as these things, um, plus there's some additional, we'll call it a heap, uh, set of memory that maybe is shared between, uh, several different threads that are all running within the same address space. And I'll explain more about that as we go. Um, okay. So, as I said, now what we want is to create this illusion that each one of these threads has its own virtual processor upon which it's running. So, how are we going to accomplish that? So if you think about this for a second, um the way to accomplish this is simply to allow each one of these uh each thread to update these uh these various registers, push things onto the stack, and then to have some uh function which we can call which will save all of this current state off um for the current thread that's executing and then load the state in for another thread that might be executing and stop the current thread from executing and start the new one executing. So the idea is if you were to think about uh if you were to look at a a timeline of what the pro that the processor was doing um and if the processor is running two threads thread one and thread two you would see that uh during some period of time thread one would be running then the computer would switch over and thread two would start running and then again the computer would switch and thread one would start running. So we're going to multiplex the processor resource in this way. Okay, so we have one processor that can execute can be executing instructions. And at each point in time, that processor is going to be executing instructions from one of these two threads. And when we switch in these points in between threads, we're going to have to save off this state for the thread that was running and restore the state for the thread that is currently running. Okay, so that's a very high level picture of what we're going to be doing with threads. Um, and there's going to be a number of different ways, and that's what we're going to look at through this lecture as to how we can actually accomplish this switching, how we decide when to switch, uh, and what actually happens when this, uh, this switch takes place. Okay. So, um, we're going to look at several different methods. So, the first thing we're going to look at is an approach called cooperative scheduling or cooperative switching. So in a cooperative switching what happens is that each thread periodically decides that it's done processing and it's willing to let some other process run. Okay? So the thread says calls a routine that says I'm done please schedule another thread. So this cooperative approach is is simple and it's easy to think about. um in the sort of grand scheme of enforcing modularity of creating this illusion uh that each program really has its own computer uh that's running and where each program gets to run sort of no matter what any other program does. Cooperative scheduling has a bit of a problem because uh a if if we're doing cooperative scheduling then one process can just never call this function that says I give up time to the other processes running on the system. uh other one module may just never give up the processor and then uh we're in trouble because no other module ever gets to run. So instead what we're going to talk about the alternative to this is something we call preemptive scheduling. Um and in preemptive scheduling what happens is some part of the computer say the kernel periodically decides that it forces the currently running thread to give up the processor and starts a new thread running and we'll see how that works. Okay. Um, we're also we also I also want to draw a distinction between whether these threads are running in the same address space or in a different address space. Okay. So, uh we could for example have these two threads T1 and T2 um they might be running as a part of a single say application. So, for example, they might be um they they might be a part of a uh say for example a uh some computer game that we have running. So suppose we have a computer game like um let me just load up my computer here. Uh suppose we have a computer game like um I don't know pick your favorite computer game say uh Halo and we're running running this uh we're running this program uh we're running Halo and um Halo is going to consist of a um some set of threads that are responsible for running the ex running running this game. So we might have one main thread um which what it does when it runs is to simply uh update the it it simply uh waits for it it uh repeats in a loop over and over again uh wait for a little while check and see if there's any user input. Um, if there is any user input, update the state of the game and then say, for example, redart draw the display. And because Halo is a video game that somebody's staring at and looking at, it needs to update that display at some rate, say once every, you know, say 20 times a second in order to create the illusion of sort of natural animation in the game. So this weight step is going to wait say 20 20 uh, you know, a 20th of a second between every step. Okay, so this is this is might be one example of a thread, but um of course within Halo, there may be uh multiple other threads that are also running. So there may be a thread that's responsible for uh looking for input over the network, right? To see if there's additional data that's arrived from the user and from other users that are remote and updating the state of the game as other uh information comes in. And there may be a third thread that say for example is responsible for uh doing some cleanup work in the game like uh reclaiming memory after you know some monster that's running around in the game has died and we no longer need its state. Okay. Um so if we look at the state of this current th so if we look at just this say main thread within Halo as I said here we can encapsulate the state of this thread by a set of registers say R1 through Rn as well as a stack pointer and a program counter. Um and then there also will be a stack that represents the currently executing program. Um so for example this stack might if we just have entered into this procedure uh it might just have a return address which is sort of uh how we get how the address that we should jump to when we're done executing uh this this this Halo program here. Um and then finally we have a program counter that points to the sort of current place where we're executing this. So we might have started off we're just executing the first instruction here the init. Um okay so let's see how we can make this. So what so the the po so what we're going to look at now is this case where we have a bunch of threads say for example uh in Halo all running within the same address space. So they're all a part of the Halo program. They can all access the global variables of Halo. Um but they we want to have different threads to do sort of different operations that this program may need to take care of. So we want each of these threads to sort of have the illusion that it has its own processor. And then later we'll talk about a set of programs say that are running in different address spaces. and we'll talk about what's different about managing pro two program managing two threads each of which is running in a different address space. Um okay so the very simple idea that we're going to introduce uh in order to deal with in order to look at this situation where we have cooper we're going to start off by looking at cooperative scheduling in the same address space um we're going to introduce the notion of a uh program of a of a routine called yield. Okay. So yield is going to be the thing that the currently executing thread calls when it's ready to give up the the processor and let another thread run. So the thread is going to run for a while and then it's going to call yield and that's going to allow other threads to uh sort of do their execution. And this is cooperative because if a program doesn't call doesn't call yield then no other program will ever be allowed to run on the system. Um, so the basic idea is that when a program calls yield, what it's going to do is exactly what I described just a minute ago. So yield is going to save the state of the current thread. Um, and then it's going to schedule the next thread. So pick the next thread to run from all the available threads that are on the system and then it's going to dispatch the next thread. So it's going to in particular set up the state for the next thread so that it's ready to run and it's going to jump into the return address for that thread. Okay. So um we're going to look through I want to take you guys through a very simple example um of a sort of of a program that has multiple threads in it and we're going to have a simple simple threaduler. So the threadul is the thing that decides which thread to run next. This thread scheduler is going to keep um an array of size fixed size call it numbum threads that are all the threads that are currently running on the system. Um it's going to have an integer that is the next thread to run that that's going to tell us what the next thread to run is. And then for every one of our threads we're going to have a variable that we call me which is the ID of the currently executing thread. Okay, so this is local to the thread. Okay, so let's look at an example of how this might work with our uh with with this Halo thread that we're talking about here. Okay, so suppose we have a Halo thread and we'll call this the main thread of execution. And as I said, uh we want to have a couple of other threads that are also running on the system at the same time. So we might have a network thread and a cleanup thread. Um now suppose so in this case what we're going to say is that the yield procedure um is is going to is going to do these three steps and I made these steps a little bit more concrete so that we can actually think about what might be happening on this on the stack as these things are executing. So uh the yield procedure is going to um when it runs the first thing it's going to do is save the state. So to save the state, it simply uh stores in this table the stack pointer of the currently executing program uh the stack pointer of the currently executing thread. Uh and then what it's going to do is it's going to pick the next thread to run. So in this case picking the next thread to run this threaduler is doing something extremely simple. It's just cycling through all the available threads one after the scheduling them. Right? So it says next gets next plus one and then modulo the total number of threads that are in the system. Um so this is going to when we reach so suppose you know num threads is equal to uh five as soon as next plus one is equal to five then five modulo 5 is zero and we're going to wrap back around so we sort of start execute once we've executed the fourth thread we're going to wrap around and start executing thread number zero and then finally what it's going to do is it's going to resto restore the stack pointer uh excuse me this this table should be uh here I'll just change this for you right now um this should be table sub next uh I didn't want to do that. So we have this table with table. So we restore the stack pointer for the next thread that we want to run uh from the uh from the table of stack pointers that are available. And then what's going to happen is that when we exit out of this yield routine, we're going to load the return address from the stack pointer uh that we just have set up. So you'll see how that works again in a second. But the basic process then is just going to be as follows. So this only works on a single processor. And uh I'm not going to have time to go into too much detail about what happens in a multipprocessor, but the book talks carefully about why this doesn't work on a single processor machine. Um okay. So the basic process then is going to be as follows. So uh we've got our yield procedure. We have our three threads. Say we've numbered them one, two, and three as shown up here. Um so num threads is equal to three and say we start off uh with next equal to one. Um so what's going to happen is that the first thread is going to yield is going to at some point is going to call the yield routine and that what that's going to do is it's going to cause this yield to execute. We're going to increment next um and we're going to schedule the network thread here. Okay. And then the next network thread is going to run for a little while and at some point it's going to call yield and that's going to sort of cause the next thread to be scheduled. We're going to call cleanup. And then finally, we're going to call yield. Uh, and the third thread is going to call yield and call cause the first thread to run again. And this process is just going to repeat over and over and over again. Okay. So, um, okay. So what I want to do now is to look at actually more carefully at what's happening with the uh with the stack on these on how this how this scheduling process is actually working so we can understand a little bit better what's happening to the stack pointer and how these various yields are actually executed. So um let's look at the uh so this is going to be a example of the stack on these say two of these threads. Okay. So suppose we have um thread number one call this thread one and this is our halo thread. Okay. Um and this is the stack for halo. Um we also have thread number two which is uh our network thread. Okay. And this is also some stack associated with this thing. So these are we're just looking at the current state of the stack on these two things uh these two threads. Um and if you remember typically we represent stacks as growing down in memory. So these are the different addresses of the uh the the different entries in this stack. Um that represent the current execution what what's going on currently in the processor. Um so we'll say that thread one perhaps is it stack starts at address 108. Um and maybe thread 2's starts at address 208. Okay. So when we uh suppose we start up this system and when we start it up the stack pointer is currently pointing here at we look at the system and this the the uh when so we take a snapshot of the system at a given point in time. Suppose the stack pointer is currently at pointing at 104. The currently executing thread is this one. The the is thread one. Um and we have our remember our threads t our our thread table that captures the current thread number uh and the saved stack pointer for each one of these threads. So we've got thread number one, thread number two. Okay. So let's suppose we start looking at this system at this point in time where the stack pointer is pointing here. Um and if we look at the if we look at this program um suppose so so if we start off with the program that we initially had in order to understand what happens to the stack we need to actually look at uh when the stack gets manipulated. So if we're just looking at C code typically the CC code isn't going to have we're not going to see the the changes to the stack uh occurring within the CC code. So what I've done here is in yellow I've annotated this with the sort of operations that are going to be hap that the additional operations the assembly operations that are happening on the entry and exit to these procedures. Um so what happens just before we call the yield procedure is that uh the Halo thread will push the return address onto the stack. Okay. Um so if we if we start executing the yield procedure, Halo is going to push the return address onto the stack. Excuse me. Um and then it's going to jump into the yield procedure. So uh suppose we come onto here now if we look at what the return address is after we execute the yield procedure it's going to be instruction number five. So we're going to push that address onto the stack. Um because instruction number five is labeled here on the left side um is where we're going to return to after the yield. And then the yield is going to execute. And what's going to happen as the yield executes is it's going to uh change the stack pointer to be the stack pointer of the next thread. Right? So I have this typo here again. So be careful about that. Um, we're going to change the stack pointer to be the stack pointer of the next thread. And so what it when it executes this pop RA instruction that we see here, it's actually going to be popping the return address from the network thread that it scheduled next as opposed to the the return address from this Halo thread. Okay. So uh suppose that the stack pointer the saved stack pointer for the network thread was pointing here at 204. Um, so there would have been an entry 204 here when it uh and the saved the the return address that it's going to jump to is going to be here. So suppose the return address that it jumps to is 1,00. Okay. So if we look at the state of these two threads as they've been running, we saw thread one ran for a little while and then at in it called yield and the instruction following yield was instruction number five. Okay, so that was that was the address that we pushed on to uh the stack pointer. Now we switched over here to thread two. Um and last time we ran thread two, it called yield and its return address was 1,00. So there was this 1,00 here. Okay. So now when we uh schedule thread 2, what's going to happen is that uh we're going to read the uh so this is instruction 1000. We're going to start executing from 10,00 because we're going to execute this pop return address. So, we're going to pop the return address off the stack. Um, and we're going to start executing here at instruction 1000. Okay. So, you guys kind of see how how it is that we've switched now from one thread to the other by switching the stack pointer and restoring our return and grabbing our return address from the stack of thread two instead of from thread one. Okay. So now what's going to happen is this this thread two is going to start executing from this address. um and it's going to run for a little while and at some point later it's going to call yield again, right? Because it's run for a while and it's decided that it's time to yield. So suppose at uh instruction uh 1025 it calls y instruction 1024 it calls yield. So when it does that the same thing is going to happen. It's going to uh it's going to have run for a little while. So it stack is going to have grown but eventually it's going to push the return address onto the stack. say here 1,025 um and suppose this value of its stack pointer now is uh has grown down. So it's gone 208 204 it's run for a while pushed some things on the stack and you know maybe it's at the stack pointer is now at 148. So when it calls yield it's going to write into the stack pointer address in the thread table 148. Um and we're going to restore the stack pointer address from here which I forgot to show being written in but what I should have written in there was 104. So we're going to restore the stack address to 104. We're going to pop the next instruction to execute off of that stack five. And then we're going to keep executing. So we just switch back and forth in this way. Okay. So um okay. Okay. So what I want to do now is to uh so this is the the basic process now by whereby this yield uh instruction can be used to switch between the scheduling of these two procedures right um and this is sort of the the core of how it is. So we have these two threads of execution and they just sort of run through and they periodically call yield and that allows another thread to be written but to execute it but otherwise these two threads are essentially uh they've just been written in in this style where they don't actually have to know anything about the other threads that are running. um you know there could have been two other threads or 200 other threads running on the system at the same time and this approach that I've showed you would have caused all of those threads eventually to have been scheduled and to execute properly right um but as I as we said before uh the use of requiring these proced these functions to actually call yield periodically has sort of defeated the purpose of our enforcing modularity one of our goals of enforcing modularity which is to make it so that no one thread can interfere with the operation of the other thread or cause that other thread to crash, right? Because uh if the procedure never calls yield, then if a a function never call a module never calls yield, excuse me, the uh thread, you know, another thread will never be scheduled. And so that module will have the ability essentially to take over the whole computer, which is bad. So what we're going to look at now is how we go from this cooperative scheduling where procedures call where modules call yield to preemptive scheduling where modules are forced to yield the processor periodically. Okay, so this is the case where we have no explicit yield statements. All right. So, uh the idea here is it turns out it turns out to be very simple. So, we're in programs aren't going to have an explicit yield statement in them. But what we're going to do is we're going to have a special uh timer that runs periodically within say for example the kernel. So suppose the kernel has a timer that runs periodically that causes the causes the kernel uh to be sort of woken up and allowed to execute some code. Um, so this timer is going to be connected to what's called an interrupt. So we're going to introduce a timer interrupt. And almost all all processors essentially have some notion of a timer interrupt. And an interrupt is something that um when it fires, it causes the processor it causes the uh processor to run a special piece of code. Okay. So, um, basically this is going to be a some processor. Think of it if you like as some line on the processor. Okay, there's a wire that's coming off the processor. Um, and when this wire gets pulled high, when the timer goes off and fires, this line is going to be pulled high. Um, and when that happens, um, the microprocessor is going to notice that and is going to invoke a special function within the kernel. So uh this timer this this line is going to be uh checked by the microprocessor before it executes each instruction. Okay. And if the line is high, the timer is going to execute a uh the microprocessor is going to execute one of these special um gate functions. Okay, that's very much so we saw the notion of a gate function before that can be used to uh for a a procedure to execute to obtain entry into uh or for a module to obtain entry into the kernel. Essentially what's going to happen is that the when the timer interrupt f fires it's going to go execute one of these special gate functions as well and that's going to cause the kernel to then be uh in control of the processor. So remember when the gate function in when the gate function runs it uh causes the current it switches the user to user to kernel mode bit to kernel mode. It switches the page map address register to the kernel's page map so that the kernel is in control and it switches the stack pointer to the kernel saved stack pointer so that the kernel is in control of the system and can execute whatever code that it wants. So this is going to accomplish basically everything that we need right because if I can get if we can get the kernel in control of the process of the system now the kernel can do whatever it needs to do to uh for example schedule the next thread. So the way that that's going to work um is basically very simple. So when the kernel gets run uh it knows which thread is current it uh it knows which thread for example is currently running. Um and basically what it does is it just uh calls the appropriate yield function. It calls the yield function for the thread that is currently running forcing uh that thread to yield. So um kernel calls yield on current thread, right? Okay. So in order to do this, of course, the kernel needs to understand uh how the where where the current what uh it needs to needs to know how to get to the yield, needs to know how to capture the state for the currently running thread. But for the most part, that's pretty simple because the state is all encapsulated in the current values of the registers and the current value of the stack pointer. So the kernel is going to call yield on the currently executing thread and that's going to force that thread to go ahead and schedule the next to schedule to schedule another thread. So uh the module itself hasn't called yield but still the module has been forced to sort of give up its control of the processor. Um so this is simply when it calls yield it's just going to do what we did before which is uh save our state and schedule and run the next thread. Okay. Um so the only last little detail that we have to think about is um what if the colonel wants to schedule a thread that's running in a different address space. So if a colonel wants to schedule a thread that's running in a different address space well it has to do what we did last time we saw last time when we saw about how we switch address spaces. it has to change the value of the PM register uh so that the next address space gets swapped in and then it can go ahead and jump into the and jump into the appropriate location in the sort of newly scheduled address space. So um that brings us to the next topic of discussion. So what we've seen so far now we saw cooperative in the same address space and I introduced the notion of a preemptive scheduling. Um and what we want to look at now is sort of uh what it means to run multiple threads run threads in different address spaces. So uh typically when we talk about a program that's running on a computer or uh in 6033 we like to call programs running on computers processes when we talk about a process we mean a address space plus some collection of threads. So this is our sort of the the the real definition of what we mean by a process. Um and you know alternately you'll see processes called things like applications or programs but anytime you see a word like that what people typically mean is it's some address space some uh virt some virtual address space in which we resolve memory addresses um and then a collection of threads that are currently executing within that address space. um and where each of those threads includes the set of instructions and registers uh and stack that correspond to it. Okay. So um the kernel has explicit support for these processes. So in particular what the kernel provides are uh routines to create a process uh and destroy a process. Okay. And this these create and destroy methods are going to do uh sort of do all the the create method is going to do all the initialization that we need to do in order to create a new address space and to create at least one thread that is running within that address space. So we've sort of seen all the pieces of this but uh basically what it's going to do is it's going to uh allocate the address space in its table of in the table of all the address bases that it that it knows about. We saw that in the la the last time. Um and it's going to allocate a uh piece of physical memory that corresponds to that address space in particular. Uh the sort of so it's going to create allocate a piece of physical memory that corresponds to that address space. It's going to allocate one of these page maps that the uh page map the the PM register is going to point to uh when this thing is that when this thing is running. Okay. And now the other thing that it's going to do is to go ahead and load the code for this thing into memory and map it into the address space. So it's going to add a point. It's going to add the code for this currently running module into the address space. And then it's going to create a thread for this new process. It's going to add it to the table, the thread table. And then it's going to set up the value of the stack pointer and the program counter for this process. So that uh when the process starts running, it you sort of enter the process at some well- definfined entry point. Say, you know, the main co the main routine in that process. so that that so that the you know thread can start executing at whatever starting point it has. Okay. And now destroy is just going to basically do the opposite. It's going to get rid of all this state that we've created. So it's going to destroy the it's going to uh remove the address space and it's going to remove the thread from the table. Okay. and it may also uh reclaim any memory that's associated exclusively with this process. Um, okay. So, if we look at uh so if you look at a computer system at any one point in time, what you'll see is a collection of uh processes. So I've drawn these here as these big boxes. So we might have a process that corresponds to Halo and say we're also editing our code. So we have a process that corresponds to Emacs. Okay. And each one of these processes is going to have is going to have an address space associated with it. Um and then there are going to be some set of uh threads that are running in association with this process. So in the case of Halo, I'm going to draw these threads as these little squiggly lines. So in the case of Halo, we saw that well, you know, maybe it has three threads that are running within it, right? So these are three threads that all run within the same address space. Now, Emacs might have just one thread that's running in it, say, um, although that's probably not true. Emacs is horribly complicated and probably has many threads that are running within it. Um, and so we're going to have these sort of these two processes with these two collections of threads. So if you think about uh how the so if you think about the sort of modularity the enforcement of modularity that we have between these processes we can say some thing we can say some interesting things. So first of all we've enforced modularity we have hard enforced modularity between these two uh these two processes right because there's no way that the Halo process can uh muck with any of the memory that say the EMAC process has evalu has has executed um and if as long as we're using preemptive scheduling uh there's no way that the Halo process could completely uh can can completely maintain control of the processor. So the EMAC process is going to be allowed to run and its memory is going to be uh protected from the Halo process. Okay. Now within the Halo process, there's sort of a different story. So within the Halo process, these threads because they're all within the same address space can uh muck with each other's memory. Um so they're not isolated from each other in that way. And typically because these are all within one process um in that if we were to destroy that process in this step what the operating system would do is to destroy in addition to destroying the address space all of the running threads. So we say that these threads that are running within Halo um share fate. If one of them dies then or if one of these threads is uh fails then they're all going to if one of these threads fails or uh crashes or does something bad then they're essentially all going to crash or do something bad. If the operating system uh kills one it kills the process then all these threads are going to go away. Um so this is the basic picture of sort of what what's going on within within a computer system. I mean if you stare at this for a little bit you see that there's actually sort of a hierarchy of threads that are running on any one computer system at any one point in time. So uh we have these larger uh sort of processes that are running and then within these processes we have some set of threads that's also running right. Um and so there's a diagram that's sort of useful to help us to understand this hierarchy or layering of processes uh or threads on a on a computer system. I'm going to show that to you. Okay. So, if on our computer system, if we look at the lowest layer, we have this, we have our microprocessor down here. Okay. And this microprocessor um what we've seen is that the microprocessor has sort of uh two things that it can be doing. Either the microprocessor can be executing say some user program or the microprocessor can be interrupted and go execute one of these interrupt handler uh kinds the these interrupt handler functions. So uh these interrupts are going to do things like it's going to be this timer interrupt or when some special piece when some IO device say for example the disk finishes uh performing some IO operation like reading a block for memory then it's going to receive the processor receive an interrupt and the processor can do whatever it needs to do to service that piece of hardware so that uh the hardware can go and for example read the next block. So um in a sense you can think of the processor itself as having two sort of threads that are associated with it. One of them is an interrupt thread and one of them is the main thread. Now running on top of this. So this these these are sort of the sometimes you can think of these as being these these are threads that are really running within the kernel. But on top of these things there's this set of applications like Halo and Emacs and these are the kind of user programs that are all running on the system and there may be you know a whole bunch of these. It's not just two, but it's any number of threads that we can multiplex on top of this main thread. And then each one of these may in turn have subthreads that are running as a part of it. So if you think about uh this what what's going on in this computer in this system um you can see that at any one level these two threads don't these threads don't really need to know uh anything about the other threads that are running at that same level. So for example, these, you know, within Halo, these individual subthreads don't really know anything about what the other subthreads are doing. But it is the case that the threads at that the threads at a lower level need to know about the threads as they're running above them because the threads at the lower level implement this thread scheduling policy. Right? So it's the Halo program decides which of its sub subthreads to run next. So the Halo program in particular is so uh so the parent thread implements a uh scheduling a scheduling policy for all of its children threads. So Halo has some policy for deciding what thread to run next. The operating system has some the kernel has some policy for deciding which of these user level threads to run next. Um and the parent thread also provides some uh switching mechanism. So we studied two switching mechanisms. Uh today we looked at this notion of having this uh sort of uh this this cooperative switching where process where where threads call yield in order to allow the next thread to run. And we looked at this notion of uh preemptive scheduling that allows uh that forces the next thread in the in the schedule to run. So if you look at computer systems in fact it's a fairly common organization to see that there's preemptive scheduling at the kernel level that causes different user level applications to run. But that within a user level within a user a particular user program that program may use cooperative scheduling. So the individual threads of Halo may hand off control to the next thread only when they want to. And this sort of makes sense because if I'm a developer of a program, you know, I may very well trust that, you know, the other threads that I have running in the program at the same time, you know, I know when I want them to run. So, um, we can talk about sort of different switching mechanisms at different levels of this hierarchy. Okay. So uh what we've seen up to this point uh is this the sort of basic mechanism that we have for setting up a set of threads that are running on a computer system. And what we uh what we haven't really talked at all about is how if we we can actually share information between these threads or coordinate access to some shared resource between these threads. So what I want to do with the rest of the time today is to talk about this notion of coordinating access between threads. Um and we're going to talk about this in the context of a slightly different example. So let's suppose that I am building a web server and I decide that I want to structure my web server as follows. I want to have some network thread and I want to have some thread that services disk requests. Okay, so the network thread is going to do things like accept incoming connections from the clients uh and process those connections um parse the HTTP requests and generate the HTML results that we send back to users. And the disk request thread is going to be in charge of doing these expensive operations where it goes out to disk and reads in some data that it may need to assemble uh these HTML pages that we generate. So um if all this doesn't so we're you're next uh for next restation you're going to read about a system called flash which is a multi-threaded web server. Um and so this should be a little taste of what you're going to see uh for tomorrow. So these two threads are likely to want to communicate with each other through some data structure, some queue of requests. Okay. So or queue queue of outstanding information. So uh suppose that what we're looking at in fact in in particular is a queue of disk blocks that are being sent from this is a disk request thread from the disk request thread out to the network thread. So whenever a whenever the disk finishes reading a block, it adds it incues a value into this uh into the network thread so that the network thread can then later pull that value off and deliver it uh out to the user. So in this case, these are two threads that are both running within the same address space within the same web server. So they both have direct access to this Q data structure. They can both read and write to it um at the same time. this Q data structure. Think of it as a global variable that's in the memory of the that's in the ad that's mapped into the address space and both threads can access it. So let's look at what happens uh when these two threads let's look at some pseudo code that shows what might be happening inside of these two threads. So um suppose within uh this this first this first thread here this network thread um we have a loop that says while true uh do the following dq a request call it m from the thread um and then process sorry dqa uh dq cue a a disk block that's in the queue and then go ahead and process that disc q that go ahead and process that. And now within the uh within the disk request thread, we also have a while loop that just loops forever. Um and what this does is it gets the next disk block to send however it does that goes off and reads the block from disk. uh and then infusees that block onto the key. Okay. Uh so if you like you can think of this as um simply you know the the disk request thread is going to is going to stick some blocks into here and then the network thread is going to sort of pull those pull those blocks off of the top of the queue. So if you think about uh this process running um there's kind of a problem with the way that I've written this right which is that uh suppose that the disk request thread uh that that this disk request thread runs much faster than the network thread. Suppose that for every you know one network one one uh one block that the network thread is able to pull off and process the disk thread can incue two blocks. Okay. Okay, so if you think about this for a while, if you run the system for a long time, eventually uh you're going to have incued a huge amount of stuff. And typically the way cues are implemented is they're sort of some fixed size. You don't want them to be able to grow to fill the whole memory of the processor. So you limit them to some particular fixed size. And eventually we're going to have this problem that the queue is going to fill up. It's going to overflow and we're going to have a disk block that we don't have anything we could do with. We we don't know what to do with it, right? So okay, you say that's easy. There's an easy way to fix this. Why don't we just um you know wait until there's some uh extra space here. So we'll test so we'll introduce a while uh full statement here that just sort of spins sits in a spin loop and waits until uh this full condition is not true. Okay, so as soon as the full condition is not true, we can go ahead and encue the next thing on the queue. And similarly, we're going to need to do something over here on the process side because we can't really dq a message if the queue is empty. So if the processing thread is running faster than the in the inquing thread, we're going to be in trouble. So uh we're going to also need to introduce a while loop here that says something like while empty. Okay. So um so this is fine. this uh it seems like it fixes our problem. But there's a little bit of a limitation to this approach which is that uh now what you see is suppose these two threads are running and they're being sort of scheduled in round robin. They're being scheduled one after the other. Now this thread runs and when it runs suppose that the queue is empty. Suppose the producer hasn't put anything on the queue yet. Now when this guy runs it's going to sit here and for the whole time that it's scheduled um it's just going to check this while loop and see if the thing is empty over and over and over and over and over again. Right? So that's a whole lot of wasted time that the processor could and should have been doing something else useful like perhaps letting the producer run so that it could incuse some data. So um in order to do this so in order to fix this problem we introduced this notion of sequence coordination operators. Um, and what sequence coordination operators do is they allow an uh if they they allow a thread to uh declare that it wants to wait until some condition is true and they allow other threads to signal that that condition has now been become true and uh sort of allow threads that are waiting for that condition to become true to run. So we have these two operations. Wait um on some variable until some condition is true um and signal on that variable. Okay. So um we're basically out of time now. So what I want to do is I'll come back and I'll finish going through this example uh for the next time. But what you should do is think about suppose you had these sequence coordination operators. How could we sort of modify these two while loops that we have for these two operators in order to be able to take advantage of the fact that uh in order to be able to make this so we don't sit in this spin loop forever and execute. So um that's it. Today we saw how to get these multiple processes to run on one computer. Um and next time we'll talk about sort of um making computer programs run more efficiently, getting good performance out of our out of this sort of architecture we've sketched.