The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a creative common license. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. So I'll start with this review board which shows the conservation law scalar one unknown one dimension x one one one space variable and the flux function is f of u that's the differential form we have seen that at some points that differential form produces a discontinuous to a solution a discontinuity. In that case, we are better off with the integrated integral form. So I just integrate that one from a point x left to a point x right from a to b and that gives me I have then the integral. So if u was density for example the integral of density will be the mass. this that's that's the the quantity that I'm seeing here. So this is the rate of change of mass in the interval comes from flux going out minus flux coming in. So that's the conservation law in its pure statement. Okay. And we learned that the solution for this while we're looking at the differential problem we can follow these characteristics from the initial time zero. So at time zero we look at a point x and the value at that point just travels is is sort of safely carried up the characteristic line which is that equals x knot. And the problem arose when characteristics either collided into each other or separated. So th this those are the two difficulties that we and and they have different uh resolutions. So this is what we met in the traffic example when a light goes red. When a light goes red, cars are coming up to the light. In front of the light, the density is low. They're not the and the the cars have to break quickly. So something happens. That's a question mark there. What do you do when characteristics collide? When when the value here cannot be both the initial value that's coming up that characteristic and the initial value that's coming up there because they're different. So we need a rule for what to do there and we also need a rule for what to do in a case of an empty space when no characteristics this here are two characteristics are hitting here none are touching there characteristics are separating in this case and the question is what solution do you fill in the middle when you haven't got a characteristic it's not coming from uh the start okay what solution to choose let me take the the answers will be different and let me take the first one the collision question first. So what will happen is uh a shock will form a shock there'll be a shock line so that these characteristics carry information into the shock by the way that's a big deal up until they hit the shock and these characteristics carry their information and across the shock we have different values U on the left and U on the right. So that's that's one possible form of the solution because that will solve the equation in this region where the characteristics from the right are are are following the formula. It will solve it from the left. But so everything comes down to the jump condition at the shock. What's the shock speed? What where does this shock go? It's it's it's to find that shock in the xt plane that I have to use this uh integral form. I I must use the integral form because I've got a discontinuity and the diff the differential form just doesn't make sense. Okay, so this I wrote down the key idea here or the the conclusion but not the reasoning. I'm looking for this dump condition at the shock which is going to locate the shock and the key quantity that I have to find is the shock speed which will tell me where that shock is going how it how it's moving up in time. So time is going that way x is going this way in this picture. So this is has a has a speed s of t. Okay. And here's the conclusion there. There's the jump condition. So what does it mean? This this notation this bracket notation is the jump. So it's the the shock equation is beautiful. It says that s the shock speed times the jump in u is the jump in f of u. And let me take this example that is sort of the burger burgers equation example. So this is the example that comes from burgers equation. That's the example where the flux is this nice parabolic function u ^2 over two. Then the change in flux, the jump in the flux function is u right 2 minus u left^ squar over 2 and I divide by the jump in u which is u right minus u left and that cancels beautifully and leaves me with the 1/2 of u right plus u left. It tells me that the shock speed is exactly halfway between. It's exactly the average in this burger's example of the characteristic speed from the right and the characteristic speed from the left. And notice it's in between. That's that's crucial. That that tells us that this figure is good. It tells us that characteristics are entering the shock from both sides. Characteristic lines are entering the shock. the shock is somehow in in this sort of nonlinear case it's somehow kind of uh cutting out bits of the solutions reducing the energy reducing the entropy reducing the total variation as we'll see in a minute okay so that's the the answer here and I guess I have to justify where did this come from well it came from this this uh integral form suppose Suppose you suppose I integrate from a little bit to the left of the shock to a little bit to the right of the shock. Of course, that's where I want to integrate in order to use in order to capture the shock. Okay. So, if I just take that equation and write it over here and I'll imagine because I'm not going to be X left and X right are going to be pretty near the shock. U up to the shock will pretty much have a constant value U left. So approximately that is uh the shock position. Let me let me say the shock is at is at X capital X is the position of the shock. So I have X - X left times U on the left of the shock. I'm doing that integral. Oh, I need d by dt of all this. So d by dt I'm writing the it's d by dt of the integral of ud dx. Let me just put here what I'm computing. I'm computing that from x left to x right. Okay. Well, I'm going up to x up to capital x where the shock is and then onward. So here I went up to x using the value u left and now will be the onward part which will be x right minus x the half of the interval that's on the right of the shock times u right and then uh copying this term is exactly our jump in f of u plus The jump in f of u is zero. You can those words total variation are a reminder to myself for what comes next. Okay. So is that okay for uh that will be approximately zero because u wasn't exactly constant on the left and right. It didn't stay at the value ul, but we're squeezing the interval down where it's essentially constant. Okay, so now just look and see what we've got. dxdt is the shock speed. So that's s multiplying ul and here I have and the derivative of that is zero. The derivative the derivative of xr is zero. Here I have a minus. So it's minus ur right d x dt * that number is plus the jump in f of u left to right is zero. And that's that's our equation. This if I put this on the opposite side it becomes you right minus u left. Shall I do that? So I'll keep this on this side. Got a good sign, but I'll move this onto the other side. So it will be the shock speed dx d capital xdt* urus ul, which is the jump in u. Okay, so that's great. We now have a way to deal with shocks that collide. Okay. So that was the derivation of this uh jump condition which was first known first had a name two authors ranking hugono in gas dynamics but then it was seen as the right condition in all conservation laws. Okay. And now I'm ready to comment on this second issue. What do you do when characteristics separate? Well, let me say what you don't do. You could, without wrecking the equation, you could try to put a shock in there and give this the value U on the left. Even though a characteristic isn't telling us what's going on in this space or this one, you could try to put a shock in there. You could maybe satisfy the jump condition if you put the right shock in, but the characteristics would be coming out and that's wrong. That and it's called the entropy condition which says that this can't happen that the derivative of entropy has a certain sign and it rules this out. it rules out this possibility of characteristics emerging from the shock and we need a totally different solution and it turns out to be a fan in there. So we put in a fan of characteristics coming from here and that gives a solution that actually will depend on x over t. The rate this this solution will be uh uh a simple a simple uh ratio x over t enters that. Okay. So uh and then that in other words that gives us a smooth solution and I guess thinking about the traffic example that's exactly what happens. So this is the shock part. Now for the fan part what happens when we have a bunch of cars sitting there ready to go. Uh the light goes green. The first cars start moving. cars behind them see the car in front moving. They start moving and the the so the initial profile the initial profile would be in this case for cars would be uh velocity density high density and then zero density. So this would be max this is maximum density sitting at the light and zero density in front of the light and then the light goes green now. And what happens? Well, as we all know those first cars pull ahead and the profile is these these cars haven't yet started to move. These have started to move and there's a profile there and then uh zero density. So this represents the first car, the lead car. In front of that car is zero density and that's the fan. That's the x overt um expression. Okay. So a simple linear expression which will flatten out as time goes on. These cars will be going faster and faster and then eventually uh up to full speed. Okay. So that's the fan and uh then um maybe now is my chance to speak about this concept of the variation in a function. the the the the idea will be now how do we get the finite difference method to do this automatically? Well, okay. One way to do it is put in a little viscosity. Uh this this rule this the the rule that picks out this shock in the one case of colliding characteristics and this fan in the case of uh this fan in the case of separating characteristics. Uh, one way to get to that those two solutions would be to put in a a little bit of viscosity and then let epsilon go to zero and the result would be these two solutions. And in a way that's what finite differences is is going to do. finite difference or finite volume is going to be a a numerical viscosity and the epsilon in the in the burgers equation would become a delta t or a delta x in the finite in the in the numerical method in the finite difference equation. Okay. So and then what's the concept? So we have to find finite differences and we want those. So now the point is finite differences there's going to be there will be sort of takes more care. We can't just uh create something that's consistent in the smooth case. Up to now we've just had no hesitation. We replaced derivatives by differences without too many worries really and that was fine as long as the solution smooth. But now if we're going to replace difference derivatives by differences, we have to do it in such a way that this entropy condition this this these solutions emerge automatically and in a in really in a way that the our our finite difference or finite volume method should somehow conserve mass the same way the true equation does. Okay, so those are two different points. First point is this question of total variation. What what's the total variation in a function? Well, it's let me draw a function. The total variation is well let me see total variation in a function u is going to be by definition the integral of the absolute value of du dx. Okay. Now we have to understand this this concept. It's a it's a it's beautiful that the um that the analysis has led to uh quantity as simple as that to as as a guide. So when we create um finite difference methods we will ask are they total variation diminishing. So we so TVD will be total variation diminishing methods methods where this quantity does not increase in time. Okay. And we let let me just understand this quantity first. The absolute value is crucial. If the absolute value was not there, then I would just have the integral of the derivative. So it would be u at that point minus u at that. But here I'm taking absolute values. So for a while the derivative is positive up to there. So the integral gives me this value minus this. Then in this region the derivative is negative but I'm taking absolute value. Do you see that it will that integral will split into four separate integrals? The total variation will be this difference plus this difference plus this plus this. I'll have four in this example have four positive contributions to the variation. And uh and that's the key quantity there. And and what a shock will do. Can I maybe mention in this figure what a shock does is can do would be to somehow cut out part of the variation. We when you when a shock occurs it might happen that these things are going into the shock. These are going in from that side and the the shock kind of jumps from this value u left to this value u right following the shock condition when it when it emerges and this additional variation is wiped out. You you see that the variation for this shock for the solution that contains a shock is still this part is still there. But this part is all downhill. So it's just this. It's that it's that minus that and the the middle two parts have been cut out. Okay. So that's the total variation in a function. Let let me just uh take the most important example that's not total variation diminishing which is lax wendruff the one even in the linear case the one experiment we've done with that profile where you you remember we had a wall of water And the exact solution brought the wall to the left with velocity C with speed C. But Lax Wendro, which did quite well staying near the the discontinuity, near the jump, had uh a little oscillation behind. That was essentially our our one objection to Lax Wendroof was that oscillation showing up. And so that's telling us that the variation see the variation in the true solution is just that step. The variation in the lax wendro answer is this bigger step plus this one plus this one plus this larger than one. So roughly um the match is that monotone methods so so here's here's the general picture. We can get monotone or I'll say positive coeffic all positive coefficients and those can those will be total variation diminishing great the why don't I draw recall a monotone example was lax fried or upwind upwind will be our model so let me draw the upwind one the upwind one was didn't increase the variation. It stayed at one. We did we had no oscillations but it was low accuracy. So first order we can't uh do better than first order accuracy. the order of accuracy I'm measuring in the smooth part of the solution because that's where I can take Taylor series and match terms and see which is the first one that doesn't match and lax lax fried's and upwind was first order then our problem is that that if I have some uh uh if I allow a negative coefficient then variation increases oscillations will will come in but I can get the accuracy up to second order or higher and less wendro is example the the key example there that I'll continue with. Okay. So that's that's the idea of total variation. It it it just gives us a quantity to uh to work with uh when we see oscillations. Okay. And of course we I'm interested in oscillations. So this is this is a linear case with a discontinuity. I don't think it's quite fair to call it a shock. At least the shocks that we meet in the conservation laws in the nonlinear problems, they're created the ones we saw here are created for nonlinear reasons. um colliding characteristics where whereas the linear case has characteristics all parallel. Okay. So here here we're we're into lecture we're really into the second lecture into the into the scientific computing part of our problem. So that's the analysis part the PD part. Now comes the the uh experience of quite a lot of people working hard to identify a way to get second order accuracy where it's smooth and monotonicity or something like it where it where where the shocks are. So that that's essentially the goal is our our method is going to turn out to be nonlinear. It's going to have some it'll be called a flux limiter. The the key ex the key quantity will be the flux. And for a smooth function when you you right and you left are very close the flux is small we don't have a problem but at a shock where there's a significant jump in u and especially in f of u the uh the flux limiter is going to come in into discrete method. Okay. So I I'll just let me begin discrete methods with a new word finite volumes and with a new interpretation of capital U. So the discrete value capital U Jn which we've up to now we've been thinking of as that's an approximation to the true solution at J delta X and delta T. Now because we're dealing with discontinuities, we better integrate. We integrate over a delta X interval. we we take the average over a little delta x interval instead of hitting just a point. So the delta x interval from j minus a half to j plus a half we take the average of u at the time n delta t and uh that's what finite volume analysts think of as capital u the the discrete approximation. Okay, that the appropriateness of that is in the integral form of the conservation law. So the integral form of the conservation law leads us to this um to that natural discretization d by dt of u of the average. You're keeping your mind your eye on the integral form of the conservation law. I'll just come back to it again. The derivative of the mass the the integral of u. So in the discrete case the difference of capital u plus the integrated term of flux at one end of the interval minus a flux at the other end. Notice that we are getting for the flux half. So the flux a staggered grid is uh is presenting itself naturally and so that fj plus a half the fluxes which is the the critical thing is on the j plus a half grid. Okay. All right. Now this could be exactly defined as the flux at that grid point capital u ^2 over two in the burger equation at that grid point. That would give us uh totally straightforward first order numerical method. first order. I see first order here in time and it might be better than that in space because in some way that's centered. Okay. But if we want higher accuracy, if we want to if we want to include lax wendruff for example that then includes several values of u we go to a more general flux function which so the whole the whole uh job here is create a smart flux function. So a flux function is a is depends not only on u in the center uj at time n. This is all at time n. It it can also depend on values to the left of it and values to the right of it. It may use those values. It may not. But we allow that that possibility then that the fluxes. So this is the numerical method that you aim for is to choose a flux function and of course it should be this should be consistent with the original problem and that's a simply says that if all the U's were the same that you would that the numerical flux function would give you the flux function in the given equation. Okay. Okay. So that this is our general pattern and now the question is really the maybe the first step is write uh I I would like to write upwind and lax wand I'd like to find their flux functions. I I guess I'm saying that when when we look at equation in this uh in this format we can take methods that we have already used and see okay in the even in the linear case the one-way wave equation what are we picking for the flux functions okay now the one distinction is the one-way wave equation we had a constant and upwind for example went in the direction decided by that speed C. If the speed reverse sign so that the waves were going the other way, the wind is coming the other way. The upwind direction is the other way. So, uh our method would change. So, we'll see. Uh let me use let me just write down the flux function that turns out to come for um upwind and then for lax wind. Okay. So for upwind the flux turns out to be F turns out to be a half of because it's at this this is FJ plus a half really this is it's at the center point the flux function will be I'll put in the a delta t sorry a / 2 u j + 1 + u j. Now plus or rather minus actually comes uh an absolute value of a / 2 times u j + 1 minus u.j. If we're patient, we can track down the two cases a positive and a negative and recognize that this is the that this form uh switches direction correctly on the uh difference method. So it it keeps us upwind. In other words, if the wind changes direction, our flux changes appropriately to to follow that direction. Okay, so that's an okay flux function. It's a monotone one and uh it's first order. Okay, now let me put in lax wendruff. What would lax wendruff would be? would be the same the same upwind flux if I call that up for upwind and then a correction a lex wind correction term that gets the uh second order accuracy. Okay. And that turns out to be uh there it turns out that I I multiply this this term by that ratio r by the absolute value of r. So it turns out that it's the lax wendro thing to get that extra accuracy you might remember had an extra delta t over delta x and it's so it's this same thing times a over two well it'll be in the nonlinear case it'll be f of uj + one f f at uj + 1 minus f at uj J. Okay. Next time I'll uh come back to this point and uh pin down this more carefully. I just what I want all I want to do in completing today is in introduce this idea of a flux limiter. So what what people say when they look at Lex Wendro is that this term that's been added on is fine in the case of a smooth solution. But in the case of a jump like our picture here, that term is giving a v is increasing variation. It's an anti- diffusion term. Instead of smoothing things out the way f upwind does, that extra term has the effect of uh increasing the jump. it's anti- diffusive and therefore when it's uh when it's a significant term the flux limiter cuts back on it. So we'll get uh the result will be a numerical method which is not linear anymore. Even if we apply it to a linear problem, the result won't be strictly linear and it will produce a profile that is doesn't have that oscillation. So it it has what we want. It's it stays it stay it gives us good answers when the solution is smooth. It stays near the shock the way Lax Wendruff does, but it doesn't oscillate. Okay. So what's the flux limiter? The flux limiter is I multiply in here by some function the limiter function f R plus FJ + one and I multiply in here by VJ in other words there's a extra factor this flux limiting factor and the so the the question is how how to construct that what what formula do we use for the flux limiter so The flux limiter after a lot of experiments is is chosen to depend on the so we want it to be one. So what do we want? We want it to be one or close to one uh at smooth part and we want it to be uh greater than one at uh at a discontinuity. Okay. So our question is how do you identify that discontinuity? Well, uh the convenient way has turned out to be look at the ratio look look at differences look at the ratio of so so what comes in here will be the ratio r say j plus a half that'll be the ratio of u say j + 2 - u j + 1 to u J + 1 - U J all at time N. That ratio tells us that ratio is close to one. If so, so so the ratio R is close to one for and our function F of R. then to we want our function f when the ratio is one to give the value one. So if I try to draw a graph of the let me draw a graph of the uh of of people's flux flux functions of fe of the f of r. Okay. So here's a graph of f of r. Let me put first on the graph I'll put up wind on lax wendruff without anything. So lax wendruff would take so lax fee lax wendruff is identically one. This is the ratio r and this is fee. So lax wendro before fixing just had had no flux limiter function in it was just just had one and actually the if I can keep the same formula fe uh upwind would just be zero then it'll turn out that let me let me draw these ratio there is a region here and here where the flux limiter is doing the right thing. So in that region it's uh it's acting the right way. It's it's limiting the anti-iffusive flux. It's controlling the variation. It's controlling the oscillations. So various people have chosen have proposed uh let's see no I haven't got this right I think this let's see I think it's cuz I because I know that part is wrong for lax wandrop so maybe it's there well no I I've forgotten why sorry that I'm not oh yeah I' I've lost this because I know that the um that one possibility is this as the flux limiter one possibility would be this one and then there's another possibility that is okay that that goes through here okay I'm not uh let me stop for today at this uh with this idea of a limiter and you see that it's uh it's a task to to fix the method to do the right thing at smooth parts and the right and and also the right thing at discontinuities. Okay, I'll pick up on that next time. Thanks.