Hi everyone. So today I'm actually just going to tell you about some of my research um which is about deep learning. And again you can like take everything I you know like you don't have to fully trust me in this lecture and maybe you should be skeptical. Um, okay. So, the idea that I want to talk about is is the idea of um the way that we build neural networks is kind of like a Lego set where we have all these little pieces, all these building blocks. Then we piece them together and we can build a transformer for example, but we could take those pieces and we could build something else. there's definitely this like modular structure. Um, so if that's kind of how we build neural networks, why don't we also build our theoretical understanding of them in in exactly the same way? Um, and arguably like if you want to have a theoretical understanding of deep learning that really applies to any neural network that you actually find in the wild, you sort of you better build the theory in the same way that you build the neural network. Otherwise, how can it possibly hope to describe actual neural networks that you find out in the wild? Um, so what does what does that mean to build the theory in the same way as you build the neural network? so the idea is like if you think about like an individual piece of Lego, like imagine if you had like a full theoretical characterization of of that single object, which is maybe reasonable because it's kind of a simple it's a simple little piece. Then then if we think about what are the operations that we have for like combining little pieces of Lego to build build more complicated structures and like the the two that we're going to think about is like what we call a series combination or like putting one on top of the other um or a parallel combination which is like putting them side by side. And then then we should ask what properties of an individual Lego piece do we actually care about or of an individual layer in a neural network what do we care about? Um so a layer in a neural network has an input uh it has weights and an output. And the yeah the question that we're going to going to ask is how the thing that we're really going to care about is how sensitive is the output of the layer in this case to to both changing the input. So you think about adding a pertabbation to the input or what if we perturb the weights. The question is um how much does the output change and and think that the out the output the change in output gets one gets contributions both from the change in the inputs and the change in the weights and potentially the interactions of those two things. And what I want to argue is that first of all, no one understands this. It's like a really basic question about neural networks that you know, no one no one teaches you about it. No one understands it. Um, but it's a really important question, but like for a variety of different reasons, but one of them is optimization because if you think about it, training a neural network involves changing the weights and changing the weights at all the different layers. Um and another reason you should care about this question is like things like robustness. People talk about adversarial examples where you change the input to the network and the output changes like dramatically. So it's another question of understanding the sensitivity of the network. Um and so the way that like the high level way that I want to think about this question is let's say that we can characterize that information for like an individual piece of the network. Um can we extend this understanding to combinations. So if we if if we put the the bricks or we put the layers in into a series combination that's a little more complicated because now there's two you know each of each piece has its own weight space. If we combine them we're somehow combining the weight space. Um and similarly for you know putting them in parallel um we get an object with a combined weight space and now there's kind of like two think of this as duplicating the input sending it to both to both of the pieces and then we get two outputs now. Um and if you think about it somehow the the series combination is somehow a bit more coupled than the parallel combination but we still got to think about both of these things. And then if we can really do this, if we can really understand um the properties of individual pieces and then how those properties get transformed through combinations, then we can really think of, you know, a deep learning library, something like PyTorch or Jacks. You should really think of it like a Lego set. um where you've got all these layers and each layer should have its own like theoretical description and then we should have like a system of rules for like if you combine layers the new object that you get has these properties. Um and then once you've got those things you should be able to build whatever you want. Like you can go and take this library and you know build whatever fanciful creation you like. um and that should be allowed and you should have a theoretical understanding of that thing sort of automatically. Um so that's kind of how we're thinking about deep learning. Um and there's actually a practical payoff already in in in certain axes. So I just want to like tell you a little bit about that because otherwise you wouldn't know whether whether or not you should bother listening. But the so what I want to claim is that if you adopt this perspective, it provides an easy way to fix these scaling issues that people have. So um we talked a bit about this in in one of the earlier lectures in the class, but you have these issues where you sort of scale the width of building blocks in the network and the whole optimization landscape kind of drifts. Um even though the performance is getting better, the sort of the the the minimum and the optimization landscape is like shifting um to a different optimal learning rate. Um and then actually people have recently taken some of these ideas and packaged them with some other ideas but got much faster training. Um so this is also relates to the homework problem about the uh steepest descent algorithms but this is all like in the last couple months but um this is showing a comparison of training speed and the baseline is is llm.c C which is like Andre Kopathy's like extremely high performance like C implementation but with some of these ideas about steepest descent algorithms based on norms and kind of spectral descent type things they actually got like way faster training. So this is like a huge wall clock speed up in in training by integrating some of these ideas. So this is just to give you a sense that actually maybe some of this stuff matters. Um, so okay. So far I've I've tried to like put across this I Oh yeah, go ahead. >> Question. >> In this [clears throat] you show that much faster than the other one. Do they know like why it's so much faster or just they found that this is faster but not really sure like why. >> Uh part partly understand why. Yeah, we partly understand why. Like basically the difference between the the the faster curves are using this spectral descent algorithm which uses steepest descent under the spectral norm which was in the homework problem. And if you believe that the geometry of an individual linear layer is somehow described by the spectral norm then that would explain why. So it's it's just integrating the idea. Um but we we'll go a little more into things but I first want to zoom out and so we talked about optimization theory early in in the class but I want to try to connect optimization theory to this idea of building neural networks like a like a Lego set. so if you remember let's say that we have our loss function which is like this L symbol and we've got an n dimensional parameter space and then the loss function maps a set of parameters to a real number and and let's say that we can tailor expand the loss. Um so if you remember there's like the first order term and then there's the the hessen term uh and then there's like higher order terms in the two expansion and if you remember what we said is what if we could come up with a norm and like a sharpness parameter lambda such that we can kind of upper bound at least we can upper bound that second order piece in the tailor expansion using this norm. so yeah we were saying what if we could do this what would it mean and in particular can we find a norm and a sharpness parameter such that this is a really tight upper bound that would also be really great because then we can actually think of using this bound as an actual description of the loss function. Um well if we could do that what we said and what we spent time on the homework thinking about is um this thing of called steepest descent optimization algorithms using particular norms. So we can think about um picking a update step to sort of minimize this the linearization of the loss plus the penalty term that involves the norm. And then we can think you know we can think about if I pick this norm I get this optimization algorithm. If I pick this other norm, I get this other optimization algorithm. Um, so how how should we actually produce such a norm? Like what is a good norm for a neural network? Why would we favor one norm over a different norm? I think that's like an important question. Um, so that's what we're going to try to think about over the next few slides. Um and just as a remember that so we're trying to produce a norm and a sharpness parameter such that the second order piece in the tailor expansion of our loss function is upper bounded by that by that object in the red box. Uh so how are we going to think about this? Well first of all remember that in deep learning we have a what's called a composite loss function. So the total loss is the error measure composed with the neural network. So the the error measure is L and the neural network is F. So it's a composite structure. And then also remember that we have something called the Gaus Newton decomposition. So whenever you have a composite loss function um where both parts of it are suitably differentiable. Um we we can decompose the second order term in the loss function into two pieces. So the first one involves the curvature of the neural network and the second piece involves the curvature of the error measure. So that's step one is just like because we have a composite we have the Gaus Newton decomposition. So step two is now let's suppose that we know a really good norm on the output of the network and maybe that's reasonable because the output of the network is often something it's a simple thing like a vector like either the network tends to output a vector or it outputs a real number. So we can usually come up with like a good norm. >> Sorry. What would it mean for a norm to be like bad in this instance? [clears throat] Uh, that's a good question. Um, well, at least at least if you just have the output of the network and it's a vector with the kind of there's no obvious extra structure on that thing other than as a vector, there's only a few norms you would really think of like LP norms basically. But if you have a more complicated object like a full neural network, there's a whole zoo of norms that you might think of. So it's it's at least you know like maybe you give the output the infinity norm the L2 norm the RMS norm the L1 norm like you there's not many other obvious choices um okay so that's kind of that's what I mean and again I may be wrong about these things so be a little skeptical because this is just like the way that uh yeah that we've started thinking about it um so the point is that if we have a norm on the output, we can you take the Gaus Newton decomposition and then we can actually bound the we can bound the two terms. Um and the the reason that we can do that is essentially because you can you can sort of read the term in orange as being a dotproduct between the curvature of the model and the linearization of the error measure and then you can apply the Koshy Schwartz inequality to that term. Um so the the norm on the error on the derivative of the error measure is actually a dual norm corresponding to the the dual norm of the norm on the network outputs. And similarly you can think about the the purple term as being like a vector times a matrix times a vector and there's like an operator norm upper bound on that thing. So basically anyway long story short uh you can bound these terms if you have a norm on a network output. Um okay so that's step two is like just observing that you can upperband the terms in the gas need decomposition. So like no approximations just just an upper band. Um so step three is just restating where we got up to. We've upper bounded the curves in the Gaussian decomposition and then we can now actually reduce. Remember our original problem was finding um this red this red box finding this upper bound on the second order piece of the loss function. But we've actually like reduced our problem because now if we can upper bound like the first term in orange um with a norm using a norm on the weights. So if we can produce a norm on the weights which upper bounds that first orange term and um if we can produce a norm on the weight space to upper bound this last term in in kind of purple um that if if we can do that that will you can plug those into the upper bound on the gausian decomposition it will give us an upper bound on the curvature of the overall loss function. So we kind of reduced the problem which we didn't really know how to solve now into at least a different problem. And then the question is can we can we solve that other problem and then I've just written beneath these two expressions that the first one is asking that the network is lit smooth in in its weights and the second one is asking that the network is just lit continuous in its weights. Um I'll just like pause briefly. So it's just to say that we've we started out with a problem about the overall loss function. We upper bounded this thing called the Gaussian decomposition and then we related the terms in that to properties of the network. Um I have a like more this is supposed to be a more pictorial or somehow visual description of what's going on. Um but so we we said that we reduced to wanting to have these conditions on our neural network. So a a norm on the weight space such that we can such that the network is liit smooth and and liit continuous in that norm. >> So that if it's lipid smooth and lit continuous that guarantees existence of such alphas and deltas. >> Yes. >> For any norm or just for [snorts] existence of some norms. Well, you could take these actually as the definitions of lich smooth and lich continuous. And once you have them in one norm, you can automatically produce them in any other norm because the all the norms are equivalent. But but it may be a much tighter guarantee in one norm than in another norm. So we really want to find a norm on the weight space such that these these conditions hold very very tightly. But just to describe pictorially what's going on. So we've got a neural network and we think about passing an input into it and it has weights and it has an output and what you can think of doing is actually tailor expanding the neural network in its weights. So remember previously we were tailor expanding the loss in the weights but now we've sort of mapped things to actually just thinking directly about the network. um and these lipstick conditions are asking for upper bounds on the terms in the tailaylor expansion in a particular norm. So can we produce a norm on the weight space such that we get a nice compact a nice convenient upper bands on these terms and so forgetting everything that we talked about about optimization just like directly looking at this slide and just directly thinking about it. Wouldn't it be great if we had a norm on the weights that could predict the magnitude of these terms in the tailor expansion? It would if we had such a norm, it would mean that like whenever you were going to change the weights of your neural network, you would have a direct way to predict how much the output of the network can change up to first and second order. So it's there's just like a direct argument that having such a norm would be a really useful thing to have because we can now predict what our network is going to do in response to changing the weights. And then all of the preceding argument we're saying, you know, one of the use cases for having having these relationships is that we can build an optimization theory around them. Um, but they can be useful for other reasons as well. Like they're useful anytime you want to be able to just predict what changing the weights of your network is going to do to the overall function. Um okay so we what we've tried to argue is that having these conditions would be useful and it would help us build an optimization theory but it seems like actually how how on earth would we produce a norm which is a really good norm to for this reason because it seems you know the neural networks are really complicated so how how are we going to do that seems seems really hard um I don't even know if my question makes sense but I'd like to know if people have used this approach to finduh like approximation for other types of like problems. So say like non but something else you didn't know how to approximate and then you found arms and like has this worked in other >> yeah what I'll say is that a lot of classical optimization once you start to get into it is all about finding a distance measure for your problem and like once you've got a really good distance measure you can start to design like cleverer algorithms. Um and people have that idea in deep learning but haven't really like it's not really borne fruit I would say but it is a very classical idea to do this this general thing and then there is optim you can look up composite optimization theory and like there's lots of papers about it but um I would say that it's not really like yeah borne fruit in the deep learning but but it's definitely that idea is is very abundant I would say that's why if you think about that's why we have different norms like why do we have the L1 norm and the L2 norm because like somehow they're supposed to like characterize the structure of different problems like if they didn't we would just only have one of them. So that that's like why there's a whole zoo of norms is to like somehow use them to characterize different problems. >> [snorts] >> So the way that this is where the whole Lego thing comes back again because it's like how how on earth are we going to come up with a norm and the weight space of our whole network? Well, what if we can break it up into stages? So if if we first think about the activation spaces again like those are more like simple just vectors in a simple network. So you know that as we said we can it's kind of easier to give those norms because like there's not that many options like L2, L infinity, L1, RMS. Um now let's think about the tensor spaces like the matrix spaces for example in the network. Once we've picked norms on the activation spaces, there's actually a way to induce a something called an induced operator norm. But that there's a there's a procedure for taking two norms on the input and output of a linear operator and coming up with a norm on the operator. It's called an induced operator norm. >> So the activation functions usually don't have weights. >> Yes. >> Right. So I guess what are we? >> Oh, so when I talk about activations I just meant the feature vectors. But then if you think about we can think of a act like if Yeah. So I I just meant the feature vectors. But when it comes to including if you want to think of a like a relu nonlinearity as a Lego block, it will just be a Lego block with a with the weight the weight space is just the zero vector space. So it just has like a trivial weight space. Okay. And then but what we really we really need a norm not on each individual layer separately although that's kind of already an interesting thing to think about is like what norm would we give to each individual layer but we really want a norm on the full weight vector. So we really need a procedure for taking all of these layer wise norms and like combining them into one like kind of megaorm on the whole on the whole neural net. Um so that's what we tried to figure out how to do. But we also like so there's this idea of starting with very granular norms and then sort of combining them until we have one norm that describes the full weight space or yeah um so part two of the talk is I'm going to try to make this more like a formal procedure. So we call it this the theory of modules. Um and so this is another perspective on like this Lego idea. But there's something called combinator pattern in programming. Um which is the idea of building complex structures by taking simple things and combining them and you think that there's like an abstract type and you you can build very simple things which are members of that type and then you combine them and you get new things which belong to that type. Um so for us the the type the abstract type is something called a module which has inputs weights and an output and that can be an individual layer in a neural network or it can be a whole neural network that would both of those things would be modules. Um and then given two modules we have these combination rules. So there's like composition which is like series combination and and concatenation is the name that we gave. So like parallel combination um and and it's again it's just like the Lego bricks. It's like putting them on top of each other or putting them next to each other. Um, okay. And this is just to show you like actually you can build like interesting little you can think of them also as circuits but like if you want to add two modules you can put them in parallel and then you can compose them with like an addition module. So it's like a kind of little circuit. Um scaler multiplication you can take a module and you can compose it with a special module which just multiplies by scala. and then you know you can combine these things to build a residual block. Um so it kind of just looks like this. So it's like u some compositions concatenation and some okay some concatenations and compositions. But essentially then you could think about taking that little circuit and composing it with itself a bunch of times to build a residual network. Um, and this is just to give you an idea that actually those simple kind of binary combination rules are actually enough to build all the neural networks that you want to build. >> Well, I guess with adding I guess we could just have modules that have two inputs then. >> Yeah, we would if a module having two inputs we would think of as like the input as being a single tupole. So like the input space can have whatever structure you want. Um okay so this is to say that we can build okay then we have this kind of categorization of different types of modules that we find interesting. So atoms this is the name that we give to like um the simple layers that you write by hand like a linear layer a convolution layer an embedding layer. Um bonds are just the ones with like the kind of trivial weight space. So things like nonlinearities don't have weights. Um and like a functional attention is a is like the part of attention without the weights. And then you could like compose it with some linear modules and so on if you want to build an actual attention module. And then compounds is the name that we give to like anything you build by combinations. And this is just a recap that what we really, you know, what we've said that what the thing that we care about or the thing that we want to know about is the sensitivity information. If I change the inputs and I change the weights, how much does the output change? Can we predict how much that output changes from knowing how much we change the inputs and the weights? And can we do this in particular for any module? So let's suppose that we can do it for the basic building blocks. Can we do it for any compound module? any anything built from um you know anything built from our Lego set is the analogy we were making um so have quite a m so I worked recently with like a pure mathematician basically so it's like quite an abstract a formal way of going about solving this problem but essentially we've kind of come up with these definitions so just to remind you a module there's something with inputs, weights and an output. But we also give it some metadata um like its forward function a sensitivity number which is supposed to measure the input output sensitivity. So it's one of the lips constants. Um a mass the mass is supposed to be a kind of hyperparameter which sets how important this module is compared to other modules, how much it will contribute to learning. And then we're asking that it should have a norm on the weight space. Um, and anything with these attributes is a is a valid module. But because we only, you know, in our in our library, we don't want to have really horrible functions. We want to have like nice functions that, you know, people can use. And and so that's why we have the second definition, which is um what a module being well-normed. So these are the good the good modules the ones that we actually like to use and that we want to include in our library. Um so for a module to be wellnormed it needs to have a a notion of a norm on its input space and a norm on its output space. Um which corresponds to roughly it's saying you want to know how the inputs behave and how the outputs behave or how you want the outputs to behave. Um and then we'll basically say that a module is wellnormed if it's um if it's one lip in its weights and if it's lip shits in its inputs where the sensitivity number assigned to the module is the lip constant. Um, so the way that we're thinking about this is like when we say that a Lego brick has a theory associated with it, it basically means that a Lego brick has these attributes. And like the the second definition says that the attributes obey some constraints with respect to each other. And if if it if the Lego brick satisfies these constraints, like we'll put it in our library, and if it doesn't, we'll just throw it out because we don't like it. Um so I want to give you some examples of of what this actually looks like. So these are some first of all the linear module like the most classic uh does a matrix vector multiplication. We'll say that it has sensitivity one and mass one and we'll give it this kind of funky norm this like rescaled spectral norm. Um and then we need to ask is this module well-normed or not? Like do we want to put it into our library or not? And so the claim is that if you set the input and output norm to be the RMS norm, which is kind of natural choice for feature vectors inside a neural network, then the linear module is wellnormed if it has bounded inputs and if the weights are bounded. Um, so yeah, I'm still kind of thinking about this topic, but it's it's kind of interesting that, you know, one of the basic things that in an actual neural net that you do is like you normalize all the feature vectors everywhere like explicitly. Um, people don't really know why they're doing that. Um, other than like somehow intuitively it's going to make things more stable and stop things blowing up. But this is sort of pointing out that if you want to have lipits guarantees for a linear module, the inputs and the weights must be bounded. If they're not, it can be kind of arbitrarily sensitive. Um, okay. So, a useful counterpoint is an embedding module because at first glance it sort of looks like it's kind of the same thing as a linear module. You can write it as a a matrix vector multiplication. Um the difference is that you sort of think about an embedding layer in a neural network is you pass in like a one hot vector and it picks out one of the columns of the matrix and that's the embedding that corresponds to that token. Um so there's a it has an embedding layer has like a very different semantics to a linear layer. Um and and we express that one of the ways that gets expressed is by giving the weight space of an embedding module a different norm to a linear module. Um and similarly when we when we ask it if the module is well normed or not we'll put a different norm on the input space and what the way we think about this is that the input vector to an embedding layer is a one hot vector which is a bit like a probability vector so we give it the L1 norm um and then it's basically with with that choice of input norm and output norm um it's wellnormed under the same conditions of unit inputs and and unit weights. >> Trying to figure out the wellmed module definition before uh there's a diamond like a rotated square. >> Oh, what does that mean? >> That means contract over any tensor indices which are shared between the it's it's just like a tensor contraction. Does that make sense? It's like if if they're two vectors, it's a dotproduct. If it's a matrix and a vector, it's a matrix vector multiplication. If it's a matrix and a matrix where the indices are the same, it's like sum over the shared indices. It's just like a it's just like a the objects in a neural network have a like a whole zoo of different shapes and it's like hard to come up with a notation to like um express that. So, it's just like a shortand for like figure out what kind of multiplication you actually want to do here. Why um do you not run into issues when you optimize this with like boundary value problems where let's say like you're at the boundary of your input space being less than or equal to one and your gradient is like trying to push you outside of the boundary. >> Yeah, that's a great question. So that the short answer is we've not actually implemented this part really faithfully yet. So when we actually implement it at the moment, we just let everything go outside the boundary. But I want to do that and like and the idea is to design like manifold optimization algorithms where the weights stay on this on this like well-known manifold and then because of that that gives you guarantees about how the outputs behave and then you can think about those as the inputs to the next layer. Like there's a way to make everything consistent. We just haven't haven't done it yet. But so yeah, so far it's like different aspects of the whole theory seem to be like kind of useful but there's not like a complete version which is every where everything is consistent in practice. Um so the reason for setting up those abstract definitions of what is a module and what is a well-known module is that we want to have combination rules which automatically somehow automatically preserve those properties. So if you take two well-known modules in your library and compose them the thing the new thing that you get is automatically satisfies the definition of being wellnormed. Um and so the the types of things that we want to show are that the combination rules are associative. So if you do like compose a chain of things like you you get the same fundamental object whichever order you take those compositions for example. Um we want the space of modules to be kind of closed under combinations. The space of well-known modules to be closed under combinations. Um, and then we want that mass parameter that that one of those attributes to sort of allow us to tune how how much different modules contribute relative to each other. And like intuitively think about that as giving you the freedom to tune learning rates at different layers if if you want to do that. Um, and so we came up with these rules. So again, these are just definitions and the the kind of style of of of what this is is like come up with really really clever definitions and then everything else is is easy. Um so the definitions are kind of the hard part. Um so for composing modules or like um putting modules in series like you compose the forward functions which seems kind of natural. the sensitivity which is supposed to be the in the input to output liit constant those multiply which is kind of like if you compose things you multiply that lich it's constant so that's maybe intuitive mass is like you have to think about it a little more and then the important thing is that we we use a max norm so when we compose modules we want to have a norm on the combined on the joint weight space and we pick the max norm with a special waiting so there's this coefficients P and Q which like weight the two different subnorms in the max um and P and Q depend on the mass ratios which that's the idea that the mass allows you to tune the importance of the two different modules in the composition and the the scalar P also couples to the sensitivity of the second module. So that's like if you compose two things but the second one is very very sensitive to its inputs somehow the first one should know about that because if you're going to change the weights of the first one you hopefully want to know that the second one is like really really sensitive or it's very insensitive. So it's like just another view on like really trying to characterize the sensitivity of how things behave when you combine them with each other. >> Question. So can you explain the intuition for sensitivity in terms of motions? What's the main intuition for mass? >> Yeah, the the intuition for mass is like if you if you just forget about all of this and you say you're going to train a transformer. Um and you think about the structure of a transformer, it's got like a the kind of body of the network is like block residual blocks. There's like an embedding layer at the beginning and there's a linear layer at the output. And then you say like okay now I want to scale the number of blocks. Um and let's say you want to even scale the number of blocks to the point where you know there's millions of blocks but there's only one embedding layer and one output layer. The claim is that like it's not obvious whether in the limit of a really large number of blocks. Should you even still be training the input layer and the output layer, should they now become negligible because you want all the learning to happen in the middle or actually the embedding layer plays a really interesting and different functional role to the blocks. So even if you have a lot of blocks, you still want to train the embeddings. It's kind of not obvious what the answer to that question is. Like it's I don't know. I find it difficult to to know. So that's why there's a degree of freedom which is letting you sort of tune how how much you want the embedding to be important relative to the blocks. So it's sort of being defined as the thing that you add up regardless of whether it's composition or contamination. >> Okay. So in that case could you say if you had a set of blocks and you're trying to analyze it and you doubled all of their masses would that give you the same analysis? Yeah, it it would you can the analysis goes through but it would just mean that when you train the network under this norm using this norm to help you train it that the amount of contribution towards learning of the blocks would double compared to the the the things whose mass you don't double. >> Oh, but if there's no other thing that you don't double, >> then nothing changes. Exactly. >> Question on that. um help you determine the mass for different blocks. So I am assuming here that mass incorporates some like uh defines the richness of a certain block in terms of its future representational ability. It's it what it determines is how much ch that block during training is going to influence the features of anything that it contributes to any kind of super module that it contributes to. Um, and because we it's sort of like a degree of freedom that we couldn't really see a theoretical way to get rid of. So, it's like something you kind of have to tune. Um, but when we actually did experiments, we just tune one mass the mass of all of the blocks together. So, we give each if all of the blocks have mass m and there's L blocks, each block gets like mass mid l. So there's like one number which is the mass of all the blocks and then we fix the input layer to have mass one and the output layer to have mass one. >> So if you have a block that's a linear that has what mass one and you have a block as a convolution that that would also have the same >> Yes. And it's like we do that for simplicity because it's a pain if you but it's it's like the current current understanding is like you know maybe it would work better if you tune them separately but but you just you you can tune them in groups if you want to. So concatenation is kind of analogous but it's like it doesn't have the coupling because they don't compose with each other. So it's a little bit simpler but the the point of the point of these definitions is that you can check you like take these definitions you take the definition of well-knownness and you can prove that like if you compose two things that are wellnormed then the composition is also wellnormed. So they preserve that property and and they have another there's another advantage which is that you can work this theory through to second order. Um so you define what you mean by the sharpness or it's a bit like the reciprocal of the smoothness. Um but you say that the a module is is is alpha beta gamma sharp if it's if it second derivatives in other words it's lit smooth. If the module is lit, it's smooth with respect to its weight norm and input norm. But because it has because a module has two arguments, we can give it um like three sharpness coefficients which correspond to like varying just the weights, varying the weights and the input or varying just the input. So that's why there's three three sharpness coefficients. Um and you can think of these as being like generalized top values. So um often times when people talk about the sharpness of the hessen in in deep learning they just what they're meaning is like how big is the largest value of the hessen but somehow that's like a ukidian constant um and if you don't believe that the like the geometry of the weight space is a ukitian geometry then you shouldn't necessarily even care about the top value um and you need some kind of generalized notion um and and the point is that if if a if a module is wellnormed and has these sharpness coefficients, there's an automatic way to determine what the sharpness coefficients are of of compositions and concatenations. Um and and then you can use that to show that the overall loss function is is lit smooth and and um some some other things. Um, okay. So, that was like a lot of kind of building a theory and not really clear if it's going to be useful. Um, so the the the next two parts are are like sort of talking about different ways that we've been trying to apply um this theory and in some sense the theory is kind of intended to try to solve these problems as well. Um, so now I want to think about scaling. So like you want to scale your training, you want to make your transformer as big as possible. Um, and and there's this idea even in the natural world that like if you know big things with bigger brains are supposed to be more intelligent and the African elephant is I think according to Wikipedia, it's the organism with the most neurons. Um, and then we've got this recipe for for artificial general intelligence where it's like get the biggest supercomput that you can and scrape all the data and then train the really big transformer. Um, and that's this problem that we you know we talked about it in the earlier lecture but the property the training properties of the system can drift as you as you scale up. So even though with the case of width even even as the network gets wider um the performance is getting better but the sort of optimal step size which is on the x- axis is is just drifting and and and uh sometimes if you scale um scale badly in depth like the performance can get worse as you make the network deeper. So we want to try to have a way to solve some of these problems. Um so our thesis for good scaling like why is scaling bad? Um our thesis is like scaling well is actually not difficult. It's just about really understanding the lipits properties of the system which is the thing that people don't don't really understand. Um and so the the thesis is that if you have lip guarantees for your network which are tight meaning that it's not like a really loose band that's like kind of useless and and if the lipits constants are non-dimensional which basically means that as you change the scale of the system the lipits constant is like staying fixed. It's not varying. then then if you normalize the updates and the corresponding norm like that will give you good scaling. Um it's kind of call it a thesis because it's not really like a theorem. It's just like what we think. Um but so so we want to have lichets constants for the overall neural network which are independent of the scaling dimensions. Um and we want what we really want is to believe that the bounds that these lichets bounds are going to be tight and and the the amount of tightness that the bounds have is not dependent on scale. Um so then if if we can have that then the norm on the on the overall module which those bounds hold in if we control that norm of the weight updates we'll be able to predict how much the outputs change. So that's like the whole one of the reasons we were setting this thing up. So if we have a in other words what's what's the this is an example this is the example that we mainly think about but if the neural network is is one lipits meaning that the lipits constant is one. So one is a really great number which is an example of a number which is non-dimensional. Um yeah then if we if we if we control the the norm the weight norm of our weight updates will be able to predict the output norm of the change in outputs. Um and this is this is just saying that um just showing you some of the papers that where we wrote about some of this stuff but we broke up the problem into these two pieces. What are the properties of an individual layer and how do we keep them under composition and concatenation and and this is just saying that like actually some of put a little bit on the homework this this idea that this a particular scaled spectral norm is a really good norm for getting lit guarantees on a on a linear layer. Um and uh this is this paper that I worked on with Philip and also with some other collaborators which is about the idea of like combining things. Um and we actually built this software package which is still like a work in progress but it's the idea that all of those rules everything that I was showing you can are things that can be programmed. So you can actually build this library. So you think about it as like building this Lego set where you can combine. So this is an example of building an MLP by combining you know layers and nonlinearities to get and this MLP would then be a compound module. Um and then you would automatically get its forward function through taking the composition. Um but you also get this normalized function. So when we compose things we automatically build a norm on the weight space and then we can use that norm to like normalize. Um and so this is our kind of simple programming example and the the claim is that because we did this clever normalization the training will now scale better without needing to reune the learning rate. And you can you can basically build it on top of different um programming language like different it can be put on top of PyTorch. Um and this is like some empirical evidence. So um yeah what what we're showing here is is actual width sweep width sweep. So we're increasing the width of the network and the left plot is like just training nano GPT um like which is copathy's like trans Yeah sorry go ahead I didn't mean to interrupt you was like question >> oh I can okay um okay the point is that if you just take like nano GPT which is this like GitHub repository and you you try changing the width like the optimal learning rate is going drift. Um the middle plot is like our own transformer implementation which has some tweaks to the architecture to make it actually lip Um and then the third plot is adding normalization on top of the optimization. And the point is this is supposed to be saying that by adding this normalization we kind of fix the drift in the learning rate. >> Yeah. Go ahead. So I guess from the perspective of a gradient that has not been normalized when you apply normalization it's as if you're changing the learning. >> Yes it it will yeah that's the one perspective. >> Yeah it's learn I guess it would be like changing the learning rate but in a way that's functionally dependent on the gradient itself. >> Yes. And in it changes the learning rate in a way which depends on what the architecture of the network is. So depending on different layers, we'll get gradients rescaled by different amounts. >> Okay. So learning right here is a scaling of that entire process. >> Yeah. Um and this is to say that things also work in scaling depth. Um so the the the baseline nano GPT performance like it kind of it's not so bad. If you just scale depth, it works reasonably well, but it's a little bit messier. And this is just to say that so in the middle plot which is without applying our normalization procedure, Adam coincidentally does pretty well in terms of depth scaling. And then adding the normalization on top, things stay pretty much the same actually. Um, so this is good because this is pretty much what we built this whole thing to be able to do. So it's like kind of we knew these things were going to work because we sort of had an intuitive understanding of how to do scaling and then we kind of built the theory in order to do this. So it's like kind of knew this was going to work. Um uh that's just saying we do some other things in the paper. But this is like we spent a whole lot of effort to try to build this theoretical framework and the idea that we have now is actually maybe it's going to be useful for other things. Um, and something I'm really excited about now is this idea of like duality and what we call modular duality. Um, so what does that mean? and this this is the thing which led to the big training speed up. So that's why we care about this or one of the reasons. So if you remember that we have our we suppose now that we we came up with a norm such that we could upper bound um the error in the linearization of our objective function. Um and then we remember that because we did this on the homework that you can then derive steepest descent optimization algorithms by like solving the argument of this thing like finding the minimizer of this thing. Um and then you remember because you did the London homework that you can decouple the solutions to that problem into two pieces. One is like evaluating a dual norm and the other is evaluating an arg max over a set of unit vectors. Um and so we think about the purple box as roughly being the step size and and we can call this um this second thing we can actually call it a duality map. Um and what does that mean? Uh it means that um that basically there's this idea in like more classical optimization theory that the gradient is a dual vector and the weights are a regular vector and the only thing that you're allowed to do with dual vectors and regular vectors is is um combine them. Well, basically the dual vector is a linear map that takes a regular vector and returns a real number. And that's borne out here by saying that if you have a gradient, the thing that you're the thing a gradient is really really, you know, what it's really good for is taking dotproducts with weights and and describing the linearization of the function. That's the only thing that you should ever really trust a gradient will tell you is is the linearization of your function. the idea that you can take a gradient and just do gradient descent with it is like a generically a bad idea and like something that we should all forget. Um, so that's like this idea of of and and it's like the idea that a dual vector even though it may have the same dimensions like it may technically you could add and subtract them because technically they have the same dimensions it can still be a bad idea. Um so but but what we need is a a a kind of formal procedure. We need a procedure for converting dual vectors like the gradient back to the primal space such that we can add and subtract them. But we should not just directly add and subtract them. But this is an example of such a procedure. Um and and just like just looking at this argmax like you can what you can think of it as saying is I want to take a a step of unit norm which maximizes the linear improvement of my um of my objective function and just like subtracting the gradient from the weights may not solve that problem. Is is that your beef with that because we're doing nonlinear optimization therefore you have no guarantee that like your gradient plus a step size results in an improvement? >> Well, for a sufficiently small step size, it will give you an improvement. It may just be really suboptimal because it may not solve like there's a sense in which this thing is like an optimal procedure in the just in the sense that there is an optimization problem here. There's a there's a max there's an arg max. So there's some kind of the solution to this thing will solve some kind of optimality criterion. If you pick the pick a good norm, it's like an optimality criterion that you really care about and and just just moving in the gradient direction is like saying is equivalent to saying that this is the ukitian norm and and so this the optimization space in neural networks is really unlikely to have a uklidian structure. So that's the argument. Um um and this is just a picture where it's suggested by some other ideas in optimization but it's like you think about the weight space the gradient spa the space that the gradient lives in you think of it as being a very distorted version. So even though it may have the same dimensionality as the weight space the things that live in the gradient space kind of may be all stretched and distorted. So we need some procedure to kind of undistort them before we're going to subtract them from the weights. Um so this is just to say that if you ever you should never do this ever again unless you're really sure that your space is uklidian. Um and and and that you should always think like what is this like dualization procedure that I that I um that I really need to think through what it is. Um in in a sense this should not be surprising because there's a kind of like the you know everyone tells you if you're going to do deep learning you should just use the atom optimizer. No one ever tells you to use regular gradient descent. So there should be some idea that there is intuitively we all know there's something bad about regular gradient descent. We just don't quite know what it is. So this second thing is supposed to pass the type check. Um and the question is like how do we come up with such a dualization procedure for a neural net? Well, if we built this, you know, we had this recursive procedure for inducing a norm um on the weight space of the full neural network. So maybe there's a corresponding procedure for recursively constructing a duality map. Um so that's what we wanted to propose. So it's the idea that given individual layers, if you have a norm on the weights of an individual layer, you can solve a duality map for that layer. And that's that's what you did on the homework because we said that we're going to give the linear layers a spectral norm and then we're going to solve the duality map that corresponds to the spectral norm. Um and then once we've solved those layer wise duality maps, it turns out that there's there is a like a valid recursive procedure for combining them to come up with a duality map on the floor architecture. um which I didn't write it down in the slides but maybe it's something fun to think about. Um, okay. >> Wait. So, so this would mean that the visualization of G always has a normal one. >> Yeah. >> It's because we broke up we broke things up into two pieces. So, >> oh, so it's a projection in that space. True. >> So, we broke up find solving this arg min. we broke it up into like solving an args arg max over unit vectors and then multiplying by the dual norm. Um so I so there's also a recursive procedure for computing the dual norm. I I just didn't talk about that on the slide. >> Okay. So I guess I'm interpreting it as we're finding whatever coordinate the projection of the gradient maximizes. I guess I'm just looking at arm max in the next slide. looking at the R max of the inner product interping that as some sort of projection. Um, it doesn't necessarily have to be a Actually, maybe it is in some sense. Yes, maybe it isn't a projection. Definitely the one on the homework was a projection. Yeah, I think for norms it probably usually is a projection. Um, so yeah, I need to just think through that, but I I think you're probably right that it's you can think of it as taking the gradient and projecting it to the unit normal, but also distorting the direction. Um but yeah, this is supposed to be you think about it as you you've got some lips guarantee and some lit smoothness guarantee which tell you how much the neural network output is going to respond to changing its weights. Um and so that in particular one of the things that tells you is when the second order changes in the network output become important relative to the first order changes. So a sensible thing to do is to take an optimization step which squeezes as much kind of juice out of the linearization as as possible while like making sure that the second order network effects don't dominate the first order effects because the gradient really only tells you about the first order effects. So that's like an intuitive description and like if you can solve that problem for individual layers, how do you um solve it for a full network? And I'm just claiming that there's a recursive procedure for doing that. Um, and this is just to say that like to tell you a little backstory at least why I became interested in this is because there's like an optimization algorithm that people at Google proposed called shampoo which won this like speed challenge at this like industry benchmarking competition. Um but if you like read the paper that proposes this method like you know this that first of all the method that they actually use is like totally different to the method in the paper and like it kind of feels like maybe there's not like a let's say a complete understanding of what the method is doing. Um so I just wanted to like look at this method and kind of strip away some of the things which people don't actually use and and it looks like the core primitive in this algorithm is basically for linear layers it does this funny gradient transformation. Um and then realizing that this funny gradient transformation is actually equivalent to that homework problem that that you all did. Um but like when you read the paper they don't frame it that way. So it's kind of interesting. Um but it seems to really speed up the training. Um so so that basically what the claim is that hiding inside of this optimization algorithm that people at Google are really excited about is is this like very simple primitive. Um and we like from the p because we were working on this modular norm stuff it's very easy to implement this type of algorithm because we just override the normalized function of a linear module to do this like spectral spectral operation and then I implemented it in like a simple notebook just as like a proof of concept and could actually see that doing this special normalization it actually leads to training much faster than the thing in the middle which is just like a naive a form of spectral normalization and it's much both of them are much much better than just like vanilla gradient descent. Um okay and then uh this there's like this open source like neural network speedrunning community and um this person Keller Jordan like made a really really fast implementation of this like spectral spectral dualization procedure. It turns out at the moment it's like the fastest way to train nano GPT on this speed run. So it's like seems that's actually um like the worry with the technique is like maybe in principle it's the right thing to be doing but it's so expensive to do these um spectral uh normalization operations that it's kind of practically useless. But it turns out there's actually a way to implement this dualization procedure really fast using an iterative method. Um so this is to say that what I told you you know when we wrote this modular package we actually kind of did it wrong because um when we said that we should normalize that is actually not optimal. We should actually do this like dualization procedure and it should kind of recursively compute the dualization based on the architecture of the network. So still need to update the package to do that. Um, so in conclusion, yeah, I really think I I really like this idea that we should think about building a neural network is building Lego and that you should be able to build whatever you want and you should be able to have have like a theoretical understanding of what whatever you build. Um, and it should be based on like thinking about just how you combine individual bricks. Um, and so far like we've been thinking about these scaling issues and now apparently also these like speed like training speed records. Um, and I I think that this idea has not really like proliferated at all really, but I think it can be more like generally useful idea. Um, so if you want to save energy and money and and time, a good way to do that is to make your models really low precision. But there's like no one has like a a theoretical understanding of how precision in a neural network should behave. So as far as I can tell all the research is kind of like just just trying stuff. Um but intuitively precision and continuity are very closely like very intimately related concepts because um you need you if you want to quantize as much as you can you need to know like what discretization scale the space is like kind of continuous on or something like that. Um and similarly like these classic adversarial robustness things I think should also be related to having a good good understanding of the continuity properties of the space. Um, so you want to cast these as questions of module sensitivity. Um, and I I want to turn this into like an open source project. So I made this website. Um, but it doesn't have very much information there yet. But anyway, that's that's it. So yeah, thanks