The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Well, today I'm going to give the fourth and final case study of the of the course. And um everything I'm going to talk about is uh my thesis research uh in one form or another. Uh so this is work that's definitely in progress and in a lot of cases we haven't really drawn conclusions yet. So, it'll be quite rough and ready, but I hope it'll uh be informative and uh and raise some questions for you. Um the uh the focus of my thesis research is uh well, broadly speaking, finding approaches to manufacturing microffluidic devices using polymers. uh and uh for uh for many of you uh I think I think micrfluidics will be something you know at least a little about. Um essentially uh microchips that manipulate uh very small volumes of fluids to perform various experimental or diagnostic or uh or or or other engineering tasks. And um we're interested in developing processes and and and choosing materials that will help us make these things very cheaply so that they can be used uh at the point of care in the case of diagnostic devices and so forth. Now one particular process that's of great interest for this uh is the imprinting of thermoplastic polymer layers. uh hot embossing is uh is what we're going to call it. And uh for a start, let me say why polymers are interesting for making these sorts of devices. Uh I think I see three main reasons. Firstly, uh they're cheap compared to silicon or glass, which are other materials that you might think of as being obvious candidates to fabricate these these uh these microscopic fluidic channels and valves and pumps and so forth. So, polymers are polymers are cheap. Second thing is they're often transparent and that's really important when you have a biological sample inside this device and you're trying to look at how it behaves in response to certain stimuli. Either you're exposing it to a die that will make cells with certain properties fluores. You need to see that fluoresence or you're proddding a cell somehow to see whether its stiffness gives you information about its disease state. Something along these lines. Anyway, but transparency is an important property. And uh thirdly, uh a lot of plastics are mechanically tough which makes them highly suitable to use uh in the field at the point of care in doctor's surgeries and so forth. So these these are the three reasons why uh pol polymers are interesting and imprinting them is uh is interesting as a process because that itself has the potential to be uh to be quick and cheap. You can imagine a cycle imprinting a thermoplastic polymer occurring in around a minute and you can choose what kind of size workpiece you you machine. You could machine anything from the size of a single microffluidic chip all the way up to continuous reels of polymer film. And uh indeed the the the realtore printing approach is something that's been used in industry already for for quite rudimentary devices. 3M has a patent on uh hot embossing reels of thermoplastic polymers and um so it's it's a pretty flexible process and micrfluidics aren't the only sorts of things you might think of uh think of making with it. Uh a lot of optical devices could be made this way. You could think of imprinting defractive elements um or uh in actually 3M's patent is is so that they can imprint um the reflective films that are laminated onto the front of road signs. Imprinted into those films are many parallel uh V-shaped grooves that act as corner cube reflectors so that the uh the street signs reflect light incident from any angle. And uh so that you know th those sorts of optical applications are also pretty uh pretty crucial. But anyway, let me just describe how the process works. What I'm illustrating here is not a roll-to-roll printing process, but something where the workpiece is about the size of a wafer. So tens of millimeters in diameter. And uh first thing we need is a is a hard stamp, a tool that's been microfabricated using uh some other process. This tool might have been etched from silicon. It might have been electroplated with nickel. Uh it might itself be a polymer but one that doesn't soften at the uh the processing temperatures. uh elastormas like PDMS poly dimethiles psylloxane are actually quite attractive as stamp materials. So we have this stamp we have uh two heated plates to heat the stamp and the workpiece and a means of applying a load uh normal to the surface of the workpiece. Usually what happens is the material is heated above what's called its glass transition temperature. And for anyone who isn't familiar with this, um, thermoplastics, uh, essentially are composed of, uh, an entangled network of, uh, polymer molecules. And, uh, there are one or more temperatures for a given polymer at which those entanglements loosen and, uh, and the chains can slide past one another. and the the stiffness and the effective viscosity of the material around that temperature falls by several orders of magnitude. So above that temperature, it's highly flexible, easily formed. Below that temperature, it's it's much stiffer and usable as a device. So we go above the glass transition temperature to soften it. How far we go above is is a is an important question to answer. That's a crucial parameter to choose. We then apply a load. That load is going to be ramped up over some time that we have a choice about. That might be an important parameter. We hold that load for some time to allow uh the material to flow to fill cavities in the stamp. And while the load is still applied, we cool down usually cool the material to below its glass transition temperature and finally remove the load. Um and often that removal step uh has has a lot of technical challenges involved in it because of differential thermal contraction of the workpiece and the tool. So that that gives you some idea that there are at least uh four parameters that that we need to decide upon um temperature a load and two times associated with that load. there there are probably more parameters that we we're interested in. Now at this point I should also mention uh a rather similar process that has quite different applications and that is uh thermal nano imprint lithography. This is essentially hot embossing but done on very thin layers of polymer uh thinner than a micron. And these these layers have been spun onto a much harder surface, usually a silicon wafer. And the the beauty of this process is that it allows uh submicron features to be transferred to the wafer. This is um I think a really exciting process. It has the potential to uh to revolutionize lithography and semiconductor manufacturing uh because the resolution with which with which features can be transferred is not uh is not limited by the wavelength of light. Usually you would pattern a photoresist layer with some kind of projection optical projection system and and we've really got to the stage where critical dimensions of of transistors are are are making that a big a big challenge making the optical lithography systems cost tens or hundreds of millions of dollars. So in this case we we have this spun spun on polymer layer. it it's dissolved in a in an organic solvent, spun on the solvent uh evaporates and then then the the spun on layer is a thermoplastic. It can be softened. You press the the the nanop fabricated stamp into the wafer and ideally uh squeeze all the material from below the individual features of the stamp. Now in reality that's not uh that's not possible and there is a small residual polymer layer that's left there. So you can imagine once we've removed the the stamp or the mold uh we have some extremely thin regions of polymer and uh then imagine that we want to pattern to etch away material in the wafer underneath the plasma or the etching uh the etching solution to which the wafer is exposed will quite readily break through that residual polymer layer and and remove the material. So these these processes are are similar uh in many ways. They actually often use the the same the same polymers uh but the uh the boundary conditions the the mechanics are rather different. And um so I'll I'll talk a little bit about uh about nano imprint, but mostly the results that I'm going to show you are to do with uh with micro hot embossing where the workpiece is substantially thicker than the diameters or the depths of the features that are being patent. Uh I'm not too familiar with the process but uh the uh deleting the mold during the mold removal process you have the uh the the mold walls getting dilated because uh the pattern is getting uh taken off and uh it might have dimensional constraints for it to Yeah, that's an excellent question. you've hit on one of the most important challenges of pot embossing and Siganth was asking are there are there problems with dimensional stability of of the walls the sidewalls during demolding and I'll show you some results that relate to that so yes good point anyhow as I as I already mentioned we there are several parameters to do with the the process uh that we need to pick temperatures uh loads times loading durations um the range that those parameters can take will be limited by the capabilities of the machine we have the physical properties of the polymer we're trying to pattern what temperature does it start to burn um and so forth what about the material underneath if we're doing nano imprint lithography are there temperature constraints that the that the wafer underneath has to observe so that's uh That's what constrains the process. And of course, um, we might also be making engineering decisions about what type of polymer we're going to use to achieve a certain, uh, end. And indeed, we might have some flexibility in the pattern that we're going to emboss. We might think about designing a pattern uh with an eye to manufacturability, something that will be easier to imprint with less variability. And that is uh one of the questions that I'm trying to answer. How do you make the SC? Right. Well, the the stamp can be made um in in in a variety of variety of ways um that are usually traditional micr fabrication. So um one particularly easy way of doing it would be to use a process called deep reactive ion etching. And and here I'm talking about micrombbossing where the features are you know several microns to many microns. And and and essentially this is just etching very deep trenches into a silicon wafer using a plasma process. Um, I could go into great detail about how that works, but essentially it's a florinebased chemistry. The precursor gas is uh SF6. And, uh, you build up these these very deep narrow trenches in the silicon wafer by a series of steps. So, um, in fact, you would start with you'd start with the silicon with a photoresist mask or something. you do a brief uh florine based plasma etch that would remove small amounts of material that's roughly isotropic. So if you want vertical side walls you got to do something else and the something else is depositing a polymer pivation layer. So you change the the gas in the chamber to um C4 F8 which creates what's essentially a teflon coating that passivates the sidewall of the trench that's developing. Then you go back to the SF6, you know, build up a new notch and do this many times, alternate many times. So, you know, whatever way you you pattern the the stamp, silicon actually, as as we'll see later, for for demolding reasons is is actually a lousy material to use for stamp. So, then you might go one step further, electroplate nickel into that etched wafer, peel off the nickel and use that as the stamp. Much tougher. or you might use uh more novel materials, things like metallic glasses, which are uh alloys with an amorphous structure that are both very hard and very tough. They would be great materials for a stamp. So, so what you mentioned, you said that you're not limited to wavelength of the light for this process, but however to make the stamp then you're limited to Yeah, you're well limitation exist. So what I just described here was for was for micro embossing. I'm sorry I'm sort of describing two processes in parallel that are you know have great similarities but not in terms of scale. So this would be for features that are you know a micron or larger. If you want to make submicron features then you're quite right. You need a process that will that will let you make a stamp with submicron features. And um you know electron beam lithography is a is a great candidate for that where you you actually would you know you would start with a silicon wafer with a 100 nanometer thick layer of uh a radiation sensitive resist. Then you would just actually steer a focused electron beam across the surface. scan it across the surface in the pattern that you wanted and that will give you, you know, 5 nanometer resolution or better. The trouble is it takes ages because it's a serial process. You're scanning the electrons over the surface. So once you've made the stamp, you've paid however many thousand dollars for the stamp. You know, you can stamp it in in a minute into as many substrates as you like. And that's really the the reason for nano imprint. Okay. But uh so keep keep both of those processes in mind. But a lot of the uh assertions I'm going to make from now on are all about the the micron scale embossing. So as I said we we there are lots of different parameters we can choose to do with the process to do with the material we're embossing to do with the pattern that we're embossing. And uh the overall mission that I suppose we have is to try to provide tools for people who are using this process to achieve the the desired structure micro structure uh with uh as little time, energy, cost as possible. So you if if you're processing a certain material, can you pick a pattern that will take 30 seconds to replicate instead of a minute at the available uh processing conditions. So there's that presupposes of course that we have some specification on what what satisfactory replication is. The most obvious specification would be that every cavity in the stamp has been filled with polymer, even the narrowest ones. That would be a good specification to use. Um, another good specification that's really important for nano imprint lithography is to make the thickness of those residual polymer layers very uniform. And that's that's important because it does take some time for the etching process to break through that residual layer. And if the residual layer varies in thickness, the time taken to break through it will be different. And then you'll get different properties of the underlying structure. So let's say you've got um you you've imprinted this 100 nanometer thick polymer layer and on this side the residual layer is really thin and on this side it's twice as thick. You then expose it expose this with a a florine plasma. You're trying to etch the silicon underneath here. you're going to end up with a deeper trench here than you are here because of the time it took to get through that. So, coming up with ways of designing the stamp so that the residual layer ends up being as uniform as possible is is a a really uh pressing challenge actually for this uh lithography technique to be adopted. Anyhow, so what what we're all about is simplified modeling tools that can be used as part of the design loop that are that are computationally efficient enough to uh to give results in in in a reasonable amount of time and uh that represent reality well. So that implies that we need some way of characterizing the tool that we're using, the materials that we're using efficiently so that we we can get information about the physical properties of these things with a minimum of thus. Now I'm just going to uh split the problem up into into three notional length scales so that we can have a clearer picture of what's going on. And uh at the largest length scale, you can think of variations in the quality of the embossed features from one side of the substrate to the other. And that might occur because the two heated plates that are compressing the stamp and and the substrate are not perfectly parallel. So the pressure is greater on one side. It might be because one of the plates is bowed or wavy. uh or it might be to do with the simply the mechanics of the substrate itself. If that substrate is behaving uh as a viscous fluid say then as you compress that substrate that flat polymer substrate you're going to expect to see uh in fact a parabolic distribution of pressure across it. So there are various things to consider there. And then at the at the what I'm going to call the device scale, there are there are these pattern dependencies where the arrangement of features on the stamp can have a profound effect on uh how well- definfined the features end up being. And what I've sketched here, um, which which is, uh, really just a sketch, it it suggests, you know, if there are features that are slightly more closely packed together, then they may fill earlier or maybe sometimes later than regions that are less densely packed. And if that's the case, then maybe you want to put some design rules in place that will constrain the variation of density of features on the stamp. Finally, we've got at the smallest scale effects to do with individual features. So if an individual gap is too small, say, that's going to be very hard to force polymer into it and that could be could be a showstopper. So we've got these three different length scales. Um I I've alluded to these these sorts of problems. Boeing of the platens uh nonp parallelism of the platens um they relate to the substrate scale effects. Um this shows uh one uh particular substrate that we emboss. This is a a square of of uh Pmama which is acrylic which which is about 100 mm square we embossed with a a wafer that have been uniformly patented with some silicon posts um roughly 100 microns in diameter and we just use this as a probe to to look at our our embossing machine and see how uniform a pattern could be produced. Now, aside from the fact that huge chunks of the silicon wafer broke off during demolding, and that's a good illustration of some of the problems that we face, um we were able to look at uh at the topography of of the pattern at different locations on the wafer. We did that using uh an interpherometer scanning from above measuring the topography and um so we we were able to see various things that the embossed depth was higher on this side than on this side that near the edge of the wafer the embossed uh features tailed off in in in in height. And so these are the sorts of things that we need to come up with uh ways of predicting so that we can we can counteract them. Anyway, um what I'm going to concentrate on for the rest of this talk in fact is is patent dependent non-uniformity um which is is is in many ways um the uh the most challenging to deal with. You know, effects to do with the edge of the wafer become important when you're you're trying to eek out one or two extra devices. you're trying to save a little bit of material, but if the actual design of the of the device, there are maybe many devices across a wafer. If the design of the individual device is faulty and it will never replicate properly, then you're in real trouble. So trying to get an understanding of what patterns will form well and what patterns will not is crucial. And uh so although we we are working towards a unified way of dealing with this, I'm just going to talk mostly about the the pattern dependencies now. So I've mentioned all of these different questions that need to be answered, factors that need to be chosen when you're designing a new process. And um some of them are are going to be continuous variables and some of them will be discrete choices. And it's not absolutely clear which which will be which. Um I've really split the decisions up into three categories. Decisions you have to make about the pattern you're going to emboss. What are the shapes of the features? Rectangles, circles, triangles, how big they are, and uh how they are oriented on the stamp. um and and that that can be important when you're starting to think about radial thermal contraction of the parts or about anisotropic material properties. So there you've got, you know, sizes are a continuous variable and the feature shape you might think of as being a discrete choice. When it comes to the the substrate itself, then uh you've got to decide on a material. various materials soften at different temperatures. Uh some of them uh exhibit a range of temperatures over which they behave rather like a rubber. Others don't really have much of a rubbery region. They just flow very easily as soon as you're above the glass transition temperature. So that's a decision that has to be made. And in micrombbossing, often you're you're picking between a variety of of off-the-shelf substrates, you know, PMMA, plexiglass, polycarbonate, materials like this where, you know, these are technical grade materials. Their their molecular weight, in other words, the the average length of the polymer chains is not necessarily well documented or well defined. So in that sense, your material choice might be a discrete decision. On the other hand, if you're spinning the polymer onto the wafer and you're dissolving it, then you do you do have the option of choosing the the molecular weight and therefore defining the viscosity as as essentially a continuous variable. So those are things that might need to be thought about and of course there's the thickness either how thickly do you spin this uh this resist on and that a lot of research in the field you know demonstrates uh the optimal thickness is a strong function of what pattern you're trying to emboss how many voids there are in the stamp. So the thickness of that might be important and also the thickness of the of in micro embossing where where the substrate is a millimeter thick say that's also a decision that has to be made. So and the third category of course is the process parameters the temperature pressure hold time and and and so forth. Now there's an awful lot of variables there and uh if one was to just take a purely empirical approach and uh try doing a a full factorial or a fractional factorial exploration of the space, it would it would start to look pretty pretty much like a nightmare. And uh luckily we don't have to uh stumble around in the dark because we do already have uh some reasonably good physical intuition about how these materials behave. And of course there's a huge research field to do with characterizing these bulk materials, building theoretical models of how they behave, fitting data to those models. uh and I'm sure mechanical engineers here will be familiar with uh with this sort of way of describing uh describing polymers in a simplified manner um where you uh you build up a model in this case this is a one-dimensional model that sums up the visco elastic behavior of the polymer using a combination of of springs, elastic non-disipative elements and and uh these these elements here dash pots which are essentially viscous components and damp. Yes, exactly. They dissipate they dissipate energy. So the the various stiffnesses and uh and and dissipation factors for the for the springs and dashbots um may be nonlinear functions of temperature. They may be nonlinear functions of strain rate and in fact almost always are and uh so you know there are many thesis that have been written trying to trying to characterize these materials. So and and and building on those uh those experimental approaches are simulation models. There are finite element uh models of these polymers that have been that have been lovingly built up. And so with enough information about the polymer uh with a detailed model of the stamp that you were thinking of embossing and knowing something about the dimensional tolerances of the machine you have, you could uh you could do a simulation and and perhaps predict what was going to happen. The trouble is it would probably take years because when you start having microscale patterns that you're trying to emboss um the computational burden of using these full nonlinear finite defamation polymer models becomes immense and that's great if you have one particular device that absolutely must be perfect. However, what we're interested in doing in our research is finding some sort of middle ground between the empirical approach and the really rigorous, thorough uh theoretical approach that's that's based on a on a highly controlled set of experiments. And um so the idea is to find approximate descriptions for the material that are efficient to to run efficient to simulate patterns wafers that have thousands of features across them. So um let's start to think about how we can uh how we can build out the bare bones of a model that are going to inform the experiments that we do about this uh about this embossing process. Now what I've done here and this uh I I I won't go into laborious detail about but essentially this is just building intuition about one particular polymer. This this is uh a model for polymethyl methacrylate plexiglass acrylic call it what you will which uh student at MIT has recently written a thesis about doing compression experiments of it building up a highly faithful model of it. But there's there's a there's a one-dimensional implementation of that model that we can run. we can look at what happens when you give it various load profiles over time and look at the uh the stresses and and the strains in each of those components of the model over time. So what I've done here is I've just done two well essentially thought experiments. The left hand column of um of graphs shows what happens if the material is heated above its glass transition temperature and then uh given uh 1 and a half megapascal compressive load which is held for 10 seconds that load is maintained while the temperature is reduced below glass transition. glass transition here is about 105 degrees C. So then we looked at how the model responded to that. There's a there's a compressive strain of course there are stresses built up in the left hand branch of that model this spring and this dashboard and there are stresses in the right hand side as well. And um essentially what this shows is that most of the defamation is frozen in place frozen by by this cooling below glass transition. So when the load is removed, this amount of strain remains this P amount here. However, if you uh if you don't cool down before you remove the load and that's what is shown on the right, then we see this recovery. We see we see the material springing back almost to its original shape. And uh so there's a very small residual compressive strain in that case. and just looking at a distance from a distance at at at this simulation which is done at a particular temperature 140° C. Um essentially that the material is behaving in a in in a spring-like way predominantly. Most of the defamation is recovered without cooling it to freeze that that defamation in place. And uh you could you could run similar thought experiments at different temperatures, different strain rates with the model and uh and get an impression of how much of that defamation is recovered uh when the temperature is kept at its elevated level when you remove the load. And so loosely speaking, if most of the defamation is recovered at high temperature, we would describe the material as being rubbery over here. This is a this is a plot essentially of the ratio of that strain to that strain P over Q. Uh as a function of temperature and peak compressive stress. If if that ratio is large, we call it rubbery. If the if the ratio is small, in other words, if there's been a lot of plastic defamation uh that doesn't spring back upon unloading, then we would we would we would sort of classify the material as as being in a glassy state. And sometimes glassy is useful to you, sometimes rubbery is preferable. So um in any case this sort of uh intuition building is helpful to us in that uh it it begins to give us a starting point for for a a physical model that that will let us choose what experiments we're going to do uh and will let us build quick efficient simulations. And and so for that particular temperature that that that I looked at in detail, if you wanted the simplest possible model of the polymer, you might just think of making making the model a linear elastic model that where the Young's modulus was a function of temperature. And there are many shortcomings of that. Um if you hold the load for long enough, then there will of course be plastic flow that's permanent. um and and uh the material is not linear elastic. It changes its stiffness as the strain increases. But we might as well start simple and see if it works. Gives us information about what types of features replicate and what do not. So that's what we uh we initially started with. And uh the idea is that increasing the temperature reduces that modulus by three or four orders of magnitude. uh we form the shape, then we cool down to freeze that topography in place. And uh what this is going to let us do is predict for an arbitrary stamp design uh what the shape of the uh the embossed part will be, what its surface topography will be for a chosen temperature and pressure. uh for embossing and uh here's the computational approach that we we decided upon and and this is um really quick to run. The idea is that we we want to describe how the surface of the material responds to a point load. And uh if the material were linear elastic and if it were uh substantially thicker than uh the uh the dimensions of the features of interest, then the topography in response to a point load would um effectively go as one over the radial distance from the the point where the load is applied. And that's a a standard contact mechanics result. But we're talking about computing uh computing approximate topographies and this is going to be done in a discretized way where we split the surface of the of the of the polymer into series of square elements. So we can uh we can translate this point load response into the response of the surface to unit pressure applied in a in over one element of our discretized surface. So this this is a the plane of the surface of the wafer, the surface of the the polymer, and we're trying to express how far that part of the surface goes down when you apply unit pressure here. And uh that's the answer. So we uh we tried this uh with some very simple geometries, lots of parallel channels that we had etched into into silicon. uh they they were about 20 microns deep and uh the these these silicon channels and on the order of 120 microns in in pitch. There are many channels going in uh AC across uh the screen. But what what we show here is on the left scanning electron microraphs of uh cross-sections through those embossed structures where a variety of different loads have been applied and the loads were held for less than a minute. So it's our working assumption here that all the defamation was to do with the with the rubbery behavior of the material and there wasn't really enough time for plastic flow to occur. So we're just using our zeroth order model to uh to to figure out what the Young's modulus of the material was. Essentially there's one parameter that we fit uh in doing the simulation and that is the Young's modulus. Here are simulations done using that model. So we're roughly capturing the uh the shape and it seems to all stack up if we choose this Young's modulus 5 megapascals at 130° C. So that's all very well but you know having these parallel channels doesn't give us too much information for a given experiment. So uh we had to think quite carefully about what type of characterization patterns to use in these these experiments. We're trying to think of ways of doing a minimal number of experiments that will give us as much physical information as possible. And and what we came up with with was this. Here is a a a plan of the surface of a silicon stamp that we etched. And uh it's a square array of uh various patches of features. Some of them are parallel channels, some of them are square holes. And uh we have parallel channels running in both directions. So for every line to space ratio of channels, there's one set running horizontally somewhere, one set running vertically. and that they they were arranged in a random order across the across the stamp. Now uh there's one twist to this which is that because we do our simulation using uh a discrete FA transform a fast fora transform the representation of the space that we're simulating is assumed to be periodic in space. Um so we uh accommodate that by actually making the pattern periodic. What I show here is uh is one one rep one one replicate of the pattern and this is about uh 4 mm in diameter. But in fact what we do is we have I suppose on the stamp we have a 3x3 array where um where what I've shown on the screen is contained in this region. So it's pseudo periodic from the point of view of the material surrounding it. The material is a millimeter thick. This is 4 mm. And uh so what's going on at the edge here uh looks exactly the same to the material as as this material sees over here. And that makes the simulation match up with the with the experiments nicely. So we etch this stamp, we choose some embossing conditions, press it into the substrate and use white light scanning interferometry to measure the surface topography. The smallest features in this particular stamp are five micron in diameter. Uh what we're also doing now actually is a set of experiments where we've scaled down this pattern a 100fold to make a nano imprint lithography stamp of the same pattern. And uh so we're we're trying to tie all the mechanics together and see if similar effects occur at the nanocale. Anyhow, in the bottom left here is uh is is a composite map of the surface where uh the the red colors show the the higher topographies where more material has penetrated further into the stamp cavities. And on the right here are eight cross-sections through that topography labeled 1 to8. The experimental data is shown in black underneath and and the and the prediction of the linear elastic model with only one fitted parameter the Young's modulus uh is shown in red and you can see that there's remarkable correspondence between the two. um we get both a prediction of how far on average material penetrates cavities of a given diameter and also we we do capture these interactions of patterns of different densities. You can see for example uh let's say well I guess this is a good this is a good example here you you're seeing many instances of a given trench diameter but trenches that are closer to different patterns fill less far than those that are in the center of the patch. And this is all this is all captured reasonably well by this rubbery model of of the polymer. So looks like we've got the basis here for uh for for for doing efficient simulations that you can run that simulation in 20 seconds in mat lab and it's uh it's giving you I think probably 95% of the information a full finite element simulation would give you as far as topography is concerned. So we can also uh abstract our experimental results and and view them in simpler ways. Um and and and one way of doing that is to look within each region of features and uh measure the peak penetration of material into the cavity. So we we just measure the range of heights within the central 80% of the area of each patch of features and then plot that that peak penetration against uh against some some parameter. In this case I've plotted the pattern density which is the ratio of the cavity width to the cavity pitch and uh the different colors in this in this graph represent different feature pitches. So that the the pitch being the the distance from one cavity to the next. And uh what I what I show is the the the elastic model matching up pretty well with the with the experimental results. Of course, you might think that uh you know this this is leading towards the possibility of non-dimensional groups to describe features and how they fill and putting down design rules that would tell you how to scale the embossing pressure as your pattern scaled down and these sorts of things. So the this is a great way of of viewing the results and getting intuition about them. Of course, as you increase the pressure and material starts to touch the tops of the stamp cavities, this uh this straight line breaks down, of course, and and and the red the red symbols show what happens when the pressure is increased to a stage where where the larger cavities fill. What you can also do is use a series of these experiments to get material properties as a function of temperature or of some other parameter. And that's exactly what we did here by doing a series of embossing tests at different temperatures. And the gradient of that line penetration to pressure will be inversely proportional to the effective elastic modulus of the material. So we we did that. We uh got out these values for the Young's modulus against temperature and luckily they match up really nicely with um a model for Young's modulus that was derived from bulk compression experiments that was just done in a big Instron load frame using bulk materials. So you could start to see how uh with careful choice of of of of test embossing patterns, we can get a lot of information out of a new material quite quickly. Uh scale information, strain rate information perhaps, temperature information. And uh really the one of the big challenges here is deciding what are the embossing tests you're going to do. What combination of temperatures and pressures are you going to go for first? That will give you the most information. Now, I said before that this rubbery model is really only useful if if the hold time is comparatively short. And uh you know, often that's that's the case. Um you you want the cycle time to be as short as possible. So if if you can uh get the material into a state where you press hard enough, you get the defamation almost instantaneously then that's great. But in a lot of cases you can't do that and uh you do get this plastic flow. So what I show here is uh the evolution of an embossed topography over time as we hold the load at high temperature. The black symbols down here show what happens if you start cooling the material down as soon as the load reaches its peak. So material is is boowing into the into the cavities but hasn't gone very far. And then right up here you you've waited for 10 minutes and uh all but the smallest features have at least touched the tops of the cavities. Of course this yaxis is showing the peak penetration. So it's the the distance from the top of the the the uh the feature to the bottom and it tells you nothing about whether the corners of the features have been filled. But this is a reasonably useful measurement. Now question is can we adapt our simple model to capture this visco elastic behavior without increasing the computational burden very much. And uh well the next thing you might think of doing is adding a linear dashboard into the system and uh maybe it's linear that would be the first thing to try. Maybe you do need to capture the idea of a yield stress as well. uh and maybe you need to capture the idea of a strain rate dependence which in PMMA is such that the that the yield stress uh increases substantially with strain rates above about 10 the minus2 per second. So uh in fact we just tried adding in a linear dash pot. So what this does in effect is takes the takes the point load response associated with purely rubbery purely linear elastic behavior which would be like this and uh scales it by a factor that's related to the time the load is applied and and all that's saying is imagine imagine this was visco elastic you applied a point load you get some instantaneous defamation, but over time I'm saying this this uh this surface is just scaling down. All the the points are staying in the same ratio of height, but it's just scaling down. And you you could um you know, we we assumed that that scale factor was proportional to the whole time, but you might not assume that. You might say, well, what if there's um there's actually a sort of limiting strain where the network the polymer network is as stretched out as it as it can be for a particular load and uh in that case you would have um I guess strain against time would be would asmtotically approach some limiting value that was related to that spring and that that would also be quite easy to compute. you computer a topography at the start of the holding, a topography that would be associated with infinite time and then maybe interpolate using an exponential function of whole time. But anyway, we just went with with a linear scaling and uh it seems to work remarkably well for these particular conditions, 110 degrees C, which is a few degrees above glass transition. Um, so we're actually we're we're definitely in a uh in in a region where plastic flow is is is significant is important. Um and uh what we see uh the these are at the top experimental data 3D plot of the the measurements taken using optical interferometry on the left for less than a minute holding time loading duration and on the right when we left that load in place for 10 minutes. So you can see that obviously over time the narrower features start to fill and uh the simulation to a reasonable extent has has has captured that and in fact the shortcoming of the simulation is that it underestimates how quickly the narrower features fill for the for for the parameters that we fit. And um so that is is definitely an imperfect model, but it's pretty useful I think for for getting a first cut of of of uh of a simulation. So, of course, we can now that we've got this characterization idea, we can apply that to different materials. And we did it with this uh this cyclic olifin polymer xeon, which is um it's a thermoplastic. This one softens around 135 degrees C. Um has quite a few advantages over um over PMMA. uh although it's more expensive, it doesn't absorb water as readily, which is pretty relevant to uh microffluidic devices. Uh it transmits light to shorter wavelengths, which is relevant when you're exciting fluorescent tags inside the chip with UV light. And um so it's useful to be able to characterize these new materials as they come along and when you don't necessarily have an unlimited supply of the material. So uh again this is a plot of peak penetration against cavity diameter and um although most of the most of the data sit sit on a roughly straight line that when when you have cavity diameter being a large proportion of the pitch in other words there are very narrow uh hello um there are very narrow uh walls of of of the stamp material pressing into the pressing into the polymer. That's when the the penetration does does seem to deviate from this straight from this straight line. So anyway, now I've I've shown you results from a few carefully chosen operating points and you know I showed a set of results where only temperature was varied and I I showed um I showed some you know for Xeon there was only one temperature one whole time one uh one load and um we need to start thinking about what combination of operating parameters would we want to deploy if we knew nothing about a material uh except for its approximate glass transition temperature. What what would we uh want to vary first? And uh so you might think about doing some sort of fractional factorial experiment where your uh variables of interest were were those connected with the process. the temperature, the load, the hold time, the time over which the load is applied. And uh that indeed uh is is what what I what I did with a third material, another brand of cyclic olifin polymer called topaz. And this this is a material that uh softens around 85 degrees C. Um and so we we did a 2 to the 4 minus one fractional factorial uh where there were the four parameters were embossing temperature, peak embossing force, uh hold time and the time over which the load was was ramped up to its to its peak. And um the astute among you will will notice that these these variables are are not going to be independent because the the average load over the loading time will contribute to the uh to the hold time. So uh it's it's a it's a rough and ready uh set of experiments but nevertheless gives you gives you some idea of what we might do. And um here we have uh again cavity penetration results as a function of cavity width for different feature pitches. The top plot uh is for features of a pitch of 100 microns and this is for 50 and 25. And you you see that again we have this nice trend where the peak penetration uh increases up to uh up to a maximum value. That maximum value is the is the height of the the cavities in the stamp. And uh you'll also notice that I put these little black dots on the graph as well. And those are the measured heights of the stamp cavities. Um, so you can see that actually the heights of the stamp cavities fall off for the for the narrower for the narrower cavities and that's uh associated with um the uh the etching process that's used the the actual plasma etch that makes the trenches in the silicon stamp uh has a harder time etching the narrower trenches. you know, it's a good sanity check that we're actually measuring the uh the penetration of polymer into the cavities. Now, um here are some 3D plots of of results. This is in the top left. This is uh essentially our our standard our center point run set of parameters where for a 4-minute hold time, you get reasonably good filling of most of the feature sizes, but it's not perfect. So we can get an idea of process variability. Uh this is a set of parameters that was really no use at all. Uh 100 newtons. We haven't even leveled out the uh the the nonp parallelis nonp parallelism in the machine and one side of the substrate was contacted with the stamp and the other was not. So there's a lot of missing data here. and at 100 100 C 900 newtons 8 minutes we pretty much got complete filling of of most of the features. So you know the what we um what we also did I I should should have mentioned that randomized the order of the samples and interspers these center point runs the feature size is very small for 500 newton does damage the stamp uh in these experiments we haven't we haven't damaged the stamp um I mean the actually the compressive stresses experienced by the silicon are are nowhere nowhere near enough. I mean to to to break it the tensile strength of silicon is over 100 megapascals but actually where the danger arises when you're cooling the substrate and we'll we'll get we'll get on to that but um it's really the the lateral forces applied to the protruding stamp features that are dangerous because they they create moments on the features and can cause cracks at the at the base of the feature to propagate. So uh good question right? So anyway intersperse center point runs and then what what we've done to provide some basis for for a test of significance of the effects is is to take the average of these peak penetrations. So we've just taken the mean over all feature sizes and orientations and everything and uh put it put it down here. And so you know you can do an ANOVA and you can look at the significance of various effects. Um and and and actually um it we get we get the impression I mean certainly temperature and force and whole time is significant that you know is exactly what we expected. The question down here is um well at the 5% level load loading rate the time over which that load is ramped up uh is not appearing quite to be significant but you know even we we don't know because we we didn't make a very judicious choice of of of uh aliasing arrangements. um we we don't know whether that's really at the 7% level significant that loading time is is is a is is a relevant factor or whether it's the interaction of temperature, force and hold time. And you just thinking about this intuitively, you do expect the interactions to be important. You expect the product of temperature and force to be relevant or some nonlinear combination of of the two parameters. um just because a temperature imparts a strain rate for a given force. So increasing the force will increase the strain rate and so forth. So anyway and and also as you know as as we probably would have expected that there's significant curvature in the results and and you know harking back to that graph of uh modulus against temperature that's exactly what we would expect. I actually I should have highlighted when uh when I showed you this graph that uh there's there are trade-offs to be made in picking these operating parameters. On the one hand, you might say, I don't want to heat the material any hotter than is necessary. I'd rather just press press as hard as I need to and and operate maybe operate at 120 115° C. uh where I can deform material um and and then because I'm not at a very high temperature when I cool down there isn't going to be very much differential thermal contraction of the stamp and the substrate so I won't have big residual stresses and I won't risk breaking the stamp and that would be a re really logical thing to say um and from a process control perspective however you can see that this may not be a very good place to operate where modulus is highly sensitive to temperature and uh our personal experience with uh lab apparatus and this is probably different in industry but controlling the temperature is is is fairly difficult. I mean you you can this is quite an optimistic error bar in fact to put on the temperature. So that's I think a really relevant consideration um for for choosing hot embossing parameters how sensitive we are to temperature and um giving a temperature window of plusus one degree. That's what that's what I estimated for that particular machine. Yeah. Yeah. And I think um that there are also big challenges to do with temperature uniformity across chucks. Yeah. that's that's really uh something that people are looking at. So in in fact the uh the side of the industry that's more advanced is really the nano imprint lithography side more so than the the micrombbossing side and and in that case uh it's it's more attractive to go to very high temperatures to make the material behave more like a viscous fluid than like a a rubbery material or visco elastic. So then temperature variation isn't so much of of an issue. You're you're right down in the 4 megapascal range. So it's um but yes, good point. Absolutely. Now, um, yes, there's one really interesting thing about these results and, uh, I mentioned that I had two sets of each feature size and one was oriented vertically on the stamp and one horizontally. And I just put those on there on the off chance that there was anisotropy in in the materials. And it turns out with this topaz sample, which is a gift from the supplier, there is really strong anisotropy. And uh so you can see that the the filledin um the filledin symbols are uh for an arbitrary defined orientation 90° and and the open symbols for 0 degrees. So turning the feature through 90 degrees gives you this this really big difference in in in penetration. And these results are based on five replicates. You can see the error bars there. one standard deviation of of the five replica results. And uh there's definitely a significant an isotropy whether that's to do with residual stress in the in the cast uh in the cast sheets alignment of the polymer chains because of some some feature of its processing. I mean, you can start to see that if materials like this have such a big orientation dependence, um, and that is so dependent on how they've been processed, you can't necessarily know the whole processing history of what you're supplied. It will be useful to have these quick checks of of of the properties of materials that that are given to you. And they they wouldn't you wouldn't be able to get that information just by a bulk compression experiment. So these these carefully designed test patterns are really important. I should say that this is this is an in the material not in the stamp because if we rotate the stamp relative to the sample the uh the the results reverse. So it's definitely in the material. Uh anyhow, that was uh that was for Topaz and I I showed you a few slides ago what happens when uh when when hold time is relevant when you've got plastic flow and we saw that uh that that the introduction of this linear dash pot the scaling of the point load response function was a reasonably good way of capturing that. Uh what we're working on now is is this ability to capture yield stress to iron out some of the shortcomings of the model. The fact that those narrower features actually filled more than the model predicted. And uh the other thing that we're trying to do is extend this simulation approach to thin substrates for the nano imprint lithography case where this type of point load response function isn't correct. The features are the same size roughly as the thickness of the substrate. You have to start thinking about lateral transport of material and uh that's quite an exciting topic. Now, we had a couple of good questions about damage to the stamp and demolding issues. And this is perhaps the uh the biggest impediment to to the use of imprinting it microscale structures. It's not it's not that much of a problem for for nano imprint, but microscale structures, it's it's crucial. And you here are some examples of uh problems that that have occurred during cooling and demolding. This is an SEM picture of a PMA component that has been embossed with a a hexagonal post. This was this was made from silicon in fact. And if you imagine the uh the substrate being being mostly on this side of the feature cooled under load, the polymer having at least 10 times the thermal expansion coefficient as silicon uh has pushed itself against the sides of the features. And we when we demold we get these really substantial ridges. I think this was this was embossed at 130° C. So 20 20 degrees above glass transition. And uh so what we haven't yet worked out is whether these uh these contact stresses are large enough actually to push the stamp off the off the substrate or whether uh it's just uh elastic potential energy stored in the in the polymer that causes this ridge to spring up when you peel the the stamp off the substrate. Here are some optical microraphs showing similar problem. Triangular hole embossed into a polymer substrate. Uh the material has contracted from right to left relative to the stamp feature. And in fact, sometimes we see these shards of polymer being sheared off uh and and and again a hole where there's been a few tens of microns relative contraction. Go. I just I'm curious is there any some like lubricant that you can use to decrease the load you there are uh there are products you can get that you can spray onto the mold or indeed treatments that can be given to the mold to reduce the coefficient of friction between between the mold and the and the substrate. that won't that won't reduce the magnitude of the the lateral force. That's to do with Young's modulus and the coefficient of thermal expansion. But yes, it it will um it will potentially make it easier once that lateral force is exerted to pull the stamp out. However, it's not the problem isn't all to do with friction. Sometimes you have you either your stamp is imperfectly made and there's a a negative draft. I mean I exaggerate but you know that if that were a stamp and that were a polymer that's a problem that people run into quite a lot. And then if the stamp has been made by deep reactive ion etching where there's this uh cyclic etching process and there are there are these little submicron scallops. you're susceptible to mechanical locking and and and there's plastic defamation of the polymer as you pull it off. So, it's a good point. Yes. And and and actually one thing that does work quite well is to leave the uh the teflon polymer coating on the silicon after etching. And that that does do quite a lot. Has a very limited lifetime though. Anyway, uh the the points of saying all this is is um as as I alluded to a few minutes ago, you might you might think of uh reducing the temperature swing to as small a value as you can so that that amount of thermal contraction is is restricted. You might even think of removing the load slightly above the glass transition temperature. Um, if you're in a region where some of the defamation or most of the defamation is actually plastic, which is true in a region about 10 degrees above glass transition for Pmama, if you can exploit the material properties to to avoid having a big temperature swing, then that could potentially be very exciting. And uh together with with Matt Dirks who's in the lab for manufacturing and productivity um we we looked into this a couple of years ago and uh found that if we if we control the temperature really carefully um then then it was promising. uh you know if you demold at 50 degrees C so well below glass transition and then uh pull pull the stamp off this is a a cross-section through the through the part then you get this horrendous ridge on the side of the part near the edge the side of the the feature near the edge of the part if you go down to if you demold say well above d transition 120 you get this blue line so you get you get some boeing of the base of the feature where where material has sprung back and you get splaying of the sidewalls and that's and this was repeatable over over many samples. However, if we can hit 110 degrees C on the nose, we get a nice flat feature. We get nice flat sidewalls and we get no ridge at all. And that would be great. Um, but again, that's that's the thing. Can you in a production setting make it 110 and not 115 or 120 and and that and that I think is probably possible to achieve but would increase the cost of the apparatus. So this is uh this is definitely something to be aware of and another thing that is uh of importance is that the risk of the whole part boeing if the demolding temperature is too high. We've observed problems with with that. So, uh that needs to be thought of as well. Here we can see also that if you're going to remove the load at or above the glass transition temperature, you have to pull out the stamp and cool it down jolly quickly because otherwise the part will start to contract back to its original flat surface. and and and so you leave it for 10 minutes, things start to look pretty pretty poor. Okay, that is uh an overview of uh about half of my thesis. And since we're at half past 9, I think we should stop. But uh are there any questions from anyone? If not, uh, then I guess the floor is open for questions about the projects. Mention one thing. Yeah. I I think later today hopefully uh uh or by tomorrow at the latest I'll post the tentative schedule for what groups will be presenting uh on each of uh Tuesday and Thursday. It'll be in the normal class period. Uh so we'll we'll plan for that. I'll have some other instructions like uh it'll it'll be best if possible to send those presentations to me a little bit early. I see we do have a USB uh you know port so it's possible we can we uh add up the presentations on the fly. I don't know quite how well that works out in Singapore. We'll have to figure that out as well. But but be alert some of you based on random draw are will be doing uh presentations on Tuesday and some groups will be doing that on Thursday. Are there Yeah. questions? Is there a rough guideline for how long the IT e letter should be or oh of the e uh paper? Yeah. Um I think typically whatever what whatever it it takes to do a reasonable job. I think uh something typically on the order of six, seven, eight pages is is I I think what we often saw in the past. Sometimes it might be a little bit shorter depending on how much background you have. So I don't have a strict strict page guideline. Good. Any questions Singapore on on that? Okay, great. Professor, yes, we have a we have a question for our project. We have actually have two questions. So um one question is that uh we have two outputs in our Can can you hear me? Yeah, speak up a little bit. It's a little bit. Okay. So, um one question is that we have two outputs that we are measuring in the data but these two outputs they are negatively correlated and our objective is to maximize one output and minimize the other output. So we understand that we can do it separately in optimization but you know when we want to sort of create a combine objective function and optimize these two together as they they come from the same set of inputs how how can we do that? Yeah. So the classic approach there is is it's a trade-off right one or the other. And what you typically do is apply a weight to the two alternatives. So you have a different numeric weight based on your engineering importance or the you know the customer importance or whatever of the two two effects. So you have one function that combines say squared deviations in the two outputs but with a different weight on the two outputs. Okay. I see. Okay, you're all set. We have another question actually. Okay, I have one more question is regarding the email you sent us. So, uh we were told that we can explore some of the one factor at a time strategy. Um we are not quite sure what what the strategy are you referring to. Is it studying the output and one input at a time or is it more like a stepwise regression? No, I'm referring to the optimization approach uh the one factor at a time OFAT that uh professor Dan Frey talked about in his lecture. So where you explore the corners, you look and see if you've improved it or not to decide if you keep that move. And then once you do make a move, then you randomly decide which next corner to experimentally try. So you've actually got the data already done from an a DOE, but now you can pretend you were actually running the experiment just one experimental point at a time using the OFAT approach. And I think that would be interesting for online optimization to compare also to response surface modeling optimization. Okay. All right. Thanks. Great. All right, see you guys