The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. So we we study group theory not to admire group theory but to use it to make sense of spectra and usually when it's taught it's taught as a separate and beautiful object. And the the goal of trying to uh uh uh use it to ask the kinds of questions that we would want answers to as practicing spectroscopist is usually hidden. And so what do we want to ask? We would like to know from how a spectrum appears what it tells us qualitatively about the molecule. And uh as much as possible I'm going to be trying to address that. And one of the most important techniques is creating a reducible representation uh using cartoon-like ideas and reducing it. So that we can figure out what are the vibrations of the molecule. And then we find out what are their symmetries and then we find out what will their spectral look like because a given vibrational symmetry implies a certain uh rotational structure in the spectrum. And there are beautiful examples in the literature of the use of this kind of logic to decide on the shape of a molecule. And uh we will soon be starting talking uh in a case study way of electronic spectra. And one of the most beautiful things that happened uh about uh 60 years ago was the proof that acetylene is undergoes a qualitative change in geometric structure upon exitation from the ground state to the electronically excited state and that this could be proven uh by the selective use of group theory. A similar thing happens with firmaldahhide although the change in structure is not so dramatic and it's more subtle and that is formaldahhide in the ground state is planer and in the excited state it's bent but the barrier to planerity is very low and so uh one uses group theory to look at the spectrum and you see two different answers depending on whether you're looking at low vibrational levels or higher vibrational levels. So um I hope that I will be able to give enough tools so that you can you can see how we get the qualitative information quickly. Okay. So here is a character table and the reason I chose D3 is because it's not C2V uh and everybody can do C2V and there isn't much there. And this is one of the smallest group that has degenerate representations. And so it's degenerate representation. Well, uh you can see how well prepared I am. So um this is sufficient to uh illustrate as much of the complexity of group theory as I would hope we'd need. Now, so we have a character table and these are uh the irreducible representations and the first thing to notice is that the symmetry operations are arranged according to classes. I told you what a class is and how to find all the uh members of a class. But you can um yeah and uh uh so there's one two three four five six classes and these are the irreducible representations and there's six of them. The character tables are always square when they're arranged according to classes. There's the same number of classes as there are representations. Okay. Now uh the irreducible representations the characters for them are like a set of normal well not they're not normalized here but they're like uh they're orthogonal vectors and they are norm normalizable in the sense that if you recognize that each element appears the number times that there are members in a class and you divide by the order of the group then they are normalized. So, one can always generate a character table by knowing the dimension of the the uh um usually what you would do is you'd find out how many classes there are and then you say okay I need six I need that number of irreducible representations and uh uh it doesn't take much to recognize that you're going to have uh two doubly degenerate represent and so you and and you start with the totally symmetric guy and you write as many orthogonal vectors as you can knowing some rules and you could generate this and then after you've done that you say oh well now how do I put the different labels on these things what are the characteristic features that are associated with each label and u I thought I knew that uh until I discovered that uh uh my rule about C sigma V was wrong. Uh but um okay in addition to I mean you don't need to generate all of these uh characters because there there unless you're on a desert island and you don't have a book uh the character tables are ubiquitous. They're all they're everywhere. And uh uh so mostly what we want to do is know how to use these things. Okay. The character tables are dressed up with extra symbols in columns on the right and more over here. And these are what you need for describing uh the uh selection rules for electric dipole transitions. And the thing that I didn't put over here are for ramen transitions. These are also uh things the uh x y and z tell you about p orbitals. These tell you about d orbitals. So there's all sorts of things that you can use these character tables for. Okay. So one of the first things we want to do is to discover how I mean suppose someone gives you a character table like this without these things. Uh to discover how rotations and translations what what do they correspond what character what irreducible representations do they correspond to? And so you always want to draw a cartoon and you want to know how to use these cartoons. And uh this is true for CNPI group theory as well as point group theory. And there are some very beautiful uh uh cartoons uh for classifying uh uh uh things according to irreducible representation in Bunker and Jensen. But I mean suppose we have an axis system x y z and uh uh we would like to uh so here we have a vector uh pointing in the in the z direction and uh so we'd like to know what the various symmetry operations do to a vector pointing in the Z direction. And so the first thing is the identity operation leaves it alone. A rotation by uh um about the the Z-axis leaves alone. It's still pointing I mean uh so the issue would be is it pointing this way, that way or this way. And so that you could have uh all right so C2 perpendicular to the symmetry axis well that turns it over so that's minus one uh sigma h well that that's a reflection in this plane that turns it over minus one uh s3 well that leaves it alone for the rotation part and turns it over for the other part and sigma v that's a reflection in a plane containing the z-axis that leaves it alone. So here are the six uh things that happens to a translation in the Z direction. And so we look for an irreducible representation that uh behaves that way. And uh it's not that one. It must be one one this one a2 double prime. And uh and that's right. And so I suggest that you uh do the same thing for a vector pointing in that direction and see how that behaves. And what you end up discovering is if you have a vector pointing in the x direction, it gets mixed with a vector pointing in the y direction. And uh you find that xy together behave as e prime. So then there's rotations. Suppose we have a rotation about the Z-axis. And now we ask, well, what do the various symmetry operations do to that that uh object? And so a rotation the identity does nothing. Uh C3 does nothing. uh uh C2 perpendicular. Well, that's going to uh uh take now this is harder for hard for me to see. Uh it will reverses it and uh uh so you have to practice a little bit. So you do this and you discover that the rotation about the z-axis g belongs to a2 prime. And so uh you you can uh uh dress up the character table with these symbols which are useful for telling you about uh selection rules. um and we'll see how that works out. Okay. So, one of the things you're going to want to do is compute the character of a direct product of two characters. So, we have a character for uh so what do you do? uh you just multiply element by element and get a new vector uh and uh so for example if we did E prime times uh EP prime what are we going to get well we're going to get four in the first position and then lots of other stuff and one of the things you know is that prime times double-p prime is double prime and 1 * uh 2 is 2 and uh so there are a lot of things a * b is b and uh uh g * u is u and so uh you know immediately that this is going to be is going to consist of nothing but uh irreducible representations that are double prime and uh uh and so on. Okay, so you do this out and you get 4 1 0 -4 -1 0. Okay, so now we've taken uh a direct product of two e representations and we have something that has four in the first position. This is reducible because the highest order uh irreducible representations are of order two. So we know that we have to take this apart into different irreducible representations. And what do we do? Well, we ask, well, how does this vector project or how do each of these vectors project on this? And again, this is where you make the mistake. You have to remember that we're we we're describing vectors that are associated with one thing for each symmetry operation, but we've condensed them according to classes. And so when you when you attempt to reduce this, you have to multiply uh the uh by the number of elements in a class. So I've done the reduction and uh so you discover that this gives rise to uh e I can't even read what's in my notes. Is that a prime or a double prime? That looks like a double prime. It has to be a d. I said it was going to be a double prime. E double prime and a one double prime and a two double prime. So I mean one way to do this is you multiply this reducible character by each of these. But if you have some shortcuts, you don't have to do each of them. You just do the ones that you think are going to be important. And so this didn't require six uh direct products. You could have gotten it very quickly just with three and in fact you could have gotten it with two because then you would know whether there's something left over. So anyway this is this is the main thing you get a reducible representation and you and you reduce it and there all it happens again and again in various applications. Okay. So, and this is this is one of the things that I really love about group theory. Uh dressing up a molecule with uh things that represent the internal coordinates or anything you want and finding which irreducible representations do the things you picked out span. And so you can you can be so suppose we have a molecule which is a D3 molecule that's planer and symmetric and so boron triricchloride is the the molecule that everybody talks about but uh CO3 double minus is the same thing any you know there's there's a bunch of these molecules and so one of the things you can do is attach XYZ Z coordinates to each of the atoms. So we have we have four atoms. So we have four * 3 uh um uh cartisian coordinates. So we're we're going to get a 12dimensional irreducible representation reducible representation by just uh applying each of the symmetry operations to these cartisian coordinates. And so you got 12 coordinates and you do nothing. Uh you ask well how many have been you know everything is left alone. The the matrix that did that was a matrix which has ones along the diagonal and traces 12. Uh the next thing is C3 and C3 perpendicular to plane permutes the uh the end atoms and so you don't care about that. So this is so easy you know you the only thing you worry about is what happens when you do a C3 for the atom that the C3 axis goes through. And there's a little trigonometry involved and uh uh you discover that that has a trace of zero. So, and then uh C2 perpendicular uh and there's u uh there's three perpendicular C2s. And so those are a C2 uh that contains each of the atoms. These are permuted. And so they're gone. And now uh the what happens when you rotate about this axis is you take uh um you leave one of the coordinates alone and you reverse the direction of the other two. And so the trace for each of these is minus1. And so we have minus2. And uh so sigma h sigma h everybody is involved nobody gets goes away but two of the axes are in the plane and one is perpendicular and so 2 - one for each atom 2 - 1 * 4 is four and so on. So you you generate this reducible representation that contains everything that this molecule can do which will be 3 n minus 6 vibrations, three translations and three rotations. Well, we got three translations and three rotations here. And so what we do is we reduce this and that gives us all of the reducible rep irreducible representation spanned by this cartisian representation. and then we remove uh the ones that we have to because those aren't vibrations and we're left with something else. So we can determine very quickly that the vibrations uh generate uh the a one prime two e prime and uh one a two double prime. Okay, that's four, five, six, the right number of uh degrees of freedom. So this D3 molecule gives rise to a total of four normal modes. The generacy is is six the but they're only four and not uh not six. And uh it might be a useful question to ask well can we distinguish between stretches and bends or can we uh uh divide this up in some uh useful way. So we could take a different representation and just say okay what about that? What about the stretches and what did the group theory do for this three-dimensional reducible representation? What what did you do with your razor? I I took away the cartisian axes and instead of having 12 things that we're we're messing with now we have three things. Or I could also say three. Now these are not linearly independent but you know that they can't all increase. That would be the totally symmetric representation. So you know that they're two linearly independent uh things you can do with the angles. So but it's much more convenient to use this. And so you get a you get three uh a total um you you have a representation and you take away a1 prime and that tells you about the inplane bends. You could also uh take a representation where here's the plane of the molecule and we just put a uh z the z-axis through the center atom on dimensional and we ask well what is that? that'll be the out of plane bend and that'll correspond to one of the irreducible represent. So as long as if you can draw a cartoon-like object that enables you to sort the vibrations uh you can begin to discover uh what is in each of these uh normal modes. Now when you have only one of a particular symmetry species, you can be pretty sure that there is a unique conclusion about what that is that you can get from these cartoons. When there's more than one of a particular species, it tells you it's pretty likely that there won't be a segregation of stretches and bends. So, uh, this is beautiful because you didn't do anything. We didn't solve the GF matrix problem. We don't know what the S vectors are. Yet we we know what are the allowed symmetries of all of the vibrations and we know whe whether some of them are pure stretches and some of them are pure bends and even qualitatively what kind of bends. And you don't have to do any you don't have to be careful to avoid an overcomplete cartoon because you can very quickly project out the piece that that was uh was uh associated with being overcomplete and it's fantastic. And so once we have uh sorted things out, I mean in this case we have a one prime is a pure symmetric stretch. Well, that's pretty obvious because you know a symmetric stretch you can look at that you could say well that's got to be totally symmetric. And uh what's harder to say is well that's all it could be that there's nothing else. But there's only one of them. And so it had damn well better be the symmetric stretch. And then uh the a two double prime is a pure out of plane bend. And uh uh and so the two e prime representations are mixtures of stretches and bends. And uh one of the nice things about them is when you have a doubly degenerate representation, you can often draw a picture that uh that suggests the molecule is doing something that looks like uh an angular momentum. So here's a a picture and what I've done is I've made one of the angles small and now I'm going to draw the same picture uh except that now I'm going to uh make u this angle small and then another picture that makes this angle small. I may So what you have is a uh a distortion of the structure that looks like it's rotating. That's called pseudo rotation. And you can do the same sort of thing with the stretches. You can say, okay, I've got a a stretch where I've elongated this guy. And then the next cartoon I've got a a stretch where I've elongated that guy. And then the next one I've got a stretch where I've elongated this guy. So it looks like the molecule is rotating again. And you can go in both senses. That's why it's a doubly degenerate representation. So you have a kind of vibrational angular momentum which isn't an angular momentum. And there's two senses. And so those are called pseudo rotation. And that's uh an interesting thing. You mean in both senses you could be stretch and bending? Well, you can mix them together, too. But I mean, just have these two pictures. You can have first this one, then this one, then that one, or you can have uh first this one, and then somebody that's distorted in that direction. So, you can have the distortion going around this way, or you can have the distortion going around that way. Couldn't you also have one distortion going in one direction and another distortion going in another direction? Sure, you can have any linear com you have a doubly you can take any linear combination of them. Uh but uh um it it turns out that often when there are these pictures that that say okay there's a distortion that's moving around the molecule without the molecule rotating. It's like an angular momentum and you you use ideas of angular momentum to get splittings in the spectrum. That's a little bit beyond my pay grade right now because I don't understand that well enough to lecture. Okay. So now we have determined the irreducible representations and now what we want to do is find out well what's the spect what are the spectra going to look like? Can we tell whether uh this molecule B C3 is planer or something else? And so uh if it's planer, it's obviously an oblate top. If it's distorted from planer, it can be oblate or prolate. But it so we have D3H and then we have C3V oblate or prolate limits and then there are lower symmetry still and so what you often do when you don't know what the symmetry of a molecule will be is you say okay there are reasonable there's a reasonable sequence of possibilities and I do the group theory for each of them and I look for features in the group theory that will say this is where I can tell the spectrum uh I can tell from the spectrum what which point group the molecule belongs to and it's that's kind of neat and uh um and uh I wish I could do this smoothly and cleanly to impress you with how h how uh informative it is but let's see what we can So the thing that makes transitions occur occur is the dipole moment function and uh uh this dipole moment is a function of the coordinates and uh it's a vector and we can write it as a sum of components where we classify the components according to the uh inertial axis system. Okay. And so we're interested in uh this vector and we're resolving it according to the uh three principal axis components. These are unit vectors. And so we have the equilibrium geometry uh the a component of the equilibrium geometry. And then we have the first term in the power series expansion at equilibrium etc. Okay. And so these are the permanent dipole moments along the uh the principal axis system. And and uh and for this molecule you know at least in um in D38 you know that all of those are zero. These are the things that gives rise to a pure rotation spectrum. And uh so if the various geometries uh uh will have some nonzero permanent dipole moments, one can resolve the question simply by looking at the rotational spectrum. But usually the interesting stuff and there's much more information coming from the vibrational spectrum. So these are controlling the intensities of the vibrational spectrum and uh uh they so what is this? This is some this m is the the result of an integral or this partial derivative of m is the result of an electronic integral. So we know that this quantity partial m a b c uh dqi is an integral that contains the partial derivative qi. It contains zi star the j electronic state and a b or c and si star s j d. So we want this integral to be non zero. Now this is a vibrational spectrum. So the electronic wave function is the same. We we use the so this is automatically totally symmetric. This has the symmetry of the i normal coordinate and this has the symmetry of uh rx r y or rz but we have to make a correspondence xyz abc and that correspondence you know there are often many different or several different geometric forms that are consistent with uh a particular point group. And so you have to worry about how does uh how do the cartisian coordinates in which in terms of which the point group is expressed how do they map onto the principal inertial components? Josh, did you mean x y and z instead of rx r y rz in the middle of that integral there? You said those map to RX, R Y, and RZ. Do you really mean X, Y, and Z? These are rotations. I I haven't I haven't thought about this in fighting detail for 12 years. It was my impression that I want RX, R Y, and RZ here, but I might be wrong. So, uh, so it's a good question. I can't answer it. uh uh so what we want is since these have the same belong to the same irreducible representation we in order for this integral to be non zero we want the normal coordinate and whatever symmetry species these are supposed to refer to to be the same and uh uh so let's think about this um it's it's X, Y, and Z. It is X, Y, and Z. So, this then tells us which one of these survives, and that determines the rotational structure. Thank you. I stared at this a long time last night and I thought I I had it, but that was the one thing. Okay. So we're we're Okay. So now uh we can we know that uh the derivative with respect to qi that's the same uh symmetry species as qi. And so we uh we then look at the transition moment uh uh the the three possibilities for the transition moment. And uh this so the normal mode the normal coordinate here has to correspond to one of these three and those that then determines what are the u what are the allowed transitions and how does their rotational uh structure uh behave. So we have um we have three symmetries and we have E prime twice. And so there is no symbol opposite A1 prime. And so this is vibrational forbidden. The fundamental for this mode is a transition between a totally symmetric level and another totally symmetric level. And there is no x y or z opposite that corresponds to totally symmetric. So this guy this mode is not going to appear in the infrared. This one uh is uh a to double prime that's z. So that is going to appear and e prime e prime is here and uh uh that's xy So we have in the spectrum we have one normal mode that's going to be zpolarized or is going to have rotational structure that's associated with a z dipole a zch changing dipole and and two doubly degenerate vibrations that uh are going to uh be associated with the perpendicular. Okay. So now for for this the caxis is the z-axis. So for a for a symmetric top which is oblate the symmetry axis is going to be uh so that that's the highest order rotation and that's going to be the C inertial axis for an for a prolate top the symmetry axis is going to be uh uh the A axis and that would be Z. Okay, but we don't have a prolate top here. It's fairly hard to make this have a shape that looks like a prolate top. Okay, so C is equal to Z. And it doesn't matter whether X is A or X is B. And in many case because this a doubly degenerate group, doubly degenerate irreducible representation. There's almost always a problem about ambiguity about uh what do x and y correspond to and the only cases in which you have problems is when you have b1 and b2 irreducible representations and that happens in c2v and there needs to be a convention about which is going to be x and which is going to be Y and uh I believe X is out of the plane of a planer molecule and uh but that there there is an agreement on that and I uh and I always forget it. I used to not forget it. I'm too old to remember these things. Yes, I have a question. Yes. Um why do you use the molecule fixed axes instead of the lab fixed axis? Um well I guess the dipole moment is in a particular direction in the molecule. That's correct. And so you know once we uh we get rotations rotate rotational wave functions are really the transformation between the laboratory and the body. and and so the information once we specify where the dipole is in the laboratory in the molecule then uh the rotational selection rules give you know uh um tell us about the relationship between the laboratory and the body. Okay. Now uh we don't care about the polarization along the x y and z axes in the laboratory but we do care about how the transition moment in the body frame. Yes. Okay. So uh it's a good question but I think that uh I think I've answered it in a fairly primitive way. Okay. All right. So for D3H we have four uh modes three of which are um infrared active and um if I had filled out this table I think we would have found that uh the other one is ramen active and there is a general rule about uh complime mentarity or there's a rule and uh in certain symmetry species if it's now I better not say that I don't know uh but often you get if there's a mode that's forbidden infrared uh chances are it will be allowed rama but even so I mean if you have too many irreducible representations there's there's you know there uh there's uh no guarantee that all modes will be allowed both taking together infrared and ramen. So let's just uh be careful about do these um labels about the polarizability also tell you about the quadripole. Yes. Yes. Um and uh so these tell you about electric dipole. These tell you about magnetic dipole. Then there's a quadripole. There's all sorts of things. So uh you learn to use whichever symbol symbols are relevant to the kind of spectroscopy you're doing. Uh okay. So, so one of the important things is here is a transition that is polarized in the body along the symmetry axis. And so we call that parallel and here is something polarized perpendicular to the symmetry axis and we call that perpendicular. And this is all the difference in the world as far as the rotational structure of the bands is going to be. And we saw that for diatomic molecules we had transitions that were parallel delta omega equals z and they don't have q branches and or they have really weak q branches. Um and perpendicular transitions they have delta omega plus or minus one. They have strong q branches. And so this is going to be delta k equals z. This is going to be delta k equals plus or minus one. This is going to have no q weak q branches. is going to have strong cube edges. Okay. So, the traditional way of making sense of uh what you're going to see in the spectrum. There's all the textbooks have to do with uh an ordinary uh um lowresolution spectrum which you would re record using a spectrograph rather than a laser. And so I'll start with that. But you should think when you're doing laser spectroscopy uh it's usually difficult to tune the laser over a lot of spectrum and often you want to get the answer about what is the uh uh what is the um assignment of the spectrum? What is the symmetry of the molecule based on a limited amount of spectroscopic observation and the kinds of questions you ask would be different. this would be a legitimate kind of problem but I haven't completely formulated it. So I will draw the pictures the traditional pictures but um uh you should you should think about well what would you know how would you use group theory to get a little bit of spectrum and decide from a little bit of spectrum what the molecule is doing. Okay, so remember when we talked about infrared spectra of molecules, we drew this sort of double hump pattern. And so if we have red on the right, so this would be the R branch and this would be the P branch. And uh uh if it were a perpendicular transition which which was kind of hard to imagine for a diatomic molecule but there uh then you would have a Q branch here. So that there is a gap near the origin of the band and if there is going to be a Q branch it'll be close to it and the R and P branches are always spread out and the Q branch is always compressed. So this is sort of a model for what we would have for polyatomic molecules. So uh if we have a parallel type transition so parallel means delta k symmetry whatever it is oblate or prolate is equal to zero. So we have uh um one um one say we have k equals z and then we have k equals 1 and so for k equals um yeah so in k equals 0 we have a stack of rotational levels. In K equals 1, we have a stack of rotational levels. And so, uh, we're going K=0 lower state to K equals Z upper state. Rotational levels. The rotational, uh, the the J structure of a given K is pretty much the same from one vibrational level to another and from one K stack to the next, except that the lowest few J's are missing for K not equal to zero. And so if you're going to be doing a laser experiment, one thing you could do is make sure the molecule is really cold. And so that clears away a lot of the rubble. And then you would be looking to see where what is the lowest J you have in a particular series of lines, which you do by combination differences. And just rotational cold. Yeah, you that would be one way to do it. Um now one really important thing is that uh for a prolate top the J structure is smaller than the K structure. For an oblate top the J structure is larger than the K structure. But for both kinds of tops, if you have a parallel transition, the the 0ero to zero transition and the one to one transitions are going to be almost on top of each other. For symmetric tops, uh you can observe multiple KS, but you can't observe transitions between them and they all stack up. And so for a parallel type transition, all of the different uh K subbands look roughly like this. They have this double hump structure. There's missing stuff in the middle. And there could be a Q line. The Q- line is generally weak. But it turns out that when K is not equal to zero, there will be one moderately strong Q line Q for J is equal to K. And so the parallel bands have the appearance more or less just like this, as if it was just a simple diatomic, except that there's a lot of lines. And so you see this this simple double hump and a and a little bit of a a spike here. So one of the bands is going to look like this. And perpendicular transitions, those are going to be transitions where you go from kals 0 to k= 1. uh and uh uh k uh um k= 1 to k equals z and things like that. So there's going to be a whole bunch of bands. This time each of them is going to have a big spike here because the Q branches are strong. And so the question is how do these bands how are they arranged? And they're arranged uh basically you have uh for a prolate top you have uh c k squared and so uh you'll have a transition that goes uh from zero to one and from one to two and from two to three. 0 to one is going to be one is going to be zero. Uh so so let's let's just draw this arrow like that. So this will be 1^ 2 - 0 1 A1c and this is going to start at 4 - 1 is C 9 - 4 is 5 C. So what you're going to see is a series of subbands separated in intervals of 2C. So um and you can go 0ero to one or you can do uh you can go in the opposite direction. And so there'll be bands uh uh there'll be subbands with Q branches going one way and Q branches going the other way. And so what do we do? How do we denote those transitions? So we have a notation delta J delta K initial and we put J here. So that's how we denote the uh the name of a rotational line. So we use PQ and R for delta J. We use PQ and R for delta K. We specify the number of the initial K and the initial J. The double prime is not a symmetry label. It's initial state lower state. I'm sorry, lower state. Double prime lower state, single prime, upper state. So this is a a very convenient notation that will enable you to label every line. Okay? And uh so what you can discover I mean if you if you're doing relatively low resolution spectroscopy the thing that's going to stand out is the Q branches. And so there'll be a series of equally spaced Q branches associated with each of these K transitions. And uh uh so uh on page seven at the top I show a bunch of spectra uh each like this but the whole spectrum shifted in steps of 2C this way and that way. And then I just take those spectrum and add them together and I see a series of equally spaced cube branches with a lot of trash. And so that provides you with the the the signature of a perpendicular transition in a symmetric top. This series of strong Q branch spikes. And uh whereas a parallel transition has uh just a single uh hot spot in the middle, not quite so compact. Uh but uh um and since the Q branches are relatively weak, that hot spot in the middle is uh not overwhelmingly stronger than the other lines. Um but because they tend to be a little bit closer together, it's still pretty prominent in the spectrum. Okay. What time how much time do I have? Negative four minutes. Negative4 minutes. That's not true. Yeah. Okay. So, uh there are a whole bunch of pictures that you can draw for the various symmetry types of transitions. Now, if you say it's not D3H, it's C3V. C3V still has E representations, but it's a group of order six instead of 12. And uh um and but you can still uh you can still do all of this stuff. But then uh there's two possible C3Vs. There's a C3V where it's a prolate top and there's a C3V where it's uh it's still oblate and so and they will have different looking spectra primarily because a an oblate top is going to have a CO is going to have K structure which is really small compared to rotation and the prolate top will have K structure which is large compared to the J structure. So there's all sorts of wonderful things you can do. Now uh on page nine in the middle there is a uh a little piece of a somewhat higher resolution spectrum which shows uh the uh K structure. So this is a a parallel type band and the caption is the K structure of two rotational lines in the CH3BR new3 mode. Okay, there's all sorts of wonderful stuff here. First of all, two rotational lines that means two changes in J. P17 is J equ= 17 downstairs to J equ= 16 upstairs and P8 is the next one up. And there's a whole bunch of labels on that corresponding to the different case. This being an oblate top uh u it's not an oblate top. This being a parallel type transition. It's a prolate top because the hydrogens's are light and there's one bromine. uh if it were C B uh CBR3H probably oblate but uh uh the different rotational transitions for the different Ks are clustered together and and so uh that that is a would be a characteristic structure for a parallel type transition and uh um so anyway you you do this group theory and you try to find what's going to be different for one symmetry species versus another. And one of the commonest things is the number of discrete bands that you can see for the molecule depends on the symmet on the qualitative structure. And so uh if you observe uh if it's D3H there are going to be three allowed uh vibrational fundamentals. If it's a lower symmetry there will be a different number. Then there's the question of parallel versus perpendicular. And so you can tell from the nature of the band. Then there's this business of asymmetry splittings. You have a particular uh J K A K J and K A there's two KC's associated with that. And we know just from consideration of the rotational constants the A, blast and cruise that the one where K A + KC is equal to J is higher than the one where K A plus KC is is equal to J + one. And so that is always going to be there. And depending on the symmetry of the vibrational level you will uh uh you will have transitions selectively into the upper or lower that you can tell the difference and that uh I didn't say that very well but that turns out to be a really important marker because this ordering of the J KC levels is an inertial effect as opposed to some accident in diatomic molecules lambda double is an accident. But this is something that you can depend on. There's another thing and that's nuclear statistical weights that if you're permuting identical atoms, you're going to have to worry about the permutation symmetry. And so there'll be ortho levels and parallel levels there. There will be uh intensities that alternate or do something as a function of J and K that is uniquely recognizable. Now I'm never going to talk about the nuclear statistical weights uh in in this course but that is a really important feature and it's especially important uh it's best dealt with in CNPI group theory uh because it forces you to to make cartoon representations of the things that where you can build ortho and parasates states that with definite nuclear symmetry And I mean I can challenge you. How do you classify the levels of acetylene where you got two identical bzons and two identical fermians? And you know that's a non-starter. You don't know what to do until you develop a uh a generalization and you say okay I need two structures. I need to label them one two one a b2 and one b a2 and then I can build states that have the right out of linear combinations of those two structures I can build the states and then I can classify them according to whether they're like ortho or parah so that's something that I I wish I could talk about but I want to I I want to move to electronics electronic transitions and that can only be dealt with in a case study way. And so we're that's but basically what we're going to be doing for the rest of 580. So uh thank you for being patient with my lack of precision on this topic, but it's a fun topic and you should explore it. And I I was thinking about a molecule the you know and so you know um trimethyl cyclopropenyl was our candidate. Uh but it I I don't think I'm going to ask you to do anything like that. But it's a good molecule because it, you know, it's basically this molecule but it's got some hair. Okay. I had a really quick question maybe. Yes. Pseudo rotation. If you are an observer, yes, you presumably can't tell the difference between rotation and pseudo rotation if the molecule is really symmetric, right? So, well, what are you observing? You're Well, you're not watching the molecule move. You're not looking at the wave function. You're looking at the spectrum. Right? So, that that was sort of what I was about to ask. Yeah. If this let's say that I um apply a some time varying field to the molecule that ought to induce pseudo rose pseudo rotation if one can imagine such a thing. Maybe one can't because it's totally symmetric. I think that would be hard. But one of the things that you do have is when a molecule is rotating that distinguishes left rotation and right. So that you you end up as soon as the molecule has is rotating about an axis that splits these or cans split these pseudorotating states in a way that is is uh understandable. Now Dick Lord who uh was you know the uh my predecessor as a spectroscopist at MIT and uh he made his uh career on pseudo rotation for ring puckering motions so that you would you know you'd have a a let's say cycllohexene and so you have this chair but this chair and boat confirmation and yeah and so there are all sorts of wonderful things like that but um as soon as you introduce rotation then uh the left and right the counter and uh clockwise and counterclockwise rotations get distinguished in terms of corololis effects and so but it's that's really complicated Okay.