The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, let's get started. Settle down. Settle down. The weekend has not quite started. Um let's look at what happened on Wednesday. Uh there's the scores. Class average about 67. Uh standard deviation about 17. So that that means it's bell curve sitting right on the 50. Right on the 50. A lot of people improved. There were a lot of rags to rich's stories. Um, but there are still fair number of people down here. And so my uh my suggestion to you is that if you're if you're down here and you want to still too much talking people, you want to start your weekend soon, I'll help you by inviting you to leave. You don't have to stay here if you don't want to. But if you do choose to stay, please sit in silence. This is 3091. So, um, if you're down here, get in and see us. Please talk to your recitation instructor. Uh, come on in and see me. We'll talk about strategies for studying, strategies for success. I want you to pass this class, but just doing the same thing over. You know, this is, I think, Einstein's definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again expecting a different outcome. So if what you're doing up to now isn't working, let's try something else and we can help you. Um so the model solutions are up and if there are changes that need to be made, please get in uh to see me. Uh why don't why don't we agree not to do it until Monday? I'd like you to first talk to your recitation instructor and make sure that there's something worth uh exploring. And um the final exam is on the 15th of December. The final exam is going to essentially represent the uh equivalent of of a double monthly test. You'll have three hours, but I give about double the amount of work. So it should give you enough time to finish. But the final exam will consist of a mix of what's covered since test three. So it's like a test four monthly. Okay? and also some material going all the way back to the beginning of the semester. So, it's both cumulative and focused. So, it has breadth and depth. And it's really good to pass the final. It's really good to pass the final. You know, if you're going to if if if people pass the final, it tilts things in favor of passing the class. If you crash and burn on the final, it raises a lot of questions as to whether you've been working all along or you gave up around uh Veterans Day and so on. So, uh I urge you to keep at it and you know, don't leave everything to the last minute. If you take a look at your final exam schedule, this is the third day of the final exam period. Some of you may have exams Monday and Tuesday. If you think you're going to cram it all in on a Tuesday night, it's not going to work. you're going to be very tired by the middle of that week. So, you need to have a plan. You have to work incrementally so that things sink in. You can't just do high-speed fixed second law and expect it's all just going to go zooming in. It won't. It'll look like first law. It'll go in this side, out the other side. So, keep keep at it. All right. Well, let's get on with the the lesson. Uh today is going to be a chance to apply the or organic chemistry that we learned on Monday. I said we learned enough organic chemistry to set the stage for polymers. So today we're going to talk about polymers. Monday we'll come back and finish up polymers and then that'll lead us into biochemistry. So this is all part of applied organic chemistry to date. What are the types of solids that we've seen in 3091? We saw solids that are consisting of single atoms stacked. Then we saw compounds stacked. We last day we started looking at chains and we've even seen networks, some of them amorphous, some of them crystallin. Today what we're going to look at is a new form of solid where the building block is a long chain long in quotation marks. And this is a polymer. Polymers are pervasive in our society. We see them in everything from your your CDs, the CD cases. You see them in trash bags. You see them in clothing. microfiber. Some of these new fibers have uh incredible mix of properties in terms of uh comfort and uh security. Um auto parts all over the map. And when it comes to uh soft matter, we as human beings, we are solid state devices. Mother nature is a polymer chemist. Mother nature is a polymer chemist. It's all macromolecular chemistry. So we want to introduce polymers today. Let's have an operating definition. A polymer is a longchain molecule with a repeating chemical structure with a repeating chemical structure. And let me give you an example. I'll give you one that uh builds on something we saw the other day. We've seen um uh ethylene. We've seen ethylene or ethne. This is C2 H4. And it has the chemical structure Okay, what we can do what we can do is turn this into a longchain molecule with a repeating chemical structure in the following manner. We can react it with something that will catalyze the destruction of this double bond. And once this double bond is broken, we can flip it over to the other side of the carbon, giving us the opportunity to continue to link. So this is done with a radical. So we can denote the radical R. And I'm going to put this remember the unpaired electron. So this is a radical with its unpaired electron which we term an initiator. And so this initiator when it meets something with a double bond reacts. The double bond is something that could be turned into two single bonds. So let's go to maximize bonds. So this one has no bond broken. This one has a double bond. We could react the two and result in the following build this so that we have and now this goes over to here. So now the initiator has attacked this double bond built the bridge and now the radical is at the end here. Well ethylene is a gas. If this is sitting in a reactor gas molecules are colliding with this. So now we can attack another ethylene and so on. You get the picture. Eventually, this thing is thousands and thousands of of atoms long. Let's do one more just for now. We'll have the the bond here. One, two, three, four. Like so. And so now you see a repeat unit. Here's a repeat unit. And this repeat unit can go n times where n is very very large. N can be on the order of oh 10,000 or so giving us molecules that have atomic masses of oh a million grams per mole. These are huge. These are huge. So we call this n I'm using n now in a new way. N is called the polymerization index. N is the polymerization index and it represents the number of repeats of the myrr unit. The myrr is the repeat unit. And what's the length of this thing? Let's let's get a sense of this. Uh suppose we had something that was so say 10,000 units long. So let's say n is 10,000. So that might give me oh something on the order of about a million grams per mole. Let me do the let me do the calculation a different way. Let me say suppose I had something that had a an atomic mass of 100,000. We'll choose a 100,000 g per mole. This is the atomic mass of the polymer. And uh divide that by the atomic mass of uh of ethylene. Ethylene is 28 g per mole. So this is the mass of C2H4. And this is the mass of of the polyethylene one molecule. So that would give us then a polymerization index of 3571 about 3600. And if we estimate a carbonarbon bond distance about one and a half angstroms for carbon carbon bond distance that gives us something that's on the order of about a half a micron a half a micron in length for one one molecule. And to give you a sense of what that really means I want to show you a demo here. What I've got is a a pull chain that you use in um oh downstairs in grandma's house to uh turn on the lights. So this is a whole bunch of these brass balls that are held together by metal. And so let's have each of these represent carbon. And this one is about 3,000 units long. It's about 40 feet. 40 feet. So there's about 3,000 of these uh units here. So let's get a sense of how how big this is. So what I'll do is I'll molecule. This is one molecule. Okay. So imagine what happens when this in the melt state it's flowing. What happens when the melt decreases in temperature and this attempts to solidify. What are the chances that this is going to come out in one of the 14 brev lises? It's vanishingly small, isn't it? This is one molecule. I feel like I just came back from New Orleans. I didn't even have to lift my shirt. I look at all this stuff I got. This is terrific. All right, so that's one molecule. And uh if we imagine if we imagine what happens um let's say that it's pretty clear that that solid let's call this macroolelecule solid macroolecules favor u favor being amorphous favor the amorphous state. is the notion of pure crystallization is is not and we can imagine for example all of the rules that we learn for the inorganic glasses the silicates apply to organic glasses so let's look at say volume versus temperature for something like polyethylene so I'm just going to call this PE polyethylene for short so we can imagine we're up here in the melt state we cool down we go through a normal melting point And then we reach a solidification at some glass transition temperature. But let's say this is at a slow cooling rate. So this is Tg slow. And maybe another occasion we cool at a fast rate. And so we will have a different glass transition temperature and it will be higher. It will be higher. And let's say this over here at uh is room temperature. This is room temperature. So what do I find? I have two different volumes. You've seen this before. So if I have constant uh constant mass constant for constant mass equal masses, the one with the higher volume has a lower density. Right? So this one this should be low density. This is let's let me just put the fast cooling rate. Fast cool. This is slow cool. So this will be low density polyethylene formed here and this will be high density polyethylene simply by the different rates of uh cooling constant mass means then that you have density is mass over volume. So the one with the higher volume gives us the lower mass. So we can see how by different processing we have the ability to change between uh high density and low density polyethylene as a function of the cooling rate. Now other things can happen. If we go at a at a low rate of cooling, we can get even down here at very very uh low cooling rates. We might even get some degree of crystallization. And Tom, could we switch over to the document camera feed, please? So, let's see what happens when this thing attempts to crystallize. So, here we are. So what can happen is if we cool at a slow enough rate, this can't form a single crystal, but what it can do is fold back on itself and thereby put these atoms into a regular uh arrangement. So this is now forming a zone of crystallinity. A zone of crystallinity. And why is it doing this? It's doing this to maximize Vanderval's bonding here. The tighter it packs, the the greater the uh intensity of bond formation. So we see this happening in the formation of such zones of of crystallinity. And when this happens, we have a change in properties. We have a change in properties. Let's consider low density polyethylene. Well, we know that this thing is going to be mechanically flexible. It's going to be flexible because all we have what are the only bonds operative here? They're just weak Vanderval's bonds, mechanically flexible. It's high band gap material and it's amorphous. There are no grains. There's no grain boundaries. So, it is transparent because of the high band gap and it's clear. We can see through it because there are no internal surfaces. So, that's low density polyethylene. highdensity polyethylene. Well, it has some zones of this. So, the highdensity polyethylene has these has these near crystallin zones near crystallin zones and then it's broadly amorphous. The difference here is small. This density here is about 0.92 g per cime cubed and this is about.96 g per cime cubed. So there's a little bit of tighter packing here. But what happens when we get into these zones, these zones of of regularity because there's a higher atom density, this turns out to have a higher reactivity with light. And therefore, I'm using N here not to mean index of polymerization. This is index of refraction. The index of refraction in the near crystallin zones is not equal to the index of refraction in the amorphous zones. So now we have zones that are near crystallin in zones that are amorphous and so we have the effect of internal interface and as a result the highdensity polyethylene is opaque. It's opaque. These zones here add rigidity. Add rigidity. There's there's a stiffness here. So, this one is rigid. So, what do we have? We have lowdensity polyethylene. This is what you see in use in food wrap. Food wrap. Whereas this is what you see in uh in the milk jugs. the trans the uh the milk jugs that are somewhat hardened and do not admit light. Both the same material, but what's happened is just a slight change in the in the uh strength of the material through a change in processing, change in cooling rate. So let's look at how we can take this idea of tailoring properties and and extend it more broadly and maybe put it on a firmer footing. So let's look at the various items in our toolbox. So we want to tailor the properties. First thing we can do is control composition. Control of composition. That's purity. So we can start with pure polymers and polymers that are made of combinations of different polymers. So let's start with the pure. The pure polymer they have their own because it comes from a different heritage they have their own terminology. So pure polymers or polymers consisting of a single myrr are called homopolymers called homopolymers consist of a single myrr one myrr type. One myrr type and it's repeated. So for example polyethylene polyethylene ethylene is the repeat unit and that's all you see it's polyethylene from end to end. Um then if we want to mix different MRS we get what is to a a polymer what we would call an alloy in a metal system and this is called a co-olymer. a co-olymer, it has more than one type, greater than one myrr type, greater than one myrr type. And so, for example, we could make a a co-olymer of say polyethylene with say polyvinyl chloride. Polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride. in this notation, this lowercase C with the hyphens on either side indicate that we're talking about a co-olymer of these two units. So, you know what you know what the parent unit is of ethylene. I've shown you that. And we saw last day if we took ethylene, dropped the hydrogen, this became the vinyl radical. And then if we put a chlorine here, this is vinyl chloride. It's got a double bond here. We can use the same uh polymerization technique propagate this by converting it to a single bond and now instead of vinyl chloride we will have the polymer polyvinyl chloride and if we had both vinyl chloride in the reactor and ethylene in the reactor we would be grabbing molecules of both types and attaching them. So as you move down the chain you might have uh ethylene unit, vinyl chloride unit, ethylene unit and so on. And Tom if we could go to the uh computer feed I can show some examples of different ways in which we can uh put these on the chain. So the first one this is taken right from your reading. The first one is called the random co-olymer where A and B represent different myr units. So A could be ethylene and B could be vinyl chloride. And here they're just random. You get some unit of of uh vinyl chloride then several units and so on. So that's and some people want this for a particular mechanical properties. So let's uh document these different types. So if we have a random arrangement if we have random arrangement of the of the myrr groups random arrangement of the myrr types random arrangement of myrr types we have what is called the random c-olymer so let's just use the same example this could be polyethylene lowercase rvc so that tells you it's a it's a random c-olymer the next one shows they're calling a regular co-olymer where you have alternating alternating so it's strict it's strict alternating arrangement of merr type so it moves from one to the other in alternating sequence and this is known as the uh alternating co-olymer to distinguish it you can't call it regular because r is already taken for the random co-olymer uh The third one is shown up here where we take and we we cluster the different mer types. So instead of having alternating one to the other, we take a run of one type of myrr and then a run of another type of myrr. So we cluster this is clustered arrangement of myrr types into what we call these clusters are called blocks. blocks of the same type of myrr and such a material is called a block c-olymer. A block copolymer and that's showing up here where you see uh there's what four units of A and then there's four units of B and then two units of A, four units of B. This is a little bit unrealistic. Typically commercial block copolymers are usually die blocks or trib blocks. They'll usually have if it were a die block of polyethylene, it would be one run of polyethylene and one run of polyvinyl chloride and that's it. You don't you don't do this sort of thing, but the artist got carried away and somebody didn't proofread. So So there it is. And the last thing you can do is the one on the bottom which is called the graft. The graft is sort of a a type. It's a type of a block copolymer where what you have is you have graft of one merr type in the form of a side chain onto uh another mer type of backbone another mer type for the backbone. So you cluster them, but you cluster them very deliberately in this manner. And that's shown in the in the bottom one. So the backbone is all A's and the side chain is all B's. And here's one. Some of you are going to be doing some traveling. So I've I've put up a very common one. This is uh ABS uh acryin nitrial butadine styrene. So you've seen butadine. We saw that last day. Styrene. What what what this is the the backbone is all uh butadine and then the side chains are alternately um acryin nitral and styrene and this is what's used for hard-sided luggage and also this all these old telephones are made of this uh graft copolymer and by playing with the the nature of these side chains we can obviously make this so that it's somewhat flexible or we can make it so that it's rather rigid. So again examples of of architecture at the at the local level uh dictating uh properties. So we have these uh examples of how we can tailor the properties. The second thing is the configurations of the side groups. side group configuration. These are all options that we have and we exercise them in the synthesis by playing with the synthesis conditions and also the catalysts that are present and that's shown here. There's basically three ways you can put the side groups on. So the the upper one the upper one shows the the methyl group uh randomly going. Sometimes it's above, sometimes it's below and there seems to be no pattern. This whole uh notion of side group configuration is referred to as tacticity. Tacticity it means the placement of the side groups. So you I mean there's only three choices here. Either you put them all on the same side of the chain that's the bottom one isotactic or you put them on alternate. Once it's on one side of the chain then it's on the other side of the chain. So you alternate back and forth with regularity. That's synotactic. And then the third case is come what may there's no no uh seeming uh plan and that's the A tactic. So those are the those are the three types that you need to be aware of. Isotactic, synotactic and atactic. We can figure those out. ISO obviously means they're all on the same side of the chain. A tactic is as amoral apolitical. So this is random and then by elimination this must be alternating alternating and I think I've I think on the next one I did a little doodling for you. Yeah. So here just to bring home what's going on the first one the top is atactic polyropylene. So you see uh there's the there's propyline and what what's happened is this double bond has been broken and now it can propagate and this methyl group in some cases is above in some cases below the chain. Here's uh polystyrene. This is vinyl benzene or phenyl u ethne or styrene and this double bond is broken and you got these phenal groups hanging off the side and this is just vinyl chloride which we saw over here. So again seeing how the the synthesis okay and then the last thing we can look at is is the backbone is backbone architecture or chain architecture chain here referring to the main chain chain architecture and this uh falls under the the general term of conformality. conformality and we're going to revisit this when we talk about uh proteins. It's very important in biological systems and it it it's a direct result of this which I showed you last day that the this bond is free to rotate and if it rotates in certain uh ways so that all of the uh side groups line up perfectly you end up with this so-called eclipsed version. So if you look at the chain on the very end, you'd see one dot that represents the backbone or actually it's zigzagging. So you'd see the the the edge of the zigzag and then all of the pendant groups would be lined up in front of one another and you'd see nothing except the very first one. That's the eclipsed and that's the most regular straight line. And this is staggered where it uh it rotates where it wishes. And I showed you this one where this is this is hardly something with a polymerization index of 3600. But it starts giving you the sense of some are more nearly straight and some are very uh heavily coiled. Both of these are still called straight chains. Both of these are still called straight chains but there are some things that we can look at. So first we have the linear one. the linear the linear chain molecule. And so that's one. All right. And furthermore, if you look here, there's some fine structure. You may even see that at some point along here, there's even uh some attempt at uh crystallization. But even so, the the system moves in one direction from one end to another. The alternative is branched chain. Branched chain. It's a different type of architecture. And in that case, you actually have something that so this is not graph. This is actually the the main uh component of the backbone continuing to grow but growing in a plurality of paths. So you can imagine that one of these is going to pack much better than the other. One is going to have a greater chance of forming such zones of crystallinity and clearly it's going to be the linear chain. These branches stick out and they prevent tight packing. They prevent tight packing. So the branch chain is harder to crystallize. harder to crystallize and when it forms its amorphous structures it has more free volume more free volume and also you can think about the glass transition temperature Tg how is that going to work so on so by looking at the the branching you end up with such structures there's one other one and that's shown here and that's to take several chains whether they're linear or branched. I'm just going to draw several straight chains here. And it's possible to link chains by joining them with some covealent bridges. Covealent bridges. This is a covealent bridge. This is a covealent bridge. And it actually links one chain to another. And imagine the mechanical properties of this material. The otherwise there would be weak Vanderval's bonds and if we apply a sheer stress we can cause the material to plastically deform. But these are strong covealent bonds. So what will happen is I can move this material shear it up to a point but then I encounter the resistance of these bonds and as soon as I let go of the applied force it springs back. So by cross-linking by cross-linking this is a cross- linked architecture. By cross-linking I impart some uh uh elasticity and this is the in fact the structure of a rubber and we call such polymers elastors elastors because they will they will spring back to shape and uh what would have to happen here in order to allow for the cross links we have to be able to form covealent bonds if we're going to form covealent bonds we have to break some bonds that are present in the backbone. So if I've got a if I've got bonds such as this in the backbone and then I come up with this R group that wants to somehow attach, it's pretty clear that if I break one of these bonds in order to make the attachment, I cut the chain. So by it's axiomatic then if I'm going to form cross lengths I need to find a position along the backbone that has a double bond thereby I can break the double bond convert it to a single bond link up with the cross-linking bridge and keep the integrity of the backbone while forming a new bond to an adjacent uh chain. So this is the this is the condition for which we form elastimemers and uh this is the basis for rubber. This is the basis for rubber and I think this next cartoon shows that uh here's a here's polyisoprne and you can see there's a double bond in the backbone and by presenting sulfur sulfur is capable as is oxygen of forming bridges. We saw in the silicates in the borates how the oxygen forms covealent bonds on either side thereby linking silicate units. Well sulfur is below oxygen if we believe men of it should have similar properties and so sulfur is forming bridging structures breaking these double bonds and now linking the one orange backbone with the adjacent orange backbone. So sulfur enables cross-linking and this in fact was discovered here in Boston. It was uh Nathaniel um Hawthorne who was working in Roxbury and was trying to stabilize rubber. Natural rubber is very sticky. And so he found that by adding sulfur he could cause the the rubber to lose its stickiness and thereby uh develop a synthetic rubber that had superior properties. And then it was Charles Goodyear who came to Boston, saw this, took the invention, licensed it, and it was Goodyear who accidentally spilled some of um this cross- linked rubber onto a hot stove. And the uh the thermal treatment gave a far superior rubber which gave birth to vulcanization. And then from there, it's all history of uh automobile tires and and whatnot. So this is advantageous from a property standpoint, but it's very disadvantageous from the standpoint of recycling. How could one possibly recycle this material? Let's compare these two. Let's compare the case of polyethylene. So polyethylene consists of many chains and they will interpenetrate and entangle. What are the bonds between these chains? The bonds between these chains are Vanderval's. This is a Vanderval solid. These are Vanderval's bonds. And we know Vanderval's bonds are operative at low temperatures but not operative at high temperatures. So if we take polyethylene and heat it, these bonds will weaken and this will turn liquid. And we can reprocess this. So by going to high temperature we can reprocess because we're only breaking these weak Vanderval's bonds. Now if we take this cross- linked cross-l polyisoprene cross-link polyisoprene I'll show it in this manner. How are we going to reprocess this? If we if we begin to heat this, we're going to have to go to an extremely high temperature because we have to break covealent bonds. Well, if we go to a temperature high enough to break these bonds, we go to a temperature high enough to break the backbone, we go to thermal destruction of the entire material. So such materials cannot be reprocessed by heating. So these are called thermoset. Thermoset thermoset and thermoset are very difficult to process. difficult to recycle. You might say, well, you don't have to just do it by uh by thermally reprocessing. Why don't you use some kind of a chemistry? Go in there with chemistry that will attack these bonds. These are strong covealent bonds. What kind of a solvent is going to be strong enough to snip those bonds? It's going to be a very aggressive solvent. And uh you know what are the health effects of the use of that solvent? you want to bet the company on the use of that and find out later that uh you've got class action lawsuits using such chemicals. So this is the issue when you you drive down the highway and you see these mounds these mountains of spent automobile tires how to recycle them. This is the issue. All right. Whereas over here you heat this up and you can redo it. So such materials are called thermoplastic. Thermoplastic. they can be reprocessed or rendered plastic by uh temperature rise. So they're environmentally much much easier to process. A few more things here with the polyethylene. Uh this shows what I was just doing on the uh on the projector, the uh the document camera rather. This is the partially crystallized polyethylene and this is what it looks like in these zones. you don't have all of the uh chains lining up, but if you look at the atoms on end, you will see there's the C2H4 unit and the C2H4 units are lined up. Okay? And sure enough, what is the basis uh unit here? It looks orthoromic as you would expect. The molecule that has the aspect ratio of 2:1, you expect is going to come out in one of the uh brev lises that also has uh some anisotropy associated with it. And here's some X-ray defraction data. This is the defraction of a fully crystallin polymer. So if we took a short length polyethylene and cooled it very slowly or took it out of a solvent, we would end up with something that's totally crystallin and we see we have discrete peaks. Here it's the same material amorphous. And this uh if it's a little bit painful to look at this because it's reminiscent of a question on the recent test. This is what the uh this is what the data show. So by looking at this uh mixed spectrum you can get a measure of the extent of crystallization by looking at the relative intensity of the peaks versus this broad single peak which is associated with the first nearest neighbors because in ethylene we know that carbon has hydrogens as its nearest neighbors and and so on. So this works just as well as the the free volume as a measure of the degree of uh crystallization. So we see this and the last thing I want to touch upon is uh the uh polymer synthesis just to put that into uh uh formal setting. I've already shown you addition polymerization. Addition polymerization And addition polymerization involves the use of a radical or catalyst radical or catalyst assisted and it characterized by three stages where I showed you the initiation in which we generate the the radical then there's the growth of the of the uh polymer until we get to the length of chain that we want and then finally the extinguishing of the reaction called termination. So what's really going on here is in the initiation stage we create the radical here the growth is simply uh this is the polymerization polymerize or if you like attachment and then over here is quench the radical to quench the radical and those are the stages that are involved. So, all we're really looking at here is monomer attachment. Monomer attachment. And in this case, the composition of the polymer is equal to the composition of the myrr unit. composition of polymer is simply end is identical to the composition of the the mer unit. We simply use the radical to catalyze and that's the only effect. But there's one other way to form and this is called condensation polymerization. condensation polymerization and it works a little bit differently and it involves more than one mer type. So I'm going to show this as uh myrrh type number one which has associated with it a terminal hydrogen and myrrh number two that has associated with it a terminal hydroxil and condensation polymerization works to attach the hydroxil to the terminal hydrogen to form a covealent bond between the residual R1 and R2 and expels water vapor. These are reactions are conducted at temperatures above 100° C. So this is expelled and ultimately is captured as a condensate. So, oddly enough, condensation polymerization, which involves the the the step-wise building of the polymer by reaction between two different myrt types and expulsion of uh water vapor other uh condensate is named not for what it is but for the byproduct that is not part of it. So, this is the prototypical reaction and clearly here you keep losing water. So in this case the composition differs the composition and the final mass of the of polymer is not equal to the composition of the merg groups. and the mass is is less than less than the sum of the masses of all of the mer groups because we keep losing water. So I think here we've got some examples of the various materials. So these this again is taken from your reading. Here's a a a suite of uh addition polymers. Many of these you you encounter in uh everyday life. I've been talking about polyethylene. If we replace the hydrogens's with florines, we get PTFE, which you know by the trade name Teflon, polyropylene, uh polystyrene, which you've seen in these clamshells and and uh uh not so much today in in coffee cups for their insulating capability. Polyacry nitral is a fabric oralon. PVC is that white uh uh tubing that you see used in plumbing facilities. polymethylmethacrylate. Many of you are wearing uh eyeglasses that are made of this material. This is uh plexiglass or uh lucite and so on. So, and then down here even some of the some of the uh rubbers. Uh on the other hand here are the condensation polymers and the notably are the nylons. The nylons are made by condensation polymerization and I've put a little bit of fine structure on here. You can look at this at the website that the the bond that will link the R1 to R2 is called the amid bond. This is the amid bond. And so the nylons are known generically as polyamids. And uh furthermore there's one end that has the pardon me the caroxyic acid end and then the other end which has uh the amino end. And as you go down you see kevlars here which you know is used as a substitute for steel belting and tires also used as the fiber and bulletproof vests. Um some fabrics here dacron and myar various polyesters. the polycarbonates. This rigid uh phenyl group here is what gives the polycarbonates their high strength. This is Lexan which is used in uh jet engine windshields and it's also used in um sports goggles to give you the uh resistance against impact and so on. So these are made by this uh process and we're going to see this process again we talk about protein synthesis because uh mother nature works by condensation polymerization. So uh there are many similarities between the nylons and the uh and the proteins that uh make up our bodies. Okay. So what I'd like to do in the last five minutes is talk about an example of the use of block copolymers in uh uh energy and uh some research that's been going on here at MIT for about oh 10 years now looking at new materials to make superior batteries batteries for the wireless age. And uh this is these are the kinds of uh batteries that exist today in terms of uh the amount of energy they store per charge. And you see lead acid which is abundant and cheap is actually quite uh low in terms of how much energy it's it stores. And what's in your cell phone and your laptop is the lithium ion battery which is 150 watt hours per kilogram by this metric. And in fact it was the advent of the nickel metal hydride battery that enabled the laptop computer. All of the components were in place in the 1980s, but sodium sulfur is a molten salt battery. It operates at 300 degrees C. So that was not very popular for laptop use. So the only thing that was available was down here in Niads. And people were not going to release laptops that had a runtime of about 1 hour. But with the advent of nickel metal hydride, it all of a sudden became sensible to to put out such devices. And now we've gone to lithium ion. And ironically, as the capacity of the battery has risen, the appliances that go on the laptop have risen and so the runtime doesn't change because each next generation has a more intense uh power hog of a CPU, you want a DVD, you want fancy screen and so on. And all of that is consuming energy. But if you knew how to power it down and and run it minimally, you'd find that you could get run times of uh uh six, seven hours. So the the approach that we used here was to use black c-olymers and we used black copolymers such that we wanted to get a solid. You see people think of batteries as these cylindrical devices that uh are very heavy but we had a different image. We thought that this should be the battery. Battery should remind us of something like this. This is called dreaming. This is a potato chip bag. You think it's just nothing but a lowly potato chip bag. Open it up sometime. What do you find? You see, it's a multi-layer laminate of polymer and metal because a potato chip is precious. You know, you have to protect it against spoilage. So, it can spoil by becoming soggy from humidity or it can become rancid from oxidation. So, you need the polymer to protect it from one and the metal to protect it from the other. But this tells me that you can make a multi-layer thin film laminate very cheaply. Now, if this polymer could be made into a lithium ion conductor, we would have a solid state battery. Instead of aluminum, we put lithium. Instead of this polymer, we put something that could conduct lithium ions. And then we put the cathode on here. And now we have something that is solid state. It's very light. And it has a property that no other battery has. You can reshape it. Okay? You can wear it. You can put it in the body of a car. You can have it. You change the watch band to change the battery. See, you can think conceptually, you can do different things. So, that's how it began. And with my colleague uh professor Anne Maize who started a program to look at a class of materials block copolymers that were chosen in such a way to give lithium ion conduction at room temperature. Solids are very poor ionic conductors. Most solids that you know that conduct ions only operate at high temperatures. The oxygen sensor in your car doesn't work for about the first 15 minutes. When the car is cold, the oxygen sensor is getting garbage for a signal. It has to heat up. But we don't want a battery that runs at 300° C. At least I don't. I'm So there's selection rules here that went into play. And ultimately we built something that looks like this that has a methacrylate backbone and different side groups that could salvate lithium ions. And we made materials and ultimately uh made first generation batteries that are thin film mechanically flexible and the choice of electrode materials provided it's lithium based chemistry and so on allow us to go forward. And it was by using the principles shown here on these boards that we were able to engineer a polymer that could have the mechanical properties of something like saran wrap but have the electrical properties of sulfuric acid in your lead acid battery. That was the that was the paradox. How to engineer those seemingly irreconcilable properties right there. Control of local structure. And so, you know, I've got all this stuff up here, which we don't have time to go through, but let me show you where you can go when you get something that's really nice. Look at this. This is really This is flexible solar cell. This is silicon on a polymer substrate. So, it's collecting photons and converting them into electrons. And then you take something like this and you put it on the back of a flexible solar cell. And then you put on the front of this, you put the LEDs. So, you put this up in the roof, you collect the photons, and then afterwards the you get the photons back. Now, that's change. That's change. Learn your chemistry. Have a nice weekend.