The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. My name is David Hart for those of you who I haven't met yet. And uh uh I'm filling in for for Dwayne Bonding today or sitting in or or guest lecturing whichever you want to call. You're a co- lecturer. Oh yeah, I'm a co- lecturer. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. No, I'm guest lecturing because well, you know the story. So uh uh I think my role today is to uh in some ways repeat what uh Dwayne Bonding has talked about in the first two lectures from a little bit more of a mechanical engineering perspective. But I'm going to also throw in some things. Um, you might just say a personal perspective on the problem. Um, and uh, uh, I I've got too much to try and do in one lecture, but that's sort of typical of me anyway. Uh, but the notes are on the on the web if you want for the things I have to skip over. Um, now the first part of the lecture is to to notice this scene. And this is someone was pointing out to me the other day said, "You must be tough for you this summer because you go between these these this winter because you go between these extreme environments." So I found this picture of sort of what I'll call a tree tunnel. Does anybody know where this picture was taken in January? It wasn't at MIT. It's a little washed out so you can't see what these these things are off in the distance. If you saw those, you'd probably know in an instant if you know anybody in Singapore know what that picture might be taken. Oh, come on. All right. Where do you think this picture was taken? Not. All right. Okay. So, here's a tree tunnel in Actton, Massachusetts in January. And here's a tree tunnel in on Sentosa Island in Singapore in January. Just about the same time, same kind of view. The difference is that those are probably the second largest collection of container ships in the world. Something like that, which is the main uh landscape feature off of that coast of Singapore. Okay, just to let everybody know what the other side is is enjoying on their weekends. So, um here's what I want to uh try to do today. Okay, I want to uh go back and talk a little bit more about process definitions from the point of view of geometric change of an object. And I think Dwayne has already talked about this a fair amount, but I want to relate it to that model or that view of processes to a couple key mechanical processes uh as examples. And then something that we always do is talk about this taxonomy for control. It's it's a framework. It's it's all these these rather uh abstract terms that uh say here's a way for you to think about every process that's ever been invented and try to understand how it relates to some other process with respect to things that affect how we control the process. So that's our taxonomy for control. And then we go through a couple mechanical examples. I'll use the process of simple machining, a turning process, a bending process, and a molding process. Um we used to have a lab in in the course that we did. Uh in fact the guys in Singapore did it this summer as part of their summer orientation. They actually did this lab where they they went through and made parts using these three processes and we studied the process control aspects of that. And they're simple enough they're they're they're ubiquitous processes but they also can be reduced uh to some simple enough concepts that you can try to understand this this idea of the origins of variation. Why did things vary? Instead of it being a purely um uh uh random event instead of sort of throwing up your hands and saying I have no idea why anything happened. Let's just model it as a random process. We say no, let's try to see if we can separate those things that have a clear cause which we may or may not be able to control and those things that we just don't know about. Okay. And then scrambling at the end I'll try to get to this concept of uh states and properties. And this is again this is more of a framework issue but it is uh an issue of looking at any process uh looking at all the different factors that enter into the outcome of the process and just parsing it really uh into four areas and this idea of what we'll end up calling thermodynamic states those things that are kind of transit come and go and properties those things that are inherent in the process and then we'll separate the process into the equipment that executes the process which kind of stays there day after day and year after year and the material that you're uh changing as part of the process and of course that changes on every cycle of the process and those that distinction between the two is extremely important. So here's the model you've already seen and um the first part of this is to notice that uh we've taken the manufacturing process and said well again uh there are these two elements to it. There's the material um which is again sort of coming and going and by its very nature the fact that every time you run the process there's a new piece of material in there that's going to have a different characteristic for its variability than the equipment which again is you know unless you buy disposable equipment um you generally keep around for uh years and then there's an interaction between the two and that interaction uh if you really want to abstract it is a uh could be called a directed energy exchange. It always takes some energy to cause the material to change. And what are you trying to change? You're trying to change its geometry. Usually only its geometry. Often properties change as a result of that. Or sometimes you're changing properties like a hardening process or ion implantation something like that. You're taking one material and through this pl pro process transforming it in some way. And um again just just to to remind you we have this simple functional relationship that says well guess what the output is a function of all the inputs. That's really all it's saying and and defining it right now saying that the outputs is some are some vector or the outputs can be described as a vector which has all of the relevant geometry and property characteristics of the process. So it would be dimensions, material properties, things like that. um and process parameters using a really generic word for those input variables because I'm going to distinguish between inputs and uh parameters a little bit later. Uh and just saying that there's some functional relationship between the two and of course here's the functional relationship all that all that stuff that's in there. Okay. So um if if we just focus for a moment on processes where geometry change is the most uh important one and and I don't know speaking from my perspective on this class that's going to be 100% of what I talk about and I think when we get into semiconductors is a little bit more on on uh material modification but I think certainly most of the stuff you've seen has been on a manufacturing process meaning we change the geometry um you know what causes the output to change? Well, there's there's a directed energy exchange with the equipment. Okay. And that energy exchange can take the form of any of of the relevant forms of energy. So, we could have a mechanical exchange where you impose a force or a displacement on something. We can have an electrical change where you run a current through something or or uh have an electric arc something like that. It could be thermal and certainly there are many of processes where uh transfer of heat is the is the key way that you change a geometry and certainly it could be chemical. Think of an etching process or anything like that. All of these energies directed the correct way uh can be thought of as um uh geometry change mechanisms. Now how do we direct this energy? You know, if I if I just say say, you know, I've got I've got some thermal energy sitting around. You know, how do I make sure it goes to the right place? That's the goal. In effect, that's the goal of the equipment. That's why this one little thing, which which my thermodynamics friends would go crazy with, but but calling energy a vector quantity. Um, it matters where you put the energy, right? If I want to if I want to take this bar and maybe do something to the center of it thermally and I've got a thermal energy source out here called a piece of equipment, maybe a torch or something like that. How do I make sure it goes to the right place? Equipment material. It's this is one of my easy questions. I I make sure I hold it in place, right? Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead, Z. So I I guess by ways of relative positioning, these two are in the correct positions. Yeah. I mean, if if I had like a point source, a laser or or an arc or something like that. Laser is a better example. and I needed to do something right here maybe uh uh thermally deform this or or join it or something like that then the key would be how both the value of that energy and uh where I put it. So location would be would be uh really important. So that's one way of thinking of the concept of a directed energy source. If I want to bend this piece of sheet metal, which was originally flat, um, you know, and I have a a displacement device, it's probably probably a good idea for me to put that displacement device in the middle, not over here, and to have that displacement device have a certain shape um, to get what I want. Think about this one for a second. This one, I don't know if you can see this. Let me try my document camera. Come on, doc. There we go. Um, this is an injection molded part. It's from a precision yo-yo. And, uh, how do I make what's the energy we're talking about there? This was injection molded. I think most of you here have had some hands-on experience with injection molding. If you haven't, I'll haven't, I'll explain it in a few minutes. But um where's my directed energy source there? Or if you're having trouble think getting your head around that, how did I come up with that shape? Heat and pressure. Well, I had heat and pressure to to put the liquid plastic in there. Okay. That kind of filled the mold. But what determined the shape? Yeah, the mold. And what's the directed energy in this case? If if if I'm saying the directed energy leads to the shape of the part, you know, the geometry changees, pardon me, the mill cutting forces from whatever bit used to cut the metal. Uh we're talking about plastic molding right now, right? But to make the Oh, to make the mold. Um yeah, I see where you're going with that. But I'm thinking about just the molding process. The tooling the tooling somehow was magically there. I think that the energy of the surface. So everywhere where we have surface we direct energy. Exactly. So now the the the one big distinction between these two is that here it was pretty clear that I had a um a pretty localized uh source of energy. And of course the case of heating this would be the same or as you'll see later turning it with a with a with a a point say a pointed tool. um here everything's happening everywhere at once and the direction the the if you will the spatial aspect of it is imbued not by how I position something but by uh the shape of the tool. So you start to see that there kind of two extremes here. There's the case where this geometry is determined primarily by a spatial distribution of energy exchange which is a little bit stretching it a little bit here but a shaped tool and as Simon said everything happens everywhere at the same time. Okay. Whereas in this case things are thing the things are changing over time and uh thing quite different things happening at different places and in more extreme case again which I'll get to later is if if I'm coming in here with some sort of a point source let's say heating it or applying a force here there's nothing happening out here it's all happening right here and the net shape that I get has a lot more to do with how I move that interaction port, otherwise known as a tool, uh, than it does with the tool shape. Tool shape is important, but it's of secondary importance. Okay. Okay. They're supposed to go away now. There we go. Okay. Well, they didn't go away. It's good to see you guys. Okay. So, um, now we talk about it and we say, um, it's about geometry change, and I've kind of thrown out some some different ones here. How do you change the shape of anything? All right. Well, we already talked about one. It's pretty obvious. Take out a knife and and a piece of wood and you can change its shape by removing wood chips. Okay. Whiddling. That's your basic basic shaping technique. Well, that's that's essentially uh one of the most common ways of making anything. You know, we etch away uh silicon. U we machine away material. Um we can uh oxidize and burn things off. We can uh uh do it in a number of different ways. Okay. So, removal of material is obviously one way of doing things. Okay. Pretty obvious one. How else can I change the shape of something? add material. I can add material to it. Yeah, I can or or join or something like that. So, I can and can reform uh things. Okay. How else? I can deform the material like this. This started out it's it's a fixed piece of material. I didn't add or subtract anything to it, but I changed the shape by bending it. How else? Let me see what I've got here. Okay. plastic deformation of the material. So a constant volume, constant mass process. The first case you're throwing material away, adding material, which I think is what people were already talking about. And then so uh one one of my famous professors here at MIT called this machining and negative machining. So it's kind of another way of thinking of it, but adding material, subtracting material. the the ultimate manufacturing tool would be one that you know took from here and gave to there and that sort of thing. Um what else? There's one other where does this where does this fit in? It doesn't fit any of those. Yeah, you guys took 2810, right? So you probably already covered this, but yes, formation of material. So uh where you uh go from uh a liquid or vapor state, it solidifies against some energy exchange medium or form tool and you come up with that shape. Okay. What else? That's only four. This is every manufacturing process in the world in the universe. Well, it's kind of under addition, but actually growing material biological process like a silicon crystal. Okay, good. We'll call that addition. It ruins my punch line if we don't. Any others? Well, I mean the the the point is that that um again it's it is a matter of definitions and you could cut this more finely, but this pretty nicely characterizes every manufacturing process with respect to geometry change. We could have a parallel set for uh property changes, thermodynamic changes and you know implantation changes, atomic changes, so forth and so on. But uh for this it seems to cover pretty much everything. So if you look at a manufacturing process or you look at something going on in a factory and say is this a manufacturing process one of these things should be going on if it's a geometry change uh process. So um what controls the geometry change as you said lo the the local location and intensity of the energy exchange. So we already talked about this for turning and here's just a schematic of a simple turning. Uh this is actually the experiment we used to do where you just or you guys actually did it again where you just come in so-called orthogonal turning and you come in and reduce the diameter of this stock. Um and you know more formally we would say this is the location of the maximum shear stress. You you take bring in a tool and the the material is spinning in this case and there's essentially no stresses on it. Then you come in with a tool and start applying a significant force over a very limited area in such a way as to create a critical shear stress and the material decides to uh leave. Okay. And where you so in an abstract sense I can think of machining as locating a maximum a very concentrated maximal shear stress point at different places in such a way as to as to at that location make the material disassociate with it. Okay. Yeah. So, we already talked about this one. Heat transfer at the mold surface and injection molding. Um, yeah. This is this is Oops. So, uh, another extreme of of um interaction to give you an idea that there's more than one way to remove material. And everybody, certainly anybody with a mechanical engineering education, any sort of shop or manufacturing experience says, "Oh, yeah, machining." That's it. And that's how you remove material. But of course, uh, we remove material in a lot of different ways. And of course, anybody from a doubly or semiconductor background says, "Oh yeah, removal, that's chemical etching or something like that." Um, and that's true also. But, uh, then you have many things these beam type processes which are, uh, very important for a lot of different processes. But you know, think of the the extreme case of a process where things are very localized and you're just doing some something uh in a very small region and then you move that region around. The part might be something like laser uh processing laser beams using a laser beam to cut and moving it. This this is uh meant to be a a picture of a robot moving it around. So the robot is very important in this case because it's providing the motion um and moving the uh the laser tool. And of course this has been taken to extreme with um these phentoc lasers which can affect uh at at any given instant will only ablate material in I don't know what submicron areas. So you can you can really localize it if you want to. And then um you know you've got you've got other things like this like a CVD process where what you're actually doing is locating uh a chemical reaction across the entire surface of something. And again that's that's that location is determined primarily by what whatever substrate it is you're trying to coat. In this case we're trying trying to coat. Um, but just to throw this out, if I have, you know, a nice clean uniform substrate, even with, well, let's just take a flat one, just a flat disc, and I need to coat it with a chemical vapor deposition process. So, I've got this vapor, and it's going to deposit and um, solidify on the surface. Um, what's going to determine the final geometry of that surface, of that coating of the surface? Well, let's Yeah. Well, let's let's assume this is just sort of this chamber filled with with vapor and then you introduce this in there. Okay. Time certainly is a big big part of it. Yeah. topology the topology of the of the of the substrate and and I'll just throw in the other is that and because I I want to make the point that with any of these these processes that occur with a distribution sort of simultaneously the ones that Simon was talking about earlier um there there's always this uh concern that you don't have uniform spatial distribution so what I was getting at is there was no intention of having directed vapor um density or anything like that. The idea is I've got this uniform cloud of uh vapor and it's reacting with the surface. So why might it vary spatially? Not it's certainly going to vary over time because it takes time for this stuff to solidify. But it's also going to vary spatially because who said it's uniform? Okay. And one of the things you want to think about when we're talking about manufacturing is always sort of question any any statement of uh uh uniformity or constancy or things like that because um uh in inevitably there will be variations because the the topography of the of the uh substrate might change. uh who knows and in fact it does happen especi especially as you go to larger and larger wafers you get important variations in the chamber temperature variations you could get concentration variations all these kinds of things can uh cause problems um one other that I'll mention because I I showed this this piece of sheet metal and talked about it as a concentrated u energy exchange here's another example of a non-conentrated energy exchange This is a large piece of sheet metal. This dimension here is about 6 feet uh aerospace manufacturing and uh it's being pulled across this tool and deformed into here. I actually have a a sort of video of this which I couldn't find but you can see it being pulled down to the tool and because of the reflections of the light you can see that there's not a single portion of this p piece large piece of metal that isn't being changed at any instant in time. So clearly this is this is everything happening everywhere all at once. Uh and we're in effect we're pulling it across a a shaped tool. So in the end we're we're imposing this displacement field on it. Okay. So this gets us to this concept of the taxonomy. You can see that that you know been kind of ranging widely over a number of different processes either uh directly or by implication. uh and we want to kind of draw some conclusions from this. So the first is that there are two extremes to these interactions. the so-called serial interaction and you know schematically here it's best described as you know my phentoc laser a infantessimally small area of interaction over the over the large area so that at any instant I'm only affecting a small part of the material but then I I move it I have a time history of this and that's what determines the geometry now of course in a real process even with the phentoc laser if get to small enough um there are spatially distributed effects and as I go to larger and larger tools uh this gets uh worse and worse. But if we make a definition that the area of the interaction of the energy interaction is small compared to the total area that I want to change then it's clearly what we'll call a serial process. Um, if the opposite is true, if the area of that interaction is on the order of the total area that I'm trying to change, and again, the icon for that would be a, you know, stamping out a car hood or something like that. The area of interaction is the same as the uh area that I'm trying to change. Same with this part. The area of interaction is the entire area. Then we have uh a parallel process. we run into a couple interesting uh variants on that. Um if we take a very common process rolling to get you know to get um to create sheet or just plate uh reductions you know I'm coming in with material that looks like this. I'm coming out with a material that's much thinner. Um, where does this fit in this taxonomy here? This part of the taxonomy, is it a serial process or a a parallel process? Serial. Okay. Okay. So we have 50% of the electorate going for serial. This might be Democratic uh primary parallel 50% saying parallel. Guess it goes to the superdelegates. Okay. You guys you guys in Singapore and to you guys want to you want to break the tie here? What is it? Serial or parallel? I think it's parallel. Okay. So 51% for uh parallel. Anybody? Anybody there say serial? We have some Yeah, we still we got some cereals here. H Yeah, now we're getting to it. Okay, it depends. If I had drawn this in 2D like this and maybe maybe sort of drawn it in extreme and didn't even show this necking just kind of showed it doing this then you'd you'd be pretty tempted to say oh that's a serial process because all the action is right here. Look at this huge area that I'm affecting and all the action is right there. If I draw it in in in uh uh front end view and I here's the material, you'd look at that say, "Oh, that's parallel. Everything's happening everywhere at the same time." Okay, so just a cautionary tale. It's it's it's it's not either or, it's neither nor. Okay. uh uh it's it's sort of prepundonderance of if you will. So um this this is a good example of of why they're actually important even though it's mixed on here. And I'm going to jump ahead to the sort of who cares, which may not have a satisfactory answer today, but the who cares is um if I'm running in this case the Alcoa, Tennessee, that's a that's a real town. The Alcoa, Tennessee cold rolling mill that makes all their beer can stock. Um, and I'm really concerned about extremely good thickness control because when it goes into the high-speed canning machines, that thickness has to be right on, otherwise the walls will tear or it won't form properly. What do I control? Just intuitively, what would I control to affect the geometry parameter called thickness? Distance between the rolls. Yeah. Okay. So I control the thickness by controlling let's say this this this distance right here, right? Which thickness does that control? Does it control this thickness right here or this one here or that one there? Or maybe that one there or that one there? All you can Yeah. All you're doing there's one display there's one spacing there. You all right? Right. And if I if you say, "Oh, yeah. It's exactly right here." And then I I make little discs and make my cans for the material over here. Who's to say it's going to be right? So even in this case, I've actually got a mixed problem here and a mixed control problem. So yeah, here's a case where displacement, you know, this trajectory we're talking about, just like uh this deal, you want to think of it that way. I'm directing the energy source by displacing it. That's part of it. But then how do I change the the the um thickness distribution, the parallel part of the process? Well, I'd actually probably have to change the shape of the rolls, right? You can do a little bit. They actually do both sides and that does help. But let's say I do both sides. So this is exactly right. This is exactly right. And the middle looks like this, which is not uncommon. It becomes fatter in the middle. What do you do? Yeah, but I don't want to do that. Yes, you would change the rolls and and in fact, what they do is they build rolls with a little bit of a camber in them because, you know, the center is going to deflect up a little bit, so you put some camber into it. Believe it or not, at Alcoa, that's still not good enough. This stuff is very precise. I think that I I shouldn't quote the tolerances, but it's it's on the order of uh in in my newly converted SI brain, I think it's could be 15 microns, you know, fra it's it it could be in the 10,000 several 10,000 of an inch in terms of thickness tolerance. It's not very thick stuff to begin with. So like locally heated through heat. Yeah. In fact, that's what done what is done to get small displacements to be able to actually arbitrarily not arbitrarily but to put you know some different profiles on that you locally heat it or cool it in response to feedback to actually slowly move the tool locally a little bit fatter here a little bit less. You can imagine if you only need, you know, 10 micron, something like that, doesn't take a lot of heat. And yes, indeed, you're going to say, "Oh, how localized can that be?" And that's the trade secret they won't tell anybody about. But um yeah, so in this particular case, notice these two different modes of uh uh two different modes of interaction lead to two different ways of controlling it. In one case, it's very simple. I'm going to buy a servo system. It's going to be really good. it's going to be very stiff and I'm going to say make that 2000 of an inch gap and you get 2,000 of an inch gap. In the other case, it's like oh my gosh, you know, uh I've got to change this spatial distribution somehow. The extreme case is to shut the thing down, put in a new set of roles and the other is to come up with some clever way of deforming it. Okay, so why do we worry about the two modes of interaction? It leads directly to how we would ever find the knobs on the machine to change what we're doing. Now that will become most important in the last part of the class when we talk about process optimization and you're saying what can I do you know what can I actually change on a process what can I change real time millisecond what can I change maybe in this case this is a this is an unusual example what can I change on on a you know a frequent basis but in most cases the major change you do with tooling and things like this is on a you know, hourly shift, yearly basis. So, your ability to affect the output once you've kind of literally cast it in stone uh is is greatly uh changed by whether it's a parallel or ser or serial process. Okay. All right. Okay. So, just just to to summarize this again. So for this lumped or serial case um the time trajectory of that interaction port is one of the most important things. So robotic manufacturing which was all the rage for many a year until we found out it wasn't really such a thing to be rageful about. Um it it works for a limited class of processes pretty well, but uh and your your classic CNC machine, the CNC machine of the 60s, which sort of got generalized in the 70s and and put everywhere essentially means, if you want to put in the terminology what we're talking about today, usually means the ability to control trajectories in a very repeatable way. So it's not just the ability a machine that can follow a trajectory, it's also the ability to generate the trajectory and things like that. And then in this distributed distri I've used two different terms here, but distributed or parallel case it's more than anything it's the shape of the energy distributor. You know patterns, molds, masks, heat distributions, things like that. I think we've seen enough examples. We're sick of these now. Uh oh yeah. Well, you'll see this in a moment, but a lot of the uh so-called um rapid prototyping methods that that popped up in the '9s or solid free form fabrication as it's sometimes as the government likes to call it um stereoiththography sort of the first big one on that 3D printing developed here um are serial processes and they figured out how to put down in they turn out to be usually serial edition type processes. is they figured out how to put a dot of material down at a time uh to build up uh to build up a structure and that that dot itself was cohesive enough that if you put it down it stayed there and you didn't need anything to hold it. Um and I'll talk more about that in just a moment. But I think we've kind of talked about you know these are all these are all interesting examples. So if we talk about a taxonomy to kind of bring together the uh the um energy source if you will or for the um geometry change the way we apply it um and a couple other things that'll come up in just a second then we can uh and I I think I've said why for the for the mode uh you know the change mode why oh actually I haven't I'm sorry about that Why does it matter? Let me go back to this. I think I won't bother with the slides. What I called mode before was really my energy source. Why does it matter matter whether I'm using mechanical, electrical, thermal or chemical as my change agent? What difference does that make? It's just energy, right? And again, back to to lecture one, what do we care about in a process? Quality number one in this class, but also we worry about rate and we worry about cost, we worry about flexibility. So with respect to which energy mode is involved, what difference does it make in this in this consideration? Simon, please. Or the way we can control the process, we need to know what energy is involved so we can change. Yeah, sure. Absolutely. So I I would control these in different ways, right? Uh but let's assume I can do that. I I know how to control mechanical energy. You know, I can change forces and displacements and velocities, electrical, you know, currents and voltages. Thermal, I can I can, you know, that's a little bit different. I can certainly control temperatures. I can also try to control their distributions. I can sometimes control heat flux is a little bit harder to do. And chemical, I can control concentrations and temperatures and and maybe reaction rates as a result of that. Yeah. matter of size if you're affecting a large area or smaller wafer versus a big stack of door for uh yeah that's a um I thought you were going someplace else with that but yes there is a there is a size scaling but what the example you gave actually though a wafer on in terms of the relative size of the of the the features that I care about um is actually huge when you think about a wafer compared to a tiny submicron line and then I think about a car hood with a little, you know, little feature in the middle. The wafer is actually bigger. Speaking of the changes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I think I think you're getting what to what I what I wanted to do. Let me let me see if I get any more here and then we'll see. The rates are definitely different. faster than Yeah. Yeah. Believe it or not, when you think about this, you know, you always think of electrical, oh, that's that's the gigahertz range, right? And all that kind of stuff. And that's true. If all you need to do move is move electrons, but we have to move material around here. So, this tends to be very fast. If I apply a mechanical load to something, uh, I can modulate that load pretty fast these days if I want to. And how long when I when I when when I bring a tool into a a piece of sheet metal like this, how long does it take for this to react? Well, essentially at the kinds of time scales we're talking about, it happens instantaneously. Compare that to how long it takes to etch something or do certain deposition processes. We're doing these nickelplated uh micron scale tools. I just saw a presentation last night. you know, three days to make a tool with 50 micron features on it, you know, that's not what you'd call smoking. Um, so pretty low stuff. So rate that we we could argue different things. You can have fast chemical stuff and so forth and so on, but in general there's a speed issue here. What else? That's rate. What about quality? tolerance is or also side effects of Yeah, side effects. I like that. Yeah. Say a little bit more about side effects. Well, you got the theoretical maybe I want to cut a perfect square. The tool is not going to cut perfectly square edges, right? Depending on what process I use, it may have undercutting or rounded edges. Absolutely. Absolutely. So, there there's a there's a there's something here inherently related to quality. Two at least two things that I can think of. One of them is related to what I'll call uh uh diffusivity in in the general sense not just purely in the thermal sense. If I apply a load to something uh as as you're saying if I apply a load to something even with a point tool you know there's a stress field that develops in it and that sort of thing and I you can this will be a little bit fille but I can make an argument that says okay if I apply that load to here it diffuses and so I I wanted to put the load in in a in a in a tiny point but it actually spread out and so I didn't get exactly what we want. How about if I put a thermal source in there? Yeah. And and the worst part is not only does it does it dissipate, it just keeps dissipating. You know, it probably never reaches equilibrium. So, it's really going How about chemical uh a chemical reaction. You know, you know, one of the one of the problems we have with that, of course, is the if you do thick etching, you have undercutting because it don't go there, but it's going there. You know, it wants to go everywhere and other things like that. So, again, you have different diffusion characteristics here depending on what's uh going on. So your ability to control the shape to get a minimum feature size to get a level of precision will vary depending on what you have here. Um and what else do you think is important to quality? Obviously my ability to um sort of direct things exactly where I want them to be is important. What else do you think is important to quality? Um how about um repeatability? Yeah. Sort of the how how um well I can repeatedly apply this energy and have the same thing happen. Yeah. And that will vary uh again depending on the nature of the interfaces here. You know for example um if thermal conductivity is a big part of it and you're continually bringing new material into contact with an old tool it could be a different heat transfer coefficient every time. Um, in mechanical cases, if I'm always coming back with the same tool except for long-term wear, maybe it's a little bit more uh maybe it's a little bit more repeatable. Um, there's one other aspect to it. Now, now think a little bit more about where we're going with the class with things like statistical process control, which says, let's find out things that are not quite right with the process and fix them, and that will improve our quality. and and then in uh the more active process optimization stuff where we say let's adjust things until they're really right. And then we actually at the end we'll talk a little bit about active control where you're continually adjusting. But think of it this way because this is where you you you will be thinking about this. Here's the process. I just measured its result. It's not good enough. I need to improve its quality and I can't go buy a new machine. So don't So I have to have the ability to adjust something, right? I have to have the ability to change something. So think about what it takes to change these just as I was saying before with the rolling pace in the uh in that. Yeah, go ahead. I think for some mechanical uh process, it's easier to stop, but for the chemical thermal uh if you uh even you you know the problem, you can hard to stop the process. It's hard to stop it. I mean, I'm not trying to come up with winners and losers here, uh, because they all have advantages and disadvantages, but you're absolutely right. There are big differences, right? If if, for example, there's a time aspect to it mechanically, and I can pull that force off and it it goes away. There's not there's a wave that goes through the material, but it it it goes at at sonic rates. You know, uh, the thermal could take a long time to change anything there. And certainly the chemical um uh depending on scale could be like that too. Okay. So it is important to know what these different energy sources are if only to say okay these types of things are more important when you're really faced with the decision of what's the best I could ever expect this process to do. I've I've worked I've done SPC I've done process optimization. There's a fundamental limitation because it uses mechanical energy. I'll never be able to do the following or or so on. Okay, so you have these types of things interacting with how we apply them. Um, and of course it it's you could say it's impossible to use all these in all their different ways, but actually that's not entirely true. Um, so kind of said all that. So let's go on. Now this eye chart um is an attempt to take this entire taxonomy and then just populate it. uh this chart with um some examples, you know, and some of these are are are no-brainers and some of them could be a little bit controversial. But so what this says is, you know, across here, this is the the removal mode of transformation and here's a addition and here's formation and here's deformation and in each case then it's divided in half with serial and parallel and then four different energy sources. So you look at each one and say okay where where's my favorite process you know so serial removal mechanical cutting grinding brooing polishing water jet right water jet is mechanical it's be fluid mechanical but it's mechanical electrical serial wire EDM take a single skinny little wire drill a hole something like that put a whole bunch of them together do it all at once say with a with a formed electrode code. Now, it's parallel EDM. Um, photoiththography with a with an with a wet etch, if you want to think of it that way, is basically a parallel process. It's it's etching everywhere at once, but you just happen to put a mask in a few places. That's your tool. So, that it can't or I'm sorry, resist. Um, uh, I think Dwayne has already talked about chemical mechanical polishing, which I'm told by the experts in the field is really mechanical polishing, right? So, if we take the C off of there, then CMP is a mechanical parallel process. If it's chemical mechanical process, then I guess it has to show up in both of them. Which is it? Is it both? The chemistry softens the surface enough. Okay. But the chemical by itself would not remove any material. Okay. Chemically assisted mechanical processing. Okay. And strangely enough, the brazing by itself would not remove any material any at all. Interesting. Okay. Well, that's actually an example here of where the chemical part is actually affecting properties. Not unusual. So this is still true if I'm only talking about the uh the the uh rem uh the geometry change part of it. Yeah. Um there's a bunch of other ones here. One of the interesting things is uh if you come over here to something like hot isostatic pressing a powder metal powder metallurgy or powder ceramic process where you take you know uniform powders and compress them in a mold. So that's obviously an addition process. And then I cinch them and then I do other stuff to it. And I do it all at once in a in a in a form tool, a can. Um, and I'm all set. Um, that's clearly clearly clearly a parallel process and the result depends primarily on the shape of the can. Um then uh Ellie Saxs at MIT kind of invented this process called 3D printing. And if you look at 3D printing, it's it's not exactly this, but it's essentially the same as saying, okay, I'm going to uh put down each piece of that powder one piece at a time. He does it by joining the powder one drop at a time. He puts a binder on it. Instead of binding it all at once, he puts a drop down at a time. It's an inkjet type process. Um, now it becomes a serial process. And think about the difference between these two processes. You know, if I've got this big press that has to push this this powder into a green compact, um, big piece of equipment, got to have an expensive tool. Whereas this 3D printing, you know, it's a desktop thing. There are desktop versions of it. Desktop thing. All I have to do is type in a a CAD file. It does a section file of it. It creates this thing and I've got essentially equivalent parts. Not exactly equivalent, centrally equivalent parts. So clearly this serial process is much more flexible. Really great. And I probably can control the quality better because if it's not quite right, I just change the program a little bit. Right? It was a little bit too wide. The last one I made, I said, "Well, let's let's reprogram the geometry and bring it in a little bit." And it just doesn't. Whereas, if I'm doing the hot isoatic pressing, I've got this big expensive tool and it's not quite right and I can't heat it and cool it like I did with the the uh the rolls on the aluminum. I'm kind of stuck with it. Right. So, why would anybody do HIP when you've got 3D printing? Rate and cost. Absolutely. You know, you do the high hot isostatic pressing in minutes, seconds, that sort of thing. these again the the 3D printing the fast ones are going to take you minutes to uh to hours and it's volume dependent whereas with the hip it's much much less so so um in general why does anybody do parallel processing because it's really fast and the example I always like to give is imagine if if someone took a block of uh steel or better yet aluminum and said okay I'm going to make all the body panels for your car the thin little body panels with my machine tool over here. You know, just imagine that what that what it would take to to build that as opposed to uh going to a high-speed modern high-speed stamping shop. Has anybody seen automobile body stamping going on? Yeah. How long does it take to make side panel for a car with like integral door frames and all that other stuff? Each given operation probably takes about two seconds. there's there's multiple stages. So maybe we'll give it 10 seconds by the time it's done, you know, but blank metal in one end and these huge complex structures coming out the other end at incredible rates. Uh you're not going to do that with a serial process. Uh although I will say they've done some things with laser cutting and laser welding where that thing really whips along. Uh but uh it's it's still got a ways to go and it's much more costly. So all these things uh do matter and they uh they come in different ways. Oh. Um, just because I I always uh like to do this stereoliththography. How does that work? It's a rapid It it was the original I think the original rapid prototyping process. Anybody know what stereo uh what's the is what's the trade name for that now? That's the most commercial of them. There's a machine right down the far end of this hallway in the architecture department that's an STL machine. Um stereoiththography. Ah, I guess it's become pass. Yeah, Adam. It's just I don't know what the liquid is, but you select that liquid material. Yeah, as I as I That's right. There there are these photocurable polymers that will be in a liquid state at room temperature and with just regular light on them. But if you hit them with the right wavelength light, they will polymerize. you know, they're UV curable polymers that that are used for a lot of things, uh, like contact lenses and things like that. Um, but, uh, this particular case, what they said is, well, instead of putting it in a mold and flashing it with UV light everywhere, what if we put a little tiny spot of UV light on it? Will it form a little ball of of polymer? And the answer was sort of, yeah. Uh, so they have a you have this bath, I think. Again, I I I haven't walked by there this month, but there used to be in one of these glasswalled classrooms down here at the far end of the fourth floor in in the architecture department this white box with a clear window in it. And it's kind of lit up and there's usually something going on in there. And what you'll see is is a bath of nearly colorless liquid with a platin on it. And the platin starts at the top with a very thin layer of of uh fluid on it. And this laser, usually not visible, but this laser will be dancing across the surface tracing an outline. And that outline will will become solid. And once it's polymerized, it'll move it down and it'll do it again. So it's it's basically reacting causing a chemical reaction or in this case a polymerization reaction at a very small area by by hitting it with the right amount of activation energy. Okay. So that's uh stereoiththography. That would be a serial chemical formation process. You're going from liquid to solid. Um, we also do, in fact, I I was here last night listening to a PhD thesis from Singapore where what they did is they took a mold, poured UV curable polymer on it, flashed it with with a UV lamp over the whole thing for about about 30 seconds or something, I think, and then pulled it apart. Okay. And it was all about the mold, the mold quality and and filling and that sort of thing. So, um, and it's all about, you know, 90% of her thesis was about, well, not 90%, a good percentage of her thesis was about making the molds and how well could I extract this thing from the mold. So physically the same material, the same process, but in this case a really good example of going from a directed energy source that was a point to a directed energy source source that was really this entire surface. So I guess my point is and now I guess it's it's getting a little bit dated but when when uh these uh rapid prototyping processes were all the rage it was interesting to notice that on this taxonomy they simply were the fact that that some people realized and it's been done for a lot of different things not just these but people realized that I can take a parallel process and if I serialize it it all of a sudden becomes a rapid free form uh method doesn't need any tooling. And so you've got that example. You've got uh what turns out to be uh I guess I'd call it it's like sort of like a reaction molding parallel reaction process to a serial reaction process. There's also um this you know with powdered metals you can center them thermally to get the shape. And when people decided they could cinder it locally with a laser, you could take a powder of of metal and zap it with a laser and just get things to center to each other uh locally. Okay. So they got they they changed the whole equation on how the process is controlled which has effects on all these different uh things. Last thing, because we're not going to talk about it much for the rest of the term, but because it's an extremely has been an extremely important part of manufacturing, interestingly fading in recent years for good and sufficient reasons, is flexibility. What do you think about if I if I were to go to different corners of this taxonomy and say, "All right, so let's put a flexibility overlay on this." And we'll talk about um you know, flexibility here, I guess. Well, two two common ways of looking at flexibility are sort of product flexibility. So, in our case, it's going to be geometry flexibility, geometry and material flexibility. Um and the other would be sort of quantity flexibility, ability to um uh vary the capacity or output of something without having quite a big cost variances. But let's do the first one. We won't get into that second one. for flexibility of this process to work with different materials and different shapes. Obviously, the the the extreme example of flexibility is every part's different and and there's no every part's different and the setup time is zero. Okay? So mass production rates, mass production cost savings, but custom uh custom uh part capability somewhere these all lie somewhere in between there. But if I look at this broadly, what do you think is the most flexible or what what most flexible or more flexible? If I look at the taxonomy, what area would you look at for for high flexibility? serial processes and why I guess I guess it gives you more flexibility in terms I guess feature by feature and also part by part. Yeah, I mean exactly. I mean think think of again the the ubiquous example is a uh um I'm trying to think of of some consumer oriented parts of this but um I mean I'm not coming up with them but yeah a machine tool let's say you know take a machine tool with an endmill and it can write your name in a piece of plastic right there's no once I programmed your name in there and then your name and then your name and you know there's absolutely no overhead to me switching because all I have to change is the trajectory of the tool and that nowadays with CNC control that's a zero cost changeover. There's a minimal cost in creating the programs and for simple things like that. So yeah, obviously something that is purely serial makes a big difference. And I'm going to add one other thing because I if if I hurry up, I'll get at least to mention this. I'll make the case that cutting metal mechanically um is is maybe the purest form of geometry transformation. pure geometry transformation with no side effects. Okay. So that also makes it very flexible in that sense. Uh you know it's it's almost as if yeah all I have to do is reprogram the trajectory and nothing else changes and everything's fine. Um so we'll we'll start from that and then we move to to other other changes here. Um let's go to uh deformation serial deformation bending. Okay. Going to bend this three-point bending. Um I'm calling it serial because most of the action is happening right here. And I'm not using form tools. You can even think of this as using knife edge tools and I would get sort of this same shape. And the main thing that determines this shape, the main thing is how far I push down in the middle, right? Okay. So, that's pretty flexible. I mean, if you know, if I want 45 degrees, I just take it down less. If I go down farther, it takes down take it down more. But, as can be shown, and it's it is in the notes, but we probably won't have time to go through it. As can be shown, it makes a huge difference what this material is and what the underlying machine structure looks like. And it also, and this really kind of gets us to the next the next theme here, it also depends very strongly on the uniformity of this material. So make the statement that that the natural variations out of an aluminum mill, maybe not the Alcoa Tennessee mill, but the other ones uh of aluminum is enough that it can completely confound precise control of a process like this. The natural variation of a piece of aluminum like this that I'm going to turn just doesn't make any difference. Sure, if I put a different alloy in or I sneak in steel or titanium instead of aluminum, yeah, that's a that's a big mess up. But, um, if I just say, well, you know, uh, here here's a piece of aluminum. We we did it in this mill over here and it came out with the following properties. You know, it it's elasticity, it's its yield strength, it's its strain hardening characteristics. And then I get supposedly the same material from a different mill, and they're 10% different. Not the elasticity by the way, but all the others. Uh 10% different. Huge difference here. Virtually no difference for the machining. So there's an inherent sensitivity of the processes to that. So if I look just at this purely serial parallel thing, yeah, serial is better than parallel. I think we can show in general that removal tends to be the least sensitive to material properties, tends to be the least sensitive to all these things. So, you know, serial removal kind of wins in most cases in terms of flexibility. Um, deformation is generally a killer in terms of flexibility for these regions that we've talked about. And, uh, in many cases, well, certainly anything that involves a uh, parallel energy exchange sort of starts off behind the eightball with respect to flexibility. Simon, what about the chemical vapor deposition? I mean, they throw in all sorts of parts and they come out with the the coating and I mean there is no dependency on that's a that's a very good point that's a that's a really good point and I think uh I'm glad you raised that uh I hadn't thought about that but um a process like this some of these addition processes any sort of a plating or coating process um where you put stuff into a liquid or or vapor uh bath Um, yeah, it doesn't care about the shape, does it? In I mean, it it at a microscopic level it might, but yeah, it doesn't. That's a good point. So, in terms of geometry, um, which is, you know, there's the underlying geometry of the substrate plus whatever thickness you add, um, to my knowledge, if I have a big big piece over here and right next to it a little piece over here, another one over here, they're independent of each other, so they all deposit at the same rate unless you do something really dumb. Yeah, it's a good point. Good point. I don't know how to I don't know how to pull that out. But uh in in that sense, well to relate it to what we said before, the energy exchange area is determined by the shape of the substrate, not the shape of the tool. And so in a situation like that, the shape of the substrate, if it's right, and I can change it each time I put it in, I get high flexibility with that. Yeah, good point. Good point. have to remember that. Okay, enough enough on the taxonomy. Okay, now uh the last thing I want to talk about is um what goes wrong. We've been talking about so far, we've made some reference to it. We've been talking about so far is is how to make major changes. you know, I want to go from a from uh uh you know, this diameter down to half that diameter. Well, I have to push this in. I have to make chips and and you know, I have to push this down so far. But what I want to talk about is why isn't this always come out to the to the same angle every time? Why is the the third part out of the run of 50 different from the 24th part? You know, that sort of thing. and why when I when I machine this is it not the same diameter everywhere. Um, and so it it gets into looking at um the sources of variation. And by by our definition of a process parameter, we're going to say, well, it it Oops. Oh, don't do that. I'll say yes. But what did I do? Push by our definition of Oh, I see. by our definition of of this it's it's all wrapped up somehow well in the end it's all it's all wrapped up in this this functional relationship but primarily through these process parameters okay so we're going to use those to try and understand so so let's break down these these process parameters in a little bit more of um a u a logical fashion um and I'm going to do it in the following way with the following definitions. First of all, we're going to have alphas associated with the equipment and then we're going to have alphas associate let me go back here actually need my picture. So, we're going to have these parameters associated just with the equipment. And I think I've already explained why we want to distinguish between the two, you know. So, now we're talking about properties, variables, things I can adjust, things that happen that are staying with that piece of iron that's bolted down to the factory floor. And then a similar set, but for the stuff that goes in and out of the machine or that flows through the machine, it doesn't go in and out. So, that's why we distinguish between them. So let's just focus uh um I don't know let's focus on the machine on the equipment. If I think of two broad classifications of a machine well let's see try this exercise. I think everybody's familiar with a machine tool. I got a simple lathe. It's sitting here in front of us. Um and it's not doing a thing. It's not moving. It's not even plugged in. What what alphas what characteristics can you tell me about it just by looking at it? It's not moving. What might you if you were to describe it from an engineering point of view? What are the kinds of things you'd worry about on it? Stiffness. How stiff is it? Does it deform? Yeah, that's a that's almost it. That's a good one right there. Stiffness. Straightness. um uh some details of other you know mechanical characteristics of it. How about thermal expansion? Yeah, thermal expansion coefficient. Very important stuff. All those things that basically go into is is the structure and where I'm going to direct that energy source where I think it's going to be. Okay. Um now I turn it on. It starts moving and I start machining. Forget about the chips and all that other stuff, but just the machine itself. What are you gonna What other characteristics of the machine are you now going to worry about? The turning speed. Yeah, the turning speed. Exactly. The speed. What else? Accuracy of that rotation. Yeah. Accuracy of the rotation. Yeah. Okay. Yep. But now we got the turning speed. All right. Now, okay. What's the difference from the machine's point of view? If I've got the tool and I'm coming along, I think you guys can see this. If I'm coming along like this, right now I'm characterizing the machine and now I'm characterizing the machine. I'm I've hit the material and I'm starting to machine. What's the difference between when I'm here and when I'm here? H you skipped something. Go ahead. I think Yeah. Yeah. You talked about the speed. So I have a the speed a speed here and I have a rotation speed. But if there's no force like you know there's no power there's no nothing no nothing much happening. It's good grammar. Um but if if I come along here all of a sudden the force changes. So as a minimum you've got these two sets of variables. You've got you know how stiff is the machine? How does it react to things like forces? um how straight is the machine if I move this way relative to the axis of rotation that's your accuracy thing you know is it that way and those are properties that they're not independent of of whether it's moving or not but you know you kind of look at it and you say and it's the basic characteristic of the machine and then you've got these transient ones that are only related to the energy exchange so you'd agree that if there's no force there's no energy exchange but as soon as I have a force and a velocity I'm putting mechanical power into that thing and something's going to happen. Okay. So from that we can actually say okay there are two types of variables. Think of these sort of ones that are intrinsic variables that characterize the basic properties of the machine. And you know if we if we were doing applied mechanics we'd say those are the constitutive properties of the material of the material or their constitutive properties of our machine. And then there are the energy states, how things change over time as the as the energy waxes and wanes and interchanges and things like that. And those are useful divisions because for example, how easily can I change the stiffness of a machine? Can be done. Could buy a new one. I could go in and put in some more supports, you know, and that kind of stuff. Or I can take some away and make it less stiff. um kind of hard. Yeah. Depends a lot on where I have I have like a mill. I can take the table out very far and reduce the stiffness. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Within right with stiffness is not a single quantity. You're right. I can find stiffer regions and less stiff regions. But I guess what I'm saying is if you need to elevate the stiffness of the whole, you know, there's no acceptable spot in it. What do you do? You know, you have to go you have to change the iron. I have to go in and make a a change. It's not something that we would call really at this case a control variable. On the other hand, if I need to change the speed at which I'm cutting, just change the speed at which I'm cutting and it changes. Okay. So, uh again, there's a there's an important distinction between uh between those two and our ability to know them as well as to control them is is vastly different. Now, the same thing holds true for this this this uh piece of piece of sheet metal, you know, in its undeformed state. This is really hard stuff. It's like butter. Okay. Um, how would you characterize if I just put this piece of sheet metal down here? How would you characterize it? Yeah, please. Yield strength. Yield strength extremely important. Anything else? Go ahead, Adam. Elasticity. Yeah, elasticity. Thickness. Thickness. Temperature. Temperature. Actually, that's not I'm I'm going to disagree with you on that. No. Why does temperature matter? Because it changes the dimension. Okay. So that so there's a thermal expansion characteristic on this. Okay, that's what I that's very important point for the when I say characterizing this you don't characterize it by its temperature. You characterize it by its reaction to temperature. I don't characterize it by its stress or strain. I characterize it by its reaction to stress or strain. So those are all again very clearly for a piece of metal it is constitutive properties and we could also worry about its chemical reactivity and all this other stuff but it's inherent characteristic of it which describes how it reacts to impinging energy. Okay. So the mechanical energy I put in here combined with its elasticity, its yield stress and other things determines how far it bends. Okay. And how it bends. So we distinguish between the two. Again, um so when this when this baby's sitting here waiting to be bent, it's got its constituive properties. As it's being bent, it's now bearing uh uh external loads uh and displacements. It's stressing and straining. Um and uh that's a transangent state, right? It's an energy transfer. And those are two different things. They're both important to determining what comes out here because, you know, if I said, "Okay, go back to your computers or your textbooks and give me an analysis of how what it takes to get this shape." You're going to need to know the characteristics of the material, stiffness, yield, stress, that sort of thing. You're also going to need to know what forces and displacements I put into it, which will tell you what happened internally to this thing. What stresses and strains did it did it have? Okay. Same thing with this You know, I needed to know what the the characteristic of the polymer was. How did it react to temperature? What was it its viscosity with temperature? What's its heat transfer characteristics? And then I needed to know what temperature it was, what pressure it saw, and what the heat transfer characteristics of the mold were. Okay. So, what does this all lead to? These four babies. Two two major things. States and properties. Okay. States and properties. energy states, transient things, things that don't hang around, things that are just there to accomplish what we wanted to accomplish and then they go away and properties which if you will, we can change them, but they kind of are there when we begin and they're still there when we're done. Okay? Um, and are are more inherent to either the the the equipment itself, the m essentially the material of the equipment or inherent to the to the material itself. Um so when we talk about energy states this one is is can be made much more precise than we have time to do here and uh those of us who who are students of uh system dynamics in the mechanical in the in the not in the in the um Sturman sense but in the uh in the painter and and Richardson sense of uh system dynamics. uh understand that you can really do a good job of describing the world by simply talking about uh energy or power and constitutive relationships and you can model any thing as how it reacts to these to these things. So that's really what we've done here. The equipment provides or absorbs either either provides or absorbs some form of energy, force, velocity, pressure, flow, force displacement, uh that sort of thing, voltage, current, heat transfer, u heat flow. Um, and those are the things that determine specifically what's what what happens in the interaction between these two. And then the properties which is sort of like what's going to happen when that energy is transferred are all these things we've talked about modulus of elasticity plastic flow properties viscosity sort of almost the same thing resistance inductance capacitance chemical reactivity heat transfer coefficients okay thermal diffusivities um intensive constituive properties plus because someone mentioned this before someone mentioned thickness of this extremely important so are the other two dimensions these dimensions are important and these dimensions are important and so it turns out the the object of our all our affection is actually um the geometry in the end right so it's a sort of an extensive property of the material but we also have to worry about the geometry before and after and we worry about the geometry of uh obviously the geometry of the machine is important you know is it straight is it square that sort of okay so uh let me finish up by just saying that we can have this model and then talk about and and why did I bother doing this? I mean, it's it's kind of fun. It's it's uh intellectually stimulating a little bit, but I think there's one real benefit to it, which is to understand why things vary. So if I take if I just say all right I'm going to subdivide all of by the way all all four of these things are subdivisions of this this vector alpha that I that we said is is what makes everything happen. Okay. So I've got alpha and then I'm going to divide that into what I'll call equipment states equipment properties material states and material properties. And why do I bother to do that? Well, in end, I'll give you the punch line because we're just about out of time. Is some of these are really easy to control, to keep fixed, and to basically know deterministically. Most of them certain certain categories are really hard to do that with. As an example, material properties again material property of this. How well do I know the properties of this bar of aluminum or this this hunk of plastic? Well, you know, I can do some tests and do this kind of stuff, but again, it can be shown that that these can be highly variable, particularly as I go from this bar to that bar to that bar. So, we're going to be able to argue that unless you spend a lot of time upstream eliminating variations like in in the unless you do really good process control on the casting and and u turning or casting and and rolling and other processes that go into this this will have variable properties. So this tends to be material properties tends to be uh variable and as a result depending on the process mechanics has a huge effect on what um what your result can be unless there there are some wonderful processes out there again like I said like machining that say yeah I don't really care I'm I'm very insensitive to that um equipment properties properties. Okay. Equipment properties. So, the stiffness of the machine, you know, uh the the temperature in a reaction chamber, other things like that. I'm sorry, not temperature uh sorry, the uh the thermal insulation in a in a uh in a in an oven, something like that. Okay. Um within limits, of course, there's some uncertainty there. It's not just variable. I I should say variable or uh uncertain. either one is as a source of uncertainty or variation for us. Um, equipment properties. Well, again, if I pay a lot, if I'm careful with the machine, if it doesn't degrade a lot over time, then I'm in good shape. Machines degrade over time. So, tool wear is a degradation in an equipment property, right? It's an expected dimension that's actually changing over time. So this can be variable over many cases long times. That's a maintenance issue as much as anything else. But again, it's within a question of how good the machine is. If you build a a machine with very sloppy bearings, a sloppy bearing is basically a noise generator, right? You just don't know where things are. If you build a machine that is supposed to distribute a vapor, it's got a a a some sort of a a vapor handling system that's supposed to distribute it evenly, but it clogs easily or something like that or it just wasn't designed properly, then um you've got bad properties could cause variability. um equipment states, forces, pressures, temperatures, flows, um velocities. What do you think about those in terms of our ability to control those and eliminate uncertainty? Good, bad, or indifferent? Good. We have a vote for good. on any I would I would opine that any machine built in the past 20 years at least it's really good and that if you will is the victory of of CNC type controls of computer controls one of the biggest things is that this is now very minimal minimal variation or uncertainty I know exactly you know if I if I have a good servo and I say go to this velocity it goes to that velocity If I have a good temperature regulator and I say go to this temperature, it'll hold that within easily within a degree and in some extreme cases a lot less than that. So with particularly with the use of active control, we've made that really good. So the last one and and I would say uncontrollable. In other words, not only is it it not variable, I can actually tell you what I want it to be. So I'm going to skip discussion of the material states except to say that they're always in some ways they're always often well let's say they are variable and hard to know and I'll give you my one favorite example of that. Let's say that I have a polymer that needs to be at a certain temperature to do what it's supposed to do. Typical way of doing that would be put it in an oven and let it sit in that oven. Okay? So the oven has certain properties that you know makes it keep uniform temperature and it has a really good temperature control on it. So if I say heat this to 100 C, it's right there at 100 C. So I've got this heated air and it's at 100 C. I take a piece of polymer and I put it in there. Um, and I wait sufficiently long that it's at equilibrium and the polymer is now at 100 C. And then I pull it out and put it in a forming machine. something like that. Um, what's the temperature of the polymer when I formed it? That's a state of the polymer, right? It's a thermodynamic state of the polymer. I don't know. Unless I measure it, I don't know. I'm not controlling it anymore. Now, there are also cases, and this is true, I think, in the semiconductor world now more than anything else, is that if I want to control a temperature, for example, I don't measure the temperature of the oven or or the chamber. I measure the temperature of the thing that I'm going to uh make. And uh uh an example of that is in fact the machine that this was made on, if you guys have used this, the angle down in building 35, um you control the temperature usually on this process by controlling the nozzle temperature and the barrel temperature. And you say, "Oh, well that's the temperature of the polymer." But what really matters is the temperature of the polymer in the mold, which you never measure, right? But there's actually a little temperature sensor in the mold that you can uh measure that and there's also a pressure sensor in the mold. So you could you could if you wanted to actually measure the pressure on this. Okay, but it's hard to do. So this tends to be it's knowable but sort of expensive to do. So here's here's the moral of the story. biggest source of variation tends to be material uncertainties just inherent in the material and if you will the coupling between this energy source and how well it actually gets into the the material through sort of an uncertain interface. So all of these things here these three are your sources of variation typically in differenting measures. This is the one saving grace you're going to actually control way back at the beginning of the process. you're going to control uh equipment states. So when it's all said and done, what we manipulate here are typically not always, but typically equipment states, right? And our ability to do that has a lot and and how well I can change an equipment state to get a a change the sensitivity of the process has a lot to do with what I can do with its control. And the rest of the lecture which is in the notes is going through these three processes I've talked about and kind of addressing those issues. So if you have a chance take a look at the rest of those. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Uh thank you all and I won't see you next time. He will.