The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. So, uh this is uh Adam Smith uh 1776 and the concept of an economy. And you know the word economy gets spelled with an O in it. Um but uh means the same thing. And uh it is a word that uh we see appearing in various places sort of uh what does economy suggest just kind of from a general sense without any without any special without any specialized knowledge what would you associate with the world of econ with the word economy? Uh kind of like an organization of labor or skill. Okay. organization, we get some sense of order and some sense of uh organized uh behavior if you will because when you say organization you're suggesting you know people collectively doing something and uh this is uh a observation that uh really is is prevalent in this work that people work together in amazing ways to produce uh all kinds of things and Smith gives the name economy. Now Smith didn't invent this whole set of discussions. There were a lot of other people in his time discussing concepts of how you know how products were produced uh profits things of this sort struggling to understand the way things worked. uh but Smith uh in his wealth of nations really brought together a body of work that had been developing through uh the 18th century and so he's associated with u the whole concept of uh economics and the notion of uh how to study the production of wealth. So this is uh this is a key work. Uh many people consider it it's like a it's it's a little like the origins you know many people consider uh uh wealth of nations one of the great books if not the greatest book of the 18th century simply because it put into play a whole set of uh complicated arrangements but simplified them in many ways by observing some of the patterns of behavior and pattern recognition is a big you know Smith sees patterns And you can debate as you'll find our our reading for next week is Mouthys for Wednesday is Mouthys and Melus had some objections to Smith but uh you know both of these uh both Smith and Melus uh approached their uh approach their subject matter in a similar way. Um so part of the background to uh Smith is the rise of manufacturer. The fact that uh people were beginning to think about uh organized ways to produce goods for profit uh and Dero's encyclopedia which we actually had an exhibit on uh last year. I think it's been taken down now. But uh this encyclopedia was a great uh encyclopedia of u uh arts and trades and crafts um really captured a lot of the kinds of workshops that had been developing through the 18th century into organizes spaces for labor. bringing labor out of the localized uh sort of cottage industry into the more organized shop floor or the shop where you know people were beginning to you know identify a project making pins or making screws or making nails or making some fundamental kind of implement that was used widely in society. The idea began to emerge of, you know, not just having a group of people distributed around a country make it and then go and collect them, but to centralize that labor, bring it together into a room and begin to work with it. And this is uh and so a lot of these ideas were captured in Dita Rose Encyclopedia. And u you see an example of a shop floor here. They're actually making screw threads and uh you know they bring in machines, different people are working at different benches and you see how it's what's happening what's taking place here. Uh a kind of specialization and diversification very powerful set of ideas that began to take hold and gave rise to of course the the big uh uh revolutions in industry and industrial production. Uh so this all this sort of development of a whole series of interactions and markets and specialized production so forth began to be seen as some kind of a organism if you will or organic or a system a complex system we would call it today. they didn't have that term then and so uh but uh you know it it it really was a tremendous innovation because it created great wealth new wealth wealth on the part of people who were entrepreneurs not just you know wealth because you know you were the feudal lord or you were somebody higher very high in in the u inherited uh aristocracy but wealth through production of goods that in turn generated uh income and funds and for more production. So this was a big deal uh and a and a major part of the background to uh Smith and his wealth of nations and of course the title of the book wealth of nations the notion that whole nations are involved. This is something of national scale, something of vast scale, huge, uh much bigger than any sort of single local setting. It's sort of a network of things. Um, okay. So, I sent you this just because I wanted to capture this. I sent this in your slides so that you could get the key. you know, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but he goes through the whole process of, uh, producing pins. And as he says, uh, you know, a single person doing all these different steps to make pins would be lucky to, you know, make, uh, a few in a day. Whereas if you get uh a group of people to specialize in the various steps of pin making and identify rationalize those steps decide what has to be done for each u you can vastly increase the production. So as he mentions uh 10 people can make uh he says those 10 persons in the bold there those 10 persons therefore can make among them upwards of 48,000 pins in a day. Each person therefore making a tenth part of 48,000 pins might be considered as making 4,800 pins in a day. But if they had all rot separately and independently and without any of them having been educated to this particular business, they certainly could not each of them have made 20. So this magnification of labor is uh very impressive. Uh and you know people I mean this isn't like this is an old way of thinking. We don't do this anymore. I mean we still think about we still think about labor in these terms. We still think about how to you know divide steps of production of everything from food to implements. uh uh we are still in this business of trying to rationalize labor and understand how to make it more and more effective and more productive. Productivity is a big deal. I mean economists today still study it. So this is an idea that emerged in the wealth of nations. Um and as I I'm we don't want to make Smith into the inventor of all these ideas. He was a collector of ideas, a a person who synthesized a lot of work of many many people thinking, but he put it all together in a in a book. One of the excuse me, one of the things that happens with this too is that when you divide up labor and you're able to increase manufacturer, the the manufacturer kind of bootstraps itself because for every for every nail you make, you can build a better house, which you can, you know, build have better construction practices. Like for example, I heard this story that who made the first lathe because you need all you need the proper grinders and rotors and all that. So what they did is they made it by hand and they made the worst lathe they could and they used that lathe to make all the new parts for the next lathe and they kept bootstrapping that until they have the extremely fine-tuned high performance lathes that we have today. And the same goes for nails and houses and buildings and whatever. You're absolutely right. It's back to this workshop floor. You know, when you have a bunch of people sitting labor together, you know, they not only get better at what they're doing, but they talk to each other and they interact and they come up with new ways of doing stuff. And if they're all kind of in it for some kind of self uh gain, you know, that's what you that's an ideal setting for innovation. Getting people together, getting them thinking about it, getting them focused on the tasks and talking about how do you do it better? So why does specialization work? um uh in Smith's view um it can be traced to three different three different factors. Um one is of course increased dexterity. What does he mean by that? Increased dexterity. Just get better at what you're doing. If you do the same thing a 100 times, you're going to be better at it. Yeah. He says those those little boys, he used another example of those little boys making nails. And he says, you know, these kids could know together if they worked, they could make a couple of thousand of them a piece. And uh you know, they're really really good at what they do. They do one thing. What's the problem with that? Get pretty tedious, right? Just doing the same thing over and over and over and over again, you know? And early factory system was pretty brutal. I mean, Smith paints a very robust picture of it and rightly so. I mean, he's sort of looking at it from the large scale. He's he's taking the kind of cleanses look, you know, look at this great labor thing. But when you get down to the details, you know, some of this some of these early labor organizations were pretty brutal and u child labor and all these things. So, you know, there's a there's a big social cost here that, you know, we have to keep keep aware of. But yes, increased dexterity. The more you do something, the better and better you get at it. The more of a master you become at it. And you know, this holds for practically every kind of human endeavor we can think of. Even in the arts, not not just even in in the arts, you know, to become a great chist takes a lot of time, many many thousands of hours. And to become a great laboratory uh researcher, you know, at this at the state in the state-of-the-art, it's going to be the same thing. Whatever the human endeavor is, it's going to take a tremendous amount of input on the part of the individual. But that input has a impact in increasing the capacity in the in in the performance. So yeah, increased dexterity, time savings traces the second factor, the time savings. How does time savings? What what's he talking about here? Um, so like if you didn't divide your labor and one person had to do several several steps or all of the steps and after doing the first step, he had to go figure out the second step or like go work on the second step. And so like and like until the last step. And so like the example that he provides is of um more or less a farmer. Um like it's by necessity that he has to do all the steps like of like harvesting and planting but that's only possible because it's seasonal and he's not doing all of those at once, right? And so if you if you specialize, you can save time transportation or just like figuring things out and also like you would have less dexterity if you did more things. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's basically the old problem of uh shifting tasks. I mean, not too many people shift seamlessly from one task to another. There's always a a cost as you reset and refocus. uh and if you're continually doing that uh there there's uh there's a lot of time absorbed just in the transition periods. And finally um the third he mentions is innovation. What does he mean by innovation? I guess we sort of mentioned it. Yeah. what you said earlier just if you're doing the same task over and over, you're always going to be looking like, hey, how can I make this better? So like the example with the guy with the or the kid with the fire engine, he wants to go play with his friend, so he figures, hey, I can just tie a string and it'll do my job. Yeah. Yeah. This is that's a cute example. It's said to be apocryphal by some people, but the point is is, you know, people make innovation. They do all kinds of things. Uh I mean you must have all worked in places where you know you were doing something at one time and you suddenly thought gee if I do this you know it's going to be that much easier. I mean you're always trying to save your labor. You know it's labor is hard. Uh so if you can figure out some way to cut a corner you do it. So uh yeah he's got he's got a very uh charming example here. Um, you know, whoever has been much accustomed to visit such manufacturers must frequently have been shown very pretty machines which were the inventions of such workmen in order to facilitate and quicken their own particular part of the work. So that goes back to that lathe shop that you were that I showed you from Derero. Lots and lots of machines were being invented to, you know, increase labor. looms and things of that sort were being, you know, more and more developed that could be driven by water power and then steam power and so forth. These these sort of automatic mechanisms that could actually carry out these all these tasks. So, and you know as as you were saying uh you know the crude lathe at first starts and yeah it's clunky and so forth and then somebody else comes and over a series of in innovations uh the machines themselves begin to improve. there's a an incredible amount of uh improvement through the development and innovation of mechanical devices both for magnifying labor for extending it for appropriating and and dispatching it. So yeah, it's it's uh so he says uh in the first fire engines, a boy was constantly employed to open and shut alternately the communication between the boiler and the cylinder according to the piston as the piston either ascended or descended. One of those boys who loved to play with his companions observed that by tying a string from the handle of the valve which opened this communication to another part of the machine. The valve would open and shut without his assistance and leave him at liberty to divert himself with his playfellows. One of the greatest improvements that has been made upon this machine since it was first invented was in this manner the discovery of a boy who wanted to save his own labor. And it sort of throws me back to thinking, you know, Hume and the the great ship builder and those massive beautiful ships that they built to, you know, uh apply the seas and trade, uh, you know, those schooners and so forth. Well, they did many, many things, including many terrible things, but the workmanship of these these uh vast complicated ships was incredible. But it was probably the product wasn't probably the product of some grand designer who said, "Oh, I shall build this great ship. A lot of just people, everyday people who, you know, were skilled and very good at what they did and added something to the the whole this whole complex organism of a ship emerged. So again, there's a there's a new understanding of labor, the possibilities of labor as being more than just kind of iterative. You know, the same old thing over and over. Labor is something that works in interesting channels and collects and produces things. And you know the the product uh you know sometimes we think too much of the the great genius doing the you know labor the the genius the collective genius of many many people working on an art or on a on a on a type of production is uh very very powerful very amazing I always uh of course I'm in biology does does specialization work in biology ology. This is just a cute little evolutionary question here. Does do do organisms do organisms uh uh certain types of biology talks about you know dogs working together? Actually I think dogs probably we know from you know our our contemporary studies of animal behavior that uh many animals actually do work collectively to produce things. Uh do they work progressively to produce better and better things? That's another question. But they do collectively form groups and various types of families. And you know, if you see one of those uh I don't know those uh films on wild dogs in Africa chasing down their prey and you watch the complex kinds of behavior that are taking place there, you realize that uh organisms can do some pretty amazing things collectively too. Or if you look at beehives and things of that sort. So we we do have a lot of good examples of collective animal behavior but it's probably all driven not by rational process but more by instincts. So my question was uh in other sense does specialization work in biology? Well, so if you look at smaller biology like cell in terms of cells of any organism, cells are obviously specialized for first for the first moments of any cell's life as a stem cell. They're basically indistinguishable and then they go out just like people do and they do their one thing really well. Um and that's why we consumption. If everything if ourselves tried to do everything then we wouldn't be we wouldn't look the way we do now. We wouldn't have skin cells like everything would just like this. It would be like a blob more like I think it works. All right. That's so at the cellular level you know nothing can be more impressive than the kind of cellular specialization that you find in in an organism especially a complex organism. Yeah. Yeah, animals and creatures by nature tend to be as well adapted to their environment as they possibly can be. And I guess that's what I consider a form of specialization is that, you know, rather than having, for example, like look at us. We're not we're we're not particularly suited to any one thing, but we're we're dextrous enough to be able to do stuff. But you look at, for example, certain kinds of certain kinds of fish that live deep in the ocean, you can see that they are absolutely fine-tuned. They only live there. They only do certain things. And I, you know, I so I think in that sense specialization absolutely occurs everywhere. Yeah, it really is impressive. There there are insects that are developed that have physical apparatus that will only interact interact with another kind of prey. And if that prey is gone, they they just can't they're so specialized that their entire bodies. So yeah there there there there's a concept of specialization in biological diversification you know you look at a biological tree I mean what is it what is it about if it's not about specialized specialization the whole concept of developing so you know it's just it's an interesting not that Smith was thinking about biology or Darwin was necessarily thinking about Smith however this notion of specialization in large complex systems is is is a is a penetrating and interesting notion and to come back to Smith and and keep in mind that Darwin does again I don't want to make too much of this but uh uh Darwin does use the word of economy quite a bit in the origin the animal economy he thinks of it as an economy Um so what's interesting about these large complex quote economies is that they are the products of what? Who made them? How do they come into existence? What is their method of origin? How do they how do they emerge? Let's see who's who else can say something here. I guess it's just sort of the natural system. This the system sort of naturally tends to form an economy as you know as specialization occurs they get more and more efficient. Okay. What uh what why what drives this you know what motivation human motivation drives this specialization? Is this in the evolutionary? Well, I'm I'm I'm thinking now of Smith. What? Well, you could say everything is in some sense. I guess it would be financial game which sort of drives it. Okay. In in the economy, the financial or at least uh finance being a metaphor for your ability to sustain yourself. Yeah. So everybody is uh involved in in in in some way or another because u uh well he says uh he says his famous invisible hand argument uh every individual necessarily labors to render the annual revenue of the society as great as he can. He generally indeed neither intends to promote the public interest nor knows how much he is promoting it. He intends only his own gain and he is in thus as in many other cases led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention. These are non-intended systems. Um I just I personally found the idea of the invis the invis the invisible hand very interesting. Um just the thought that having a a self-preserving mentality would in itself be good for society. Um and then you think about how you know when people go too far with that like you have businesses who their first and foremost goal is to make a profit at the ex and it can be at the expense of others. Yeah. And at some point it can hurt the economy. Yeah. Yeah. So I think in that sense there is a a counterargument the invisible hand. Yeah. Those people those people with all those derivatives and so they sort of uh yeah their their self-interest drove. So I mean some people say well greed is good and so on. And I don't I can assure you that's not what Smith had in mind and with self-interest. But uh you could you could push his argument and say well if everybody as he says here led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention. So these people involved in this economy aren't trying to help other people. They're trying to help themselves. But in Smith's view that's great. You know, when everybody tries to help himself or herself, they drive the economy and produce new levels of wealth and everybody gets to share at some level in that wealth. So self-interest is good. We sometimes call it quote enlightened self-interest as opposed to dark self-interest or I don't know what the word is but uh but let me just finish. By pursuing his own interest, he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it. I have never known much good done by those who affected to trade for the public good. He's not a big believer in, you know, giving handouts. Okay. So, uh this is all done and I I emphasize no part of his intention. Non-intended complex systems. These nobody made nobody made the economy. It happened just through human desire to exchange and survive. And so, uh this is a a sort of a natural product of humans interacting with each other. So, so he uh I won't go into this but uh this whole notion of uh self-interest as a motivating force of human behavior. So, you know, people people want to gain goods. They want to go to the shopping malls. They want to you know whatever is available. They want to go shopping. We get people get upset with the notion that uh we're a nation of shoppers, but I I I think uh I think people have always been nations of shoppers in some sense. They're always out to find, you know, to get the food that they need to live and to improve their surroundings at least at some level. And so, uh and clothe themselves, feed and clothe themselves. So, yeah, they get out, it gets out of hand sometimes. and luxury comes in. But uh Smith even has a place for luxury here. Okay. Uh okay. So in almost every other race of animals, each individual one has grown up to maturity is entirely independent and in its natural state has occasion for the assistance of no other living creature. But man has almost constant occasion for the help of his brethren and it is in vain for him to expect it from their benevolence only. He will be more likely to prevail if he can interest their self-love in his favor. Okay. So this is a kind of a natural naturalized u motivation. It's it's not to so he he's he's taking he he's he's finding motivation in natural behavior and that's motivation for social good in natural human behavior as compared to what? It's not through religious desire to be a good person. in Smith's system uh you know this this sort of this is an important point is that uh the behavior of humans is it you see this as cynical okay what in what sense it was like everyone wants like everyone's greedy and therefore we mankind move towards the better okay all right it certainly You can certainly take that you you you can see that in it. Uh everybody anybody else think Smith is cynical or is it just a word that doesn't apply to him or is he beyond that or beneath that or what? I think it's realistic. I think everyone is I mean ultimately when the day ends out out for themselves they want to that everyone everyone's pretty selfish. Okay. So I think it's a realistic view. Okay. Any other comments on this this great new econ? Any other thoughts? Well, uh Jennifer, what do you think? She's sending him. I feel like if you were cynical though, you might see like problems that like if people got too greedy. He kind of like has that greed has limits and that everything will just work itself out. But he doesn't really consider go extremes, I guess. Yeah. I mean he he does mention people who get great wealth and what do they do with their wealth like they spend it on stuff and somebody has to make the stuff. So and Smith's kind of as you said I I I think I think the phrase you use it will sort itself out. I think is very much uh Smith is very much that you know of that mentality things sort themselves out and without these drives in the economy you wouldn't have the growth in wealth. So yeah, there's an element of cynicism in it, but there's also a concept here, the production of wealth that the collective whole shares at some level. And yeah, some people get a lot more than other people, but then they spend it in dumb ways or they go buy bobbles or they do whatever they do with it and it ultimately gets back into the economy. Whether that's I mean somebody might say that's too idealized. It's this it's really panglossian. You know Smith is a kind of a panglossian thinker because he thinks that you know all is for the best. I mean this is a system in which all is for the best isn't it sort of but kind it's kind of the opposite of pain like it's like the same but different in like how pain says like every person's mis indiv individual's misfortune is for the public the greater good of the public but then in Smith it's more like every person's fortune is for the better of like general public because everyone in and everyone advancing and improving their own condition like society moves forward kind of like that slight difference I think well it uh I think it was a it was a it was a point that was not lost on people that you know yeah this is pretty self-oriented self-interest it's a big deal here This is kind of throwing out human ethical behavior or turning it on on its head because you know ethical behavior you know what is I mean we're supposed to treat our fellow person as we want him or her to treat us. So this ethical behavior that motivates or we think motivates important things in society, it's not the main focus of Smith by any means. Yeah. In the last part that we read of book three, he does warn against it. He I have a quote. It says, "All for ourselves and nothing for other people seems in every age of the worlds to have the vile maxim of the masters of mankind and I kind of just thought that was a really important idea. Even though he says this system is pretty much perfect and everything should work out, there are going to be faults regardless because people aren't perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. He's he's he's he is aware of these other sides to things and you know deep in the book there are all kinds of observations that he makes on people suffering through labor cycles where you know they can't find work and you know there there there is there is suffering in the system people in the highlands women in the highlands with large families of which only a few children survive uh you know they're they're There there definitely are costs. uh but uh when you stand back and you look the economy itself has done uh more good than evil as a whole because it has provided a growth and there is this this this notion we mentioned let me this notion of progress theory of progress he says it is a great multiplication of the productions of all the different arts in consequence of the division of labor which occasions in a well-governed society that universal opulence which extends itself to the lowest ranks of the people. The word progress occurs over 100 times in this book. So that kind of puts a different light on it, doesn't it? I mean, yeah, at some level it seems cynical, but it's not the kind of cynicism we found in Voltater where, you know, in the end, you're just stuck in your garden and, you know, grubbing for tubers or whatever and trying to make a living and, you know, with everybody old and creepy and, you know, falling apart, you know, here there there's it's it's not that kind of cynicism. In fact, the larger idea here is collectively, you know, we produce something more for everybody. You can argue about whether whether this actually works or not, but certainly at the core of this idea is a notion that humans are, you know, enjoying the benefits of progress. Do you think this is a fiction or what's your how do you feel about that? I mean I think it kind of goes back to the same thing with like back like in the pin factory when all people are there they like improving themselves but they're also talking amongst themselves and that talking creates new ideas about oh maybe we can like make this new thing or this new thing. So I think by the division of labor it does kind of give rise to progress because people are always thinking and bouncing ideas off each other. Okay. Therefore new things. Yeah. So the notion of progress is you know we uh it's an abstract idea but we certainly feel it don't we? I mean we don't live in the same circumstances now. Uh well we have to be we have to be careful here because obviously there are many people in the world for whom progress has not been you know a big uh factor. I mean there's still lots and lots of hunger there you know. So progress itself is not as far as we can tell and we know this for sure um evenly distributed through the world. However, the concept of progress in any given society, if you look at uh or any uh any any given we can talk about a country or a society or large state unit of some sort. If you look at the way things were 200 years ago and today, you know, there are evidences of something. I mean, we can argue about what progress consists of. Does it consist of more cars? What is progress? What do you think Smith's concept of progress is? Yeah, I I I'm not quite sure if this answers your question, but progress is kind of a dirty word. And one of the one of the problems with it seems to be is that progress implies some kind of direction goal or you know endpoint. And when we look at when we look at say the animal world, you don't you don't see any kind of direction from from descendants, you know, and and the same thing too, it's I it's hard to argue or at least you get really if you if you adhere to this notion that of progress in in mankind, it gets really hard to argue exactly what you mean by that because if you look at, for example, the Aztecs, you know, yes, they may have been, you know, sinister and barbaric, but at the same time, they had a much healthier relationship with the planet than we do. So, you know, if you're not only if you're not only trying to move towards some kind of artificial target, but the target is moving as you adapt the environment, it becomes almost meaningless to talk about what direction you're going in. So, yeah, it's it's certainly is a much more complicated concept than, you know, we like to think when we just toss the word out and say, "Oh, yeah, we're we're devoted to progress." Um but even in those uh you know the if if you think of the the the Mayan civilizations which uh flourished in Central America uh you know one of the great locations Tikall uh collapsed. Nobody quite knows why this vast uh array of uh uh people specialized who built these incredible buildings and canals and all sorts of irrigation system and everything and it collapsed before I mean long before the Europeans went to Central America and uh one theory is that they just uh exhausted you know they exhausted the surrounding areas. So it's probably true that humans have been doing this sort of thing for many many years. They build up to a certain point. So there's a kind of a localized uh historical period of progress where yeah everything gets better and better and then collapse boom and then uh you know the civilization is uh maybe that happened and that has probably happened. Do you have another? Oh, what you were just saying kind of made me think about maybe there's like some sort of conservation of progress. Um, like so maybe over long period of time humans have progressed but that's also at the cost like more possibilities for every for every individual now compared to um back when like the kings of an older age like all these possibilities this increase in possibilities for us. Yeah. To do different things also is an increase in possibility for us to damage things. And so right maybe one% we have powers now that that very few people had before and you know we how do we use them? We you know we conduct wars and we blow each other up and we do all kinds of weird things. So uh these greater capacities of the modern world have not necessarily delivered uh a unalloyed progress. There are people who would argue with some r with some reason that you know Werdsworth's ability to sit on the on the hillside and contemplate this ruined abbey and the little puffs of smoke coming from the cottages down below was a richer form of life and existence. than you know somebody sitting in you know basement playing I don't know World of Warcraft or something. I mean we do different sorts of things with our with our progress uh and not all of them necessarily uh deliver a u state of uh u enriched being. And it could be argued that major industrial countries haven't achieved the kind of mental satisfaction and emotional satisfaction that one would have thought they should have with having you know so many of their material material wants satisfied. So progress is a very elusive concept. But for Smith, I mean, we're back here in, you know, the 1700s and as he looks across and as he looks at the potential of this growth and economical development, he rightly sees, you know, incredible promise. And part of it is uh not just in things that people can buy and the bobles that they can own but he also traces to this whole development the rise of towns and all these other things. What are some of the things that he suggests these economies deliver to their their uh respective uh countries? What are some of the benefits? What are some of the political benefits? Nothing political. I mean, this was a major part of his his his uh last section of of of the the book here. This whole notion that as economies develop, more people have more resources. And what happens when more people have more resources? specialization. Well, specialization delivers it so forth. Uh but you know what do they do with those resources and how does this change their societies? Well, they become dependent on those resources. They definitely become, you know, they become part of their their level of expectations. What kinds of expectations do people with more resources develop? When when you have that many resources and that many people, there's more of a need to be collective. So you see the development of markets which are really towns are not really just places to live but places to conduct commercially. And if you look at a lot of even like medieval towns, you know, like in Florence or Italy or wherever, the town is always centered around the piaza or the the town square where all of the transactions took place. Absolutely true. And these towns developed cadres of people who were wealthier than when they were dependent uh surfs on the lair's land. they develop independence. town's people are you know this is this is not only the place where I mean it's not always uh orderly but uh the notion Smith has is as these markets developed and these towns developed around them they developed a need for order and some level of organization and through that organization a sharing of uh power may be too grand a word but a sharing of of the say of how things should be conducted. So these towns began to offer an alternative to you know being stuck on the land someplace and working for uh the Lord and they became centers of uh political growth if you will. And I When I say growth, I mean development. Um, so he says um he says there are three uh three great improvements. One is uh that these towns stimulated production. So in these towns as people collected together there were more opportunities and more people got involved with you know producing. So towns were a direct stimulation of production itself. Um a second factor um he mentions uh is the development of wealth and the use of that wealth by entrepreneurs to put land to new uses to develop new manufacturers to re to utilize land that was not being used in the old system because it was just part of you know a vast system that was owned by somebody who really didn't think about what to do with it. So, a redistri redistribution of land, if you will, and a re utilization of land, a greater, more efficient utilization of land to produce again more products, more wealth. And then finally, the third is under this expansion, uh the third improvement is to improve order and good government. uh this may be and the liberty and security of individuals. So in these towns an another level of security, another level of uh of uh u uh sort of liberty, the ability to do things on your own. Um so again you know this this kind of you don't think of medieval towns as being particularly uh you know liberal places where you could do whatever you wanted. On the other hand the comparison out in the countryside it was pretty much every person was pretty wild out in the countryside. Country sides were not well. So uh you know this these these commercial centers did develop more government more distribution of uh uh of liberty and greater sources of wealth. So there was a natural progression for these places to to grow. Um okay. So he says um he says here a revolution of the greatest importance to the public happiness was in this manner brought about by two different orders of people who had not the least intention to serve the public to gratify the most childish vanity was the sole motive of the great proprietors. So these people who made out as you know wealth was produced and they sold land and all this um uh the merchants and the art and artificers uh much less ridiculous acted merely from a view to their own interests and in pursuit of their own pedal principle of turning a penny whenever a penny was to be got. Neither of them had either knowledge or foresight of the great revolution which the folly of the one and the industry of the other was gradually bringing about. So this shift in the social order from a kind of a feudal order of landholders and people living on them to a new town centered uh market centered order in which there was wealth being produced and so forth in Smith's view. This was a great political uh boon to the people who lived in these towns. And so, you know, the the economy actually didn't just make individuals and merchants especially wealthier, but uh it redistributed liberty. It extended liberty to in in new ways to people who had never had it before. And the natural growth of that process was a kind of a political progress. Now we can debate whether that was really what was happening but that's pretty much Adam Smith's view of what the importance of these economies were. Um so he says it is thus uh that through the greater part of Europe the commerce and manufacturers of cities instead of being the effect have been the cause and occasion of the improvement and cultivation of the country. A very important point. It's that process that improved the country. It's not that the country improved and then they could do more manufacturing more. So he sees it as a causal agent in the growth of human liberty and you know new levels of freedom and capacity that people never had before. um this can be overdone. We know that the 18th century uh the 18th century cities you know in in uh and as well as the 19th century cities. London was you know pretty much a was a place of great uh you know masses of people and it is true there were lots and lots of people who were uh inc whose lives were incredibly better than they had been a century before. But we only have to read someone like Charles Dickens to know that, you know, it was pretty grim for a lot of uh poor people in the laboring classes themselves. Although there was uh a level of wealth that made it possible for them to live uh did not necessarily live very well and many of them were stuck to in these manufacturing towns. So, the manufacturing towns themselves. This is uh this is a painting here by uh JMW Turner uh a 19th century artist uh very fine artist actually of a place called Dudley. But, uh you know, it's kind of got a nice ethereal feeling to it. But uh underneath uh well some of this was probably smoke and grime and you know the streets of streets of many of these towns were not very very attractive but it's all relative and compared to living you know as a indentured servant or living you know or starving in the countryside when things weren't uh going well. Uh many of these towns offered a whole new level of security. Why do people go to cities? Why do people go to towns? Why do people leave the land and godsworth say you idiots come back? You can but they go because life is better. There's an improvement in life. Why are the people in China moving into the big ch into the cities? It's you know why have people from America moved into the great cities? Why are they still doing this? Because there are more resources, there are more possibilities and more potential and yes more freedom. So you know we don't need to glamorize this this view too much because you know it it was pretty grimy but uh the fundamental concept here of these economies generating wealth and extending that wealth to wider and wider circles of people is a very powerful principle that Adam Smith captured.