Hello. Okay, I'm just going to start. So, here's a question. Um, and I'm genuinely asking. Would you would you rather to scale the width or the depth of your neural network? Um, does anyone have any thoughts? Wait, someone said something. I heard someone say depth, but I >> Why? >> Someone said it earlier. >> Just you've heard deep learning, so it sounds not why why >> it's not. Yeah. Okay. Okay. But it's kind of not really clear, right? Like how do you even answer a question like that? I don't know. I don't know if I Okay, it's something we're going to think about. Um, so in today's lecture, we're going to ask this question of what class of functions can a neural network express. And you may have heard this statement that neural networks are universal function approximators. So, we're going to think about um what that means. And well, if a if a neural network is a universal function approximator and it can approximate any function that we're interested in, then how should we make decisions about the architecture? Like, does it matter how many layers there are? Should we, you know, maybe [clears throat] a few layers is enough if you make them really wide? Should you have lots of layers? And ultimately, what do you want to do in practice? And does thinking about neural networks through this lens of universal function approximation actually help you in practice? Uh I'm not going to claim to answer all all of these questions, but at least try to provide some beginning of a framework for one framework for thinking about them. So uh in machine learning you can think of it like a bit like we have a puzzle and there are different pieces of the puzzle. We're not going to solve the puzzle until we understand all of the pieces and put them together. Um and I broke it up here into three pieces. Um let's see. So the first is approximation. This is the question of does there exist a neural network in my model family that fits the training data. So given my architecture does can it even represent the function that I want that fits the training data. The second question is optimization. So let's suppose it does exist then that that's the question of can I find it. And third is generalization. So suppose it exists. suppose I can find it, then it's kind of like does it do well on unseen data. So that's what I really I really want all of those things to happen if if I'm going to like solve my machine learning problem. But in this lecture, we're only going to look at the first question about approximation. But just to remind you that there is this puzzle. We really want to solve the whole puzzle and put the pieces together. So here is a motivating problem. So imagine I have like two-dimensional data like it's got two coordinates X1 and X2 and like there's two classes the red crosses and the green circles and I I've I've come up with my think of this as like a one layer neural net sort of it's just the wrpose x plus b and then I take relu of that can if that's my model can I fit this data what's your name sorry Matt >> Matt is saying no. Why? Why? >> Yeah. So because he because this thing is only one there's only one hyper plane defined by delpose X and and ReLU does not distort the shape of the hyper plane. It just applies a linearity on the output. You can't this is basically a linear separator and and this class of d this data is not linearly separable. So this is supposed to be recap from lecture one. Um so hopefully it's reasonable but we can't we cannot linearly separate this. Um but what if I had a two layer neural net? Do you think I could maybe do it with two layers potentially? Yeah. Okay. So I think we can do it with two layers but you may need to think about it. But this is just supposed to be a refresher, but it's saying we've got a kind of function that we're trying to fit and we have a model family and we're asking does there exist the function in that model family that can fit that data. Um so it's a kind of warm up for thinking about um this idea of function approximation. I have a second motivating problem. Does anyone recognize this function? You recognize it. What what is it? >> Yeah, it's it's Ry stress's function which is everywhere continuous but nowhere differentiable. It's like a classic example of a pathological function. And it's like the question I wanted to ask is do you think you could fit this function with a neural network? Um does anyone have a thought? map >> wouldn't it kind of have to like you would have to like go to infinity of like it would be like asmtoic >> it seems like you would need some kind of asmtoic thing yeah honestly I don't know how the what the answer is to this I just thought it was like an interesting it's an interesting function and it's interesting to think can I fit it with a neural net I guess I suppose the answer is maybe um and I thought you know a good final project if someone wants an idea is to like take take all those pathological examples that via stress was thinking about and see if you can fit them with a neural net that but but anyway this is just more motivation just something to think about oh yeah so this is a fractal function it's like defined recursively it's like self similar like if you zoom into any piece of the function it resembles the whole function um so we want to now like formalize this approximation problem that we've been talking about um so given a family of curves G. We think of these as the curves that we want to be able to approximate ideally. Um, and you we can choose what we want G to be. Like we could choose it to rule out via stress function. We could ask that G is differentiable. Or we can we're free to pick whatever family of curves we're we're interested in. That's up to us. And then we think of a family of neural networks. F. This is like you know I'm going to say I care about a five layer MLP five layer multi-layer perceptron that could be my family. So in other words, an a neural architecture could specify a family of of functions. And then I want to say if I pick any curve in my in my space of functions or or set of functions that I'm interested in, does there exist a neural network in my family of neural networks that can fit that function to some small error? um and like we we can kind of come up with different notions of error and okay here epsilon you should think of epsilon as like a small number. So like we choose the epsilon and we ask can we can we fit can we approximate any function in the family of curves g to less than some small error. Okay and we have to ask what do we mean by the error. So like we could we could pick whatever metric we want. So one example we could call the um the L infinity error which would be the max over inputs of uh f ofx minus g of x and then take the absolute value. So this is like think of it like an L1 norm but just measuring sorry an L infinity norm but for functions. So it's the max the max discrepancy between the two functions anywhere on the input space. uh you know another another equally valid um error measure could be we could call this the L1 the L infinity measure another another measure would be the L1 measure which would be like the integral over the input space of the absolute value of f ofx minus g ofx so that would be another valid way to measure discrepancy which is like integrate over the function and just sum up all the differences and along the whole along the whole axis Um so in this lecture just to for the purposes of having something nice to present in the lecture we're going to pick a particular family of curves G that we're interested in um whether neural nets can approximate this family and these are the lichits continuous functions um so has has anyone well the clay okay I think it's nice to teach you about lichit functions regardless of neural net approximations so that's another nice reason to tell you about this so Let's just think what a liit continuous function is. It's a particular notion of continuity. Um so what we're going to do is we're going to say that um that a function g from real numbers to real numbers is lit. So l is like a number think it's like 10 or five but it's just measures how lichits the function is. We'll say it's lit if for any input point x the absolute value of like g of x plus delta x minus g of x. So think if I if I change the inputs by a delta x I'm going to change the function and the amount that the function changes is bounded by the lipits constant times the size of delta x. So this we call lip shit's continuity of of G an int there's an intuitive way to think about what this is saying because you imagine imagine taking delta x take take the limit that delta x becomes really small does can anyone recognize what what this looks a little bit like if we take the limit that delta x becomes small >> is it that the slope is always less than some constant value >> exactly yes exactly so It's you should recognize that if I take the limit that delta x goes to zero is a bit like saying that the the derivative of g is bounded by l like you should sort of see a definition of the derivative hiding in here. Um so lit continuity is a is a kind of generalization of the notion of having a bounded derivative. Well it may be equivalent actually but you need to think about that but and just to draw a picture let's suppose that we set x to zero. So we think about we think about this x as being zero and then we ask how how large can g of delta x be. Um and what this definition says if the function is lipshit we think about drawing the line like uh y = lx and similarly we draw the like the other line y = minus lx and then it this this definition implies that whatever function we have oops it's not supposed to be that squiggly it should be reasonably not too anyway um the function had better lie within those bands. So this is the implication of the definition. If the function goes through the origin, it has to lie within those those bounds. But the same argument applies at any point. So it sort of places a kind of cone kind of shape maybe or a kind of bow tie and the function has to belong to that bow tie at any point along the function if that makes sense. You imagine translating the bow tie along. Um so that's lit continuous. And now I thought what another great thing to introduce you to is how to generalize that notion to functions with multiple inputs. So now we're going to think about generalizing this lit notion for G going from RD to R. Um and basically the inputs are now going to be RD in RD and the delta X's are going to be in RD. Um and you see like we don't really need to change anything here. the output is still onedimensional. So that still makes sense. But this doesn't really make sense. Um because you can't take the absolute value of a vector. Or maybe you can, but that's not what we want. Um what what we're going to do is we're going to change the absolute value to the norm of the vector delta x. And I'm going to pick a particular norm that I really like called the RMS norm. Um, so now do you see that this is now a valid definition as long as I define what I mean by the RMS norm? Um, so the idea is that because the X is a vectors, we need to measure the size of the vector on the right hand side. Um, so I'm going to define the RMS norm of a vector X to be the square root of 1 / D, which is the dimension of the vector, times the sum over of the coordinates X I^ 2, which we can also think of as just being 1 over D times the UKidian norm of X. Um, so it's I just want to introduce you to the idea that if you have an object like a vector, there's many different ways to to talk about how large it is. The uklidian norm is one example, but the uklidian norm is kind of a dimensional object. Uh, you can think about RMS norm as a kind of non-dimensional analog of the uklidian norm because if if all the entries of the vector are one, then the RMS norm is one whereas the uklidian norm would be like square root d. But anyway, this this the point of this slide is just to generalize lipstickness to functions with multiple inputs and to point out that there's many different possible ways to measure the size of something. Um okay, but I yeah why were we even talking about this? Um the point is that in this lecture in the first part of this lecture we are going to prove something akin to a universal function approximation theorem. And the class of functions G that we're interested in approximating is going to be the class of alipit functions that map from the hyper cube the input the domain or the input space is the hyper cube um to the real numbers. So this is the hyper cube and these are the reals and we're asking we're only considering L lip functions. So functions with bounded derivatives. And the what we're going to say is that if we pick an error tolerance that we're interested in, then there exists a three layer relu network with a certain number of units such that this integral notion of error like summing up all the little pieces and adding adding up all the absolute values of the difference between on your net and the function G that integral is less than apparently 2 epsilon. So that's what does anyone have any questions about this? We could dwell on upon it for for a moment. This is our goal of like basically for the next 20 minutes hopefully we're just going to try to prove this statement or like why should we be interested in such a statement? That's another question. Um >> yeah go ahead. Is that like 0. >> That means 0 the interval 0 comma 1 with square brackets refers to the interval of the real line just between zero and one. So that's just picking out an interval on the real line and then raising it to the power d means that in all the dimensions of our d-dimensional space we pick out that interval. So it's like picking out a cube in three dimensions or a hyper cube. It's just supposed to be a a abstract way of writing down the hyper cube in dimensional space where where all the axes are between zero and one. >> What does >> n is is or n is my capital n is my symbol for the number of units. By the by units we mean the number of neurons in the in the relu MLP. So n is the number of neurons in in the three layer network. >> A couple questions. So first are those neurons per layer or are they the total number in the whole network? >> It's the total but honestly because it's three layers for the purpose of understanding the lecture you can just pretend that the number three is the number one. that kind of question doesn't really matter so much but but I really mean actually the the sum total of the neurons. >> So and then uh second question is when you say three layer network what precisely do you mean by that? So like are there three value functions in it? I precisely mean the thing with three weight matrices and one and two rally functions that follow the first weight matrix and the second weight matrix and then the third weight matrix doesn't have a rally. >> Okay. And then the final question I have is like this uh theorem seems like very specific. I was just wondering if you could steal a little bit as to you brought up like why do we care about this like >> yes so that's a great question. And so the reason is is because it's like the way to prove this theorem is not super involved. So the point is to show you an example of such a theorem and you can see the whole proof and how it works. Um and then there are I I'll point you to some other references where they do different calculations or different things. It's just to show you an example and then we're really going to think about is this relevant. I'm not claiming that this is an important result. I'm just saying it's something you can prove and then we'll think a bit about is is this an important result or not. Um yeah, >> does this apply to networks that are more than one layer? In the notes from the first lecture units, there was section about universal approximation theorem for a single value layer where you have a given amount of value units in that single layer you could approximate a function to arbit this applies to layers. This is this is applies to a three layer rel network. So it's not this is not the most general thing that you can prove. The result that you're talking about is a different result. This is just another result where there's a proof which I can we can put into some slides and and show to it's just to get you thinking about how how such a result could look. But there are other results. There are probably more interesting versions of this result. This is just a a result but it's about three layer three layer in that question for this um is it possible to shift the interval or scale the interval? >> Yeah, anytime you see the hyper cube you should think like I can probably just rescale that and I'm going to change some scaling numbers. I'd probably change maybe what the lipits constant is or yeah, you should be able to rescale it to be any any hyper cube that has arbitrary sizes in different dimensions basically or hyper cuboid or something like that. But yes, um why do we want to consider everything? Does this mean everything should be finance? >> Yeah, that's an interesting question. So why um is that like a toy a toy thing about this theorem or like but actually if you think about in real deep learning you usually normalize your inputs to be um coordinate wise about one in magnitude like you could actually train a neural network on an interesting problem and actually project all the inputs to live within a hyper cube or m maybe a a hyper cube. Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's actually quite that that part is actually kind of a realistic assumption that my data lives in a hyper cube for many problems not for all problems. Um yeah last question. >> Uh so the one over epsilon to the d seems pretty important. Do you know if you relaxed that elliptic different definition of continuous did you still remain with that as the best you can do or >> um better than that? >> Yeah, I imagine that with more knowledge about the problem structure you can do much better. Um this is I'm not trying to claim that this is an interesting result and we'll talk about the limitations and I think you would hope to do if yeah just look at it's saying that you need n the number of neurons you need you take the lips constant and you raise it to the power of the dimension which is really that could potentially be massive and you also you know the smaller the error tolerance you want the bigger the number of neurons you need in a way that depends exponentially on the dimension. So that's that's really bad dimension dependence. Um, and we don't in practice really want to do that ever. So that's a yeah that's going to be yeah it's great to point out that the result itself is not even the best possible result we might hope for. Whether we can do better probably depends on structure in the problem and I don't know even if under these conditions maybe there's something better but I'm not sure. Um, okay let's just plow ahead now for a little bit. So the strategy that we're going to adopt for proving this result is first of all we're going to pretend that our inputs are one-dimensional. We're just going to treat the case of one-dimensional inputs, one-dimensional outputs. And we're going to forget about real networks for a little bit. And we're going to think about um approximating our function just with like kind of rectangles that we we sort of build up. And we you can see that you can sort of approximate a function by um taking these rectangles and and putting them like this. And we're going to and you can sort of see that the more as you make the width of each rectangle smaller, you get a better and better approximation to your function. Um and that's something we can quantify quite easily. The second step is then we're going to generalize that rectangle construction to multi-dimensional inputs still ignoring networks. And then the third step is we're going to show that with a really with a two-layer real network, you can approximate a hyper rectangle of that kind. So then you can just use the third layer of the network to linearly combine all of your rectangles and you'll be able to approximate your function. So this is the strategy like first approximate the function with rectangles, then approximate it with hyper rectangles, then show that a really a two-layer real network can approximate a hyper rectangle. Um okay let's just plow on in the interest of time. Um so the first step is to like construct these rectangular strips which is each strip is centered on a discrete grid point. And you can sort of think that this is like building a function f ofx is the sum over alpha i times let's call this the i indicator where where what you what you should think is that alpha i is is measuring the height of the i rectangle alpha i and like indicator i is the is the function which is one if the input is in this interval and zero otherwise. Um and then if I if I sum up you know a bunch of these indicators of this form like that's that corresponds to this approximation to the function. Um is that clear? Is that clear? Okay. So the the next step is basically what we're going to ask is if we approximate a function in this way. Let's say we make the left edge of the rectangle actually touch the function. We need to ask like how big is this gap? um h how big can it be? And the observation is do you okay does anyone have an idea of like how to place a constraint on how large that difference can be? >> Um yeah, >> we use the lip function just the area of the triangle. >> Exactly. So the the observation is that we're assuming that the function g that we're trying to approximate is l lip Like we said that places a bound on how large its derivative can be. And that gives us a constraint on like how big this triangle can be or the triangle could go under but it tells us how big this this thing can be. Um and so we're going to ask given n strips where n you know we can ramp it up or we can we can make n as big as we want but given given that we have n of them what is the approximation error and the claim is that the approximation error is bounded by the lichit's constant divided by two times the number of strips. Um and okay so importantly if I'm if elliptic constant gets bigger then the er then if I keep the number of strips the same the error would get bigger but if I make the number of strip number of rectangles larger the error would go down. okay so to prove this can you see that basically we just need to do the geometry of what this triangle can look like and then sum it up over all the strips. So let's just do that quickly. So if we have n strips each each uh rectangle can can be is width one over n. Um and the height of the triangle if you just think through the definition of lipousness you just multiply the width of the strip by l and that will give you the height the maximum possible height. And then of course then the triangle has area what's what's the area of this triangle? Um does someone tell me uh wait I remember it's at half L / N squ right the half base times the height and this means that the total error remember that we're dealing with the L1 error of the of the function approximation is just going to be like n times the error of each rectangle and and that corresponds to actually the area of the triangle the maximum possible area of the triangle which is half L n square. So this is just half L / N and that okay now we just need to flip things around. That's the largest possible thing the error could be. But what we wanted is a statement of the form if we have this many rectangles then the error cannot exceed epsilon. So we need to flip the statement around. So that corresponds the way you do it mentally is just you say like epsilon is half l / n. So then to achieve error epsilon we just rearrange this equation. We get n needs to be greater than equal to half l over epsilon. Um and if I don't care about this factor of a half, I can just um I'm free to just also erase that factor because it doesn't really matter. This is this the form of the statement is if I set n greater than l over epsilon then I will have an error epsilon less than half l / n. So I'm just re rearranging the equation and and being careful about the inequalities. So this is step one. We have we have we know how many rectangles we need to get a certain error in the one-dimensional case with onedimensional inputs. Let's think about how things change if we have multiple multi-dimensional inputs. And the thing that changes is we now have this hyper rectangle like a yeah something like just think think 3D whenever you need to think about high dimensions like you kind of just think about like things in three dimensions. Um and okay what I'm working I'm do I'm just repeating the calculation the total error and then I'm breaking up into pieces. So this piece is just the number of number of hyper rectangles. This piece is like the error per hyper rectangle. No, it's the we think about the hyper rectangle as having a little cap on top where where the hyper rectangle differs from the the surface G and we're trying to measure the um we sort of know the surface area of the top of the hyper rectangle because it's just like the width of the hyper rectangle raised to the the number of input dimensions. So we know the surface area of the top of the rectangle. That's easy. And then we just use the lips constant to measure the maximum possible height of the hyper rectangle. So it's just repeating exactly the same thing that we did except instead of a triangle, it's some kind of generalization of a triangle. So I'll probably just leave people to think think that through by looking at the slides if you want to think more about that. But this is the height of let's call it the error cap. and then this is Is this right? Yeah. Okay. And then Yeah, it is right. And then if you think about what's the surface area of the top of the cap, well, if there's n rect if there's n hyper rectangles, if I sum up all the surface areas of all of them, I should get one. Yeah. So then the surface area of each one should better be 1 / n. So we'll just call this the area. If anyone wants to like think through this more carefully plea please do so because but okay and the claim is that we've we've just done the same calculation the only remaining thing is to rearrange it in the way that we just did. So and this would say that um we should need L over epsilon to the D. So I do the same trick of setting epsilon equal to this thing and then just rearranging and and now okay let's just zoom out and just try to assess where we're up to. So what we're imagining is that we now have a function g with multiple inputs and one output which we can think of as a surface where the that that would be the case where there's two there's two inputs and one output. it's like a surface and then in higher dimensions it's a generalization of that. Um and the claim is that if we want to approximate this with lots of with n hyper rectangles and we want to get a certain notion of the integral of the error that the number that we need to get an error epsilon is l over epsilon to the d. And this should remind you a lot of the thing which appeared in the theorem statement. And the reason for that is that the next step is to show that we can approximate the rectangle with a relu with a small with a two-layer relu network. So the number of small two-layer relu networks we're going to need is L over epsilon to the D. And then we just need to count how many neurons are in each of those ReLU networks. Um, so I just decided to let's just zoom over this because I want to show you actually how to construct this thing. But the basically the claim is that there's a two there's a one layer is this one. Okay, we would call this a two-layer real network um where with a parameter C a kind of weight C and if we take C to infinity which is seems like a bit of a trick but okay that's what we're going to do the claim is that that network converges to this function which is exactly this hyper this this single rectangle in one dimension so I just want to take a bit of a risk by switching off and hoping that I'm able to reshare my iPad and just try to just try to build this thing for you. So, I've here Okay, so this is this is a ReLU. By the way, this kind of manipulation is quite helpful on some of the homework problems probably. This I really recommend. I'm not being paid by this this this graphing software, but it's really great. Um, and what I want to show you is, so here I've got ReLU of X, and then I'm just going to subtract ReLU of X minus one. And you see it kind of flattens it out. Uh, and then I like say I want to like curve it down. So I subtract another Reu. And then I, you know, I want to like flatten off that little flat bit that's not flat. So I'm just going to add a ReLU. And like each each time I'm sort of translating them one along. Um, and then but now I'm like, hey, that doesn't look like a rectangle. The slopes are too non-slope that I want them to be slopier or something. So, I'm gonna uh okay, I'm going to insert a constant C, which is initially one, so it's not changing anything. And I'm just going to use this constant to like increase the slope of all the curves. Uh, and let's put it between one and 10. Okay. And then I'm just going to increase it. And I'm like, oh, it's making the the slopes slopier, but it's not um it's not it's making it's also squeezing them together. And so I can solve that problem just by um translating translating them back. I hope that doesn't look like what I wanted, but let's see. Oh, now it looks like what I want. So I just translated them back and then I and then I'm just going to let C like get a little bigger maybe a thousand and make it a bit bigger. And you see okay I did it like that's like just combining reloos that's technically a two layer neural net and I could approximate a square function. Um so that's that's what this slide is doing which I now need to hope hope I can bring back. Okay, so that was a demo of like approximate and you can see that using that graphing software you can kind of just play around with things so you can figure it out. Go ahead. >> What's the relationship between two layer network and a sum? >> Yeah. So we're going to use one of one copy of this two-layer network to approximate each rectangle to approximate one of the rectangles in that reman sum kind of thing. Um, and then we're gonna wait each and like you have to insert factors to translate it to the position that you want. So you translate it and then you multiply it by a little scaler to get it to be the size that you want. And that scaler would correspond to the third layer in the network to to set the size of the rect how tall it is or what its height is. >> Yeah. fun. >> Yeah, it's to get a sense of the error when it when things are finite because we're not interested in actually taking the limit that the number of strips goes to infinity. We want to know for a finite number of strips. So, at least that's how we're using the lipness. But if if it I yeah, I think it's necessary. I'm not 100% sure, but we can maybe talk about that after the lecture. Let me just keep going because I bit I'm a bit worried about time. Like this is just half the lecture and I guess we're nearly halfway through the lecture. So maybe we're doing okay. So that was a one-dimensional rectangle, but remember that we need to be able to approximate like a a rectangle with like a hyper rectangle. Like in two dimensions it's a kind of cube and in three dimensions it's a hyper cube kind of thing or Okay, but there's a another trick there. It seems like there's a lot of tricks going on here, but another trick is we basically take a hyper rectangle that's aligned with one axis and we take a hyper rectangle that's aligned with the other axis and we realize that only in the place where they're both kind of on, if that makes sense, like where they cross each other, the height of the thing, if we just add them is two. And then the height of the thing where only one of them on is one. So do you see like that's kind of this picture? we add them and we get this kind of plus shaped surface where in the very middle it's height two and in the other places it's either height one or height zero. And so the observation is that we can then add add these rectangles in one dimension subtract one in in this case or in general d minus one and kind of bring the surface down and then the only place which is kind of coming above the axis is the place where they're all intersecting. Um, and then we're just going to threshold. We're just going to apply relu on top of that and it's just going to pick out the place where they're all on. Does does that make sense? Um, so that they'll only all be on where they all intersect and then we just shift the whole thing down and threshold just to like slice off the top and it's going to give us that little cube by just slicing on. And we can do all of that just by adding and doing a reloo. So that's the logic. Um, okay. And now we're ready to assemble all the pieces. So the the top thing is the two layer relu network that can approximate a rectangle. We can then um sum these things over dimensions, subtract d minus one like we just said and then take a relu and that this will now be give us the hyper rectangle that we always wanted with this constant c. Um c is the thing that we're going to take to infinity to like kind of make the slopes slopier. Um [snorts] okay. And then finally like we're just going to take linear combination of these things um with constants alpha i which are going to set the height of each hyper rectangle that corresponds to adding one more layer um on top of our network. So you can you can see that that in this construction there's a reloo here and there's a reloo here. So it really is a three layer network by the definition that we gave. And then the final step is just to let this constant C grow really large so that we really do approximate the hyper rectangles. Um and and we can approximate our arbitrary surface. So just to let's just recap where we got to we were going to try to prove this theorem and the general idea was we're going to approximate these you could call them bumps or these hyper rectangle functions. We're going to use Reu to approximate those things and then the final step is going to be to take a linear combination. Um, so I'm going to dwell here a little longer. The intention of this slide was to like think about some of the limitations of what we just did. I felt I feel like some of them you kind of already raised like throughout, but like if anyone does anyone want to discuss anything or or point out Oh yeah, go ahead. >> So the two different layers of two very different functions algorithm. >> Yes. One of them is about Yeah. Yeah. One of them is about approximating the rectangle. So to get the slopes of the sides and the other really is more about like slicing off the top of the hyper rectangle. >> Yeah. >> Well, yeah. Give me let's talk about that on the next slide because I'm pretty doubtful. It seems like quite a toy construction. Not toy, but it's like it has a very deliberate intention which is proving this approximation thing. And it a lot of the steps seem a bit kind of fishy in terms of would this be something that a neural network actually does like letting the constant C tend to infinity. Usually you don't want the weights to blow up. That would be a sign that something's going wrong in your neural network. Um, so yeah, I wanted to list here a couple of these qu like C tends to infinity seems a bit questionable. Um yeah, so you said the sum of all these rectangles. >> Yes. Uh but also from my understanding how to approximate and so I'm just confused how like the sum of the rectangles is like >> yes it's because of the use of these it's supposed to be we're thinking about it like symbolically as being a weighted sum of indicator functions. So the you think of the rectangle as being a function which is one if the input lies in this interval and zero otherwise. >> I see. So so the that's an I and not like the width that's like indicator. Oh that >> uh yeah sorry I didn't spell it out in the in the like there's an annotated version of the slides on the website where it's a bit more spelt out but but exactly it's not an interval that's there. It's an indicator. And so we're indicator then we're summing the height at each point. >> Yeah. The the way to think about it is for for a given input, let's say this is our input, only this indicator is triggered and then it gets scaled by its height. So there's a sum of terms but only one of them will ever be active. >> I see that makes sense. [snorts] >> Let me Okay, one last question please. Yeah, the the 4D is about counting counting the number of neurons in this construction. And the point is that in the per in the top purple bit, the rectangle, there's four neurons. Then in the hyper rectangle, I'm summing over D of those terms. So it gets four multiplied by D. And then so each hyper rectangle needs four D neurons. And then and then I have the final term which is the number of hyper rectangles I need. So that's why it's 4D. Yeah, I hope it's right because I just tried to work out the constant yesterday. So but let's see. Okay, let's just go ahead. So I wanted to like yeah think a bit is this really a realistic of what would actually happen in training? One of the questions is if we're just trying to say that a ReLU thing is going to approximate a rectangle, then why wouldn't we just use a rectangle as our basis function to begin with? Because there's something kind of securitous about um not just doing that. So let's just pretend that we've created the basis of these rectangles and that someone gave us some data, some x's and y's, and we're going to fit it and just think about how the training would go. And what I'm claiming is basically every time we see this data point, this this rectangle would get kind of dra drawn down towards it. And every time we see this one, this one would. And every time we see this one, this one would. And every time we see this one, we get this one. But none of the other, you know, there's all these other other ones which are never actually going to move. And so it's sort of a really um kind of unnatural. It's like visually the the obvious way to approximate this data is just to draw a line through it. not to like take take rectangles at each point and move them up to the height of the so there's something unnatural about it but it is you know it's this is the construction that we use to prove the theorem um in particular the thing I'm pointing out here is that it seems like if you actually fit data this way the training performance is going to be really good but the generalization performance is going to be really bad because you're just just fitting the data on little tiny little strips which doesn't seem seem amazing. Um, okay. So, this, okay, just to reassess where we're up to, the goal was just to introduce you to one particular function approximation result of which there are many. There are many papers on this topic and there are some classic papers on this topic. So, one is called Baron's theorem which uses something about the furer representation of the function that you're trying to fit. And there's a classic um result. So our our construction there was using three layers. There's a classic result which uses two layers to do universal function approximation and actually a more powerful result from my understanding and it uses something called the stone via theorem which I thought was interesting because vastras was this mathematician who I think he was alive in the 1800s but I'm not 100% sure but he came up with that fractal curve and was thinking about these like analysis questions but he was actually seemingly thinking about approximation as well and he had theorem which was like um you can use polomials to approximate any continuous function or something like this and it's just kind of interesting that this branch of math is is related to like a very classical um branch of math. Uh but that's all I have to say. Um so on this slide I want to ask is is is the thing that we just spent 45 minutes talking about is it actually important? uh and here I'm just abbreviating UFA to be universal function approximation. >> Um where does this lie? I guess the universal approx function approximation theorem lie in accordance with using like Taylor's approximation or tailor expansion of a function and fitting network [snorts] using polomials for function. Well, that would be another way of just fitting the tailor expansion up to some degree which is a bit like that virus stress thing of using polomials to to fit a continuous function. It's like a val valid mathematical way to approximate a function using a tailaylor series like that's a yeah pretty but it's just not what we're doing in deep learning. In deep learning we take a neural net we you know it's just different thinking about that question more I think is great. I I don't have yeah any really really great comments but yeah putting putting all of these different ways of thinking about things and trying to reconcile them is like a really productive thing to try to do. Um yeah so the point of here was to say is is universal function approximation sufficient is it like okay that was lecture three now for the rest of the class we'll just do applications now because we understand the theory of deep learning probably not um so I wanted to give examples of other things which are universal function approximations so other examples would be like um polomials can anyone think of another example of something which seems like it's probably also a universal function approxim um random. Yeah. How would you parameterize the space of functions? >> Uh so in the example in the previous example where we had the hyper cube we can just again segment it into n locations and then when we train it just gets stuck at whatever point we got right and >> yeah so here we're not really doing training. We just want to think about this what is the space of functions. So the space of functions you talked about there is linear combinations of these hyper rectangle bumps which that's a valid it's a bit wordy so I'm not going to write it down but that's a valid the the other one I wanted to point out is like something like the space of Python programs um so programming languages are in a sense a universal function approximator does that mean that we've solved machine learning because program it's it's like many many things are universal function approxim estimators. It's not it's just a piece of the puzzle. That's the thing I'm trying to point out. Like you just because you've installed Python, you can't start doing machine learning. You need you need something else. Um okay. And is it necessary for machine learning to work? So if your machine learning model is not a universal function approximator, should you be worried? someone's saying no. Yeah, I sort of agree, but I'm honestly not sure. Um, yeah, I I think it's just an interesting question to ask. Like, do we need it to be my guess is not like my guess is probably we don't need to have a universal functional approximator to do machine learning, but it's I think it's a little unclear how to answer that. Um so now I want to move on to the second half of the lecture which is going to be about thinking more about like that question of width versus depth. Um so again would you rather like scale the width of your model or scale the depth? and again like we've just tried to prove in some sense that with a very small depth network like depth three we can fit any function. So that that's like coming back to this question if if if three layers is enough why would we ever want to have a deep network? I'll just like does anyone have a thought? What do what do you think? Yeah >> I'm guessing because well in terms of scaling depth uh you have you can approximate them guessing some sort of arbitrary nonlinearity because you have functions uh you have pointity in each of the neurons you have composition so those would help you to make mapping but with would be going back to >> right so that's a great let me just summarize I forgot I'm always supposed to summarize questions and comments but I forgot about But basically if we layer layer lots of layers then we have a kind of compound effect. We have more nonlinearities. Seems like maybe that can give us a richer space of functions through compositionality. Um that's a yeah that's a great point. Sorry, what was your >> depends on what you have? >> This is a great point that if you think about building a machine learning system, width can be parallelized. It makes better use of parallel hardware. So in a from a systems perspective, if you can get away with a shallow network that's very wide, you would really love that because you can parallelize it. So that's a great that's and that's illustrative that there's different constraints. There's the the can I represent complex and interesting functions and then there's the computational constraint of how efficient is this to run. There's there's other constraints of that sort. Uh okay. So on this slide I wanted to just think what are the advantages of width. So one is parallelism. One is like a three layer neural net is a universal function approximator or maybe even two layers is enough. Um can anyone think of any other advantages of width? you get feature representations that are nicer, more >> easier to interpret. I'm trying to remember if there were any others that I thought of. Does anyone else have any other um like >> Yeah, easier to train. That's a good point. easier to optimize. Yeah, that's yeah, because whenever you do compound anything, it is very liable to get out of control. So making your network too deep without being careful about how you do that can actually just break the training. So like if you just take a vanilla multi-layer perceptron and make it like 50 layers deep and just try to train it, you'll see like it's very difficult to get it to train or potentially. Yeah. Okay. I can't think of any others unless anyone else had. So the point of this slide was to say well okay obviously wide is better than deep right that's obvious now but then the next slide is supposed to say is it um okay because now in this part in the last part of the lecture we're or almost the last part of the lecture we're going to think about something called depth separation results which is another kind of potentially quite stylized theoretical result is is quite interesting. So remember that the the universal function approximation result suggested that we need to make our network exponentially wide in order to be able to approximate everything that we want to and that seems bad. Um so the point of a depth separation result is to say that there's actually a deep network that can represent a particular function quite efficiently and if you tried to represent the same function with a three layer network or a shallower network you would need like exponentially more neurons to do that. So um the sh the shape of a depth separation result I'm just trying to break it up into stages is to pick first of all we pick a property of a function um and the example we're going to think of is like the number of linear regions um that the we think of the function as being peacewise linear and how how many linear pieces are there and then we construct a deep network that has a lot of that property but is not a particularly big network in some sense. It doesn't have a lot of neurons and then we try to so we that is a constructive thing. We say here is a neural network which has a lot of this property and then we say now we're going to prove that it's actually impossible for a shallow network to have that same property unless it has um exponentially many neurons or a huge number of neurons. So that's the shape of this result. And again, there's a literature which just proves different varieties of this kind of result and and it's they're called depth separation results. We're just going to show you one particular example. So recall that a piece a peacewise linear function is a function where like if you break it up into segments, each segment is linear and then they're kind of stitched together. Um and the claim Okay. Okay. And we'll think we'll think about defining the number of kinks in such a function to mean like a kink is how many how many of these uh discontinuities are there in the derivative like like how many places does the der derivative suddenly change. And so for this function you can see that there's four kinks. And that's the property that we're going to pick. Um, so but and and we're going to show that there's a deep network with not very many neurons that has a lot of kinks and if you want to have that many kinks in a wide network, you need exponentially many neurons. So that's the um that's the shape of what we're going to try to or that's the strategy of what we're going to try to do. But the the first claim is that ReLU networks are peace-wise linear. So if you have a ReLU network with one input and one output, it will look something like this green curve. Can anyone tell me why that's the case? or does anyone think it is the case or or does anyone think it's not the case? >> Um yeah, >> it's because the real is essentially a linear function but with a threshold. So when you add them uh it creates that kind of shape and the transformation that you need before is linear. So it's only going to distort it. Great. So yeah, I think with this kind of statement with many sorts of statements Yeah, exactly. But with [clears throat] running many sorts of statements, we want to break them up into kind of um I'm not sure what the right word is, but that we want to be able to say if f and g are both peacewise linear, then that implies that f composed with g is peacewise linear. If f and g are both peacewise linear, that implies that f plus g is peacewise linear. If f is peacewise linear then alpha f is also peacewise linear. So you sort of break up the construction of the function into a series of combinations and you prove that the property is preserved under those combinations. Um and then that and then basically you realize that okay a really neural network is built out of you know the real function is peacewise linear and then it's just adding and multiplying things. So you're always going to get something that's peacewise linear. Um okay so based on that let's now construct a depth separation based on the counting the number of kinks. So I first give you the intuition and then write something a bit more formal. But first of all think think about the point of view of an individual neuron and we're going to add um one extra input neuron and we symbolically and then we think about feeding a function into like a one-dimensional function into as as inputs. So that we're going to think of the output of this neuron y of x as just being the summation of you know a scalar multiples of the input functions. Um the the the observation of this slide is that if we add functions the at most we add the number of kinks and to I'm just like going to try to persuade you that that's the case with a picture. So here we're thinking of the green function is our first function and the blue function is our second function and then the purple function shows the result of adding them together. And notice that the the green function has one kink, the blue function has two kinks and then the purple function which is their sum has three kinks and nothing more. You can't have more than that because you you only can have kinks at the places where the functions that you're adding had them. So this is how we think about adding functions. We can at most add the number of kicks. The potentially they could the kicks could happen in the same place in which case it would be less than adding because that wouldn't give you an extra one but generally if they're generally spaced out then then they would add. Next intuition the effect of applying relu. So we think we think now that we have a function f and then we just take relu of f. So we think that the output is relu of f ofx basically. So y of x is ru of f ofx. And then now the claim is that if if we apply relu at most we double the number of kicks. And so this picture is supposed to kind of illustrate we think about the red function as being f. And then if we apply relu we sort of just you know chop off the positive part. And the observation is that if we had a linear region um that can at most get split up into two linear regions. Um so that's the and if you do if you just count on this picture I think you see that the red function had one two three four five kinks whereas the green function has like one two three four no one two three four five six seven eight nine nine kinks. So you can see it did nearly double in this case. And okay, so now to be a bit more formal, we're going to imagine that we have like a deep a ReLU network with many layers and we're going to like examine one layer inside the network and and we're going to give a recursive um definition of what this layer looks like. So the the function at layer L is relu of the weight matrix times the you know the function from the previous layer plus the bias and each of you know this is going to be an n- dimensional vector. The weight matrix is going to be an n byn ve matrix this this is going to be an n dimensional vector and the bias is also an n dimensional vector. So that's the shape of all of these things. Um and then we def we define this capital letter kinks L to denote the maximum number of kinks over the n coordinates of of the output. So remember this is an n dimensional vector. Each coordinate could have a certain number of kinks in its function because each coordinate is a one-dimensional function. Um and then we define this variable to be the the maximum over those coordinates. And maybe I'm just going to write it as a claim, but the claim is that like kinks L can be no greater than two times the width times the number of kinks, the maximum number of kinks in the input. So maybe you could think more about this. So the two comes from the doubling effect of the relu and the n comes from the fact that you're adding n things. And then the the trick is just to think about taking the max over the over each coordinate. Um and then you know the other observation is that the kinks at the input the input is basically one because it's there's no kinks. So maybe it should be does that make sense? It should be zero, right? But it's not going to the the we we need to some let's think about this after the lecture. But the point is that the point is that each time we can at most multiply by 2N. So I'm trying to get the answer that kinks L is is like is no greater than 2 N to the power L. But obviously if kink zero is zero. Okay. Well, kink if kink zero is zero, it's still less than or equal to one like Yeah, it's just the some accounting problem, but you you kind of see what the argument is. I just need to figure out Yeah, >> yeah, you could just start with the base case being one layer. It's like that's like great. >> You should you should measure instead otherwise like relu. >> Yes. Uh okay let's just talk more about this but I think you get the intuition and like making this rigorous you just need to think about it a bit to work out what the base case should be and okay but I hope that the message gets across. Uh so in principle we showed this statement um where as a reminder n is the width capital l is the depth and kink is should be the maximum over the coordinates. Um and so the po the the point to the thing we wanted to point out is that the upper band grows at most exponentially no at most polomially in width but exponentially in depth. So this is suggestive that there's a big benefit if we're trying to maximize the number of kinks in making the network deeper because every time we add a layer we double things um rather than making it wider. So if our goal is to be able to approximate functions with many kinks, then it's better to make the network deeper rather than wider. But the the the does anyone have a an objection to what we've shown because it is just an upper bound. Um so the objection that you could have is like that's just an upper bound. Maybe it's never attained. like maybe in practice when you actually build a very deep real network it's very difficult to get there to be a lot of kinks in output function. So the next step is to provide a construction to show you that no this can actually happen and again I'm just going to like skip the slide. Okay, the argument is that this G G defined as a ReLU a small ReLU network in this form. If you plot what that actually amounts to, it amounts to a triangle. And the property of a triangle is that if you iterate it, you apply it to itself. So you do G compose with G, you actually get two tri Oops, there should be no gap there. Uh let's see, you get two triangles. And if you do G composed with G composed with G, you get four triangles. So you need to think a little bit to see why that is. Um, but actually I think I didn't need to show you the but I was going to like demonstrate it on the graphing website, but I think the hopefully the claim is clear that you can you can just with Reus make a triangle function. And if you think about what happens to the triangle function when you compose it with itself, you just like kind of like recursively get double as many triangles each time. So this is the point is that this is an explicit construction of a certain relu network where when you compose it with itself many many times you you actually keep doubling the number of kinks in the function. So it can it can really happen at least with this one example. And then this is actually just running some numbers where I'm like let's suppose that we take that triangle function and compose it with itself 500 times. That would give us at most uh you know two to the 500 kinks. No, it would actually give us that many kinks. It would really would give us that that many. Um actually each G turns out to have two layers. So this would be a 10,00 layer MLP. And then if you if you compute using the band that we constructed, how many if you took a three layer MLP, how wide would it need to be in order to fit the same function? You find that it would need to have almost 10 to the^ 50 width in order to fit that same function. So this is the this is the point. This is the depth separation. Like there's a function which is not even that difficult to write down. It's just like a triangle. um uh self-composed many many times and if you wanted to get a shallow network to exactly approximate that function it would need to be very very very wide. This is also oh this is like the reward for coming to the lecture but this is also on the first problem set. So just maybe when you're solving the problem set have a have a think about this. Um so okay I'm I want to now um think a bit more broadly what what does this not say? This this depth separation is suggesting that there could be a big advantage to making things really deep but it's not telling us that deep networks are very easy to train and they might not be. So it's not telling us about optimization and it's not telling us about generalization. It's not saying that the very deep networks would actually perform well on some particular data set that we want to apply them to. It's really these are really just statements about thinking about approximation. But this is not the end of the story. It's just like one one piece in this puzzle. Um again, there's more theorems of this nature and feel free to um look more into them. The one at the bottom is interesting because they actually a question you could have is is like okay if depth increasing depth is so great maybe I'll just pick depth like three sorry width three and just go really deep and this this will work really well. Um but what that paper shows is that if the input dimension has dimension if the input space has dimension n you need a width of at least n to approximate any function basically. So there's there there can be a minimum width that you really need anyway that there's some further reading in case you're interested to go deeper on this topic. So in the last um 15 minutes I guess I want to think about some more practical considerations like those were theoretical results. It's you know maybe they're really interesting but if you're actually building machine learning system I don't know if if you need to think about that those things maybe you do which would be great. Um but we're more just trying to expose you to these different styles of thinking. Uh but now let's think a little bit about some more practical considerations. So the trouble is in practice if you're actually building a machine learning system. We were saying that there's these three pieces of the puzzle and isn't it nice if we can like neatly tackle them one by one. But out there in the real world it's not like that. And basically um if you're training a system, you have all of these different issues conflated with each other and you don't if you've got a problem in your training, you don't know if it's because your neural network actually can't approximate the thing that you're trying to approximate. You don't know if it's because the training is failing. Um interestingly, you you would know if it was because it's not generalizing because you could just compute the training error and the test error and you can see if they're different. So that one's easier to diagnose. Um, but the point is that all of these things are conflated. And the other thing that we were going to say is suppose that you work at a large language model startup. Um, and that your job is to make the LLM training as efficient as possible. Then you actually really care about this question like should I make the network wider or should I make it deeper? for all those reasons that we talked about the comput you know the computational cost of training um the computational cost of inference in terms of making the model work well it's like it's in in a sense it's the most basic question that you think about when you first learn about neural networks but it's it's to a large extent like an unsolved problem um and there's AI wanted to show you to talk a little bit about this paper by Kaplan and um McCandish from 2020 20 which people you know this figure people people got t-shirts where they just like had this figure and then they would like try to like spread the word about and this is the this is the figure which is basically saying as you make GBT bigger like it gets better and the point is that so in in particular like um the x-axis is compute like the amount of flops of compute the size of your data set the number of parameters in the model and the point is that the test loss the y- axis is always going down as you scale any of these axes and the loss cannot go down forever because you know eventually you you can't have negative loss it has to the loss has to go to zero so it has to saturate eventually but back in 2020 they were like saying hey the the models keep getting better um we should pay attention to this because it's like the you know then then all of these um advances in LLM became you know chat GPT was created and so on um But interestingly they plot performance against parameters. It's not this in this top plot. It's not against width and it's not against depth. And the claim that they have in that paper is that within several orders of magnitude the the allocation of your compute budget between width and depth doesn't matter. All that matters is number of parameters and number of flops. You can have like a depth 20 network or a depth 10 network with with a commensurate number of width. It doesn't matter. So that's kind of interesting that like you just run the experiment and you see that width versus depth within a large range seems not to matter. And that they they exemplify that with this lower plot. And the point is that once they subtract the embedding parameters, so if we just focus in on the bottom right plot, which is like the model with the embedding layers not counted um roughly you get very similar performance like I think that what basically they're saying beyond depth six it doesn't matter what the width is or what the depth is. The the curves kind of converge to each other and all that matters is is scaling up number of parameters. So this is just like a very very practical perspective but some from some very careful like empirical um very careful experimentalists about how things actually work in transformers. And you see it's quite it's basically saying like within a large range width versus depth doesn't matter. All you care about is parameters. With that said, there's something I wanted to draw attention to which is this idea of confounders. And there's another paper which people are also excited about which people refer to as like chin chinchilla scaling rules. The names keep getting um stranger for these for these things. But but it's it's basically they they run they they're interested in the same sort of questions as the previous paper I just showed you. But what what they do is they question some of the results in that earlier paper. And one of the things that they suggest is that if you use a different learning rate schedule for the training, you can get qualitatively slightly different but qualitatively different conclusions. So if you just had one learning rate schedule and now you do a different learning rate schedule, you draw different conclusions. Um and this is just to say that precisely answering any of these questions is very difficult. Um because there are so many parts of the training pipeline that we don't understand. So you may have one experimental setup and you say hey like width versus depth doesn't matter. Um and then you like change some detail about how you actually train the network and now it's like oh no width is actually scaling width is a lot better because I because I fixed that issue. And I would call that like a confounding issue which is just some aspect of the training that we don't fully understood but is having a bearing on the results. Um, so this is just what I want to point out is that really resolving these questions experimentally is really hard because there can be so many confounding variables and resolving them theoretically is also really hard because you have to work out how to think about these things and a lot of these problems are unsolved because of the fact that it's kind of hard to figure things out. Um, so in conclusion, the summary, oh yeah, there's still another slide after this one. When you leave the lecture hall, try to do so quietly. That was someone suggested that just because Okay. Okay. So the summary of the lecture is um very wide shallow neural net. a three layer MLP with an that's wide enough can fit any function within the within some class of functions quite a broad class of functions um but deeper networks then in the letter the second half of the lecture we said that deeper networks can fit certain kinds of functions with many fewer neurons because of their compositionality and we called that a kind of depth separation result. So that was something interesting. And then the kind of overall message or um the overall message that I am hoping to um give to impart is basically it's unclear how important these results are. It's unclear how they interact with optimization and with generalization, but it's still like really interesting to to think about them and to have that as part of your toolkit. If you're thinking about your machine learning system, you a basic question is can the network architecture that I have actually approximate the function that I'm I'm asking it to approximate. That's quite a basic question. Um, and I want to like just conclude or to wrap up with a little preview for what's to come in the course. So I have a question uh and it's suppose that we have two machine learning problems like one is an audio problem and one is a image image classification problem. So the first little picture is like a waveform and then we're transcribing it to say the word hello because and then the second picture is like a photograph of a person and then we're classifying that as that's a human. Um okay and then the thought experiment is in both cases we could like flatten those little pieces of data into vectors. So we could flatten the okay maybe the waveform is a vector and then we can flatten that image of a person into another vector and then we can just apply MLP to both like we can take multi-layer perceptron with really nonlinearity and try to fit the first problem and then we can take another MLP and try to fit the second problem and you know the the argument is okay the MLP is a universal function approximator so it should it this is a great idea and So I want to ask like do people think that is a good idea? >> No. >> No. Why? Why not? Or maybe but why why not? >> You're not you're not guaranteed to find >> it exists but you may not find it. >> Yeah, that's one objection. That's a great point that it that it could exist but we might not find it. Um thought yeah >> um I'd say efficiency because although it is a universal point approximation and like said you know you may you may or may not find that function in that space uh finding you may need to certain parameters it may take a while to find so cut off you may say it may not be >> yeah so the yeah the objection is it could be inefficient to use an MLP there might be another potent potentially another architecture that could be more efficient and in particular it could be adapted to the type of data. Sorry, >> I was just going to say like an NLP doesn't take advantage of structure in the input data. Um so like with an image there's an inherent two dimensional structure and with a waveform there's like an inherent sequential structure. >> That's a great comment. So the comment is that the d the two different problems have different structure in the data and perhaps we want to adapt the model family and that's what I thought when I was writing the slide and then I was like but wait a minute now we're just applying transformers to everything so is is that counter to that point and then it was like no actually it's not because even if you apply a transformer to audio or you apply it to images actually the pre-processing layer at the beginning of the network is very different. So if it's images, you have a special 2D patch kind of representation. And if it's audio, I assume they have some kind of better audio representation. So even if you just throw transformers at everything, actually this comment that you do adapt the architecture a little bit based on what the data is. So yeah, I I really agree with that comment. Um, but it was a big question. People even recently have been thinking about that. Wait, are transformers all we need? maybe we don't need to like model the data but I think really you still you still need to model the data a little bit um and also transformers you know you can ask how data hungry are they maybe they maybe there's a better model family which means needs much less data in order to learn so that was the final thought to leave you with is perhaps we want to match the architecture to the problem that we're trying to solve or the structure of the data perhaps it could be more computationally efficient perhaps it could be make it easier to find the approximator that we're looking for. Um, okay, that's the end of the lecture. Thank you everyone.