The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. There. Okay. So let me uh review a lot of where we've been. We found we got a secular equation and the secular equation said okay we have this GF matrix and we want a transformation that diagonalizes it. And since this is not a symmetric matrix, this is not a unitary transformation. It's a similarity transformation. We need to find the matrix which diagonalizes this and it's not going to be one where L dagger is equal to L inverse. Okay, so this is the condition. But we also wanted to uh um uh be sure that L that that we have a representation the Q representation which is uh has no cross terms or everything is separable. So 2T was the uh product of the uh uh uh mass weighted velocities and the transformation to the uh internal coordinate velocities is given by And we chose to define this as uh the inverse of the G matrix. And so that's just a definition. And then we defined uh the transformation that takes you from S to Q the normal coordinates as L. And so we want to be sure that that L is the same L as we have here. And so now we have Q L dagger G minus one L Q dot. Okay. And so from this we get a requirement well and we want 2T to be equal to Q. So that requires this L dagger G minus one L to be equal to one the unit matrix. So that's one. So this is the secular equation. This is a consequence of requiring L to be the transformation from the internal coordinates to the normal coordinates. And the third point of concern is we wanted the potential energy also to be expressed in separable form. And we defined the potential energy or we defined the F matrix to have this form. And again we use the transformation now from S to Q. And so we have L dagger F L Q. And we want 2T 2V to have the form uh Q lambda Q. And uh so that requires that lambda equal l dagger l. So this is uh the solution of the secular equation. These are the two consequences of defining uh the normal coordinates in terms of the internal coordinates. So we manipulate those and we showed that uh this and this are consistent with that or all three of these things are internally consistent. So we're happy and we then move on. Okay. So then we began dealing with the S vector uh method. And the purpose of that is to actually uh work out what the internal displacements are, impose constraints, and work out what the G matrix is. And so up until this point, we're just dealing with formal stuff. And now we're going to begin begin to actually work derive the results that enable us to do calculations. So we define uh well but we write the internal displacements ST as a sum over atoms of little ST alpha row alpha. So we want to find these special vectors which uh enable us to take an arbitrary displacement and relate it to uh how that uh affects the internal displacement. And we say that s t alpha uh is a vector points in direction of maximum increase in st and uh the magnitude ST alpha has a magnitude uh equal to the change in ST uh that results when we make a unit displacement of atom A in the optimum direction. So uh these are vectors that tell the effectiveness of displacements. If we choose displacement of unity in the optimum direction uh we we get the magnitude of ST. Uh and so so uh uh this definition provides us with the ability to impose constraints and to derive neat stuff. Okay. Um so we're going to show how to impose constraints. We're going to discuss the echart condition and we're going to derive this result that G the matrix elements of G are given in terms of the masses and ST alpha dot S T prime alpha. And this is where we re really start to make money because you know once we can figure out how to uh define these subject to the constraints that there's no overall translation of the molecule and no rotation then we can set up the matrix and we we're off to the races. Okay. So let me try to uh uh show how we do this. Okay. Here we again write write the definition uh and now we want to consider uh the constraint that there is no overall translation of the molecule. So we would represent rigid translation of the molecule as uh um this vector one vector 2 all equal to the same vector. So if all of the atoms are translated the same amount in the same direction that's the rigid translation. And that's something we want to have zero projection on this. We want to define uh internal displacements where there is no overall displacement. So immediately we can write ST uh for this uh displacement to be equal to epsilon vector dotted into the sum over alpha of the ST alphas. And we want a rigid translation to have no projection on this. So that's gives us the first condition. The sum over alpha of little s t alpha is going to be equal to zero. That's wonderful. And that's a vector equation. So it's really three equations. So if we talk about um motions uh I mean suppose we have a molecule and we're interested in uh a veilance angle stretch then this sum is going to so the STS that would go into the veilance stretch would be only uh the ST for atom atom one and atom two. So this is a an equation then that controls only two that that uh expresses only two of these things and it's a wonderful uh way of imposing constraints. If on the other hand we have you know something like this one two three a bend we would like to be able to constrain the molecu uh build a um internal displacement for for the bend where atoms one two and three don't have an overall displacement and so it's now only three of these things. So we might have a huge molecule but by focusing on internal displacements that are uh stretches bond stretches bends or torsions which is pretty much everything. Uh one has constraints of two, three or four of these things. And we also know you know how to build them because we know that we we want to build the the internal coordinate displacements that that uh we want to choose the ST alphas to that give the maximum change in the internal coordinate we care about. So the first constraint equation is this one and it's wonderful. rotation is trickier. Uh and it's actually a very subtle point because um how do we decide for a polyatomic molecule what's a vibration and what's a rotation? we have to make I mean there's both of these come you know when we solve the shredding equation we clamp the nuclei uh and we define a potential energy surface and then we try to describe what's going to be the motion on this surface and we'd like to be able to have a separation between vibration and rotation which is analogous to what we had for diatomic molecules where there's no ambiguity at all. But for for a polyatomic molecule uh what is a rotation uh is not a trivial thing. You have to you have to make a definition. Um and uh the definition it's as long as we're dealing with infinite decimal motions uh it's not a big deal. It's not complicated. But if one has very large amplitude motions uh like this uh what how do we decide how to keep the the molecule fixed axis how do we define a molecule fixed axis system in which rotation is minimized. It would be a a tempting thing to say okay we have a convenient criterion for the principal axis system. The inert the moment of inertia tensor is diagonal. And so we can imagine uh even for a large amplitude motion defining the body fixed coordinate system uh instantaneously at every point in the motion so that the inertial tensor is diagonal. This is mathematically simple enough to do and that would be a unique way of defining rotation. But the problem would be then the uh the inertial the body fixed axis system would be rotating in an oscilly way at vibrational frequencies and uh that results in corololis and uh centrifugal forces on the atoms which are very large and uh would result in enormous problems in trying to describe the the energy levels with an effective Hamiltonian. So we don't do that. We have a different way of defining what we mean by the body fixed coordinate system. And it's it's one where we use what's called the Echart condition. And I don't really understand the echart condition as well as I'd like to because generally we always talk about small amplitudes and for small amplitudes it's always possible to make an approximation uh which is that the instantaneous positions of the atoms are essentially the same as the equilibrium positions. But the whole point is what do we really choose? So but anyway the echart condition uh um is one where we minimize the non-inertial uh uh effects of uh large amplitude motions and uh um where do I write this down? Okay. So we uh I mean when the molecule is moving it's really complicated to talk about what is the uh what is the body fixed coordinate system. But it's never complicated to say okay at some time we had the molecule fixed in space and and so we have the coordinates at equilibrium of each of the atoms in the laboratory frame and that's going to be our point of reference. So we we know uh at equilibrium we have the set of laboratory coordinates relative to the center of mass. And now let's talk about a. So here we have uh u the center of mass and here we have atom one and uh or atom alpha and here's a uh motion u perpendicular. So this is a rotation. So st alpha is is in that direction and uh uh this is our alpha equilibrium. And so we want to describe rotations uh and uh we want first we want to uh uh define what a rotation would be and then we want to impose a constraint that says okay we're not going to rotate. So the and this is really hard and I I'm sorry if you know I'm a little less in control than usual because every time I do this I have to learn this and uh I hope I'm helping a little bit. So uh we would like to write the uh what the displacement is that corresponds to a rotation by d omega alpha. So here we have uh a displacement in this plane. There is a rotation perpendicular uh rotation about an axis perpendicular to that plane. This is the thing that we're describing and that is then r alpha equilibrium plus st alpha. So this is uh the displacement that the rotation that we want to make uh go away. And so we define that uh r alpha e cross st alpha is equal to z. That's the economic condition. So uh if we uh if we choose our uh well that's the constraint. So okay so now we'll move on to the the G matrix. We want to be able to find a way of expressing the G matrix in terms of things that we can figure out. And we recall that we could write the G matrix. Well, we defined the G matrix as D dagger. And we could also write the G matrix as B MUS1 Dagger and D was B MUS1. So this means g tt prime is going to be a sum of b t i mus one i i i b i i i that t prime and that's the same thing as b uh t prime i are but it's real. So we have this. So this is uh what an element of the G matrix would be in terms of the masses which we know and the B's which we need to know. Okay. But we also had B SI is equal to S. So this transformation tells us how the cartisian displacements are related to the internal coordinate displacements. We're building up a method of calculating the internal coordinate displacements in terms of the st alphas. And uh so if this is true, well then sum over i of dt t i x i is s t. Now this looks like a power series expansion. The first term in the power series remember if uh uh the zero in in these are displacements. So we don't have a zero term. The first term is just uh uh a derivative times the displacement. And so we realize that BTI is just the partial of ST with respect to SI. But we also had the definitions of ST alpha. ST alpha was the gradient of ST partial of S D s alpha X um X plus those three terms. So we have the same symbols appearing here and here. And so it is a straightforward matter to show that uh s t alpha dotted s t prime alpha is just uh bt i b uh t prime i. And so we're going to be able to uh take these uh these two things that appear here and use that to write g AST prime is equal to sum alpha 1 to n of 1 / m alpha s t alpha dot st prime alpha. So this is a really important result that if we can work out the S's, we can work out the G's. Yes. Can I just back up and ask you a question about the card? Yes. So that equation says that for every internal coordinate cumulatively all of the interactions between the individual displacements and the rotation axis has to be zero. That's right. That we can have bends but we have to arrange for the bends to be such that it's not like this. But that means for for every for every mode that you have that condition. It's not a cumulative condition for all of the modes. for every so you choose let's say we're talking about when you say mode I want to be careful for every internal coordinate but we're only interested in the specific classes of internal coordinates stretches single bond stretches and uh bends and torsions but this condition is enforced for each one independently not for all of them as a whole that's correct so for every internal displacement that you're considering uh and that each one has its own eart condition. That's right. And so and the echart condition then imposes constraints on either two, three or four atoms. And so, you know, it's a little bit counterintuitive because you have a big molecule and you're doing stuff and uh um you're moving individual atoms and you're not asking anything about what is the the result of changing I mean you you're going to move the center of mass. But what what I'm getting at is suppose you know we have we're considering atoms one and two and we move this we're not interested in how does that bond the change of the other bond how is that affected that comes in later that you know we have the f matrix which is expressed in terms of derivatives uh uh of the potential with respect to the internal coordinates but we have a little bit of vector analysis where we're trying to determine uh what the uh mass and geometry uh contributions are and so it's two separate uh ledgers that we're playing with. But so but that example that you brought is exactly why I asked in other words if you move atoms one and two you're going to move the center of mass and that is part of the eart condition for some other internal coordinates somewhere else in the molecule. So is moving the center of mass by changing internal coordinate that affects atoms one two not going to violate conditions for atoms three and four even though that condition is only enforced separately for each of the individuals and not collectively. I think the answer is yes but I I have to admit that this is the as soon as I hear the words echart condition I admit that it's beyond me. I I really you know I say yes I can talk about it but in terms of imposing the condition I'm not so happy about that. Uh but you know the the these constraints in terms of the internal coordinates here uh these are displacements of atoms. There's no mass waiting here. uh and so we are requiring that we displace without uh rigid translation but the definitions of these are alpha e that depends on the position center right uh so what it's saying is that every internal coordinate that we define involves no rotation of the participating atoms relative to the center of mass So we're we're making displacements of the atoms that we've specified in the internal coordinate and uh so their contribution to the uh um the location of the center of mass and the the ax the the uh the axis system. uh um there is no there's no translation of those atoms. There's no rotation of those atoms and it's neat because there's no masses involved. It's just displacements. And so it's a few atoms and it's vector analysis. And then we bring the masses in when we we talk about the G matrix. And so I mean you've got to admire this analysis, but I I must say that it's not something that I have internalized and you guys are going to have to internalize it if you're ever going to use do anything with large motions and molecules. Okay. So we have now uh obtained the u uh the equation that enables us to write down the G matrix. And so now we have to actually begin doing stuff. So let's uh um let's look at the various examples of the the kinds of internal coordinates. We have to solve the problem once for each class of internal coordinates. So let's start with the easiest one. we have an internal coordinate that's a stretch. So, atom one, atom two. And we know just by looking at this picture that the uh ST1 and ST2 are going to be in the direction parallel to the bond. We the STS are the motions that increase the uh internal coordinate by the maximum amount and so ST1 is like that. ST2 is like that. And the magnitude of this is is also effect is related to a unit displacement in that optimum direction which means that this these are going to be uh simply related to the unit vector. Okay. So we know that uh ST1 magnitude is one, ST 2 magnitude is also one because we always uh uh we say okay we're going to take displacement of the atom in the optimum direction and uh by unity if if row one has magnitude one and it's in the optimum direction then ST1 is going to be just one. Okay. And so then the vector S t1 that is uh a vector pointing this direction and so that would be unit vector E21 and that's equal to minus the unit vector 12 and ST 2 is uh that's a unit vector of E12 or minus E to the 1. Um so ST for the set of displacements that corresponds to uh a uh veilance bond stretch is just going to be equal to E21 dotted into row 1 minus row two. This is a displacement of atom one by unity to the left. This is displacement of atom two by unity to the right. And uh so that's uh um that's how we define uh an internal coordinate. And now we have to ask is the constraint are the constraints satisfied. So s t alpha sum over alpha has to be equal to zero. And you can see that it's going to be satisfied because they're defined the two sts are defined as minus each other. So uh that's certainly true. And then there's the question of uh the rotation. This is harder. So, let's draw. So, this is the center of mass. Here's one. Here's two. And so, this is uh R1 E. This is R2E. And this is R12 E. Okay. Uh so R12 E is just by vector analysis R uh 2 E - R. Okay. So but now uh yes you drew the center of mass somewhere else because this bond stretch could be happening in a larger molecule. Yes. Yes. So uh I mean you always want to uh define the center of mass uh somewhere other than the two particles that you're dealing with. Okay? I mean it could be here but uh okay so now um this thing uh is in a direction parallel to E12 and uh so Uh um and uh we want to have no rotation and uh so R12 um cross E12 has to be equal to zero. Okay. So what did I you know why did I write all this stuff on the board? Uh the constraint equation is 0 has to be equal to the sum over alpha of r alpha e do s alpha. And so uh we know that ST alpha is either minus E12 or plus E12 for depending on which and so you end up getting that the uh that this quantity is equal to uh R 2 E - R1 E E12. Okay, so that's that's the reason we the constraint equation was reduced to this and so we have a unit vector in the one two direction. we have a difference in the the two coordinates of the two and and that's also parallel to E12 a vector product of two things parallel to each other is zero and so this imposition uh this this choice of these things in this way satisfies the two constraints. Okay. Now let's try to deal with the nightmare which is angled bends. So now we have three atoms and so here is an angle phi and uh we want to choose our displacement vectors in a way that uh that maximize the change in phi. And so clearly one of them is like this and one of them is like this and one of them is somewhere like that. Okay. So let's call this one three and two. So this is S T1, S T2 and that one is ST3. Okay. So when we go a unit displacement in this direction uh we can and this is R 31. This is r 32. Uh we can calculate how does this increase. So this is delta phi or it's delta five for this contribution. And so tangent of delta phi is equal to uh so that's that angle and so that's going to be 1 over r31 but this is small displacement so delta phi is equal to 1 / r31. Looking at my notes did I do that right? Um well not quite right. This should have been the magnitude of ST1. Okay. And uh so now we have uh we've chosen the optimum uh direction. We we have a relationship that says okay this unit vector uh uh this displacement in the optimum direction changes uh the bend angle by that much. And now we have to figure out well what is this D? This is a vector and we have to find out uh where it's pointing. And so how do we do that? Um okay. So if we want a vector pointing in that S t1 we we use okay so we have a vector here uh a unit vector pointing along here and we have this uh and uh um we want to um we want a vector which is in the plane and perpendicular to this. And so uh we're uh how do we get the the plane of the molecule? Well, or something that's perpendicular to the plane? Well, we do E31 cross E32. Okay, that's a vector that's perpendicular to the plane of the molecule. And now we have something that's perpendicular to the plane of the molecule and some and that is also perpendicular to this direction and that's this. And so but now we have to ask well what about uh you know u the magnitude um if we have a a crossroduct of two unit vectors well if we have a cross productduct of two vectors that's going to be a b sin abs um phi the equilibrium value here. And so this then provides the direction of this vector. And uh and so this is a vector crossroduct and we want to manipulate that into a simpler form or a form uh that we're going to use. And so E st is going to be and this you know you just have to do this E31 E32 minus E31.E31 E32 over sin five. So that's just the rules for a vector triple product. And now what is this? Well, this one is just cosine phi because it's these two unit vectors. dotproduct of two vectors is the magnitudes both one times cosine and so this is just cosine phi this is one and so we have cos five minus uh I'm missing something e 31 was here so we have cossine 5 e31 1 minus e32 over sin 5. So we can work out the um the magnitudes of uh each of these displacement vectors. These are the easier ones. This is more complicated. But what one does is say okay we get these and we use the constraints to get this one. So you don't do the vector analysis for this. You just say okay you define this by satisfying the the no translation and no rotation to get this. So that's that's it. uh each of the uh cases is more complicated, but you can work out then uh what um what these little vectors are and then you uh you use this equation for working out the G matrix. But now Wilson, Deius, and Cross and uh Deius have done this all for you. And so uh you you can um look in their appendix. And so we're now on page seven of the notes and we're also nearly done. you consider so we want a gmatrix uh and the gmatrix has diagonal and off diagonal elements so we have two different kinds of internal coordinates and we uh we could work out all of these s's but instead uh Wilson thesis and cross have done the necessary calculations So we want this quantity alpha 1 to n 1 / m alpha s t alpha cross st prime alpha. We want um that doesn't look right. Is it a cross productd? Okay. And so then there are diagrams in the table and these diagrams are fantastic. So you have a diagram uh that looks like this. And so here's two and here's one. And when you have two circles around an atom then that corresponds to a diagonal stretch stretch interaction between in other a diagonal element between for the uh stretch between one and two um and that's denoted in the table by RR meaning stretch stretch and two meaning the number of atoms involved uh that are common to both T and T prime. time and so then you look under that and you get the uh uh what uh this element is. So then there's simple bends and so so here is a diagonal bend bend interaction. We have uh we have one atom um no no that's stretch that's a stretch stretch that's an off diagonal stretch stretch because so this says we have a stretch here was a stretch but one atom in common that is denoted uh and that's not in the notes it's wrong G1 R Right? That's where the prime went. Okay. Um and then suppose we have a diagram like that and this would be for a diagonal ben bend. So we have G three because there's three atoms in common and fi fi implying bent and bent and so there is there are diagrams and there are symbols and uh you go to the table and you get what you want but there's also additional uh uh notational problems you find suppose you have g2 rr R the one that you use most that's written as 1 / mu it's mu1 + mu2 but mu alpha is just 1 / m alpha so that's a notation the uh you see things like ci and sfi those are obvious those are s and cosine uh and uh what other notations do we get um Okay. And so the distances are also defined as the inverses, right? So uh the only way to learn uh how to do this is to actually go through an you owe me a problem, right? You there's a problem that was due today. uh and we need to come up with a an example where you will use uh the notation to describe set up the G matrix for a problem and let's let's just use cis acetylene which is what is actually uh sort of diagrammed in the notes although there's some problems in the notes and so cis s1 h cch the H. And so I suggest that you set up the G matrix for cis acetylene. And we should stop now.