The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Last week we talked about the key components of a proof. Propositions, axioms, and logical deductions. And as you probably talked about during recitation, we're not going to worry too much about what axioms or logical deductions that you use. Anything that is reasonable is fine by us. We're not going to ask you to know what modus ponins is or to label some law when you make a logical deduction. Just, you know, be reasonable. any fact you knew coming into this course about mathematics probably close enough to use as an axiom. You want to make sure your axioms are consistent. Uh but that's okay. Now the exception to this would be is say we're on an exam and we ask you to prove some proposition P. Well, you can't say I already knew P. It's an axiom check. That's not so good. We're asking you to prove it from some more elementary facts. Okay. It's also you don't want to be making wild leaps of faith or saying it's obvious that unless it really is obvious. That kind of stuff can get you in trouble. Much better to sort of explain the reasoning in the proof. Now, the proofs that we covered last week in recitation and the problem set were all examples of what are called direct proofs. You start with some axioms. You have some theorems you knew before or you proved along the way and you make logical deductions until you get to where you want to go. The theorem We're going to start today with an indirect proof. For example, a proof by contradiction. And this is a little bit different. In a proof by contradiction, you assume the opposite of what you're trying to prove. Then you just take steps forward, logical deductions forward until you arrive at a contradiction. Something where you prove false equals true. Now, if you can ever get to the point where you prove something is false that's and true, that means what you assumed at the start had to be wrong. Namely, the that what you're trying to prove has to be true. So, let's let's write that down because it can be a little confusing the first time. So to prove a proposition P is true, you will assume that it's false. In other words, that not P is true. And then you use that hypothesis. Namely, that P is false to derive a falsehood. In other words, you prove a falsehood is true. And this is called deriving a contradiction. And so it must be that in fact P is not false. Namely that it's true. Now this works because if you can prove if not P implies false is true. Well, from last time, the only way this is a true statement is if this is false, namely P is true. All right, so we can conclude that P is true if we can show that not P implies a falsehood. Any questions about that? It's sort of a lot of sort of notation and if you until you've seen it, it can be confusing. So maybe we should do do an example. Let's prove that square of two is irrational. Is irrational. Okay, everybody knows what an irrational number is. That's something that can't be expressed as the ratio of integers. Okay. And probably most people already know that. How many people have not seen a proof that square root of two is irrational before? All right. So, most of you have seen a proof of that. Good. You know, if you try to do a direct proof of this, it's pretty hard. How do you show there's no way to represent the square root of two as as integers a over b. But it's very easy if we do a proof by contradiction. Now, when you're doing a proof by contradiction, always start off by saying by contradiction. Write that down. And then what you do next is you say, I'm going to assume for the purpose of contradiction that not P that P is false. when not P is true. In this case that would be of two is rational. So in this case, here's what we're trying to prove. That's P. I'm going to assume not P, namely that square root of two is a rational number. Then I'm going to get a contradiction or a falsehood. And then I'm going to know that P was true after all. All right. So let's see where this leads us. Well, if two is rational, then we can express it as a over b, where a over b is a fraction in lowest terms. That means a and b have no common divisor. And then I can square both sides and I get 2 is a^2 over b^2. Then I multiply by b^2 and I get 2 b^2 = a^2. And what does that imply about a? What can you tell me about a if it equals a square is 2 b^2? Anything special about a? Can it be can a be anything? A squ is even right because 2 B square is an even number. So A squ is even. And what does that mean about A? A is even. A square is even then A is even. So A is even. All right. So we can write that as two divides a. That's the divide symbol. You'll see a lot of that next week. All right. If a is even, what do I know about a squared? I know more than just it's even. What is it? It's a multiple of four. Yeah. So that means that four divides a 2. A^2 is 2 b^ 2. So that means that 4 divides 2 b ^ 2. Divide each side by two means 2 divides b^ 2. What does that imply about b? B is even. All right, B is even. Good. Well, I've got A is even and B is even. I got a contradiction here somewhere. Yeah, A over B was not a fraction in lowest terms because both A and B are even. All right. So that implies a over b is not in lowest terms and that gives a contradiction. Now you'll see that written lots of ways. One is you can say a contradiction. Sometimes you'll see just this sharp symbol written and that means you got to a contradiction because here we had it being in lowest terms and here we have it not in lowest terms. You can't have both at the same time. So you got a contradiction and that means we've now proved that this assumption was wrong. Square root of two is not irrational is not rational. So it must be irrational. All right. And then we put a little box here at the end or sometimes you'll see a check. Sometimes you'll see QED that says the proof's done now. It's over. Any questions about that proof? We're going to do a lot of proofs by contradiction. Uh actually there's an interesting story behind this proof. As far as we know, it was first discovered by the Pythagoreans way back when in ancient Greece. And the Pythagoreans were a religious society started by Pythagoras of Pythagoras theorem fame. Now, it sounds weird today, but back then in ancient Greece, math was a religion. All right? Every once in a while, you'll see somebody around MIT and you'll think, "Ah, he must think math is a religion." Uh, but back then, it really was. And it was ruled by gods because this is ancient Greece. And there were two key gods in this religion, Apiron and Peros. Now, Aperon was the bad god and he was the god of infinity because infinity was considered all that was bad. And if I don't think we'll do a lot with infinity this term, but if we do, you'll appreciate why that's the case. And uh Peros was the good god. He was the god of the finite world and represented everything that was good to the ancient Greeks. Now, one of their main axioms or beliefs was that there were no irrational numbers. They just didn't exist. Now, the reason is they didn't like irrational numbers. They were bad because, well, they're infinite. You can't write them as a decimal without repeating forever. You know, just an infinite sort of decimal representation. They liked rational numbers, you know, like 17th. That's a good number because you can write it as 0.14 repeating. So rational numbers are finite in that you can always find the repeating pattern of finite length. Irrational numbers are not. They're infinite in that sense of the the ancient Greeks. So they said there were no irrational numbers. That was an early axiom. Now they also had an axiom that said that every length of a line was finite therefore rational. Right? You know the ancient Greeks were good with the uh compass and drawing lines and straight edges and stuff. So they said any line that you can construct has a finite length to it. So therefore it has a rational length. That was axiom number two. Now they were good geometers. So they knew of course they they developed the Pythagorean theorem that if you took a triangle and you had side lengths one the length of the hypotenuse was hypotenuse was 2. Therefore they had a theorem that said 2 was rational because you got the two axims there. Right? Now eventually they discovered a proof like that that it wasn't rational. It was irrational. Now this caused quite a stir. First, it meant that their axioms were inconsistent. Every theorem they'd proved was now suspect. Why don't you have inconsistent axioms? Even worse, the devil is in their midst. Square root two is infinite is the bad god. And this is the most basic length they had besides one. All right? So, that's a very bad thing. Sort of like, you know, today we were to wake up and discover that, you know, there were only nine commandments and the tenth was planted there by the devil and you're not sure which one maybe, you know, that would be a big mess sacrilege. Well, so what were they to do? This is a disaster of major proportions. So they covered it up and they denied the result. So they didn't want to publish that proof. So they kept on saying square root two was rational. But then according to legend there was a deep throat somebody who let out the word and the proof that square root two was irrational because that would be very destabilizing for the society and so they killed him. Uh this is the legend. Uh now hard to imagine getting killed over the irrationality of two but uh all right we're going to do a lot more of of these kind of proofs in homework and and throughout the term. The next proof I want to show you is uh one of my favorite proof techniques. one of my favorite proofs and that is a false proof. And we're gonna see a lot of these during the term too. And if we could bring the screens down. Somebody back there to Yeah. Great. Bring the screens down. I'm going to and then turn this on for me. So I'm going to prove to you that 90 is bigger than 92. All right. And that hopefully is not really true. Um but you know, watch this proof and see if uh you see any problems with it. All right, the proof by PowerPoint. Right away, you should be suspicious. I'm going to take two triangles with total area 90 and put them together and then divide them up into four triangles with area greater than 92. And by the conservation of area axiom, which you want to be maybe thinking about, this will imply an area of 90 is larger than area of 92. and therefore that 90 is bigger than 92. All right, those are my triangles. They are right triangles 9 by 10. If I put them together, I get a 9 by10 rectangle. Of course, it has area 90. 9 * 10. Now I'm going to slide these triangles across their u uh diagonal so that I get instead of having 10 on the side I'm going to slide it so I get a two and an eight. Okay, I had 10 there before now it's two and eight. And then you see I've got this I can cut off along the dotted line and as you can see that dotted line we haven't won't comput it exactly but it's a little bit bigger than two right it's a little bit longer than that two there you could see that. All right. So, I'll call it two plus bigger than two. Now, I slice off along the dotted line. And now I'm going to put those two triangles together. And I create a rectangle 2 by two little more than two. Now, the area of the little rectangle is bigger than four because I got two * something bigger than two. And you can see here I have the eight left over and I have 9 + 2 plus means it's a little bit bigger than 11 by 8. I got area bigger than 88. add them up, I got area bigger than 92. So, I started with 90 and I created more than 92. All right. What's the problem here? I mean, this would be good if I could do it. I'd get some gold, you know, bars of gold and, you know, cut them up and do the game and I'd make more gold. That would be pretty good if I could do that. Is it the conservation of area axiom? Did I assume something there that was too powerful? That if I manipulate the area of rectangles like this that the area needs to be the same? Yeah. My bigger ones aren't closed. Well, let's see. I don't know. Let's go back and see how I made those bigger ones. All right. I got my triangles, right? I'm just chopping along the line there. And I got two plus and nine. That's Those are rectangles. They look like rectangles. Yeah. Uh yeah. Well, it looks bigger than two, doesn't it? Yeah. Two plus is Well, two bigger than two is bigger than two, but yeah, maybe that should have been a two minus. Would that change anything? Yeah. If if that had been a 2 minus, then we'd have area less than four, area less than 88, and then 90 would be less than 92. That would be okay. But it sure as heck looks bigger than the two plus looks bigger than the two, doesn't it? I don't know. Do they got distortion out there? I guarantee you if I measured on my screen, that two plus is bigger than the length of the two. I guarantee you we can we can take we can take a a ruler on my screen and the two plus will be longer on the ruler than the two that I guarantee you. But you're on the right track. Yeah, that is really 1.8. Good. All right. Now, how did you But I but it is true. If I measured on my screen, it's bigger. Yeah. So So are are the triangles like drawn to scale? It's like on SAT they always say not to scale, right? Yeah. Yeah. They're not drawn to scale. In fact, if I go back to the beginning, it says 9 by 10. But in fact, if I measure the nine, it's bigger than the 10. All right? So, this is one of the big problems of proofs by picture because looking at it, you're not thinking which is bigger, nine or 10 up there. You the 10's bigger even though it's not. It's shorter. But when you get down into the proof, well, clearly the two plus was bigger than the two because it looks that way. It is on the paper. All right. In fact, you go computer, you're probably right. It's 1.8, not 2 plus. But that's how the error crept in and how it was drawn and then you're going along with the proof and everything else is just fine. So, the mistake is right up front. I drew it wrong. Okay. Uh, and this happens. You do graph, we'll talk about graph in a couple weeks. Over and over again, people do this. They draw it looks like this. You accept that and then you're dead. Everything else there's no hope. Every everybody clear what went wrong in this picture? How we got off track? This is sort of a nasty one. Okay. Um, now one of the nice things about proofs is that when there is a bug, if you really write it out step by step and there's a bug, you can go back and find it. Uh, and so this I didn't sort of really write it out very well step by step and it was harder harder to find now. All right, so if we can pull the screens up. Thanks. Okay, so for the rest of today and the rest of this week, we're going to talk about a different kind of proof technique, which is induction. Now, induction is by far the most powerful and commonly used proof technique in computer science. If there's one thing that you should know by the time you're done with this class, it's how to do a proof by induction. In fact, if there's one thing you will know by the time we're done with this class is how to do a proof by induction. And in some sense, when we get to grading the final, how we measure ourselves as instructors, the first test is, can you do the proof byinduction question and do a good proof there? You will see it on the midterm and the final, probably in multiple instances. Now, just to make sure you become intimately familiar with induction, we're going to do over a dozen proofs with induction in class and and many more in homework over the next five to six weeks. You'll probably be dreaming about induction if we're successful here uh soon. The good news is that induction is very easy once you get your mind around it and get some practice. It it really is not a hard thing. Uh in fact, induction is really just an axiom. So let me state it. Let PN be a predicate if P of zero is true. and for all natural numbers n P of N implies P of N + one is true. So here I'm saying that this is true for all N. Okay. Then for all n natural numbers p of n is true. All right. Another way of saying this without the for alls there is that if P 0 is true, if P 0 implies P1 is true, if P2 sorry P1 implies P2 is true and so on forever then P of N is true for all N. So then P 0, P1, P2 forever are true. Okay, now you can sort of see why this is a reasonable axiom because if P 0 is true and P 0 implies P1 then by that modus ponus thing or one of the logical deductions we know P1 is true and if P1 is true and P1 implies P2 is true then we know by the same reasoning P2 is and so on forever. Now the reason it becomes an axiom is that and so on forever part of it. That's why we need it as an axiom. Uh you can sort of view this as a series of dominoes. You know, I got a domino for each N. And each domino knocks over the next in terms of truth. Knocking over corresponds to truth here. And if I know P 0 is true, that means I knock over P 0. P 0 implies P1 means P1 goes down. P1 implies P2 means P2 goes down, and so forth. All right. Pretty pretty basic. Um, raise your hand if you think you don't have a lot of experience with induction. All right. Yeah, that's yeah, that's pretty pretty typical. About a third to a half of you. So, we're gonna we're going to change that. Um, let's do a simple proof using induction. So let's prove that for all n bigger than or equal to zero again natural numbers that 1 + 2 + 3 + n equals n * n + one over two. This is actually a useful thing to remember. We're going to use this all term this identity. Now the first thing before we prove it I want to make sure we understand this this dot dot dot notation because it is the source of a lot of errors. What it means is that you need to fill in the pattern here which is vague. What it means in this case is you fill in four five six all the way up to n minus one and then n. That's what it means. Figure out the pattern and fill it in. Pretty risky thing. Uh now in this case because that's so vague there's other terminology we use for this. For example we would use a big sigma capital sigma i = 0 to n of i. That means the sum of i where i is the integers from 0 to n inclusive. Actually let me put one here. Okay. Another way to write this, these are all equivalent ways to write it, is you could put one less than equal to I less than equal to N of I. So you could put summing I over the range from 1 to N or you could write it on the bottom if you want. So these are four different ways of writing the same thing, the sum of the natural numbers from one to n. And we'll use them all during the term. All right. Now, there's some special cases that make this a little more interesting. What if n equals 1? I've got 1 + 2 plus dot dot dot plus n. What do you suppose it equals if n equals 1? One. Because we're summing the numbers from one to one. That's just one, the number one. There is no two. And there aren't two copies of one. So this notation is very ambiguous. You see a two here in the sum. If n is one, you see a one here and a one here. Right? So you got to be careful. I guarantee you you'll make a mistake with this. In fact, I'm going to show you another false proof later where this comes into play. Um, what about if n is less than equal to zero? What is it then? Any thoughts? Zero. There are no integers to sum. No one, no two, no n because you never get started because you're sorry. N is less equal to zero because you're summing from one to zero. Zero's below. You never doesn't include anything. So these are the conventions to keep in mind um with the edge cases here. All right, it's easy enough to check that the theorem is true for certain values of n. For example, n= 4. I've got 1 + 2 + 3 + 4. That's 10. And 10= 4 * 5 / 2 plugging in the formula. So for any value of n, you could check this formula is true. proving it's true for all n you know is a takes a little more effort unless you use induction. So let's let's do that. So prove the theorem. Now whenever you're using a proof by induction first thing you do is you write down by induction. So we know what you're going to do. And the first thing you next thing you need to do is figure out what's your predicate. What's your your inductive hypothesis? What's P? All right. So, usually P will be the thing you're trying to prove, namely that 1 plus 2 plus 3 up to N is N * N + 1 over two. And you you state that you say let P of N be the proposition the predicate that the sum I = 1 to N of I equals N * N + 1 /2. All right. All right. And once you've got that established, now we're going to go verify that P 0 is true and that P uh N implies PN plus one. All right. So always have to write this down. The next thing to do is to check what's called the base case P 0. So let's do that. All right. So we write down base case. Some people call it the basis step and we have to check that P 0 is true. Well, what's the sum of i = 1 to 0 of i zero? There are no terms in this sum. And if I look over there, n * n + 1 /2, if n is zero, it equals zero. So, we're done with the base case. We've now proved that p 0 is true. And the second part is called the inductive step. And here we have to show for n greater than equal to zero we need to show that pn implies pn plus one is true. Now, how do we show an implication is true? How do I show this is true? What am I going to do to show that's true in general? Yeah, right. Because an implication is true in every case except for true implies false. So if if PN is false, we're done. This implication is true. The only case we have to worry about is P of N is true. So we assume P of N is true. And now we confirm that that means PN plus one is true. All right. So we write that down. Assume PN is true. And you might also write down for purposes of induction or purposes of it verifying the inductive hypothesis just to let us know why you're assuming it. In other words, you're not assuming PN is true for purposes of contradiction. You're assuming it for purposes of induction. All right, let's do that. So all right that means in this case i.e we assume 1 + 2 plus up to n equals n * n + 1 / 2. And we need to show that the n+1 case is true. Namely 1 + 2 + n + 1 equ= n +1 * n + 2 / 2. All right. You know, it's sort of weird and this does confuse people that aren't familiar to you yet familiar with induction. It looks like we just assumed what we're trying to prove. We're trying to prove this is true for all n and we just assumed it, but we're assuming it in the context of establishing this implication is true. And then we apply the induction axiom to conclude PN is true for all n. All right. Well, let's rewrite this as 1 + 2 + n + n + 1. Because I've assumed PN, I can rewrite this as n +1 / 2. And now plus n plus one out here. That equals well I got n^2 + n here over 2 + 2 n + 2. All right. And that equals n +1 * n +2 over two which is what we're trying to show. So we've completed now the inductive step. We have shown that for all n PN implies PN plus one for all n bigger than equal to zero. Any questions about that? So the proof is done. We've done everything we need to imply induction. We got P 0 is true and PN Now induction helped us prove theorem. Did it help us understand why theorem is true? Do you have any feel for why the theorem is true after seeing the proof? Not really. No, I don't think you know sometimes induction will give you an understanding, sometimes it won't. Here you got no understanding of why the theorem is true, which is sort of unfortunate. Did induction help you figure out the answer to the sum? Namely, say you were trying to derive this answer from this sum. Did induction give you the answer? No. You had to know the answer, namely this, in order to prove it was true. Now later we'll see examples where induction actually can give you the answer. But often it does not. Often induction gives you no hints, no answer, just proves that it's right once you had the clever idea that oh maybe that's the answer. All right, you'll see that with things like the beaver flu problem. All right, that you know figuring out the inductive hypothesis or the answer you know the details of it is hard but once you do it then applying the induction not so hard but it gives you a concrete proof. Okay, let's do another one. Fact we're just going to spend the rest of today doing induction proofs. up. Okay. So for all natural numbers n 3 divides n cubed minus n means n cub - n is a multiple of three. For example, n is five. 3 divides 125 - 5 because it's 120. Let's prove that. And we're going to use induction. What do you suppose PN's going to be? What's my predicate or my inductive hypothesis here? Any thoughts? Yeah. Yeah, that's you. Go ahead. Yeah. First thing you always want to try is you assume that as your induction hypothesis. So we say let PN be 3ides n cub minus n. What's the next thing we do in our proof? Base case. always easy to forget but not a good idea. Base case is n equals 0 and sure enough 3 divides 0 - 0. So that's done. What's the next step we do? What is it next step? inductive step and for that we're going to need to show for n bigger than equal to zero we want to show PN implies PN + one is true. So to do that we assume PN is true. In other words, we assume that 3 divides n cubus n. And we're trying to show that it 3 divides n + 1 cub - n + 1. So we we take a look at we examine n +1 cubed minus n +1 and we want to show it's a multiple of three. Well, let's expand that out. This is n cub + 3 n 2 + 3 n + 1 and I subtract off n + 1. So I get n cub + 3 n^2 + 2 n. Is this a multiple of three? I need to show that's a multiple of three and then I'd be all done. Is it a multiple of three? Beats me. It doesn't look like a multiple of three necessarily. So maybe we need to massage it a little bit. I I do know that this is a multiple of three. I can use that fact. And in proofs by induction, you always want to if you're not making use of that fact, then you're not really making use of induction. Sort of a warning sign. So I want to use this fact to prove this. Well, let's do a get a minus n in here. This equals nub - n + 3 n^2 plus well if I subtracted an n I got to add an n + 3 n. So I've rewritten it now. Is it clear? Now it's clear. Very simple because three divides this by pn. Three divides that and three divides that. So this is a multiple of three. All right. because I've got 3 divides 3 n^ 2 3 divides 3 n and 3 divides n cub minus n by pn or you could say by the inductive hypothesis pn is the inductive hypothesis another name for it so therefore three divides that which means three divides this so that means three divides n + 1 cubed - n + one and we are done with the proof by induction. Any questions about that one? So the key steps in induction are always the same. You write down proof by induction. You identify your predicate. You do the base case. Usually that equals zero, but it could be something else. And then you do your inductive step. Now in general you could start your induction don't start it at zero you could start it at some value B some integer B. Let's take a look at that. So you could have for the base case you could have P of B is true not P of zero. And then for your induction step you would have for all n bigger than equal to B, PN implies PN plus one. And then your conclusion is that for all n bigger than equal to b, pn is true. So inductions don't always have to start at zero. You can pick where you start. Just make sure that you verify the starting point and you verify the implication for all n at that starting point and beyond. All right, let's now do a false proof using induction. We're going to prove that all horses are the same color. Oops. So let's go through the process. So the proof we write down by induction. Now we need our induction hypothesis the predicate. So we're going to let that be we can't let it be this. Why can't this be our predicate? All horses are the same color. What's wrong with making that be the induction hypothesis? You can't plug anything into it. There's no number here. I got to have a number to an N to induct on. So, what I'm going to say is that in any set of n horses, and let's make n bigger than equal to one. The horses are all the same color. All right. Now, if I prove this is true for all n, well, then all horses are the same color because in any set of n horses, they're all the same color. So, all horses must be the same color. What's the next thing I do? What's the next step? base case. Now, what am I going to use as my base case here? One one horse. Okay. Or n equals one. So, p of one. That would say that in any set of one horses, the horses are all the same color. Well, that's true. I got one horse. It's the same color as itself. So, that's easy. It's true since just one horse. All right. All right. What's the next step of the proof? What's the next thing I do? Inductive step. So I've got AI am going to assume that PN is true to prove PN and show PS PN plus one is true. All right. So I'm going to assume that in any set of n horses, the horses are all the same color that I start with. And now I look at a set of n plus one horses. So we consider a set of n plus1 horses and let's call those horses h1, h2, hn plus1. What do I know about horses H1 to HN? They're the same color because PN is true. They are a set of N horses by P1. They're all the same color. All right. Uh, also what do I know about H2, H3, and HN plus one? All the same color because they're a set of N horses. Well, since H the color of H1 equals the color of those guys. H2 to HN. I know H1 is the same color as these guys. I also know that HN plus one is the same color as those guys. That means that H1 is the same color as HN plus one. And all n plus one are the same color and that's PN plus one. That implies PN plus one and I'm done. Now a few years ago we assigned this problem as homework and we asked students to figure out what went wrong as the problem. Why why doesn't this work? And uh the responses were a little discouraging. Half the class responded effectively as follows. This example just goes to show that induction doesn't always work. A third of the class said I always knew that you can't trust mathematics. this example just proves it. That that really hurt, you know, and most of the rest were something similar to that. Uh not exactly what we were looking for in the homework. So now we we don't leave it to homework. We do it in class. Um what's the flaw here? What what is it? P of N. What's wrong with P of N? No, that's this is a real assumption. In any set of n horses depends on n, the horses are all the same color. That is a proposition because it depends on n. It's a predicate. It's true or it's false. Now, we know it's false because you could get a set of couple of horses with different color, but it is a proposition. Yeah. Way back there. P for like a certain set of forces. Yeah. So even though it was the same number of forces was the same number, it was a different set of forces. So it's not something you can assume anymore. That's a great point. I did gloss over something here because in the predicate I've got in any set. So there's really a for all sets sitting out here. So I got to be careful that I establish that when I'm trying to prove PN implies PN plus one. So to establish PN plus one here, I assume PN, which means in any set of N horses, they're all the same color that I'm given. That's PN. I've got to look at any set of N plus1 horses. So consider any set, not a set, any set of N plus1 horses. So you pick any set you want. Call them this H1 through HN plus one. Well, then the first n are a set of n horses, so I can apply PN. Therefore, they have the same color. The last n horses in the set are a set of n horses, so I can apply PN. So, these guys all have the same color, and I'm on my merry way here. So, you're right. I had to do a little bit more work, but I can do that work, and I still get a proof. Yeah, good question. There's a problem with a base case. So my base case was here n equals 1 in any set of one horse the horses let's say in the set just to be really careful are all the same color. No in any set of one horses is only one horse. So it's the same color as itself. Yeah, right. N plus one is not the same as n. Yeah. That's set. You can't have the same assumption because it's not um a set of n horses. It's a set of n plus one. Well, let's see. So, you're you're arguing I made a mistake here, right? Well, I've got horses, horse two, three up to n plus one. How many horses are in this set here? Oh, in that set. In this set, how many horses are there? N. N. So I can apply P of N to this set just the same as that set because P of N is any set of N horses. Well, I'm picking this one now and applying PN to it. And so therefore, they're all the same color. Yeah. H1, H2, dot dot dot. Yes, because it does work if there's two or more, but you didn't prove it was just one or one from one to two, I guess. Exactly. Remember I told you that dot dot dot. so reasonable, so easy to use, everybody uses it was going to catch us up. The bug is in the dot dot dot and in particular, it's has to do with the case n equal two. So there's two ways to look at the bug dot dot dot or we didn't completely do all the inductive steps. So let's look at the case actually it's the case n equals 1 here in this inductive step did I prove p1 implies p2 let's just double check that worked for n equals 1 um n equals 1 I've got a set of two horses This becomes two. So I've got H1 H2 there. Nothing in the dot dot dot. It's just H1 and H2. Then this becomes H1. So sure enough, H1 is the same color as itself. This becomes what does this become? This set of horses. What is it really? H2. All right. So, I've got the color of H1 equals the color of Oh, man. This is so hard to see this bug. I I I wrote down H2 dot dot dot to HN because take out H1. What's left? It's what's left is H2 through HN. But this set is only H1. What's really left here? What is this set? What is this set? H2H1. No, there's you see what is the whole set? H1 dot dot dot HN. What is the whole thing? It's just H1. Pull out H1 and look at the rest of it. How many horses are are here? Zero horses. This is the empty set. There are no horses here to compare to. Even though I got AI got an H2, I got an HN. I got dot dot dot. Because generally if n's big, this has n minus one horses are here. There's n total. I got n minus one right here. But n minus one is zero. There are no horses here. And so this bridge in the equality totally breaks, right? I got color of h1 equals there's no information here equals the color of h2. There's no equality here. There's no horses in this set. All because of that dot dot dot. Do you see where the problem is by using the dot dot dot for the case n equals one? It was true for every other case of n. n= 2, n= 3, it's all true. All right. In fact, what we proved, we proved the base case of P1 is true. This is an argument that P2 implies P3. That is true. P3 implies P4. That is true. and so forth. We prove for all n bigger than equal to two PN implies PN plus one. That we proved. What is the one missing implication? We did not prove the missing link P1 implies P2. We did not prove that. Now, is that true? No. any you can find a set of two horses that are not the same color and just because every horse is the same color as itself does not give you that that was missing in this proof. And so we have to be really careful when you're doing these proofs that you establish the inductive step for all n bigger than equal to the base case. And then make sure if you're going to use this really convenient dot dot dot notation that you don't wind up here saying, "Oh, this is horses H2 through HN when there's no horses there because N's one." Any questions about this? Yeah. Great question. All right, let's fix the proof. Start with a base case of P of two. And now I've got all this done. And so therefore that's another proof. Yeah. Say it again. The pro this is still the same. In any set of n bigger than equal to two horses, all the horses in the set are the same color. That's what he's saying. And he's saying, hey, look, the proof worked here. The inductive step is just fine. P2 does imply P3. Yeah. base isn't true. So that's right. The base case fails. All right. That's why you've always got to check the base case. That is correct. That's a great point. We have given a proof that if you look at any pair of horses and they're the same color, then all horses are the same color. That's true. That is true. Of course, there are pairs of horses that aren't the same color. So, the base case would fail. So, always check the base case. You can prove some great stuff if you don't check the base case, right? All right. Any any other questions about that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, as long as it's an integer and as long as you prove PN implies PN plus one starting there all the way out. Yeah, you can start at negative numbers if you want. Usually there's not many cases where that comes up you want to, but you can. Nothing wrong with that. Any other questions? Yeah, you can see why it was a messy homework problem. All right. Uh so far we've seen examples of how induction is useful in proving the hypothesis is true but not in solving the problem per se or even figuring out what the hypothesis should be. Now in the last example we're going to show you how induction can be used to prove there is a solution to a problem and also how to find the solution. So it's actually going to be a very useful constructive thing in this case. Now, this problem arose in the construction of the Stata Center, the building we're in now. Uh, this whole building was originally supposed to cost completely furnished under $und00 million. That was the goal. But the first mistake they made was the first step was hiring the architect and they hired Frank Giri. I think MIT is now in a lawsuit with Frank Giri. Uh, so he was the architect and cost just went nuts. You know, as you can imagine, you know, all these slanted walls and crazy things happening actually are expensive. And uh the cost quickly got over $300 million. Literally, that that part's true. Now, I'm going to fabricate a little bit. Uh now, actually fundraising became a huge priority once they're more than 200 million over budget and they haven't even bought the furniture yet. So, some pretty radical ideas were proposed and one of them was to build a large 2 to the n by 2 to the n courtyard and put a statue of a wealthy potential donor in the center of the courtyard. So let's draw this. So the courtyard and of course you know it's computer science so it has to be a power of two. So, it's 2 the n by 2 to the n. And I've drawn here the case n= 2. And we've got to get uh the statue of the wealthy guy in the middle. And I'm not supposed to reveal his name. So, we're just going to call him Bill. All right. So, Bill's got to go in the center. Now, this would be fine except that nothing was easy with Frank Gary. everything is some weird weird thing going on. And he insisted on using L-shaped tiles for the courtyard. So, the tiles that we're going to use look like this. So, it's, you know, almost a 2 by two except you're missing that piece. So, what you need to figure out how to do is tile this courtyard perfectly, leaving one spot for Bill using tiles like this. these L-shaped tiles and this is 2 x two here. So that's the task. So let's see if we can do that for n equals 2 here. Um let's see. We can do a tile here. We can do a tile here. a tile here, a tile here, and a tile there. So, we can in this case, we can tile the courtyard perfectly using these L-shaped tiles, leaving one square in the center for the statue. All right, everybody understand what we're trying to do? The goal? Now, I want to do it for n. Uh so let's start proving it by induction even though we don't know how to do it yet because we're going to see how induction is going to help us show it's possible and maybe even show us how to do it. All right. So let's state a theorem for all n. There exists a way to tile a 2 to the n by 2 to the n region or courtyard with a center square missing for Bill. And the proof will be by induction. And our induction hypothesis, the predicate PN is going to be what we're trying to prove. All right? So this is the induction hypothesis. Almost always when you do the induction, you want to start out with that as your What's the next step? Base case. Never ever forget the base case or you'll be thinking all horses are the same color. P 0. Well, the courtyard for N equals 0 is just one square. And that's for Bill. So you're done. There's no tiles at all to worry about. That's easy. So that's true. And then we do the inductive step. Okay. So, inductive step for n bigger than equal to zero. Got to remember to keep track of that. Now we assume PN to verify the inductive hypothesis or to prove PN plus one. A lot of ways to write this down, but you always want to say what you're assuming and why. So we need to show PN plus one is true. Well, so let's look at a 2 to the n by 2 the n +1 by 2 the n +1 courtyard. All right. So let's draw it out here. 2 the n +1 by 2 the n +1 What are we going to do to use our inductive hypothesis? Yeah. for them. Yeah. So that you're on a good track there for sure, but I got to apply I'm not going from one to two. I want to get I want to use PN here. So I got a two to the n plus one by two to the n plus one courtyard. How do I use PN? Two to the n by two to the n courtyard. Yeah. Oh, never mind. I don't think it works. I was about to say that would be as if two to the n would divide that into four blocks. Good idea. Yeah, let's divide our courtyard into four blocks. That's a great idea. And now each of these is 2 to the n by 2 to the n, right? And I can apply the inductive hypothesis there. Yeah. Something. Yeah. It doesn't quite work because Bill wants to be here. Got a little square for Bill there. But I can't I can't use my inductive hypothesis to tile this because there's no square missing. In fact, even if there wasn't a square missing, I'm in trouble. If I've got say this is size 16, 4x4 here, can I tile a 4x4 region with L-shaped tiles? No, they're size three. Three doesn't divide 16. Yeah, there's a great idea. All right, we're we're making progress now. Take a corner out of each of them. Put my L-shaped tile here. Now I can use the inductive hypothesis to tile each one of these. Yeah. Why can't you put like a a four in the center and then you have a bunch of twos on the side? Four in the center and a bunch. A two by two in the center. I got that. I got bill and a tile and then but like make it bigger. Not just like four single tiles, but like you have So you have something like that over there, right? Put that in the center. Put that in the center. Okay. The rest of them will have like 2 by two which you know well the rest of them aren't 2 by two because this is n I got to use PN here and PN says that I can in a region 2 to the n by two to the n with a square out of the center I can tile it. Did I make am I good here so far? Did I claimed I was sort of done? Yeah. What? No, because P of N tells us well P of N tells us that we can set up a 2 by 2 piece. Yeah. And what's the problem for this 2 to the N by two to the N region? Bill's not in the center. He wants to be in the center. We put Bill in the corner. So, you can't use the inductive hypothesis here. Ah, so I I went a little too fast here. That's This is not a proof so far. I got a problem. Yeah. Great. Okay. Let's then change the inductive hypothesis. Good. Let's say there exists a way to tile a two to the n by two to the n region with a corner square missing for bill. All right. Oh, but I got to put Oh, but I can make this work. Yeah. Yeah, we can make some we can prove this. Now, the inductive step's going to work because I'll put Bill say he's in one of the four regions. Then use the L down here. Put the L here. And now I've got a corner out of each one. And now I'm done by induction. I have proved there's a way to tile any two to the n by two to the n region with a corner square missing. I think that proof works. Yeah. Bill in the middle because you prove that you can put in the corner. 2x2 case you can just blow that square up and that square where Bill was becomes just another square which is 4x4 and then you can put them in the middle. That is true. So you jumped ahead. Uh we have successfully now proved this is true for P of N but Bill didn't want to be in the corner. We're trying to prove there's a way to do it with Bill in the center which is not what we proved. And you come up with a way yeah that might be doable. First prove you can put Bill in the corner and do it in two to the n by two to the n's. Oh, I don't know about this actually. I got bill in the corner. There's some way to do it, but it might have involved doing this. And now I can't rotate that. I don't think we have I don't think that proof necessarily works. that he could be here. But likewise, we could prove that if the block just rotates, you can Yes, I agree with you. And I like it when I first heard it, and you might still convince me, but all we've proved is is this. There's a two to the n by two to the n any two to the n by two to the n region. We can tile it with a corner bill in a corner. Any corner square missing. Good. So now you want to say I can get Bill in the middle. And what you want to say is okay, I tile this region with Bill here, you know, two to the n by maybe you're right. So then I would apply the I'd apply the theorem here with Bill here. Oh, Bill here. No, I think I like it now. There. And then I would take these out. three blocks and that big square is just like a zoom a zoomed out version of like the little square. I like that. You know that little square fits in like a 2 by two like for example in the um in the four uh 4x4 case in the like we proved the 2 by two case in the 4x4 case you have and you have like a big size. It's just like a you have four squares, right? And each of the each of those four squares has four squares. So you take that right top right square and you put fill within the smaller square where exactly where you want them to be and then you fill those other like all those empty spaces with I agree you can make a proof and so in this case you'd make a lema that uses induction that says you can do it with Bill in the corner and then as a correlary or a theorem you'd take that and apply it to four sub squares, put Bill in here, take these out, and then now you have your result with Bill in the center. So that is a way to do it. It ends up being more complicated. There is a simpler approach, but that is that is a way that works and is a natural thing you would do if you had this on homework is you'd think of a different thing to prove by induction, then use that as a lema to get you where you wanted to go. There's another way to do it without having that first step. All right? And that's Yeah. that courtyard. Divide each cell into a 2 by two. Yeah. Well, yeah. Yeah. Or you want to do it bottoms up. You want to take it and divide and that make that your your inductive step by two by twos inside. I haven't thought about that approach. If you do that, then you're all set except for the 2 by two where I'm worried about a lot of 2 by twos with a corner missing if I do it that way. Think about that. Um there is let me get to a uh another approach here. We couldn't make it work with the center. We could make it work with a corner but then we had to do more work after. One general technique to use with induction when you're having struggling what's the induction hypothesis to use. If what you got doesn't work you could pick a different one but better to pick a stronger one. Yeah. Yes, you could, and that is a good thing to do. Make the induction hypothesis be much stronger. I had trouble proving there's a way to do it with a center square missing. Turns out to be easier to prove it where you assume any square could be missing. Seems like this should be harder, right? We had a hard enough time just showing this square missing was doable. But by assuming something by trying to prove a harder problem assuming something stronger in PN it gets easier to prove. All right. Now we better check the base case P 0. But that's easy. There's only one square bill can be. All right. But now let's look at PN implies PN plus one. All right. So we go back to this. We've got a 2 to the n plus1 by 2 to the n plus1 courtyard. And now Bill can be anywhere. Put him here. There's Bill. Now I'm going to place my first L-shaped tile here in the other three regions. And now I apply PN to each region. Well, PN says I can do it with any square missing. So I'll pick this one out here, this one out here, that one there, and that one there. And now I'm done. And that was easy. No extra steps. Now, how is it possible that it was easier to prove something that was harder? Yeah. By being in the center of the constraint. Yes, that is true. But but by allowing him to be anywhere, I could have started. I have to that's a possibility. See what I'm trying to do here. This inductive step is all about proving PN implies PN plus one is true. That's what I'm trying to show. Now, how is it useful for me if PN is stronger has more you grow it? You prove that it can be in say the corner. Well, but when you grow it, the corner moves. But since we proved that it can be in any, it's fine if it moves. Exactly. That's exactly right. PN got more powerful which means I get more to assume here in the recursive problem. Bill can be anywhere now. Gives me more power. I can tile any courtyard with a a courtyard with any square missing. This is more powerful. So this got more powerful. So did this. So what it means is my tool set is bigger with a stronger PN. And what I'm trying to construct or prove got harder. And sometimes if I've got more tools, it becomes easier to prove even a harder thing. And so a general rule with induction is if it you don't first succeed, try try again. Well, the rule with induction is if you don't succeed at first, try something harder. All right? And it's amazing, but it actually works a lot of the time, as it did here. If I don't assume something strong enough and pee in some little weak thing like Bill just in the in the center, it's not enough to go anywhere. But if I can assume a lot more like Bill can be anywhere he pleases, then I can prove lots of things here. All right? So you see, so it's all the art, and you're going to learn this over the next several weeks. It's all the art of what's your induction hypothesis. Picking a good one, life is easy. picking up the wrong one. Very painful as you'll see with beaver flu. Okay, that's it for today.