The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Last time um we were very much uh dealing with uh Deia and Cleanths and um they both come in and out of the dialogue but the last part of the dialogue is uh very much given to Felo the skeptic and uh so he gets he gets this sort of is there any kind of natural progression here? You see a natural progression from say uh the pious theism of uh Demia, the sort of experimental theology of uh Cleanththees who wants to use you know the mechanisms of the world to prove the existence of God and the skepticism of Felo. Do you see any kind of progression or is this the right way to do the dialogue? Well, it ends finally when Flo says that God is um basically neither good nor bad and that leaves it on a like he said it's God's morally neutral that kind of leaves it open and like rather than like shifting the discussion towards one extreme versus that God's evil or something like they touch upon both like all different perspectives and then finally they just leave it Okay. Yeah. At the end, uh, Pmpilius, the young man who's sort of sitting there, he says, "Who does he vote for?" Anybody get to the end, the very end. It's a It's the end of the last chapter. I I don't think I asked you to read that, so you probably didn't. U, but he votes. Yeah. Claire for Cleanthies. Yeah, he's he's he's uh he's pretty much convinced by Cleanth. So almost the middle ground I guess. Yeah. Yeah. So that's uh the it's an interesting uh to have him sort of make the last you know conclusion or give him the last word because uh at the end they all kind of say ah just joking or or we're just having an interesting philosophical discussion. Uh Deia of course gets a little nervous and leaves. Uh but anyway, we'll come back to that. Okay. So, so uh Fela was a very definite um I mean at the first in the first part of this dialogue he pretty much teams up with uh Filela teams up with the Mia with the pious. Why what is it about those two that they have in common? I mean, it's not until toward the end uh in in in in later in chapter 7 and and uh toward the end that uh Deia says, "Oh, now your true colors are coming out." That's when he starts arguing about, you know, how badly the world is made. But uh he and uh uh uh uh Sophilo the skeptic and Deia the pious theist they sort of team up against Cleanthes. How come? What is it that highest views and skepticism have in common? It has to do with knowledge. Well, I mean, if you are either really pious or really skeptical in order to make an argument for either one, I feel like you would have to know a certain amount about what you're talking about. Whereas, if you kind of take that middle ground between, it could just be because you don't necessarily have enough knowledge to form a like valid really strong opinion. So then maybe they they use their knowledge even though they know different things to go against the eneies. Okay. Um I think that's you got is is the the um Deia's position is you know we're just poor humans. I mean what do we know? I mean our brains are barely capable of understanding their immediate surroundings and so forth. There's no way we can possibly understand the ways of the creator. So forget about it. Don't try to reason. Don't you your reason isn't going to get you there. Reason is not a tool that is of any use in trying to understand deity. So that's that's the theistic view that the world is just kind of vastly too complicated for us to really come to a conclusion on the basis of our reason about God. We have to accept God on faith. Faith is it you you know. So the skeptic comes in and agrees in in in the case of Felo. He he agrees. Why? Well, Filel also is skeptical about our ability to know things. It's just that his view is, you know, yeah, things are really, really complicated. And, you know, when you start really exploring them, you find out how complicated they are. And the more we learn, oftenimes the less we the more we realize we know very little. So the the skeptic can become uh a very similar uh line of thinking to the deist the theist because you know skeptic really believes that uh humans really can't find certain knowledge. They can approximate things but really understanding the fundamental way in which the universe is organized is you know uh sort of a hopeless project. So these two can kind of talk together and mutually support. And that's why Felo comes in because they're both going against Glanthy's who says no. Cleanth is an expression of the the rationalists the the great sort of enthusiastic rationalism of the enlightenment. And you know he's confident we can really see the way in which God works by understanding the world and the universe because we have our science and our knowledgebased uh inquiries which can penetrate to very very far into the world. the way the world works and come back with an understanding of its complexity and reason on the basis of that that this is all uh been intended. It would have to be intended in order to have design of this kind of um effectiveness and and and capacity. So, so Felo is now constantly coming up against he's constantly pointing out that Cleanththees is really not able to make the conclusions he's trying to draw because as he says in this case uh this was in the part two which we read last time he said you know it's one thing to talk about a house we see a lot of houses when we see another house we know oh yeah somebody built that just like they built all the others but when we start talking about the universe and saying well you know the universe is way way more complex and therefore something even he says you know Felo's point is you know you can't compare a house and universe it just doesn't work I mean they're entirely different orders of uh comparison so there's a big critique of analogical thinking in in this work that analogy works to a degree and analogy I think as you know from various explorations you've had in other contexts analogy works up to a point but when you when the subjects being compared get too far apart we have the expression it's apples and oranges no I mean at the basis of that is an understanding that analogies only work for classes of objects and considerations that are closely parallel and Cleanthy's thinking is very very deeply indebted to analogical principles. He's I mean all of it is you know based on these grand analogies between complexity at a certain level and complexity at a vast at a at a very grand level. So Felo being the skeptic is constantly trying to understand the basis of knowledge. I mean, that's what he's really interested in. He's he's offering these reservations, but u um you know, they keep they keep coming back. So, Felo also makes the point as we mentioned last time of self-organized matter and the idea that um you know if you're going to talk about order imposed through a mental process, a spiritual mental process of bringing things into existence as creation would have had to be. His point is, well, if we're arguing that and with as little evidence as we have, we can also argue maybe all this stuff is organized according to internal principles that, you know, are simply, you know, not known to us. But it's no more speculative to say that than to say that you know some divine power through some kind of mental process brought the world into existence. What what is the mechanism for moving across those kinds of categories from spiritual supernaturalism to materialbased earth that's a big jump across of course the argument is anything is possible with you know a deity but uh Felo's point is it's no more absurd to say that things are organized through an internal principle than through some external. In fact, he says his view is it's a little it's a little more rational or I'm not sure if we should use the word rational here. We give that to Cleanths, but it's a little plausible that things may be self-ordered. Why is he saying that? Why does he hold a view that it's it's at least as maybe more likely that things are organized through internal principles of self-organization than through some intervention of a deity. He but he really gives no from what I remember he doesn't give much of a real explanation as to how this self-organizing principle works. The closest I think he gets, which is reason by analogy, is the whole, you know, it's from the seed comes the tree and from the tree comes another tree, you know, which is all fine, but it doesn't seem to cover the dust off, you know, the the the real. He's quite he's quite aware that he's on, you know, as shaky a ground. All he's saying in essence is we're keeping it in the natural order, the explanations in the natural order. If we say that there's some natural principle but he doesn't have a ghost of a clue what that natural principle is and you know even Darwin when he started argue he didn't really know what was happening at the cellular level he sort of described natural selection so forth but when it came to you know the micro explanation of that he had a few odd theories Uh but you know he was speculating too. So yeah um he doesn't know. So in part five uh Felo continues his attack on on uh the anthropocentric. So one of the things that both Felo and Deia accuse Cleanth of is anthropomorphism. What is anthropomorphism? Why is it why is it being attributed to Cleanths by these two others? Yeah, there's this uh thought that always makes analogy of a godly entity with a earthly object and how earthly objects are made with purpose and design through human uh human reasoning and how God therefore must also use that same reasoning um to create the world. Okay. So, so he's he's using the sort of um craftsman crafts person model of, you know, this is the way the world was made by a great supernatural person who pretty much works the way we do, which strikes Deia and Felo as kind of odd to start with humans and then arrive at at at at deity. I mean for Demia it's like sacrilege profane to say you know this deity is just like us and therefore that's what he uses this uh anthropomorphite that's what they call cleanthesis and theo also also this sense that uh the world is beautiful and We've heard this before, haven't we? From Panglos, the crazy philosopher uh who said it's the best of all possible worlds. You know, things are all done for a purpose. And if you happen to be in the wrong place and you suffer pain or whatever, you know, you can be consoled by the fact that, you know, the greater purpose is being served. And you know, true, you happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, but most other things weren't. And so if you get back far enough and you see the world in the way it works, it's it's got this u sense of perfection to it. So again this is u and then he says rather cheekily if you will at the end of the uh chapter he says in a word this is felo talking in a word cleanth a man who follows your hypothesis is able perhaps to assert or conjecture that the universe sometime arose from something like design but beyond that position he cannot ascertain one single circumstance and is left afterwards to fix every point of his theology by the utmost license of fancy and hypothesis. You see what he's saying here is you know okay let's say it by design but once you say that's true how it's like who knows and then he says this world for he knows is very faulty and imperfect compared to a superior standard and was only the first rude essay of some infant deity who afterwards abandoned it ashamed of his lame performance. So this of course offends uh the MIA but uh you know he the point is is you know if this world is not that perfect a world I mean if we can imagine better worlds that could be constructed uh then maybe if the deity constructed the world the deity was sort of young and needed practice and this just happened to be one of those worlds that spun off and you know it didn't quite work. So he's cracking open this this this case about how perfect is the world. I mean once Cleanths has made this big point about this this absolutely gorgeous ravishing machine you know he's kind of stuck in this corner. He's painted himself into a corner of sorts because now you can say, well, okay, how perfect is it? And that's where the thrust of a lot of this end of this this this book. Um that that's the thrust of the end of the book is sort of moving into this direction of how perfect is the world, what kind of world do we live in? Uh could there have been better worlds? Um what are some of the problems we find in the world? Uh and so on and so forth. And if there are problems in a world and so forth, was the deity benevolent but not completely competent or was the deity competent but not quite benevolent. I mean one or the other if you know you have to come to these uh so this is this is definitely the direction that he's moving in. So let's say that this world is a great perfect entity. Uh Fileo then makes the point about the ship builder. What what what was this point that that the ship was built through trial and error? What works and what doesn't. It wasn't just all a sudden created and was perfect the first time. So why why would earth be any different from say the ship? Precisely. Precisely. Yeah. I mean earth as we know it now uh supports life and so on. Did it always support life? Well no. Uh of course that's adding new knowledge to uh Hume didn't know that. But uh you know the notion of you know life on the earth as something that was just put there uh that's certainly subject to other kinds of explanations. Um and so he brings in this whole ship builder notion. The ship is this great perfect wonderful thing. I don't know use your own metaphor. Uh the Ferrari. Okay the Ferrari. Where' the Ferrari start? Well, it started way back with a steam engine and some two cycles and you know it didn't look like a Ferrari. Uh people have been working on cars forever and they keep trying to change them and improve them and make them better and better and you know think of all the technologies we have that have delivered the capacity we have. None of those was just kind of invented out of nowhere. They've all emerged through constant interaction and improvement and incremental development. So this notion of incrementalism as a source of greater degree of perfection is being introduced here. And of course incrementalism is profoundly important to Darwin's style of thinking, is it not? I mean, so we're getting into this this species of thinking about objects, complicated objects as things drawn out over ages. So, the ship is a absolutely brilliant example. These great clipper ships that were, you know, state-of-the-art uh moving around the world for good and evil. Uh but you know these are things that uh had not simply been invented. They had been and uh my only problem with this this passage here is the word stupid in front of mechanic. I I never thought of mechanics as stupid. Uh mechanics uh oftenimes know a lot more than you know the people are doing the sort of the grand design. So, uh, but nevertheless, he's his point is is, you know, it's it's somebody if you ask the mechanic how to make the ship, the mechanic can't tell you. Doesn't know. I just do this part of it. you know, I I seam I I put the seam uh you know, I I the seams or I do I I build the mast or I make the sails or I you know, think of all the thousands of things that go into building a ship. Nobody sat down one night and said, "Okay, I'm going to design this thing uh you know from scratch." Okay, so he says um many worlds might have been bunched and bungled throughout the eternity era. system was struck out. Much labor lost, many fruitless trials made and a slow but continued improvement carried on during infinite ages in the art of world making. This would strike u uh dei as you know highly sacrilegious and profane but you know we are in a discussion here trying to look at what the possibilities are and that's what the point of Hume's discussion is is open us up to the ways in which we can think about the world open the mind up you know think about the possibilities the range of possibilities you know he's not he's not trying to make you I think and you can you can choose your you can pick your object. Is that slow advocacy for like some kind of polytheism or like in the last part of that ship builder argument is yeah the uh say like a lot of people work yeah he says in one passage he says well maybe a lot of gods worked on the world you know maybe the world was you know kind of a collective enterprise among deities several of them got together and sort of made up the different elements of the world and so on and so forth and uh Yeah. So you could use that as you know uh if you if you wanted to for that kind of an argument. I don't think he's serious about it. But he's just trying to point out that you know you can think about a lot of different ways in which the world could come into existence. Okay. So unnecessary complexity. Is this a uh is this something that uh uh that uh Felo is suggesting? Does a world is the world unnecessarily complex? Well, it's a it's an interesting question. I know the Rube Goldberg machines I'm sure you've all seen and they're immensely charming. U but uh the fact that the world seems to operate in ways that might not operate if it were designed precisely for its purpose. The notion that it may be more complex than it need be. I think there's this kind of dialogue underneath some of Felo's speculations here that yeah, we have pain and we have pleasure and you know we have general laws and so forth but uh you know if if an ideal person or ideal deity were building the world maybe it'd be a little simpler and a little less painful and so forth. So underneath here is some notion of mechanism and constraint and that's a very powerful idea within Darwin that you know evolution in Darwin's view you can't work like God and just do the thing that the species needs. Evolution is constrained is it not? How is it constrained? limited by it's limited by the mutations that occur by the mutations and the subject now that they have to work with. Evolution works with what exists and you know so uh uh a bladder in some ocean organism emerges in a land organism as a lung. But you know the fact that you know evolution is constantly um as a process incremental process is constantly working with whatever the materials that are available. You can't create new materials. It doesn't it's not like a designer in a laboratory or a workshop who says oh I need I need this and I'll put this wheel here and I'll put this here you know so forth. That seems to be Cleanthy's model for the universe is it was made like a clock and you know somebody just put it all together in a workshop quite a workshop whereas the notion behind evolution and Felo is beginning to explore this terrain is there are incredible constraints All organisms are under phenomenal pressure, phenomenal constraints and um you know they basically function just barely as well as they need to in order to survive. Okay. So then of course his part seven he gets into his uh he really likes this this notion of vegetative universe. Of course, as as you said, he doesn't have a ghost of an idea exactly how this works either, but at least he's keeping the order of explanation, you know, in a band of explanation that we all kind of accept as a natural world. I mean, cosmos is a little bit out there. We don't know a whole lot about the all the particulars of the cosmos, but you know, we know that we're part of it. The earth is part of it. Newton's laws as we said before sort of extended the explanation and the sort of principles of physical existence into the heavens. So the notion that uh this physical law extends beyond uh and Newton others did before Newton too. I mean even capernicus they're sort of working on principles of natural explanation that goes all the way back to early early Greek thought this whole spirit of naturalism. Okay. So he says the world plainly resembles more an animal or a vegetable than it does a watch or a knitting loom. His cause therefore it is more probable resembles the cause of the former. The cause of the former is generation or vegetation. The cause therefore of the world we may infer to be something similar or analogous to generation or vegetation. As he says, the effects of these principles are all known to us from experience. But the principles themselves and their manner of operation are totally unknown. But that's okay. I mean there are people who are going to look at these uh questions. Some of them um you know uh this this book uh was really just u just before the development of um uh astronomy. the Hershels, the two Hershels who uh developed modern concepts of astronomy, the expanding universe and so on and so forth and took astronomical speculation to a much more detailed and higher level of uh understanding. And you know the uh many of the things uh that they showed was that we can learn more and more and more about the way the cosmos works. We can't learn more and more and more about how the great clock of the universe came into existence from in the lab of in the lab of the u of gods. So you know there's a there's a possibility of scientific exploration in one direction but in the other direction that possibility is really barren. There's not a whole lot you can look into. So, nor is it less intelligible or less conformable to experience to say that the world rose by vegetation from a seed shed by another world than to say that it rose from a divine reason or contrivance according to the senses in which Cleanth understands. Okay. And then he Okay. So, this is this is where we arrive. um um in in uh leading up to u the last the last section. Uh I mean there there's a lot in the book and we could probably spend the whole term working on this book if you were so inclined. Uh him's a a great thinker and a generous thinker. He gives everybody a very solid representation. You can say, well, he favors Felo, but uh he does give Filel the last sort of section. So I've always thought myself, yeah, he's sort of giving him the the best parts. on the other hand uh he certainly gives a a good run for Cleanthies and he deeply respects I'm I'm convinced uh the speculations of uh Demia or or not speculations because Demia doesn't like to speculate he the belief and the pious faith okay so in Part 11. We're jumping to the uh end here, but these are sections that are of importance to us in our exploration here this term. Um he comes to this question. Um what would we expect from a powerful, wise, benevolent deity who is making a world? What what what would we expect? and he comes he's devoted the chapter before this on sort of short chapter on the persistence of misery and how miserable humans are you know the fact that they've got illnesses and they're I mean humans have had the plague they've had you know I think probably today we may not really be in a good position to appreciate what life was like in the mid 18th century. It was not quite like our, you know, suburban life and our, you know, uh, moderate level of, uh, affluence, which some people see diminishing these days. But nevertheless, uh, compared to compared to the average person and access to health care and nutrition and so on and so forth, kings and queens really didn't uh have the options that we have. There was a lot of you know moderately miserable condition to human living um and a lot of very strikingly uh striking misery lots and lots of really really poor people. Um so you know when he talks about this section it has a little more impact at that time. Now we could ask if today you know have we emerged out of that period of all this pain and so forth and maybe at last we've uh that that's that accidental world of u of voltater you know which I think most people thought was a little overdone but nevertheless pointed out to some serious truths. Okay. So he says uh the the four the persistence of human misery and he he points out that uh Felo points out that there are what he calls four circumstances of evil and the first is pain. What about pain? Well, he says that pain is unnecessary if like all it's trying to get you to do is to not do things that cause pain. Like it teaches you to stay away from things. But so it's kind of like um it's like a punishment correction kind of factor. And he proposes that if we just had pleasure and more pleasure then people would naturally stay away from the things that do not give them that much pleasure or like just slight discomfort. Okay. Yeah. He says uh okay so he says the first circumstance which introduces evil. We can we can discuss the meaning of evil um is that contrivance or economy of the animal creation. Pay attention to language here because this this notion of an economy. Why is he using the word economy? He's spelling it oe. uh but it's it's the word economy. He says the first circumstance which introduces evil is that contrivance or economy of the animal creation by which pains as well as pleasures are employed to excite all creatures to action and make them vigilant in the great work of self-preservation. How about that economy and self-preservation? Why is he referring to economy? David, it kind of reminds me of survival of the fittest almost like Okay. Um it's there's competition and they're always trying to one's always trying to outdo the other. Yeah. Darwin used the word economy in in in New York. So what is an economy? Why do we use a word economy for the situated nature of living beings? First and foremost to be an environment with limited resources. Okay. And so it's um different aspects of the economy making decisions based on those limited resources. Yeah. Yeah. There are limited resources. uh things are trying to stay alive and there's a certain amount of you know as he says uh the great work of self-preservation this is you know suggests economy great work of self-preservation you know there's a context in which things v for self-preservation and this is uh this is uh driven partly ly, he says, or or regulated partly by pain. How else could it be regulated, Jennifer? Like what he argued how? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. By like just not having pleasure. But like in instead of But he was saying that like he was saying that you could just use pleasure instead of pleasure and pain. Yeah. Is that any any opinions on whether that would work? I feel like it's all relative. And if you did it that way, then less pleasure would be equivalent to pain, wouldn't it? Okay. Yeah. All right. Or deprivation of some sort. And pain comes in many forms doesn't it? It comes as you know uh pain is a kind of uh it it can yeah pain is be pretty hard word to define actually it's it ranges all the way from mild discomfort to intense suffering and uh you know across this whole realm of uh experience we see a lot of things. So yeah you could you could make that argument. Yeah Jacob Also, if you lose pain, you lose part of your spectrum, like you're just saying about how it ranges. If you have just positive feedback, you don't know the difference between something that neither hurts nor helps you versus something that does hurt you a lot. Whereas, yeah. Yeah. It it would be an interesting speculation to imagine a world in which uh just degrees of pleasure because maybe maybe in some sense if we just had degrees of pleasure without any pain we wouldn't think of it as pleasure. Maybe the two things are exist in opposition to each other. this this notion of the proportion of pain and pleasure in our lives. You know, it's an interesting question, but certainly the capacity for pain and the capacity for intense pain is there. And uh that's part of what he's arguing is, you know, is that capacity really needed? The deity was really concerned about us. Would, you know, these wars and all these sorts of things be things that we would be the inventors of? Um so he he he designates this the first of the four circumstance of evil. The second one is operation by general laws. What does he mean here? Operation by general laws. How could it be different? Could we have special laws organized for each? Charles would have his own set of laws and Devon would have another set and Clare would have another set and they would all operate Uh so what does he mean by operation by general laws? Why is this something that uh physics? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Basic physics of uh space and motion and things of that sort. Uh they don't you know work according to our individual we don't have our own private little world of laws to live in. Uh I always found this uh kind of an odd argument because I couldn't imagine what uh the alternate would be. But he says, "A being therefore who knows the secret springs of the universe might easily by particular volitions turn all these accidents to the good of mankind and render the whole world happy without discovering himself in any operation. A fleet whose purposes were salutoy to society might always meet with a fair wind. Good princes enjoy sound health and long life. Persons born to power and authority be fame framed with good tempers and virtuous dispositions. Uh goes on. So there seem to be a lot of laws that we have to adapt to. Nature is, you know, as as we were saying before, nature is the realm of natural law, the way in which it operates and our position in nature, you know, we contend with it. It's it's there's a struggle there. Is it just arguing for the consistency of good and evil? Like for example, the the fact that no matter how many times there's an earthquake, the earthquake always seems to be a bad thing. Whereas in the opposite case where one time you have an earthquake and it ruins the town, the next time it causes all the all the caves on the mountain to open up and gold comes or whatever, you know, diamonds come pouring out. Like is that all is that what the argument is about or I'm not quite sure I'm following it? uh he's I think the former that that you know the the way in which we experience catastrophes is always when we somehow find ourselves in the midst of large physical forces. Uh and those physical forces can be described in a variety of ways that we have no control over. And so, you know, like in the great, you know, winds we get caught up in and earthquakes as you say and so forth. Um, and rarely do they turn out to be for the good, but it is it is conceptually possible that they would, you know, uh, earthquake might take place and bring in water to the inland that you could then use for your farms and things of that sort. But uh usually it's the opposite. Mudslides, uh people getting buried, uh people getting caught in hurricanes, uh things of this sort. And the fact that these are all just part of natural law. I they're just things that happen in nature. They're consistent. They're part of the natural world. And so our fit with the natural world is what he's really saying is not that good. Yeah. You know, if we now now we know humans and their history and there were hunter gatherers and there were farms and you know all uh agricultural societies and you know there was a steady growth into the cities and so on and so forth. Uh but through all that history that we know uh the fit of humans with their environment has not been that great and we're experiencing it now. You know, we talk endlessly about climate change and that's going right to his point about natural law because climate is in some sense the natural uh natural existence of our lives. I mean this is what we exist in and as changes we have to scramble to try to figure out how to live within that context. So yeah, we are humans with expectations and consciousness who find themselves kind of in nature someplace and trying to figure out how to adapt to it. So that in in some sense is the human project is to adapt better to nature. I mean, if a deity can simply change everything, has infinite capacity, couldn't a deity just constantly be shifting? Uh, I mean, it's kind of an absurd argument, but but you know, he's it does draw out the fact that we do live in these uh contested uh spaces of existence, if you will. Okay. So, operation by general laws the parsimony of powers and faculties. What's he talking about here? We not only exist in this content contended space, but humans. Yeah. Well, we don't have wings. We don't have fur. We don't have claws. Like we don't have a lot of things that could make us a lot better off in nature, but we do have some things that other animals don't. Yeah. Yeah. We we we have um we certainly have a u a capacity to reason. Uh he says here uh in short nature seems to have formed an exact calculation of the necessities of her creatures. That's a pretty observant statement. Uh and like a rigid master has afforded them little more powers or endowments than what are strictly sufficient to apply those to supply those necessities. An indulgent parent would have bestowed a large stock in order to guard against accidents, secure the happiness and welfare of the creature in the most unfortunate concurrence of circumstances. So this is a famous sculpture called the dying goal. But what do you notice? I mean humans you know aren't that impressive uh when it comes to their you know their physical I mean everything of course I mean they are impressive in many ways obviously and especially in their their their mental capacities and so on and so forth but you know look how frail this figure is and humans have been uh developed with a little more capacity a little more ability to furnish their needs to avoid the pain and suffering or to adapt to the natural powers or whatever. So the existence of general laws and the integration of that with the frail human I mean you can see what's building up here is is a picture of u you know incremental change or incremental uh uh scaled ability. Okay. Now again, I don't want to be ahistorical about this, but Darwin comes into this and you can see where a lot of Darwin's thinking is when he's thinking about organic beings. Everything in Darwin's system of natural existence is in the same situation, humans included. They all have something, but just enough to get into the next generation. So yeah there's a lot of for all its abundance there's tremendous parsimony in in natural existence and finally uh this seems to me close to general laws operation of general laws what uh is what he calls inaccurate workmanship in some sense he's coming back to his you know contradiction of U Cleanthy's great beautiful machine of of the universe. He's saying, you know, this is a great beautiful machine. It's not that beautiful when you look at it more closely. It's got lots and lots of problems. And so u he says the four circumstances which arises uh whence arise the misery and ill of the universe is the inaccurate workmanship of all the springs and principles of the great machine of nature. It must be acknowledged that there are few parts of the universe which seem not to serve some purpose and whose removal would not produce a visible defect or disorder in the whole. the parts all hang together, nor can one be touched uh without affecting the rest in a greater or less degree. But at the same time, it must be observed that none of these parts or principles, however useful, are so accurately adjusted as to keep precisely within those bounds in which their utility consists. And so he goes on u uh thus the winds are requisite to convey the vapors along the surface of the globe and to assist men in navigation. But how often rising up to tempests and hurricanes do they become pernitious? Rains are necessary to nourish all the plants and animals of the earth. But how often are they defective? How often excessive? Heat is requisite to all life and vegetation, but it is not always found in due proportion and so on and so forth. We have lots of complaints. I mean, you know, we can we can always find things to complain about, but um this is uh the fourth of his his accounts or his uh what he calls his uh circumstance of evil. And in this his effort to ultimately uh counter Cleanthy's uh natural theology as being even vaguely valid. So it's uh Okay. So what do you think of the three? Are they I suppose I'm coming out as a Felo uh fan. Uh I always liked Felo personally. Uh he's a skeptic and I don't know there's something about his but I have to say uh Cleanths is is impressive and so is to me in his own way. Uh they all have uh their views of the world. Do you think these views now are pretty much old? you know, are these things that we've moved beyond or do they still exist among people in our contemporary society? And is there a fourth view that I've missed that that Hume has missed? Yeah, I'm a feeler fan, too. I'm definitely still apply. I'll look at different views. just just the fact that like we still are choosing ones who we agree with and the fact that we can't count we I mean if we were involved in a debate with these three philosophers I don't feel as though we would have the answers to counter everything that they were saying or to completely agree. So I think they're definitely still applicable just because we don't have those answers yet. Yeah. I mean, any one of us in this room, if we were sitting in a room with any one of them, would probably lose the argument cuz they're all they're all pretty savvy about what they know. And yet, when you see them together, you think, whoa, they're, you know, they really represent quite a broad spectrum of uh of of views. um you know and and uh so but certainly there are many many people in contemporary culture certainly here and elsewhere in the world who would line up with uh Demia and a pious view of uh the world as the result of the creation. I'm not so sure how many people would line up with Cleanths. uh you know that was a sort of natural theology came out as an expression of the uh of the enlightenment among many of these scientists who still believed very strongly in God but also knew that science was a very powerful approach to experience and so they wanted to somehow find a scientific basis for arguing the existence of God and we have to put Newton in there. We'd have to put Ben Franklin in there. We'd have to put Joseph Priestley and many other people. And probably Charles Darwin at the start of his career. It's pretty close to the way a really intelligent, rational believer would would think. And then finally, Felo. Felo, you know, is just a skeptic. And a lot of people are scared of skepticism. just you know wow he doesn't he thinks the world is you know uh badly designed by infinite deities so there there there's a level of not only skepticism but um you know um I don't know uh there's a level of u um sort of uh atheism if you will and so you know he's he's problematic for a lot of at the end. How does it end? Well, Hempilius uh he uh he votes for Cle he thinks Cleanths has made the best case and they all kind of get back together and say, you know, this is a nice this is a nice discussion. We should have more of these. And uh so you know it was very offered very much by Hume as something that you know he just wanted to put out there as different approaches. And it's it's a in my view an amazing work. It's it's complex and dense but it's an amazing piece of work.