The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, I think we'll make a start. Uh since it's almost 10, can everyone hear me in Singapore? uh wave if you can. No. Oh, yes, you can. Excellent. Right. Um I think that there's a couple of announcements before uh we start. Um I'm going to have office hours tomorrow between 5 and 6 uh in case you have any questions about the current problem set which is due on Thursday at 5:00 p.m. MIT time. And uh we are uh marking the quizzes as fast as we can. So you'll have them back soon. Uh if you have any comments about the quiz uh how you found the questions and so forth, then I'd be delighted to hear them. Uh any questions? Okay. Singapore. No. So uh anyway, today uh I'm going to uh introduce a tool that's going to be very helpful to us as we look to uh have ways of studying a process and understanding exactly how its inputs relate to its outputs. So that by doing that we can eventually model the process, control it better and uh improve its performance. And uh that technique is called the analysis of variance or ANOVA. I want first to quickly review the tools that we've looked at in the in the course so far uh so that we can put ANOVA into perspective and uh we talked for the first couple of lectures about uh a systems view of manufacturing processes. We talked about uh a variety of parameters that were important in determining the outputs. Some of which we have control over, some of which we don't, some of which are actually disturbances or inherent properties of the equipment or the material that we're processing. And uh so we we have this idea that there must be some relationship between the inputs and the outputs. uh but we've actually focused on developing tools that just focus on the output on interpreting the output the geometry uh some other property and uh that's fine that's an important tool um and here here are some of the tools we've looked at uh for statistical testing purposes there are of course the t and the f tests and we looked at control charts which are essentially running hypothesis tests tests that a process is in control. We're testing the hypothesis that the process uh mean or uh variation is uh of a certain value. We looked at cumulative sum charts and we looked at uh moving average charts. Then briefly two lectures ago we looked at kai squared and tsquare charts. So let's look at the properties of those things just to remind ourselves. Um the key thing with the hypothesis tests and with the control charts is that what we're doing is we're interpreting changes in one particular specific output variable. So whether that be diameter or threshold voltage or something all these hypothesis tests are comparing uh sample means sample variances based on one output variable. And with the kai squared of the tep squared charts, uh we introduced the ability to look at two outputs which might have different dimensions uh and which we expect to be somehow interdependent. So uh we're uh allowing ourselves to to interpret two different outputs. Thinking about the number of samples that you can interpret with any one of these given tests. Well, with a T or an F test, you're taking two samples and you're comparing them. So, in the case of a T test, you're asking the question, is there uh evidence that uh there's a a significant difference between uh the means of the underlying distributions of the two samples you've taken? And uh with the F test, we're saying, is there a significant difference between the underlying variances of of two distributions? with a control chart. Well, that's just a running hypothesis test. So, you take many samples and you're constantly uh doing uh doing a hypothesis test to see whether the process is at the place where where you want it to be. Uh so some predetermined operating point that you're content is optimal, I suppose. Um and with with with the kai square and the tsquare charts again the same is true many samples. But when we come to ask well how many inputs were we dealing with with these things we don't necessarily have any idea. We might be told that uh some input to the process was changed here are some samples. Is there evidence that the input has had an effect on the output? uh but sometimes we might just have samples and have no clear understanding of what the relevant inputs were. So there's nothing inherent in these tools that allows us to to get the the relationship between inputs and outputs. And similarly, we don't know, you know, how how many levels or different values any given input to a process might take. How many voltages could we could we set a particular control voltage to? And uh so I've said that they're unknown, but in a sense I' I've put I've put two with a question mark because you might think in in a very clearly defined t test say you might say well an operator varies one input uh and here are some samples did the output change? So in that case you'd have two samples two values for a particular input and that might be the most uh sort of precisely defined type of test you can do. We've also talked about uh yield modeling where we're starting to to to try to get some physical concept of the link between uh the properties of the process, the actual nature of the process and what comes out at the other end in terms of of yield and and process capability. uh where we're uh trying to ask questions about uh how well the process performs based on being centered at a particular output mean. But those tools again uh don't necessarily let us model the process or indeed give us any insight with which to improve it. So we need we need some tools that will start letting us do that especially if we look at some typical data. Now you'll recall this this set of data this was used in problem set two. This is from an injection molding experiment done uh at MIT for the course a couple of years ago. And uh so what we've got here is uh an output which is diameter. We've got one output that we've measured uh but we've got uh two input parameters that we think are relevant. There may be others and in fact there almost certainly are because when uh we look at uh when when we look at the the sample of of parts with a given combination of these input parameters velocity and hold time uh we see that there is substantial variation and that is either due to uh inherent random variation in properties of the materials or some input variable that we haven't fully controlled. But uh we've got two input uh parameters and two values that we happen to have chosen for each of them. Now, we could start to look for significant differences between the means for each setting uh by uh by doing a whole raft of t tests or f tests. But, you know, that would become uh tedious quite quickly, especially if you're starting to look at uh many variables, many settings. So we need a more systematic way of uh of going about this and eventually uh being able to say which of the inputs is is is important in determining the value of the output. Eventually once we have those tools well there are a few aims that we might have and uh first among those is developing a process model. So uh we want to be able to relate inputs and uh disturbances so inputs that we can't control to uh to the outputs and uh we want to know which inputs are relevant which inputs when they vary by a reasonable amount actually have a significant effect on the output that we're interested in uh understanding. Once we've done that, we can think about optimizing the the process target that we might have is to maximize CPK, minimize the cost associated with uh deviation from our target output value. Uh we might have particular models that allow us to uh look at the impact of say a candidate process change to the mean output to the variance of the output. These are all saying essentially the same thing. Uh that if we can model a process, we can control it better. If you had uh perfect understanding of the physics surrounding the process that you had, you could work forward from first principles and you could uh you could think about every physical phenomenon going on in your system and predict what the output would be. But we don't we don't have uh understanding of all the variables that are at play. And uh what this means is that to get control of a process, we we need to work backwards from the physical output. We need to take measurements of what the process is doing and model backwards to understand what the inputs do. Um so when we're doing this kind of empirical modeling uh there are some questions we need to ask ourselves. What are we trying to achieve? Do we want to minimize uh quality loss, maximize CPK? Uh do we just want to reduce the variance for some specific reason? Uh we need to define our system very carefully. What what is the output? Are there multiple outputs? Are there multiple inputs? uh what do we want to vary? What does it cost us least to vary either in exploring the process space or actually uh what does it cost us least to uh least to control in the factory and uh we need to come up with some sort of model some sort of form for the model that we can use. We haven't yet described any particular model. this function fi we've been talking about in previous lectures uh hasn't hasn't been specific to any particular process. What's also important is to is to think about how easy it is to collect data from the process. If you have 20 variables and they can v each vary over a factor of 10, one needs to start thinking about uh how one can simplify the process of doing these experiments and working towards a model especially if there's a lot of measurement uh of the outputs involved a lot of laborious measurement. So going back to that chart of of the tools we have so far, what we're going to do today is uh add add a new one and that is the analysis of variance. Now, the key uh advantage of of this is that we're now starting to be specific about uh looking at the uh the actual inputs that we're interested in and how they impact the outputs. And uh so we might just be interested in uh we might just be interested in studying one input but equally there are ANOVA techniques that will let us study multiple input parameters. Was there a question in Singapore? Yeah I I have AI have a question. Okay. Um what is a kai square chart and why do does it have true outputs? Right. Well, this uh I think we covered in in lecture two two lectures ago certainly the tsquare chart. What that does is if you have uh two output variables that you are maintaining control charts for uh but they are functionally interdependent. You might not know exactly how but you know that there's some relationship between them. uh a part that is out of specification may not uh may not uh trigger an an outofc control alarm on one of those control charts. But if you uh plot both of them together uh and look at the results in conjunction with one another, that allows you to infer more about whether the process is in or out of control. Um so uh it's covered in Montgomery. We we may have a problem set question about it as well to help you develop understanding. Uh anyway I'm sorry I want to focus on ANOVA today. So um anyway, so we have the option of looking at more than one more than one input and taking uh more than one uh input value for each input. And when we have different levels for an input, we're going to refer to those as treatments. So a variable may be treated in one of a number of ways. the outputs. Uh well, we're dealing in this particular case with one particular quantity that we're going to measure and analyze and uh we we're going to have uh two or more uh samples um that we are able to deal with. So this is what we're going to do. We're going to look first for uh the ANOVA technique applied to one input variable and then uh we're going to uh work through an example of that. Then we'll look at uh multi- variable analysis of variance where you have in this in this particular case we're going to look at two input variables and how we uh look at the interactions of those two variables in setting the output. So here we're we're going to start with the single variable ANOVA and uh this is a diagram that shows to you uh what might happen to the uh the output of a process uh which the output being uh being this axis um as we vary one particular input parameter. So we're assuming we have good control over this and we can command that that input parameter to be whatever we choose. In this particular case we're saying well that there there are three possible values we might be interested in uh a blast and cruise. And so these are the three treatments and what we've shown here schematically is the distribution of the output variable under each of those three conditions. We're assuming that the uh the variation in the output for each particular treatment uh is normally distributed but that uh the mean of the output uh is determined directly by the value of this input parameter. So there's a onetoone deterministic relationship between the mean and uh the value of the input. So these TOAO values TOAO one, TOAO two and TOA 3 these are uh these are actually uh determined directly by the populations. But then if we imagine doing experiments under these three conditions uh we're going to take uh we're going to set the input to the value for sample A say and then we're going to take a a number of a number of output parts measure them and those outputs will have they will have a sample mean Y1 uh and there will be uh for each of these uh samples a sample mean we can take all the data together and come up with a grand average for the collected data. Then the the differences between those individual treatment sample means and the grand mean will uh be estimators for the values of of tow uh the effects of the treatments the different treatments that we're doing. So here's what we're doing. We're uh considering multiple settings for some variable of interest. And uh there are these real uh effects uh deltas between uh the the output the output mean uh for different conditions and uh we've we've observed these samples. So the the question is based on based on these observations uh we want to be able to uh see whether the observed differences in sample means are real. Uh so we're going to do some kind of hypothesis test that says uh the null hypothesis is going to be changing the input variable doesn't make a blind of difference to the output mean. And uh the alternate hypothesis is there is a significant difference which later we want to model somehow probably what's important uh in ANOVA is this assumption that the variance of the output for each uh for each treatment is equivalent and here we've written it as sigma subzero squared. So the width of each of those uh those subpopuls is uh has to be assumed to be to be equal and that that when one's doing an over that's something that one needs to check and we'll we'll talk about that a little later. Now I'm going to uh describe uh the underlying assumption that allows uh the analysis of variance to be done in this way. And uh this underlying assumption is that you can uh model the uh the value of uh sample part as the sum of three quantities. First quantity is the the process mean uh around which uh the output means of all the possible treatments center. Second is uh the the effect of the treatment. So that's how far is the output mean offset when you have this particular treatment tow taking place or there's a certain voltage setting on the input or whatever. And the third is this uh this residual term which we write with with epsilon and that is describing the the random variation in the output beyond the the systematic effect of the treatment. Sometimes we take this mu and the tao subt together we write it as as a mu subt that's the output mean for a particular treatment. So at the bottom of this graph, I've uh I've just sketched that out to show what I mean. uh here is the sort of the the process overall process mean uh here is the output mean for a particular treatment and say if we take this uh this particular sample for example then there's a residual there's a difference between the treatment mean and the actual value of that sample uh which is uh epsilon subti sorry that squared shouldn't be there so uh the sum of these three quantities uh is is thought of as giving us the the output uh the output quantity. Now I'm going to describe the uh the three steps that one is going to go through to test this hypothesis that changing the value of the input has no effect on the the the treatment means. And uh the first step is to uh come up with an estimate of the uh the underlying population variance that involves looking at each uh treatment sample in turn. So looking at this sample then this sample and looking at the uh sample variance individually for each sample and then uh taking a pulled estimate of the uh the random component of of variation based on all those sample variances. That's the first step. Second step is to uh try to look at uh the between group variation and that means uh looking at the sample means which I've denoted with these uh these horizontal lines here and uh looking looking at the variance of those and making an inference from that about how much variation there is in the output as we change uh the input setting. Once we've got those two estimates within group variation between group variation we want to compare those uh those estimates and uh infer from that whether uh there is a difference between the the the the different treatments. If there is a difference then we're going to expect the second estimate that we make to be larger than the first estimate. And just by looking at this uh this schematic in the top right of of the view graph, uh you you can perhaps see intuitively how that might be the the var the variance associated with um uh the uh the between group uh changes is is going to be larger if there's a significant impact of the input on the output. Um but if not then those two variances estimates should be equal. There's no effect uh had by the input. I'm going to go through each of those steps in turn and go through the mechanics of how uh we're going to do that. I've already said that we're assuming uh that uh the the output for each group and by group I mean uh the the the parts sampled for a given treatment. So for a given setting of the input variable, we're saying that that that variation has is described by a variance of sigma n squared and it's the same for each group which may be true or may not be uh in which case we need to go back and think again. So the second bullet point here is uh is is giving us the sum of the square deviations for the teeth uh teeth group and uh so this is just saying we have uh we have a sampled value for the output y subti we've taken uh a mean for the group y bar subt which is here and uh we're summing the squares of the deviations between these values and the sample mean. Once we've done that, it's a simple step to go to the the group variance. Uh so this is an unbiased estimate of the of the group variance the sum of the squares divided by the uh the number of degrees of freedom in uh in that treatment. So that's the number of uh the number of parts sampled minus one and the minus one is because well the the the value of the mean y bar subt is dependent on all the individual y subtis. So uh that there's one less degree of freedom than there are data points. Once we've got each of those group variances based on the data, we're going to take a a pulled estimate of the common within group variance. So inherent in this again is the assumption that the v the variance uh could be modeled as being equal for each group. And uh actually well there that should be a up to um but what we're doing this is effectively taking a weighted average based on the number of data points that we have for each uh for each group. So we might take more samples for a particular treatment uh but we can deal with that uh by uh using the correct number of degrees of freedom for each treatment. And what we get out of that is this poolled estimate of common variance uh s subr squ. So that was the within group variance and now we're going to talk about uh the between group variance. As I said, we're testing the hypothesis that varying the input uh does not uh cause the uh the output mean to vary. If that were true, then uh what what I've sketched on the bottom left here would be the case. You would have, you know, three populations that looked absolutely identical and uh it wouldn't matter what value you chose for the input, you get the same output. However, when you sample, we know that of course because there's random variation in the output, the sample mean will not always be the same and that will vary. That will sample mean will itself be normally distributed with a variance of uh sigma squar over n where n is the number of samples in uh in the number of data points in the sample. So this is looking a little bit on on the bottom right a little bit like a control chart where the the y- axis is uh the could be thought of as um as as uh being linked to uh sigma squared uh divided by the sample size. And uh so what this all means is that if the uh if the hypothesis was true, inputs don't affect the output mean uh then we could form a second estimate of the uh uh the within group variation uh by looking at it this way where we're taking uh the treatment mean which are these values here. We're subtracting uh the grand mean of all the data from each treatment mean in turn. We're taking the square of those deviations. And this n subt here is accounting for the fact that because of the central limit theorem uh the variance of the sample mean is inversely proportional to the sample size and uh k is the number of different treatments. So in this case k is three. So we're making this estimate s subt^2 which in the case I've sketched here we would expect to be equal to s subr 2. However, uh and uh if that isn't the case, if there is a significant relationship between the input and the output, uh then s subt^ 2 will be larger than s subr squ. And uh that's the the quantity by which it's larger. This sum here and this value to subt is the is the real difference the actual systematic change in treatment uh output mean that occurs when we vary the input. So we're causing an an inflation in the value of S subt^ squ based on the uh the fact that changing the input changes the output mean. So we've got these two estimates uh the within group variation and the the between group variation. we want to look at them and compare them and say uh is there is there a significant impact on the output when we go through these different treatments. So we're comparing two variances and uh that means that what we're interested in doing is an F test. So we're asking ourselves how big is the chance that if the null hypothesis were true, we would observe these two variances. We're going to make the test statistic the ratio s subt ^ 2 / s subr 2. So that's going to usually be value greater than one. And uh we reject the null hypothesis if that value is significantly greater than one it's worth remembering here. Go ahead. Yeah. Right. Well, we're going to do an F test at a chosen level of significance to work that out. And that's exactly what this slide says. So, good question. um we have this f F statistic and uh we're now going to interpret that. We're going to pick a particular significance level which we want to say is it at the 5% level is it significant that there's a a relationship between the the treatment that's chosen and the output mean. It's important to remember that this is a a one-sided F test that we're interested in doing. uh the possibility we're considering is that sigma subt is greater than sigma subr 2. The the case where the real value of uh the between group variance is less than the real value of the within group variance is not something that has a physical meaning. So, it's a one-sided F test uh where the statistic we're expecting to be bigger than one, much bigger than one. And uh here are the uh the degrees of freedom that we need to use uh for that evaluation. And that's uh based on what we've learned so far, fairly straightforward test to do. uh we can also make this this additional estimate which is the sum based on the sum of the squared deviations from the grand mean among all samples and that can be useful in a number of ways although it's not central to uh evaluating this fstistic and testing the hypothesis that we've described. This slide is pretty important. So this shows you uh how one usually would lay out an ANOVA analysis and uh we would we would put real quantities in the spaces shown by expressions here. We'd evaluate the sum of squares between treatments and within treatments and uh we'd figure out what the number of degrees of freedom was. We'd look at the uh the estimates of our variances. We take their ratio and we would then use uh f tables to uh find the probability that by chance that uh value of f sub0 uh was observed if the null hypothesis uh of zero treatment effect were true. And uh it's worth remembering this word residual. So I I before when I highlighted that quantity epsilon which is the variation associated with with randomness the thing that we're not trying to model in looking at looking at these different treatments uh that is uh accounted for by this sum of squares within treatments. What I'm going to do now is work through a very simple example to show how this single variable ANOVA can be done and uh it'll hopefully give you a feel for uh for the steps that have to be gone through. This sort of thing is automated in a number of programs. There are macros available in Excel to do it. But it's worth uh knowing exactly what the steps are so that uh so so that you understand what's going on. What we've got here are uh three samples for each of three treatments of a particular variable. So this is the output that we've measured and some arbitrary quantity and uh here are the treatments. So uh for each particular treatment we have three samples. We eval evaluate a sample mean. Here it's 11. Here it's eight. And uh we take the grand average of all samples. And uh we know that as well. We can also evaluate the sum of squared deviations of the sample values from the sample mean. And in this case, sum of squares for treatment one uh is the square of that difference plus the square of that difference plus uh zero because that particular sample lies on the mean. We do that for each particular treatment and evaluate these sums of squares. We know that there are two degrees of freedom for each particular sample. So we can go straight to estimates of the within group variances uh for each for each group or treatment and based on that we can evaluate that pulled estimate of within group variance which is the thing that's meant to be excluding uh the effect of the treatments. Now what we're going to do is uh make the second estimate the the uh the between group variance estimate. And here uh what we're doing is uh looking purely at we're interested purely in the uh sample means that we've evaluated. Take this value, this value and this value. That sample mean is 11. The grand average for all samples is 10. We're looking at that difference and we're squaring that deviation here and then we're scaling it by the number of the number of samples for that particular treatment which is three. Three samples. And that's again uh dealing with the fact that the uh the standard deviation of a sample mean is inversely proportional to the number of data points in the sample. So we do we do this for each treatment t= 1 2 and three and we evaluate uh our estimate of the between group variance. So this this estimate in a sense is uh trying to uh look uh well folded into that estimate will be the effect of the random variation within the group and the effect of changing the treatment. We have these two estimates sigma subr 2 sigma subt. Now, we're going to do the F test to see whether there's a significant uh evidence that changing the input changes the output. Here's how we might lay it out in Excel. We've evaluated the sums of squares between groups within squares within groups, sorry. Uh we've got the degrees of freedom here. The mean squared value is just taken from over here. And uh the f statistic is just uh the between group estimate divided by the within group estimate. So four and a half. Then we can go to the tables and say you know the 5% level what's the critical value of f uh turns out to be 5.14. So in this case we would the 5% level uh reject accept accept the null hypothesis that there was no uh significant effective inputs on outputs. Um is the ratio always larger than one or can it be smaller? There's a chance that it will be smaller than one. There's even even if the the actual output means were unaffected by the by the input. Uh but again that would be so if this is this is the value of f and this is the pdf I forget it's this would be what the f distribution looks like. So there are there are values of f that are less than one down here. But uh the 5% level you would only reject the hypothesis that uh and and so frit here is 5.14 the 5% level. You would reject the hypothesis that uh there was no significant impact of inputs on outputs. if you this particular variable input obviously if uh if the if the value of f were were greater than that so yeah there's a there's a small chance that f will be less less than one um I think that's right is that right yeah certainly if the observed f tell you that treatments are not having an effect. Your treatment deltas are so small that you got lucky sample with zero treatment effects in that case. So if you observe actually observe an F less than one exactly as Hayden said you would reject the alternative hypothesis just have to say yeah. Okay. Well, that uh is the whole example. That's what you would do if you had nine data points and you could all write it down on on one bit of paper. Uh obviously uh not everything is that uh uh simple. Yeah. Yeah. Can I go back to previous slide? So the p value means if the alpha is larger than 0064 you will reject null hypothesis right? Yeah the p value is the the level of significance at which you would just reject the null hypothesis. So that's that's the level of significance for which f is equal to frit and in this case it's 6.4%. So if the level of significance is 5% uh that's a more stringent uh places a more stringent requirement to reject the null hypothesis than uh than 6.4%. So you keep the null hypothesis at the 5% level. So in fact this is a good example where if I ask you just directly the question did the treatment have an effect your answer is dependent on what level of confidence you want to believe that the evidence tells you there was an effect. If I asked you I want to be 95% confident there was an effect. Your answer would be I don't have enough evidence. No there's no effect. If I asked you instead, 90% confident that there's an effect, your answer is yes, there is an effect to 90% confidence. So, you're right at that interesting point with that 6.4. What is it? Yes, 6.4. 6.4%. And if you just look at the scatter of the data, it's kind of fuzzy. You don't have a lot of data. have three data points in the example. So that whole idea of confidence there we talked way back about early in the term very important. Okay. Any more questions from anyone? Right. Well, we uh we mentioned at the start that uh in inherent in doing this analysis is the assumption that the within group variance is the same for every group. And uh this actually should be a a sigma not a three quarters. Um it's important to check that to make sure that the uh the ANOVA is is valid. And there are ways of looking at the problem differently if if you can't really make that assumption. But what we also want to do is uh try to uh try to make sure that the analysis we're doing really does uh capture uh as much as possible of the treatment effect and there are various ways of doing that. We can take the residuals in other words the difference between the sample value and the sample mean. We can plot those residuals uh either against the time order in which the samples were taken. Uh we could look at the distribution of those residuals do a norm QQ norm plot or some other kind of plot and uh we can we can make checks that this underlying assumption is uh is reasonable. So that's all I'm going to say about this. But uh I think um it's uh it's an important thing to to bear in mind. So ANOVA for one variable uh though it takes uh takes quite a lot of effort to get it conceptually uh the actual mechanics of doing it are fairly straightforward. It's not always the case that there's only one input variable that we're interested in in changing. Uh we might of course want to do it with two or more input variables. Uh there are good reasons why we'd be interested in uh exploiting a number of inputs to achieve the output we want. If we have uh if we have several variables we can control. We can do things like controlling the output mean and the output variance uh to be what we want them to be. Uh or we can uh control the output uh to improve CPK while at the same time reducing sensitivity to some other disturbance. And that is uh that is why we need to be able to uh to do analysis of variance for uh multiple inputs. One way of modeling the effect of these multiple inputs would be to have this simple additive model uh where we're saying that the uh the output uh value is the sum of four quantities. uh process mean as we mentioned before then two separate treatment effects to subt as we described uh for the one variable case and then an equivalent value for another input beta subq and uh there in this case we would say that there were there were k possible treatments for the first the first variable and n possible treatments for the second. So you could have any one of the treatments for the first variable and any one of the treatments for the second variable in combination. The fourth quantity is is again this residual this random variation that's not something we're trying to account for uh with these two uh with these two input variables. And uh again this is this is what we call a fixed effects model. So we're saying that there's a deterministic relationship between the input values and the value of uh of toao subt and beta subq. There are cases in which there's a there's a probabilistic relationship between the input and those treatment effects. There are ways of dealing with that uh that we won't describe here. The model that is up on the board now is uh is pretty simple. it assumes that the effects of these two inputs are additive. There are plenty of cases, plenty of processes where that simply isn't realistic and uh there's some synergism between the two inputs. An example that I can think of that's been relevant in my research is in modeling the etching rates in a in a silicon plasma etching chamber where there are uh I guess you could you could think of it as there be there being two really important input quantities which are the flux of of ions of reactant uh onto the surface of the wafer. the flux of uh uncharged florine radicals which are the the chemical species that are responsible for chemical etching of the silicon. So you have these two fluxes approaching the surface of the wafer. And it's not just the case that the rate of removal of silicon is proportional to some weighted sum of those two fluxes. You can't really have etching unless you have a substantial flux of both ions and these florine neutrals. So that the ions provide the energy for the reaction to occur. And that uh means that that the model I just described wouldn't wouldn't get us very far. We need to be able to deal with an interaction between those two those two inputs. This is uh how we can represent it. We can add in a fifth term which uh is specific to the combination of treatments uh t and q. Let's look at how we might incorporate that into uh anova. Here we uh look at the uh the within group variance for a particular uh for a partic for for particular input variable. Uh so this is for the the first input variable uh the treatments toao and that then we have the equivalent expression for uh what happens with the with the second variable. Then we have this this interaction term uh which is an estimate of the variance that's to do with uh that can't be explained by this additive idea and finally the residuals. So taking the the actual value of the uh of the outputs uh minus the grand mean squaring those residuals. And uh what this leads us to is uh a two-way ANOVA table where we can evaluate three F statistics and apply three F tests to look for significant uh relationships between uh factor one and the output, factor two and the output and uh for a significant amount of interaction between those two factors in setting the output. Karina, you had a question. Yeah. Yeah. Um, this is this sorry, this is between groups, isn't it? Oh right. Yes. Karina was asking are these are these estimates uh within group estimates or between group uh estimates and uh yes absolutely you're right. These are actually between between group estimates. So we're taking uh taking a sample mean and looking at its deviation from the grand mean for all data and we're making an estimate based on that of the the between group mean. So this is this is folding into it some of the uh the effect of varying the input question in Singapore. Yes. Uh for SI square shouldn't it be yt ytq minus yt minus yq + y instead of minus y? Um according to a slide you show just before this slide. Did I show? Oh yeah. Okay. Yes, I'm sorry. That's that's a mistake. Yeah, you're quite right. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Anyway, we have these estimates of the the between between group variances and the the interaction uh variance and uh we have these three F statistics that we can uh use separately to test separate null hypotheses that there's no impact of factor one on the output, no input of factor two on the output and uh get test the hypothesis that there's no uh importance in any interaction between those factors. So now I I want to uh give an example of where this uh this analysis could be could be relevant and useful. Now we often think about uh the relationship between inputs and outputs being uh described where we're we're varying some input over time and the the output is changing over time. The output mean could be shifting over time. So we have a machine and we're trying different settings for it. But in fact uh a lot of cases in uh semiconductor uh process control we're interested in spatial variations. And uh you can think of uh the case I'm going to show you. This is for uh a metal etching process where we're uh some work that uh we've started with uh with one of our collaborators. The idea is that we want to be able to model and we're etching a metal layer to form interconnect wires to be able to model how uniformly uh that etches across a wafer depending on how densely the features are packed uh what their individual sizes are and where they're situated on the wafer. One problem that you can encounter when processing these metal layers is that the uh the metal when you're you're masking a a blanket layer of the metal with photoresist and then applying a plasma to the to the wafer to etch the exposed metal away. But as that process happens, you can uh you can get sideways etching of the metal and uh imagine you have uh you have a photoresist layer. This is a cross-section I'm sketching here. And uh you're etching a trench into the metal down to some insulating layer. etchants have to enter this gap. Depending on the size of the gap, that transport process will will vary. It will be harder in narrower gaps than in wider gaps for the reactant to get in, for the products to get out. But also, there's going to be some some lateral etching of the metal. And the rate at which that lateral etching happens will depend on uh the the availability of reactants in the region of that feature which might vary across the wafer. If there is this lateral etching, if it varies, then it's going to affect the final width of the wire, its final resistance, and therefore uh the speed at which an individual uh capacitor parasitic or otherwise in the circuit will charge. So you might find that if you can't reduce variation in this lateral etching process, the uh the the the circuit properties of the devices produced will vary substantially across the wafer. So there there are several things that can affect the availability of reactants at a given feature. Firstly, there is the position in the chamber and uh what I've sketched in the top left is a plan view of uh of a wafer. This is say maybe one of several wafers sitting in a in a large uh plasma plasma etching chamber. The gases flow through this chamber with some uh some path some velocity distribution. uh the design of the chamber will have an impact on the density of reactants uh and how it varies across the wafer. So you might find that there there's greater availability of reactants at the center of the wafer. That's because there's an inlet above the center. And uh so that's one thing that can affect the the amount of lateral metal etching. Then you have the uh the actual geometry of the pattern that is being etched. If you're trying to etch a large amount of metal in a given region of the wafer that will act as a as a sink for reactants, there'll be a lot of competition for these reactants. The concentration locally the surface is likely to be to be depressed and that's going to reduce the lateral etching rate for any individual feature. So we have this what we're going to call pattern density effect density of exposed metal for etching. Finally the thing that that can affect uh the availability of reactants for this lateral etching is the size of the feature. As I mentioned narrower features uh provide a greater impediment to to the transport of reactants to to the to the sidewall of the feature. So in a way you could think of these uh of these phenomena as being being input variables. What some of them you can control. You could you could if you wanted to you could place constraints on what kind of density of features were available, what the smallest feature available was to the designer these chips. uh and to an extent you can control the the tool related variation. You can uh choose a process that will give a more uniform distribution of gases in the chamber. You could redesign the chamber uh and and some of that variation you don't have an easy way to control some some of that you you don't have complete control over all the inputs. What I'm saying is that this is a case where you have multiple geometrical input variations where you're trying to manufacture many identical chips. Each square in this graph is uh is one chip and they're they're all supposed to be identical to one another. But because of the effects I described uh that they will they will not in fact be identical. So you can think of this as being uh a wafer as being many interdependent samples uh of the output of a process uh where the uh the input is varying uh in in an in some cases an uncontrolled way in some cases a way you can control. So this would be a really meaty problem for uh multivariate ANOVA to deal with. What we've got uh within each within each chip, this is actually a test chip that was designed to do some experiments and build a model. So it's not actually a product, but within each chip uh what we have is many copies of actually the same sorts of features. In fact, what they are is is just snake snakeshaped wires which have a total length uh that that amplifies any resistance variations caused by the lateral etching. You can go into the chip and you can probe the resistance of these wires. As the lateral etching gets faster, uh the resistance gets higher because the wires are narrower. So you have many of these snake features within each of these individual squares. And what we do is we surround surrounded those those same features by a different amount of padding metal uh which is not electrically connected to these snakes but is sitting right next to the snake structures so that they're perturbing uh the uh the transport of of etchent gas. So in areas where there's a larger amount of metal exposed for etching, there's going to be greater competition for reactants locally and there's going to be a lower a lower etch rate including a lower lateral etch rate. It's not necessarily true of course that uh that pattern density effects are confined to one of these squares. You may find that the length the lengths over which uh competition for reactants occur uh are larger than the diameter of one of these these patches. And uh that is something that would need to be modeled and dealt with uh in understanding in understanding the process. So I'm not I'm not going to go through the analysis of variance for this problem. I just wanted to highlight the fact that uh that there are these uh these complicated uh sets of geometrical input uh input variables that that we want to try to understand often in semiconductor manufacturing processes. And uh very often we want to just go beyond finding a functional relationship between some geometrical property and the performance of the product. We want to uh build a physical model that will that will work as far back as the uh the settings on the machine, the flow rates of gases, the amount of electrical power that's going into generating the the plasma in the chamber to try to to work back with enough detail that we can start to uh decide what good input variable values would be. I'm just going to show you a little bit of little bit of data from from one of these test wafers. Can see that we've identified a clear relationship between uh between the pattern density, the amount of padding metal wi within one of those uh those sets of features and the average resistance of one of one of the snakes. There are several hundred snakes within the within that uh uh within each within each given patch of features. And what we've done here is just average the resistance of all of them uh to give a quick estimate of the the effect of local pattern density and input variable on uh on one important output. So we can see that the patent density has a has an effect that we could think of inventing a functional model for but what we also have is the the wafer scale non-uniformity. This is to do with the the way gases flow around the chamber approach the wafer transported across the wafer. And this this graph shows you uh a subset of the data we have down in the bottom left is a diagram of the wafer. And what we've done on this graph is plotted the resistance of a of a particular of a particular uh test feature, a resistive snake uh uh within uh within each within each chip on the wafer as a function of location. We slice up the wafer uh and the x-axis corresponds to uh each slice of the wafer being uh concatenated. The first slice is here, second slice is here and so forth. What we see is that uh the resistances that result tend to be larger in the center of the wafer. Here's here's a central part of the wafer and here's here's an edge. Um, so that relationship is clear. But then if we look within each chip, if we look at the features that are near this 5% local metal density, then we see we see this amount of variation. And if we look in the region where there's a much higher uh amount of metal density, therefore less of the metal is being etched away. We see that the uh the resistance is higher. And uh I'm sorry, by pattern density, we mean that the the proportion of the chip that is open for etching. And uh we see that the resistance is higher because there's more uh uh there's more lateral etching. And uh but what this gives us an indication of is that there is there must be an interaction because the size of the wafer scale non-uniformity depends on the local pattern density. It's not as if we're taking the 5% variation pattern and we're shifting it up when we uh when we change to 85% pattern density. Uh there is a change in the in the shape uh of the location dependence as we change the local pattern density. And that is uh an example of one of those interaction effects that we would need to capture. So either through some multiplicative uh model or something more more physically based. Anyway, that is uh the end of today's lecture. Next time we're going to use these uh these techniques and over uh as the basis for uh starting to build real models where we're actually fleshing out the functional relationship between inputs and outputs and designing uh experiments that will give us that information as efficiently as possible. Uh okay. Are there any questions from either side? Hello. Yeah, I have one question. As for the monova, you have like three uh parameters K, N, and M, right? So, does M always equal to N multiply by K? Actually, yeah, m in that case was the number of samples uh per combination of treatments. So actually in manover the quantity that I termed m is a bit like n in the single variable an over. I know that's confusing. Uh but here m m is the the number of replicates for a given combination of input variables t and q. Does that make sense? So we we have a combination of inputs T and Q. We keep them constant. We sample a few a few parts for that combination of inputs and there are m of those parts. Okay. Thanks. Anyone else? Okay. Well, thank you. Uh the problem set is due on Thursday. Uh let me know if you have any questions about it. I'm sure you will. Oh, hello. Can I check one thing with you? Sure. For the quiz, I'm not sure which question. I think probably the last section of problem one, I think I needed a if table with alpha equal to 0.025, but we were not provided with that. Yes, I'm not sure whether I'm wrong or about 10 people asked me. They said about that. Well, you know, I I actually I actually think that a one-sided F test would have been appropriate in that case. Uh in which case the the uh the table the the 05 table would have been appropriate to do a one-sided 5% deaf test. It was also possible to answer that question by looking at the confidence intervals from part B and seeing whether they over overlapped. And I think they didn't overlap, did they? So they didn't overlap. So we said there was a significant difference. But anyway, we'll publish solutions. Thanks. Anyone else? No. Good. Um, one question. Yeah. I'm sorry. It's okay. Um, for the MANOVA um there are Okay. For ANOV there's a term uh that is the zero mean normal uh residual and for manover there's a same term but this u in the second line the term disappeared. So do you know what I'm talking about? Um previous slide on the previous this slide this slide no previous previous slide two slides ago. Oh yeah, this one. This one. Um the term disappear or something like that. The the last term on the Yeah. Oh, you mean you mean the term there's a term uh there's a term here, but there isn't a term here. Is that what you mean? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, the second line is uh an estimate of uh of the value of the output for the combination of inputs t and q. And what an estimate is not trying to make any predictions about what what a residual will be. It's really dealing just with uh means for a given treatment. And it it's saying, you know, if if say you set your machine to input one having value T, input two having value Q, you know, what's your best estimate of what the output will be. And that that that estimate has to be the the mean output. There's no point making it anything other than the mean. And so so the residual that epsilon term is is present in real data because there's random variation in the output around the the expected mean. Another way to say that is your best estimate of epsilon. Yeah. So you could put you could put a plus zero there. That's your best guess. Okay. Did you hear that in Singapore? Yeah. Good. Good. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. See you next time.