What we're going to do is work through several case studies. Um so you'll see it sort of get more and more applied. Um I'll start with doing a little more of alloy theory and cluster expansions which sort of u is really a follow up on the Monte Carlo work we did and you'll see how that fits in with course grading. So essentially the part we didn't get to uh when I finished. Um and then I'll do a variety of things on Tuesday. Uh one of them is kind of neat is accelerated molecular dynamics techniques which is sort of a specialty topic but gives you an idea of um where people kind of you know are push trying to push the boundaries. Um and then on Thursday we'll actually have a guest lecture. We'll have Chris Wolverton from Ford Motor Company lecture. Um it's kind of cool. He actually lectures from Ford. So you're going to have see him projected on the screen. He does it every year and people usually find that a really good lecture. He he essentially talks about how they use um modeling in general, but in particular first principles methodology uh at Ford Motor Company sort of um he has a few really cool stories. Um he he won't tell you how much money they saved the company, but it's actually in the tens of millions of dollars. So that's why they're still there. U he won't tell you that, but I can tell you that before he talks. So that's on Thursday and then we go into the last week and I think we have only one more lecture left there. So um so one of the things I wanted to do today is be a little more systematic about some of the models we've introduced like for your lab you know we introduced this lattice model for example hydrogen absorption on palladium and several people had questions you know how do you know that this is a good model um those lattice models are actually um occur all the time in uh solid state structure equilibration thermodynamics um and I'll sort of go through them a little more systematic today and then in the end towards the end prove you that they actually are a very accurate representation uh of the thermodynamics of real systems. Um so let me sort of um show you again where they will tend to show up. Um you know I introduced the lattice model to you simply as a magnetic spin model. That's how we started. You know you model a magnet and you have up and down spins. Um but as soon as you realize that those spins are really just general occupation variables sort of they tell you a b the result of a binary outcome you know uh you can also use them to represent a whole lot of other things. uh for example if you look at super structures in the copper gold system uh copper is FCC gold is FCC all the structures in between are on FCC latice. So if you really want to know how they look, you really the question is how do you distribute copper and gold on an FCC latice? So really all you need to know is on every lattice site is there a copper there or is there a gold? So again that's a binary outcome. So you can represent that with spin variables. So essentially the energetics and thermodynamics of this will be represented by a spin model also by a lapis model. Um it doesn't necessarily have to be you know atoms. It can be atoms and vacancies. This is an example I'll come back to later. This is lithium cobalt oxide. Um the the purple things up there are lithium. Uh red is oxygen and the green is cobalt. Um when you can actually extract lithium from these materials and so start removing some of the lithiums. And so essentially what you have then is a distribution problem of lithiums and vacancies on a given set of sides. In this case, those planes that you're looking head on are actually triangular or latas. Okay? And I'll come back to that as well. So here the the spin variable would indicate whether a side is occupied by a lithium or not. Um uh you can do surfaces. That's you know latis models are classics for surfaces. Here's a typical 111 surface with stuff absorbed on it. So if you look at a an FCC metal like platinum and you look on the 11 one you look at the 111 surface um the absorption sites of the same symmetry for example the hollows which I've kind of indicated here um so the hollows are form a triangular latice okay and so if you look at absorption again all you need to know is is there something added at at the absorption site or not so again you would use a binary variable Um, so what I first want to show you is that a an an easing like model or an a latis Hamiltonian as you've seen before is actually a very natural way of writing the energy and actually I extend that later to any property of configuration. Um, so I'm going to do that a little more formally than we've done before. Um essentially if you want to study all these models that are lattice models you need some Hamiltonian for them. And so I'm going to use this sigma between square uh between these squiggly brackets as an a variable to indicate the configuration on the whole lattice. So the variable sigma is essentially a combination of sigma 1 sigma 2 sigma 3. So you can think of as a vector in the configurational space of all the occupation variables. So what you need is a practical way of writing that um configurational Hamiltonian. Um and the way you make you know write out almost any practical Hamiltonian or any practical energy function that you want as accurate as possible is that you write it as some expansion in a suitable basis set of functions. Okay? You know think of how you explain uh wave functions in plain waves. how you sometimes expand it in signs or cosiness. Um the typical basis that's used here is what's called cluster functions. Um a cluster function which I'm going to label by fi alpha is essentially the spin product of all the sides of that cluster alpha. So if I make a pair cluster let's say this one you know I and J the cluster function fi alpha then is sigma i time sigma j but you know I can make um many other ones I could make sort of a fourbody one they don't even have to be connected and so for the red phi alpha would be you know let's call it i j k l would be sigma i sigma A sigma K sigma L. Okay. I think the computer gets like more tired as well as we proceed. Okay. Um the first thing so when you expand in a in a basis you want to make sure that the basis is complete to describe your full space. Uh and then sometimes it's useful that your basis is that your basis set is orthogonal that that's not necessary but it can be practical. Um it's easy to see here that it's complete. I mean if you have n lattice sites what's the size of the space you know what's the the size of the configurational space well it's two to the end you know on each lice point you can put two things essentially so the number of combinations is two to the n well how many basis functions are there? Well, if you think of what's what's a choice of basis function, it's essentially picking a combination of sides. So that's also two to the end. There are two to the n combinations of sides because it's also a binary problem. For every side, you include it or you don't include it in the basis function. So there are two to the n basis functions. Um I'm going to show you in a second that they're orthogonal. So they're the the basis that is complete in a very trivial sense. There are as many basis functions as states. Okay, so you may ask yourself, what have you won? We're actually going to expand things in this basis set, but there's as many basis functions and state. Well, the hope is that we can formulate these basis functions so that whatever quantity we expand is more rapidly convergent. Um so let me prove you that the basis is set is orthogonal if you take a suitable scalar product. um the way I'm going to define the scalar product between say any two functions of conf configuration which I'll call f sigma and g sigma okay I'm going to define the scalar product simply as the sum over the configuration space properly normalized okay so you know this is equivalent to if you're working in a continuous space you know you defining your u scalar product as the integral of the product of the two functions over the configuration space you might be more familiar because we have a discrete configuration space that integrals essentially a sum over all the possible configurations. Um let me prove you that the functions are orthogonal. Um first you can note that for any basis function if you sum its value over the space it gives you zero and you can easily see that you know you you'll um let's say that function will look something like sigma i sigma j sigma k maybe with more terms essentially these terms will alternate as having plus and minus one and so they will sum to one um using that you can easily prove that the functions are orthogonal. So um if you dot the two basis functions into each other. So you're essentially summing their product. Okay. So let's say we have a cluster alpha and a cluster beta. You know maybe this is the cluster alpha and u maybe this is the cluster beta. Okay. So they have a partial overlap. So you can write the product of alpha and beta then as first as the product of the spins that are in both alpha and beta and for those of you get sigma i squared and then the spins that are only in alpha and the spins that are only in beta. Of course sigma i squar is always one. Okay, because sigma is plus or minus one your occupation variable in a spin model. So essentially this goes away. Okay. And this is simply a function. You could write this as the basis function of um alpha + beta minus alpha intersection beta. Okay, you're essentially here multiplying all the spins that are only in alpha or only in beta. Okay, but not in both. So that's trivially zero. So the only time that this product is not zero is when this part doesn't exist. That means when all the spins are in both alpha and beta. Okay. So this product is equal to the chronicer delta. It's actually not this product. I'm sorry. It's this product uh sum overall configuration. So I should correct this. It's 1 / 2 to the n some sigma and then that should go in front of here. So the basis set is orthogonal. Okay. So we have a very practical expansion. Now we have a complete and orthogonal expansion. So one of the first things we're going to do is um expand the energy in this basis set because the energy is a quantity we'll need in things like Monte Carlo simulation but you should right away see that this is much more powerful. Huh? You can expand any property of configuration in this basis set. uh they will have you know may have different rates of conversions but essentially this is a basis in set in which you can expand anything that depends on how you arrange the atoms on a lattice. So people have done things like expand the band gap of materials. Okay. And if if that converges fast, you have a model that you can rapidly search them. Uh you know people have expanded things like the vibrational entropy in it. Um you know people have expanded things like um even tried to expand things like conductivity and so which goes not as well but essentially anything that becomes a property of the arrangement of atoms on that latis. So in that substitutional space can be expanded. Um for now I'm going to stick to the energy. So if we expand the energy as a function of configuration. So we get an expansion over all the possible clusters alpha the basis function and then the expansion coefficient which we'll call V alpha. And it's of course the expansion coefficient that's going to contain all the energetic information. Um and I'll show you in a second how it's defined. Uh but first I want to write out what this um cluster expansion as it's called looks like. I mean if you if you pull out what these cluster functions are you'll essentially get something that looks like this. Um you know they'll be an empty cluster function. So that's this term. Uh when alpha is just a point you'll have this term. So this is almost like point sight energies or chemical potential like if alphas are pairs you'll get the standard pair term that we see in latis models but you know this keeps on going huh you'll have triplet terms quadruplet terms and so on. So essentially the cluster expansion is the same as what's called a generalized icing model or easing model. Okay. So where you you you go away from relying only on on two body terms to sort of higher body terms as well. And and and what it essentially is is a generalization of that approach. Um I'm sorry I'm going back and forth. I'm interchanging and using E and H. H for the Hamiltonian, E for the energy. And that one of the reasons is that I cut and paste equations from various PowerPoint slides and wasn't quite able to modify them due due to the great Microsoft software. Um, okay. But I think what's the really nice thing is that um this this formal expansion will allow you to define exactly what these V's are because you may have asked yourself you know when you you were doing in the lab and and are probably still doing the hydrogen on palladium what those interactions actually are. Are they sort of physical potentials between the hydrogen or not? You'll see in a second that they're not that they're much more uh complex than that. Um okay so you know whenever you write an expansion in orthogonal basis functions how do you get the expansion coefficients? Well um the expansion coefficient is essentially the projection of your function onto the corresponding basis function. And that's what you'll see here. And you'll get something really interesting come out. Um so the way to to know what how a v alpha is defined um you can essentially take the scalar product of this expression on both sides with pi beta. So you multiply with five beta and then sum over all configurations. Okay. You're essentially taking the scalar product here beta 5 beta on this end. Uh we know that this is the chronicer delta. So this is v beta. Okay. So we've projected out v beta out of this expansion. And now we have to work out essentially what this is to know exactly what v beta means. and you'll see this is the projection of the energy onto the basis function 5A. But it's interesting when you work that out what it physically looks like. Uh so that's what I'm going to do here. So I've written out the scalar product here. Okay. Um what I'm going to do is I'm going to set this is the sum over all possible configurations of the lapis. Since I have a basis function five beta here, I'm going to separate that into a sum over the spins, the configurations on the spins that belong to beta. So let's say this is beta, you know, some triplet. So I'm going to sum over those spins and then separate that and sum over all the other spins on the rest of the lattice. So I've written that here as a sum over all the i's. This should be sorry this should be sigma i uh that are in beta and summing over all the configurations. You get that by just making all the sigma i is plus or minus one. Okay. And then summing over the configuration space minus what lives on beta. And this is a bit shorthand notation. It's a little hard to um to to to write formally what you're actually doing here. But those of you who are familiar with quantum mechanics and so may recognize this as a reduced trace. you're essentially um tracing over all of the configuration space except what lives on beta. Okay. Okay. So, what I want to do is work out the example for a pair interaction since the math is is is is about just the right level to do in class. A threebody gets a little harder. Um so, we're going to work this out when five when sorry when beta consists of sites I and J. So, it's a pair interaction. So you'll see that in this first term I'm going to get four terms. Okay, because I have two sides. I can do a or b. Let's say uh let me call you know + one is a say and minus one is b. So um if I do the term let's say I do the term i = +1 j = + one. Okay. So the the basis function is going to be one. Okay? Because I have + one times + one. And then what is this? What is this really? Think about this. So when I and J are + one that means I essentially decorate this cluster of sides I and J with an A atom and an A atom. So it's an AA pair. But what is this term? Essentially I'm summing over all the configurations outside of this cluster. Okay, all the spins. So this is essentially the average energy of the AA of that of the configuration with AA pairs at J because look at what I'm summing over. So I'm summing it over the energy of all the possible configurations, but it's configurations that have a fixed beta occupancy because I'm not summing over beta. So this first term is essentially what I'll call EA averaged. So do you see what it is? It's I put a at j a a at i a at j and then I essentially trace over the remaining configuration space. So I put all possible configurations on the rest of the system and calculate that a average energy. Okay. So you can do that for the other terms. So I'll write out explicitly now vig because beta is a cluster consisting of i and j. We're going to find is uh n beta is the number of sites in beta. So we get 1 over four because the number of sites is two. So the first term I got was EAAs. Okay. If I do i= minus1 and j equals minus1 I'll get again a plus for five beta. So I get plus E b. And then if I do I and J a different spin. So + one and minus one I'm going to get minus E A B minus E aba. Okay. Does everybody very roughly see where that comes from? So I essentially explicitly evaluate the four terms in that sum. Okay. And every time I essentially get the average energy of that configuration. If your system is symmetric, if I and J are equivalent, then these are the same. Okay? If you have translational symmetry between I and J. So then you'll get something like minus2 EAB. And those of you who've seen like regular solution thermodynamics may recognize this very much as a sort of effective um prefactor in the enthalpy of mixing. You'll get something like the AA interaction plus the BB interaction minus 2 times the AB interaction. Just sort of pointing that out. But it's sort of interesting. This is the formal definition of the expansion coefficients. First of all, notice that they are not potentials. They are energies. Okay? And they are energies of configurations. So you know this is not the potential between a the aa atom at the a atom at i and the a atom at j. Okay. The reason is that the configuration around it modifies that interaction substantially. Okay. Typically what you'll find is that these V's are much much smaller than direct interaction energies and the reason is they contain an enormous amount of cancellation. If you think about it this is a a energy BB energy and minus two times the AB energy. So they they're often several orders of magnitude smaller than direct uh interactions if such a thing were to exist. Um the other thing is that um indirect effects can be included like if you truncate your lapis model at pair terms okay because it's an infinite expansion at some point you'll have to truncate it you are still including many body quantum mechanical effects because the many body quantum mechanical effects enter in the calculation of the energy of these. Okay. So what you should understand is that the level of physics or the the the the level at which you truncate the cluster expansion the latonian has no correspondence to the level of physics for your say your electron physics. Okay. Um let me give you an example just to sort of think through what these things are. Let's say you had a a model on a latis where things just interacted with pair potentials. Okay. So a very simplistic energetic scheme. If if the site if the atoms don't relax away from the lapis points okay then you can really then these energies can really be written as a pair-wise sum. Okay. Because then you know the total energy of a system is really this the pair wise sum between all the pairs. And then what you're going to find is that essentially all of the pair-wise sum cancels in this difference except the AA interaction, the BB interaction and the AB interaction. So if you do pair just a pair-wise energy expression and you should try this once it's sort of very pedagogical. Um and the atoms don't relax away from the latis. Okay, then you'll find exactly that these are pair energies. Okay, pair potentials. Now, as soon as you let the atoms relax away from the lapis point, you know, like maybe the A1 is bigger than the B1, even in a pair-wise energy Hamiltonian, these will not be the pair interactions. Okay? Because you cannot you cannot remove from these energies, you cannot cancel the the you know the energetic effects between A and the rest of the material and B and the rest of the material. Okay. So the the really cool thing about these expansion coefficients is that um they will include all that extra physics like relaxation away from um um the equilibrium lite and I'll come back to that later. Come on. Shouldn't write so much. Glass is over. No. Ah, here we go. So, you know, I'll go back and forth between writing the cluster expansion in terms of the fi alpha, so the basis functions, or being more explicit and writing the basis functions out as the products of spins right away. Um so all your physics of your system all the energetics sits in those coefficients V of course. So the question is how do you get them? Um well you know there's a lot of different ways that people have tried to get them and it depends a little bit on the problem. For simple Hamiltonians you can often do the really just calculate them directly by their definition essentially as the projection of the energy onto that basis function. um you can do that for pair-wise Hamiltonians even including force relaxation. So even when atoms don't sit on a latis um you can do it um by fier transforming and um that's in one of the reference that I give you. Uh but as soon as your physics is very multi-body uh it becomes very hard to do it analytically. Um there are people who do it numerically very much according to the definition. So you literally, you know, you take a system with put an AA at them here and then calculate a lot of different configurations around that. And so really start to approximate those averages. E AAA average, EBB average. The practical way that's um um people pretty much do it now most of the time, which is also the least elegant way is that essentially you fit your whole expansion at once to a large number of energy calculations. So um the first thing you have to do of course is to truncate your Hamiltonian because this is is an infinite expansion. You know you should really see this. This is a trivial expansion. You're expansion you're expanding 2 to the n quantities in two to the n basis function. Okay. So it's only practical if you truncate it. Uh but once you truncate you have a finite set of coefficients to determine. So what you can do is literally calculate the Hamiltonian or in this case the energy for a lot of these configurations. Let's say there's 20 of these V's you have to determine then essentially if you have the energy at 20 different configurations uh you could you know determine the interaction coefficients typically uh people use very overdetermined sets. So you know if you want 20 of these you may do 50 of 50 energies and do a kind of these squares fitting just to make the determination of interactions much more stable. But so that's essentially how it's done. You have an energy method. I sort of wrote it as a first principles method here. Could be any energy method. You calculate a lot of energies of different configurations and then you fit the Hamiltonian and you get the cl the interactions out. It's really that simple. Um and once you have your lats model Hamiltonian um you now know that it's fairly easy to equilibrate that. So you can get ground states out of that. You can do uh Monte Carlo simulation on it just like you're doing in the lab and then get phase diagrams, thermodynamic properties out. So essentially you can get both the structures and all the thermodynamic information and more important as I'll show in a second all the information you can derive from that thermodynamic information which is something people often forget. So what I was going to do is show you a few examples of kind of how this is used and then in the end essentially come back to some of the theory of that. Uh so uh here's one that shows how elegant it can be. Um this is what I'm going to show you is a calculation to try to get the calcium the solid part of the calcium oxide magnesium oxide phase diagram. Um this is sort of perfect for a cluster expansion. Calcium oxide and magnesium oxide are both rocksol structures. So a rock salt is essentially an FCC lus of oxygens which uh I think are in this picture the purple ones. Uh and then the cations ions either calcium or magnesium sit in the octahedral sites octaedal interstitials and the octaal interstitials of an FCC lice also form an FCC latice. So you can think of rock solo as two interpenetrating FCC lus one of cations one of an ions. Um, so when you mix the two, you're essentially asking the question at each interstitial, is there a calcium or a magnesium sitting there? So again, you have a perfect binary crumb. It's a lattice model. But this already illustrates sort of a nice thing of this approach. In your whole lattice model, the oxygen won't appear. So the variables you use are only going to be defined on the cation latice. So the currents are the smaller ones. So on this one you'll have you know sigma i is say + one and on this one you'll have sigma j equals minus one. So you're essentially going to express the energy solely in terms of spin variables on the cation sites. And that makes sense. There's nothing unknown about the annion sites. They're always fully occupied. Okay. So the annions will show up when you calculate the energies of these configurations of course but there's really no need to expand the energy in their occupation variables because they're always there. They're always minus one. So you see we're going to end up with an effective Hamiltonian between the cations ions that includes the energetic intermediary of the annions without explicitly including them. So how do you do something like that? Well, you know, you truncate your Hamiltonian number. It's always going to be the same procedure. You calculate the energy a lot of different configurations. Um, this is old work, so it wasn't fully quantum mechanical. There are two sets of points. So this is actually energy. I'm sorry. This is in electron volt per cation. Um the blue points are done with empirical potentials. Remember we did that all the way in the beginning of class. You know these are essentially Buckingham potentials with electrostatics and shell models attached to them. Um and the the open red circles is a self-consistent PIB which is a a really poor man's quantum mechanics. It's a it's a sort of intermediate between Thomas Fermy theory and better quantum mechanics. But think of it as a poor man's quantum mechanics. Um, and these are mixing energies. So they're the their reference to zero here and here. Okay, that's why they have that sort of parabolic shape because you force them to zero at zero and one. Um, you know, first of all, they're positive. So that means the two things don't want to mix, which is in accordance to the phase diagram. Uh, but you may notice something already that's kind of interesting. the quantum mechanical values are actually tend to be lower than the potential ones and this is very common. Um typically when you a better energy model will lower the energy of low symmetry states more than a bad energy model. And the reason is that um usually a good energy model has more degrees of freedom. Okay, if you think of, you know, your potential model has no electrons in it. There can be no electronic relaxation by definition in a in a model with empirical potentials because you don't have electrons. Okay, a quantum mechanical model has electrons in it. So you have more ways for the system to relax and the lower the symmetry, the more a system can actually use those methods. If your system is fully constrained by symmetry, then there's barely any way the system can relax. Okay, so this is something you very typically see. Um, if you have energy methods that are fitted to uh perfect bulk properties, so they're fitted in high symmetry environments, if you then use them on defect properties, the better the physics of the model, the more degrees of freedom, usually the lower the defect energy will be. But anyway, so you'd use this, you know, you'd fit your Hamiltonian to it, your cluster expansion to it, uh, and you'd get a bunch of pair interactions. So the first six are pair interactions. Again, blue, uh, I, oh dear, change the color scheme here. Blue is the quantum mechanics now, the open circles of the potentials. Um and then there are some triplet triplets interactions and some quadruplets interactions. And notice that the first pair interaction is negative. So what does that mean? That means the nearest neighbor spin product wants to be positive. Get your energy down. So that means like things want to be together. Plus ones want to be with plus ones. Minus ones want to be with minus1. So that's phase separation. So you can already see it from the interaction. But notice the scale of the interaction, you know. So this is now about 40 mill electron volt per cation. Uh so this is a far cry. This is you know much lower than any direct electrostatic interaction um or even any direct evaluation of a Buckingham potential because you have effective interactions. Um actually if you think of the definition of the effective pair interaction in this case. So let me write it out. So, VIG would be one quarter. Let me actually put calcium and magnesium on here. So, it would be E magnesium magnesium averaged plus E calcium calcium minus 2 E calcium magnesium on the J sites. So you should think about where that interaction that effective interaction comes from. Uh because look at the electrostatics. Does the electrostatics contribute? Magnesium and calcium are both two plus. Essentially, if you froze those two on their lattice sides, you'd have in the first term two plus two plus a two plus two plus minus two times a 2 plus 2 plus. So the electrostatics completely vanishes from the effective cluster interaction. So you know it's sort of interesting the fact that you do this projection essentially filters out uh the largest part of the energy here in this system. But because it's the same for both magnesium, magnesium and calcium, calcium and magnesium calcium interactions, it's irrelevant for the configuration of thermodynamics and the projection essentially filters that out. So where where does the remaining VIG come from? Where does the balance come from? If you do a bucking, if you remember what what we taught you in empirical potentials, the way you set up an empirical potential model for oxides is that you usually have a of course the electrostatics, then you usually have an oxygen oxygen potential because the oxygen is the biggest ion they touch and then you have a cation oxygen potential. Rarely do you have a cation cation potential. So there's not even a direct potential between the two. So if you actually froze these things on their lite that VIG is zero because we just said that the electrostatics disappears. There is no direct cation cation term. Okay. So VIG is zero in the C. So I sort of gave the answer away. I said if you freeze these things on their lattice side where does the interaction come from? Well if you freeze them there's no interaction. So all the interaction comes from relaxation. Okay, the interaction comes from the fact that calcium is bigger than magnesium and so that sets up an effective interaction. So it's kind of cool because you with these interactions you have a Hamiltonian on a latis model which people always tend to associate with frozen positions. But the interaction comes essentially from the positions not being frozen. Okay, from the the fact that you know the bigger atom pushes the smaller one away. Okay, and so this is maybe the key point to remember that uh once you parameterize your Hamiltonian with relaxed calculations that easing model represents okay the energy of those relaxed configuration not the ones where you're frozen at ltoides. So when you do hydrogen on palladium, okay, you know, a lot of that interaction that you get between hydrogen on one spot on the surface and the other one has nothing to do with hydrogen hydrogen interaction. It's actually all has to do with relaxation of the surface sites around the hydrogen. You put a hydrogen here, the palladium around it relaxes. That's how it sees the other hydrogen, not because of a direct interaction. And that's um with hydrogen, that's not so dramatic. If you do that with other absorbents like oxygen, it's very dramatic. Okay? They largely interact through a strain induced in the surface. Okay. So then you do Monte Carlo and here's the phase diagram. It's a bit too many things on this slide but essentially this is the line you should be looking at. Uh this is the one with potentials. So these are the solubility limits at low temperature. So it's a two-phase region in between but you have some solubility of MGO in CAO and of uh CAO in MGO. And this is the quantum mechanical one. So of course this becomes a missibility gap because there's no liquid in the calculation. So if if you somehow could include the free energy of the liquid, it would cut off that missibility gap and form a utctic. Okay? But because you don't have a liquid, you're essentially looking at only solid state transitions. And again, you see the same thing. The quantum mechanics gives you a lower u a lower solub gives you a higher solubility limit. So lower temperature at which you can get full uh solution uh because it's some sense easier. It can it can deal better with the lower symmetry state. Okay. So you know this is sort of the classic technique now to deal with any substitutional problem and I would say almost any crystalline problem because uh even if you work on systems that have where there are multiple latis types in play I mean if you think of simple metals you could think well maybe there's some that ordered on an BCC lattice and some that order on an FCC lice. you can cluster expand them separately and and and obtain free energies from Monte Cara and then put them together. Um that's why this is essentially the method by which you know any sort of multicomponent um crystalline problem is equilibrated. Um but I'll show you some of the older work just because historically it's kind of cool. Um this is the lithium aluminum system which was uh I think only the second or third system that is was done atio by this method. This was done in the early 80s. Um, so the reason they did this in the early 80s because everybody thought we were going to make airplanes out of lithium aluminum because lithium is the the lightest solid element in the periodic table. So any lithium you can put in an alloy makes it really considerably lighter. Um, and the interesting piece occurs here which you can't see. There's a delta phase here which is metastable uh sits about here. And what typically people do is they uh solution treat high temperature then quench down so that you precipitate out delta phase to strengthen the alloy. Um it's difficult to care to do experimentally because this is a metastable phase. So it's a little hard to study it. But of course computationally um meta all what all metastability means is that there's something else that's more stable. So as soon as you remove that from the picture in the simulation you can stabilize it. And so this was one of those early calculations where they did exactly what we showed here. Build a cluster expansion parameterize it with density functional theory. in this case uh did Monte Carlo to do the statistical mechanics to find a temperature and essentially get this calculated phase diagram and uh there's the equilibrium phase diagram but then you can also do the meas precipitate by essentially removing the free energy curves of the stable phases and look at them. Uh the liquid was kind of empirically added I think to this calculation. Um this was my own PhD thesis so I have to show it. Um most of my PhD thesis was just what is it one two three four lines. So um I got off easily. Um but this is the phase angum of itrium copper oxide um uh which probably most of you familiar is a fairly well-known high temperature superconductor and the critical issue or one of the critical issues was how the material behaves as a function of oxygen content. Essentially that Z up in the formula can go anywhere from six to seven and at seven it's a high temperature superconductor. Um at six and a half it's a low temperature superconductor and at six it's an antiferamagnet. Um and so figuring out what the phase diagram looked like was I guess worth the PhD thesis. Um and essentially it's again a lapis model problem. You have a bunch of sites where the oxygen can sit. when you start taking out the oxygen it's now the site can be vacant or filled with oxygen so it's a binary problem so you cluster expanded same thing you know in the those days the quantum mechanics wasn't all that good and you do Monte Carl and you get a phase diagram and what's neat about this O2 to my knowledge this phase I think there's sort of just some history with it was probably the first structure I think that ever was predicted with quantum mechanics before it was seen experimentally now have been a lot of cases of that, but this goes back to uh was actually in the late 80s and it may have been the first case where the experimental evidence came afterwards. Okay. Uh here's a lot more complicated system. So, you know, this is the lithium cobalt oxide I showed you in the beginning. There's, you know, cobalt layers, there's oxygen layers, but the key component is the lithium layer. As you take lithium out, you have a vacancy lithium problem. So again, you expand in variables that only describe the occupation on this layer. Okay? So you don't really have to deal with the cobalt with the oxygen. You just deal with that when you do the energy calculations. And you get a bunch of effective interactions. And again, let me stress um that these ECI are effective interactions. If you look at the first neighbor, it's only 30 mill electron volt. Okay? You know to give you an idea those first neighbor distances in the lithium plane are about three angstrom. If you evaluated the electrostatics of a plus one charge and a plus one charge over three angstrom you'd get something that's close to an electron volt. Okay. But you see because you're taking effective interactions you essentially remove most of that. Well per first some of it is screened because you know you're not in a vacuum doing your electrostatic. disc screened by the oxygen that are close by, but you're also cancelelling a lot of uh energetic effect and really seeing the only part that's relevant for the thermodynamics. Um and u then you can again do Monte Carlo just like we've done in the lab. Get a phase diagram. Uh this is the kind of phase diagram that that you would not get out of straight Monte Carlo. Um the hydrogen on palladium problem we gave you. You can do that literally by looking at the output of the Monte Carlo, by looking at the heat capacity, looking at the energy. Uh because the system equilibrates very well. When it doesn't equilibrate, you really have to do free energy integrations and look at where they intersect. And so um this phase also was predicted three years before it was seen experimentally. So this approach has really very powerful predictive capability because you control almost all the approximations. So essentially you know you have to live with the approximations in density functional theory you know you so whatever the accuracy of your h your electronic Hamiltonian you can't do any better okay but from there you control all the approximations so if you don't like the convergence of your cluster expansion well you know you add more terms to it okay so essentially you can make as accurate a representation of your quantum mechanics as you want and that's why you can make Hamiltonians that are very accurate but they live on a latis model so they're extremely fast to search. I mean you've done the hydrogen on palladium hydronon palladium does you know that that trivial Java code this four five million spin flips per second on a stupid IBM old IBM computer. So on a new machine you you can run 10 15 million spin flips per second. So you can search configuration space extremely fast. Okay. And so that's why it's so good at finding new structures. Okay, I was going to show you a surface problem. Um, so here's platinum 111. Reason I took platinum, it's sort of a important material for all kinds of catalysts and so and every time you have these FCC surfaces, uh, the possible absorption sites essentially form a triangular latice. I should get go to a different color here. So you have these. These really all form a triangular latice. There we go. Triangular latice. Um so if you want to study the absorption of something like uh hydrogen or oxygen again you build a latis model um then you have to do density functional theory calculations to parameterize it and I think you've done that now in the lab. So because this is a surface you would set up a slab geometry. So you essentially would take a few layers of um platinum and then put stuff on the surface to absorb it u and you put a a set of vacuum a range of vacuum above that then do the DFT calculations. Okay, so here's that result again. Um this shows both LDA and GGA but again we plot them. Uh this is oxygen absorbed on platinum 111. We reference the full coverage and the zero coverage to zero. Uh you may be a little surprised that you can set two points to zero on the energy scale. Well, one of course is obvious. So you can always reference one point to zero on energy scale. The reason you can set the second one to zero. What you're essentially doing is setting a zero for the chemical potential. Uh because the chemical potential is in some sense the slope of that curve. Okay? It's the energy change just by adding oxygen in this case. So you're essentially referencing the chemical potential to zero by setting two points to zero. Um so you do that same thing you fit interactions. Um you know I've shown here um I've actually made some copies of real notes so you see how this is really done. So people sketching out on a triangular latice different interactions you find their value. Again they're very small. The black points is for oxygen platinum. The L1 is on routinium. You know this is about 75 for a near neighbor interaction. Uh and then it decays very quickly very fast. And you know that they actually have to be in that range because if you're going to see phase transitions in the range of say 0 to a,000 Kelvin, your energies have to live on that energy scale. And you know a th00and Kelvin is what about 100,000 Celsius is about 100 mill electron volt. So your interactions have to kind of be in that range if there's for stuff to happen. So I thought I'd show you rather than a nice picture of a phase. Hold on. Um so how would you look for phase transitions? You do this the same stuff you do in the lab. You track heat capacities. You track energies. So this is for the same run different oxygen chemical potentials. So with your experience, what's happening here at about 940K? This clearly looks like a phase transition first or second order. What's your guess? Second. It's hard to say but it looks like second order. I mean you know it's maybe not refined enough to look but there's clearly a peak in the heat capacity like let's say we take I don't know the green curve you know which is at the particular oxygen chem there's a peak in the heat capacity is not very well defined you know you shouldn't let yourself mislead you know that if you didn't draw the lines here but just the points that peak is essentially defined by one point you should always be careful you know you may have very speurious behavior going on in one similar Monte Carlo the other peak have slightly more points. But normally, if you really wanted to know whether it's first or second order or you would refine it a lot more near the phase transition. Um, again, the energy seems to be continuous, but don't let the lines fool you. Huh? You've taken like say this point and that point and connected them. So, of course, they're continuous. But, you know, maybe what this thing does is it kind of continues and then shoots down to the other vertically. So, it could still be first order. So you would normally refine this a lot more. And the other thing if you really want to know that something's second order, you look at the scaling of the heat capacity with system size. And that's the that's the really accurate way to know that something's second order. Um your normalized heat capacity in a second order transition. So the heat capacity per site scales like the square root of the number of flat sites. Okay. uh you you'll find that already in your simple example, your simple homework problem of hydrogen on on palladium, you'll find it remarkably hard to identify in certain regions where their face transitions are first or second order. Um that's why you put them in there are both first and second order. So rather than a beautiful phasing, I thought I'd show you guys how it's really done. Um you know, when we do Monte Carlo, this is sort of it's really like a puzzle. You know in papers we always show these nicely drawn things but this is how you get to it. Uh you do an enormous amount of scans in mu. So you scan this way then you scan in temperature and you slowly start piecing together you know which phases exist where where they disappear how they disappear first or second order reaction. So um this is like one that is near completion with a few sort of question marks whether these are like first or second order and then later you draw like nice lines but but it really this is one of the problems with Monte Carlo because it's a stochastic method. Um it really is a lot a lot of puzzling. Um and what you'll find is that the last thing that's useful the least useful thing is actually looking at the spins. That's that's people's first intuition. I'm going to actually look at the configuration in my system. You know, anytime systems are sort of partially disordered, just looking at them is like the best way to fool you. If you look at something partially disordered, half of the class will say it's ordered and half of the class will say it's disordered. And it's really the thermodynamic behavior that tells you in which phase it still is. If it's in an ordered state, so in a compound state, that means that you should be able to push it to a disordered state. Okay, that means you should see somewhere a phase transition as you raise the temperature or drive the chemical potential to another phase. If it's already disordered, if you heat it further up, it won't it won't go to a phase transition anymore. Okay. Um just to show you that um you can push this a lot harder and make it a lot more complicated um um I'll show you something that gets a little more abstract. Um and it's sort of from a problem that I I worked on quite recently. Um it's absorption induced segregation and here's the problem. So the pro problem before was oxygen absorbent on platinum. Uh but if you have actually a platinum metal alloy like platinum metal catalyst in this case platinum ruinium then you have two configurational problems. So the first question is what's on the surface? Is it oxygen or vacancy? either side oxygen or vacancy but there's also a segregation thermodynamics now on the surface you now may not have pure platinum you may have either platinum or ruinium okay and the two interact what segregates to the surface is influenced by what absorbs you see that's actually you may think of that as a quadinary problem because essentially what's in play now platinum is in play routinium is in play oxygen's in play and vacancies are in play vacancies being vacant absorption sites But it's actually a 2 plus2 problem. It's really a binary configuration problem in the surface layer and then a binary configuration problem on top of the surface layer. And so you can still perfectly solve this with a binary cluster expansion. It's just that your spin means something different when you're in the surface layer or when you're in the absorbent layer. So you could call them different but you don't have to. You could say well there are variables that is say whatever this describes what's in the absorptant layer and I could just call a new set of variables delta this describes what's in the surface layer okay and then I could literally expand in the products of these but to be honest you could just all call them sigas okay they just mean something different whether they're defined on these sides or on that side okay and so you can do the same technique and now essentially expand a quadinary problem and you know you do the same whole thing you calculate a lot of configurations uh because your configuration space is essentially bigger you'll need more information to parameterize it and then you know you do Monte Carl and you equibrate it and here's an example um this is at a given temperature driving up the oxygen chemical potential so you expect more oxygen to absorb and that's what you But you can actually track the amount of runinium segregating to the surface and as you bring more oxygen to the surface you actually start increasing the amount of runinium in the surface as well. And so um you can you know you can solve the thermodynamics of these problems by abinio methods by going through this cluster expansion approach. You can actually look at the sides. Uh um orange is the platinum surface, red is the oxygen absorbed and uh um this picture here is the same with the oxygen stripped off. So you see underlying routinium. So as you increase the oxidation, you essentially get more routinium to the surface and more oxidation. This is sort of more and more higher and higher oxygen pressure. So, okay. Um, let me show you one more quickly before I continue the theory. And the reason I want to show you is because it's sort of a little different. Um, this is a a structural problem from hydrogen modified aluminum fracture. Um, okay. The the the problem there is that um impurity and brittlement in metals is a big issue. Um there's a lot of metals that uh whose ductal behavior uh becomes very poor uh when there's impurity present and hydrogen imbr hydrogen is so much worse than other impurities but first of all hydrogen uh is tends to be a common impur because it's available everywhere. Anytime you have oxid you know corrosion reactions going on you often produce hydrogen. Anytime you're working in acid environments you produce hydrogen and it tends to be a fast diffuser. So there's a lot of other impurities but a lot of other impurities sort of never make it to the problem areas in a material but hydrogen tends to be a fast diffuser. Um so the way people have dealt with this in quantum mechanics is literally by looking at how planes decoheree with and without hydrogen. And of course if you put hydrogen in between it it decoheres more easily. There's less work of decohesion. Um but if you want to look at the structural problem of what happens um when you do this with hydrogen if you want to equilibrate the hydrogen becomes a lot harder. So let me sort of first tell how would you do this without hydrogen you know you could make a slab you would sort of you know define a plane where you open up the slab and you pull you know you remove the two slabs farther and farther apart. So it's like you're opening a crack. You keep track of the energy and the derivative of that is of course the force required to separate the slab. But think of the problem now if you want to do that with an impur you have to now equilibrate the impur at every separation of the slab. Okay? So you know you sort of you know pull this the crack open a little more. You have to figure out what happens to that impurity there. Because as that impur equilibrates, okay, not only its structure, it equilibrates by the way, but also its composition because segregation to those surfaces isn't is an open system problem. Okay, the concentration there is not fixed because it comes from the bulk or from a gas phase. So it's actually a grand canonical problem. It's an a constant chemical potential problem rather than a constant composition problem. So you see that the hard problem you have not only have to do you have to arrange the impurities in the most stable way because that's going to determine the energy and therefore the force it requires to open up those planes but you also need to equilibrate the amount of impur in that crack. And so this is actually why it's so hard to include chemistry in mechanical calculations because you know you're really working on two different time scales that are very hard to combine. And so um the solution here was essentially to calculate the relevant free energy of hydrogen for any state of crack opening. Okay, for any state of separation of the planes you try to get the equilibrium hydrogen content by a cluster expansion and then from that envelope of free energies you get the force. So it's again the same thing you define a lattice model for this was hydrogen on one side of the crack opening hydrogen sites on another side of the crack opening. So now you have interactions within one plane but also between the two you know you do a bunch of first principles computations. So it's again the same thing to fit those interactions. Then you're going to do Monte Carlo. You're going to in this case get your free energies and the derivatives of the free energy with respect to the separation is going to be the force. So, so in this case this is the force as a function of slab separation for all the different hydrogen coverages. So, I plotted the force. I really should have plotted the energy because it's the energy the qu is the quantity that's expanded and then you get interactions. In this case, I'm only showing two. So, there's an um inplane hydrogen interaction. That's the red one here. And there's an interplane. The interplane is between the two openings of the crack. And of course, that one tends to go to zero as you separate more and more. Okay? So now, you know, the cool thing is at every state of the crack opening, you can actually get the free energy of this system fully equilibrated. And so if you get the free energy, you can actually find the force um and this is the fully equilibrated thermodynamic trajectory that red line. And be what's really surprising is that um because you fully equilibrate the system, it suddenly looks very different from what you thought it would be and what you would have gotten in an unequilated calculation. You know these black lines, this is what you got in an unequilated calculation. It sort of makes sense. You know, as you pull the force goes up. No surprise. I mean, and then you reach a critical point, point of maximum force. At that point, you're unstable because essentially the force as you pull further goes down. So you're unstable. On the down slope, you're essentially unstable. But look at the red line. So this is a chemically equilibriated system behaves very different. Essentially, you pull a little bit, okay? You open the crack a little bit and then the crack opens with no increase in force. Okay? And then you pull the saturated crack apart. And essentially what this is is because you've done your thermodynamics, right? You actually have a force first order transition in length space. Okay, this is you know this is just like a this is a linked discontinuity. It's just like a volume discontinuity in a regular first order transition. Okay, here essentially the crack is separating at constant uh force. Okay, you know it's like um if you think you know it's like when you do a first order transition upon heating you're putting in enthalpy at constant temperature for example or if you do a pressure induced um phase transition you get a volume change at constant pressure. Okay so it's the same thing but you see that by doing the chemistry right and the equilibration you get very different results. Okay. So the last thing I want to do is sort of come back to the idea that we started with and um I wrote down the energy as a function of configuration uh and and then showed you how you cluster expand it. What I want to do is now come back again to what the definition should be of that energy. And we sort of did that at the back end of the Monte Carlo lecture, but because it's kind of important, I want to come back to it. Um because it's not totally clear what that energy or that Hamiltonian in the Latas model should be. Um so let me take a step back and I know you've seen this but I want to go through it. Um if you want to get the free energy of a system, you normally want to include all excitations. Okay? Because you essentially you have to calculate the partition function. You have to trace over all excitations and that will give you the full partition function and the logarithm will give you the free energy. So if you think of the most basic system um will always have vibrational excitations. Okay. If we have anything with a binary problem like AS's or B's or something in vacancies, we'll have configurational excitations. And then unless you're in an insulator, you'll have electronic excitations. Um the idea we talked about last time is that the way you can define a Hamiltonian that lives in this space, which is the one with the slower time scale, is by integrating over the faster time scale. And I started to show that you last time, I think. um when we finish the Monte Carlo lecture and let me sort of go through that sort of formal description again so we see exactly what our lapis model Hamiltonian is. Um so I'm going to do it here only with vibrations as the fast time scale and substitutions as the slow time scale and after that you'll see how it would go with electronic excitations as well. So I replace the coordinate ra I. So this is a set of coordinates that describe the atom into uh a latite position and a deviation from that lite. Okay. the letter side position that is fully defined by the set of configurational variable sigma and the deviation from the ideal atite position I'll call the configuration new so the combination of sigma and new is really the same as the set of vectors ra I okay so what I'm going to do is you know you always see where I'm going value I'm going to trace over the news to get a Hamiltonian in the sigas. Okay. So the full partition function is the sum of the exponential of the energy which depends both on sigma and new and I sum over the sigma states and the new states. Okay, what I'm going to do is I'm going to do the inner sum to them only left with a sum over sigas. Okay, of some f which is the Hamiltonian in the configurational space. And if you look to make these two the same, what that f should be? Well, f is the free energy that I get by tracing over the news. Okay, I mean there's no physics here, huh? This is pure and simple substitution of uh variables. So I call essentially this sum here is um the exponential of minus um beta f. Okay, which means that f is the log of that exponential. So but look at what I sort of formally end up with. I have a partition function that only sums over substitutional states. So this is a problem that lives in the same space as a lapis model. Okay? Because I'm only summing over discrete configurational states. So what I'm really saying is that if I do this partition function correctly, I have the full partition function and therefore the free energy. But to do it correctly, my Hamiltonian in my lapis model state needs to be f not e. And what is that f? Well, f is essentially a free energy. It's the log of a partition function. And what partition function is it? It's the partition function by summing over all the faster states. So the problem is essentially simple, huh? uh the Hamiltonian you should use in your slow time scale space is the one you get by integrating or by calculating the free energy of your fast time scales. So in this case what should you do in everything I showed you earlier this morning? I used the energy as the Hamiltonian. Okay, I used the direct DFT energy in my Hamiltonian. What I really should have used is the vibrational free energy to be correct. If I used the vibrational free energy in that Hamiltonium, I would have gotten the full partition function and therefore I would have gotten the total free energy of the system. So what did I do instead? I didn't calculate this. I approximated this by something. You know, I approximated this by the state in this ensemble with the lowest energy. I mean, if you think of this as a free energy, this is going to be a free energy plus some entropy plus an entropy term, which you could think of as a ground state energy plus contributions from excited states. Okay, I've basically said I'm taking this just as the ground state energy in this ensemble. Okay, because I'm taking the lowest energy configuration that I can get by varying over this. Okay, and what is varying over this? What are the news? The news are the displacement from the lattice sides. So essentially, I'm relaxing my system, letting it displace from the lattice sides. I get the lowest energy state in the ensemble and that's what I expand. So when I'm done, what do I have? When I'm done and I do Monte Carlo with that Hamiltonian, you know, I have essentially the right energetics. I have configurational entropy, but I don't have vibrational entropy. To have vibrational entropy, I would have to do this sum, not just take the lowest energy term. Okay. Come on. Okay, let me sort of skip that. Okay. Um people actually have done examples where they do the full integration over vibrational states uh rather than just approximating that ensemble with its lowest energy term. You see that it's a lot more work. Remember that to parameterize the cluster expansion I need the Hamiltonian evaluated for a bunch of configurations. Even in the simplest case that's easily 40 50 configurations. So if you want to include the vibrations, you actually have to do for 50 configurations the full phon and there or or do molecular dynamics on them and integrate the phone and get the vibrational free energy through that. So it's like two orders of magnitude more work. So rather than just the energy you want to get the whole vibrational spectrum that's why people usually don't do it. But the nice thing is that in this approach you can do it if you really want to. But I'll show you one example where people did it and looked at the difference. It was the very simple case of the cadmium magnesium phase diagram. It was done by Mark A who's now Northwestern. Um so this is the experimental phase diagram actually. So this is the calculation with no vibrational entropy and with vibrational entropy. So the first one is the one that I sort of showed you as the standard one. You just take the lowest energy for a latis model configuration and you do Monte Carlo then with that and this is if you literally do the whole fall on dust for every configuration and what you see is that you know there is some change in topology I mean look at this point has come down considerably and even has um changed the topology somewhat and usually that's what you'll see um you you rarely see new phases new ground states come in when you include vibrations um but you those change the topology of phase diagrams. For example, um there are a few known cases, you know, usually people write a physical review letter whenever they find one where phases come in purely stabilized by their vibrational entropy. Um it's a bit of a puzzle actually why it doesn't happen more because the vibrational entropy is large. It's essentially you know 3 R. Remember the law of the law it's you know the entropy is 3 RT. The heat graph is 3 R. So the entropy is 3 RT. Um the configurational entropy at its maximum is only R log 2. You know at 50/50 in an binary all you have the maximum entropy and that's only it's actually the logarithm of 1/2. So it's minus the logarithm of two. So you either have that's about what 67. So the configuration entropy is only about 67R. The vibration one is 3 R. So it's a lot bigger. But of course, what matters is the difference in that quantity between different structures and different states. And even though the configurational entropy is the smaller one, it tends to be the one that's more different between different states than the vibrational one. And that's why um we sort of all hope that it's okay to often leave the vibrational uh entropy out because it often most of it tends to cancel u between different states. Okay. So um sometime in 1994 somebody compiled all the systems done with these methods. This was 1994. Uh we stopped compiling after 94 because there were just way too many uh studies going on. But this kind of approach has now been used for to study hundreds and hundreds of sort of abitial structure and thermodynamics problems. Um people do higher component now turnaries it's still a lot more work this is a simple turnary um and then I gave you a series of references um I wanted to show you some of the older work that's actually the last references here you know often the older work even though it's not up to date but uh it's also not confused by a lot of complications so it's often very easy to read very elegant to read Um but the key review paper is essentially this one uh which is like 150 pages or something like that. Um which contains the ideas of the cluster expansion and a lot more. Um and then my own work is this a short review on how that works, how you apply that in oxides and the one by Alex Zunger is essentially the same thing but how you apply that in semiconductors. Um and the fourth one is u kind of if the most recent one which uh my own graduate student wrote actual Vanderwala because he's been kind of instrumental um um you know he's he's gone to making this into automated codes and so has a whole code suite and the paper is about that how you how you train Monte Carlo and so to automatically look for phase transitions and things like that. Okay, I think that's it. So let's see what day is today. Today's Thursday. So Tuesday we'll meet again here. Uh I'll cover uh I'll start talking about accelerated molecular dynamics and uh find another topic to talk about as well. So and then Thursday is Chris Wolverton. So I'll see you. Have a good weekend.