The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a Creative Common License. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. Last time we were talking about this veance bond model for describing the bonding in particular the bonding between atoms in a polyatomic molecule. And we saw that the key to this description was allowing the wave functions, the individual wave functions on an atom to constructively and destructively interfere themselves to form some hybrid wave functions to form some hybrid orbitals. And then it is those hybrid wave functions that overlap with the wave functions of another atom to form a chemical bond. And in particular, what we treated last time is this sp3 hybrid wave functions that were centered on carbon, that were centered on nitrogen, that were centered on oxygen. And we saw that these SP3 wave functions were this linear combination or this destructive and constructive interference between the S-wave function and the three 2P wave functions to form these sp3 wave functions and correspondingly these sp3 states. All right. And as I said we saw that on carbon, we saw that on nitrogen, we saw that on on oxygen. And those wave functions end up being pointed to the corner to the vertex of a tetrahedron where the atom in its was at the center of that tetrahedron. So in the case of methane then if you bond a hydrogen to each one of those sp3 hybrid wave functions what you get is a tetrahedral geometry around the carbon. If you had a nitrogen with those uh sp3 wave functions around it and you bonded to three hydrogens, then you got a trigonal pyramid as the geometry of the ammonia molecule with those two lone pairs sticking out there at the at another vert vertex of a tetrahedrron. Remember we talked about the shape of the molecule as being described by the positions of the atoms and not the positions of the electrons. And we talked about water. Water sp3 hybridized. We add two hydrogens to it. We form two bonds. It's planer bent. And then we have two lone pair electrons sticking out of the oxygen. Those are going to play a big role in some of the bonding we're going to look at at the end of the lecture today. All right. So, we've got to move on and we got to talk about another kind of hybridization which we started to talk about last time which is this SP2 hybridization. And we talked about it on boron and we saw that sp2 wave functions end up being in a plane which in the case of boron if we then bonded hydrogens to those sp2 wave functions we got a planer molecule for boron H3 but carbon can also undergo uh this sp2 hybridization and so let's take a look at that now all right so So um in the case of carbon we have to do this electron promotion that we talked about also in the case of the sp3 hybridization and then we let now one of the 2s wave functions and two of the two pwave functions hybridize constructively and destructively interfere and the result is three sp2 wave functions or three sp2 states with one electron in each one of them. And then one of those p orbitals or those pwave functions on the carbon is untouched. That's just the atomic uh wave function, the atomic orbital on that carbon. And if we actually if we look at the um the picture of all of those wave functions, here it is, right? This is the 2s on the carbon, 2pz, 2px, 2py. And what we did is that we let these three for example, these three constructively and destructively interfere to form these three sp2 hybrid orbitals or hybrid wave functions. And the result is that they look like this, right? The result is they all have a large positive lobe on them due to the constructive interference and they all have a small negative lobe here. And in all of the rest of the pictures that we're going to draw, we're not going to draw that small negative lobe because it just makes it hard to draw. Okay. Um but the bottom line is that these three loes lie in a plane. And then of course we still have that 2py atomic wave function centered on the carbon and that is is unperturbed. All right. So now what I'm going to do is since I'm going to put all of these three wave functions on the same plot, right? Since they all have the same origin. So uh that's what I'm doing right there. There it is for the carbon with the positive three positive loes of that sp2 wave function all in the same plane. And again, I didn't draw the little part of a negative wave function in this picture. All right. But now what we also have is that 2 py wave function, the 2p wave function on the carbon that hasn't hybridized. And um oh I'm sorry uh what what that hasn't hybridized right and um it's sticking out of the plane of the board right that's the 2p orbital that you're used to seeing on the carbon and it is perpendicular here to the plane in which the sp2 wave functions are sitting. All right. Uh so now what we're going to do is I'm going to take this sp2 hybridized carbon where the positive loes of these sp2 wave functions are all 120 degrees away from each other and where you would say these wave functions had a trigonal planer configuration. I'm going to take this SP2 wave function and I'm just going to rotate it so that this lobe here is parallel to the floor. I'm going to do that for convenience as you're going to see why in a moment. And that's what happens here on the next slide. All right. I just rotated this by degrees in particular. So I could put the Z-axis here along a bond I'm going to form. All right. So that's the top view. Now let's look at what this looks like from the side. All right. So from the side, what it would look like is something like that. The carbon is right here at the center. Then the positive lobe, this positive part of the wave function, that's what this is here. This uh 2py wave function. Well, here it is, right? It's perpendicular to this plane that you're looking down on up here. It's perpendicular to this plane. That's that 2py wave function. Positive part of the P wave function, negative part of the Pwave function. And then this part of the wave function. Well, this is just a projection of these two big positive parts of the wave function. Right? This just projects this way and out that way. So that's what it looks like from the side. All right. So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring in another sp2 hybridized carbon up here. I'm going to bring it in. It's going to look just like that. And here it comes. And when I do that, what's going to happen right here is that I'm going to allow the 2 sp2 wave function from this carbon to overlap with the two p with the 2 sp2 wave function from this carbon. And I'm going to form a bond and that's going to be a sigma bond. sigma because it's going to be cylindrically symmetric around this carbonarbon bond axis and it's a sigma bond formed by the carbon 2 sp2 hybrid wave function and the other carbon 2 sp2 hybrid wave function. All right. So, I formed a bond here. And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to uh bring this C2 or this carbon sp2 hybridized wave function or carbon in again, but I'm going to bring it in and we're going to watch this view. All right. So, I'm going to watch we're going to watch it from the side. And this time, what I want you to see is what's going to happen here to the 2pywave function. All right. So, here it goes. We're going to bring it in and then this 2sp2 is going to form a bond here between this carbon. But now, what happens is that those two py wave functions, they overlap. they constructively or destructively interfere. Right? If you want to watch it again, right here it comes in. We're going to make this sigma bond. But now this these two loes are going to interfere and these two loes are going to interfere and this is going to be constructive interference there because they both have positive sign or negative sign. Right? And so we're going to have wave function up here and wave function down there. We've formed another bond right here. The bond that we formed here is going to be called the pi bond. It's pi because it's not cylindrically symmetric around this carbonarbon axis. Right? There's wave function or electron density if you square it up here and wave function or electron density if you square it down here. But right here along the plane there's a node in that pi wave function. All right. So this is a pi wave function. It's a car made out of the atomic wave functions on carbon. the the atomic wave functions, the ones that haven't participated in this hybridization. So, it's made out of carbon 2py and carbon 2py. All right. So, what I've got here, hey, what I got here is a double bond, right? I've got two bonds between the two carbons. I got a sigma bond and I got a pi bond. Hey, that's great. Now, let's bring in some hydrogens. I just did. And when I brought in those hydrogens, well, you can recognize this as ethylene, right? The hydrogens form a sigma bond between the carbon 2 sp2 hybrid wave function and the hydrogen 1s wave function. That's what forms the sigma bond. It's sigma because it's symmetric around that carbon hydrogen bond axis. All right? And the molecule that we have here is ethylene. Now let's uh look at that again because this is really very important here. I show you just those two sp2 hybridized carbons forming that uh sigma bond. And this just represents here the energy levels as I bring them in. So in this case here we've got uh two electrons in this sp2 uh state and we have one electron in each one of the two py states and so this is this represents this sigma bond here right and then we made a pi bond and we'll watch it now from the top right the we made a pi bond we let these two 2py wave functions overlap app constructively interfere to form a pi bond which is the carbon 2py carbon 2py all right so clue here every double bond has two bonds that's why it's double but every double bond is made up of one sigma bond and a sigma bond is always the overlap between two two sp2 hybrid wave functions. And the second bond that always makes up a double bond is a pi bond. The pi bond is always the overlap of two atomic wave functions. In the case here of carbon, it's two two p wave functions that have over overlapped. All right? That's what a double bond always is. It always is. So whether it's a carbon double bond or a nitrogen double bond or an oxygen double bond, it's always one sigma one pi. Okay. All right. And there are the hydrogens. And as we said, those hydrogens there uh that carbon hydrogen bond is this overlap between a carbon 2 sp2 wave function and that hydrogen 1s wave function. And now what's the geometry of ethylene? Well, the geometry here of ethylene is that the hydrogen carbon hydrogen bonds are 120 degrees, right? That's 120 degrees because that is the result of the hybridization that 2 sp2 hybridization of the uh wave functions around the carbon. this bond here is 120 degrees again because of the 2sp2 hybridization around that uh carbon. So the geometry of this molecule is planer right the all of these atoms are in a plane those six atoms are in a plane and the bond angles here are all degrees. Okay. Now, if you see a carbon that's got a double bond, if you see a nitrogen that's got a double bond, if you see an oxygen that's got a double bond, hey, that is always a clue that that carbon, that nitrogen, that oxygen has a hybridization of 2 sp2. All right? Double bonds have this hybridization always. Okay? Okay. So, if you're asked to tell what the hybridization is around some atom, it's got a double bond to it, it's a 2 sp2 hybrid. Okay. Now, what I want to do is I want to take this uh 2 sp2 hybrid and build a larger molecule. All right. So, I'm going to take this carbon 2. I'm going to take the two carbons here that are bonded um via this uh 2 sp2 hydrogen. So, here I here's two of them. And here's another two. And they're kind of strategically placed for what it is I want to do. And of course, this is the sigma bond between the two carbons, right? Carbon 2 sp2. Here's the carbon 2 sp2 sigma bond. Okay. All right. Now, what I'm going to do is that I'm going to bring in another carbon that is sp2 hybridized. All right, here it comes. And again, it's strategically oriented. So that right here I have now formed another carbon bond another sigma bond between the carbon 2 sp2 wave function and the other carbon 2 sp2 wave function and same thing right here. Okay, I just formed two other sigma bonds. And now I'm going to bring in a sixth carbon sp2 hybridized. And it's going to come in from this side. And again, it's strategically oriented. So I've just formed here, right? Another sigma bond between these two carbons and another sigma bond between these two carbons. Hey, look at this. It's be to look a lot like benzene. Okay, that's my favorite part. Here come the hydrogens. Hey, this is going to be benzene. All right. So, what did I do here? I made some sigma bonds. I made six sigma bonds, right, between the carbon 2s2 wave functions and the hydrogen 1s wave functions. Okay, so now I got all of my atoms there and almost all of my bonds. However, we've got to do something here about these two p atomic wave functions that are centered on the uh carbon. All right, we're not done yet. All right, so what's going to happen to them? Well, they're going to overlap constructively and destructively interfere. And uh to see that, let's take this benzene molecule and rotate it 90 degrees so that we're going to look at it from the side on view instead of the top view. So there it is. All right. Here are my carbon carbon sigma bonds. The 2 sp2 2 sp2 bonds. Here's my uh sigma bond between the hydrogen and the carbon 2 sp2 wave function. And now I'm going to let the 2p the atomic wave functions not the hybrid wave functions the atomic wave functions on the carbon. I'm going to let them constructively and destructively interfere. Okay. And here goes. Well, they're going to overlap. And tada, I got something that looks like a pi bond here. All right. I've got wave function above the plane of these atoms and I got wave function below the plane of these atoms. It is a pi bond that is formed by the overlap of the 2p wave functions, the atomic wave functions on carbon. All right, it's pi because it's not symmetric around the now uh the bond axis, right? There's density up here, density up there, but not in the plane. Okay. So, let's look at it again from the top view. All right. So, what did I do? Well, I let these two Pwave functions here overlap. So, let's look at that a little more carefully. What exactly did I do here? Well, what I did is, for example, I let the two Pwave functions on these two carbons overlap to form a pi bond. I let the two Pwave functions on these two carbons overlap to form a pi bond. And I let these two two Pwave functions overlap to form a pi bond. Well, that's very nice. But hey, I could also have let the two Pway functions on these two carbons overlap or these two carbons, right? In other words, I could have made a pi bond between these two carbons or these two carbons. Whoops. Or these two carbons, right? So, which one do I choose? Well, in uh recitation the other day, you uh should have looked at the um Lewis structure of molecular benzene or benzene. And uh what you should have seen is that you would be able to write several different Lewis structures all which have the same set of formal charges and that you wouldn't be able to decide which structure you should have based on the formal charges that rather what you had is a resonance structure and that is exactly what you have instead of these six extra electrons which are centered on the carbon. Those two p electrons, right? There's one here, one there, one there, one there, one there, one there. Instead of those two each one of those electrons being shared between just one of the adjacent carbons, those six extra electrons are actually deoized around all of the carbons. And so what you're going to form here is not a clear double bond between this carbon and this one and this one. Instead, what you're going to form is a kind of a half of a pi bond. All right? That is, you're going to let those six electrons be equally distributed, so to speak, around all of the six carbons. And so, this pi bond here isn't quite a full pi bond. It's kind of a half of of a pi bond. All right? because this carbon is sharing its 2p electron with this carbon and with this carbon and vice versa, right? All the way around. And so we have this resonance structure. I drew this as kind of a fuzzy uh green line there. We have these six pi electrons that are deoized amongst the six atoms of this carbon ring. Okay, so these double bonds here are really a bond and a half, right? They are these bonds. This bond is more than a single bond in terms of its uh bond strength and in terms of its distance. It's closer than a single bond, but it isn't as strong as a double bond, nor is is is it as short as a double bond. It's somewhere in between. All right. That's the structure here of uh benzene. Okay. Okay. So, that takes care of sp2 hybridization. Now, we've got one other kind of motif. And that's uh called sp hybridization. And we're going to use carbon again as the example of this sp hybridization. And again, since we're uh starting with carbon here, we're going to have to undergo this electron promotion process. We're going to take an s electron. Are there some questions here that I can help you with? No. Huh? Okay, we're going to take that s electron and promote it to the 2p state. And then we're going to do a hybridization. But this time, what we're going to do is we're going to let the 2s atomic wave function hybridize with one of the 2p wave functions. Okay? And the result then is that we're going to have a new wave function that we're going to call SP. And there's only going to be two of them because we only let one of the 2s and one of the two P's constructively destructively interfere. So we're going to get two SP states or two U SP wave functions. Each one has got an electron in it. Each state's got an electron in it. And then we've got left over two atomic states centered on the carbon. The py and the px. Each one has an electron in it. Okay. Yes. Py. Well, by convention here, yes. The p state we're going to hybridize is going to be 2 pz. Okay. And that's because that is the bond that I am going to make a another that is the wave function I'm going to make a bond to and I want that along the interuclear axis. But realist in real life you can't tell what's x y or z. Okay. But by convention we're always going to put the z axis right along the bond axis. Okay. And I might uh say something I'll say a little more about labeling PY and PZ in an example that I'm going to do in a few minutes. All right. So I hope that will clear things up. Okay. So in the picture form, here's our three atomic wave functions again. And I'm going to let these two constructively destructively interfere. And the result is then two new SP wave functions. Now given that I'm letting only two wave functions constructively and destructively interfere, it's a little bit easier to see how I get these shapes. All right, so here goes this 2s wave function. Remember the 2s wave function never always has one sign. Say it has a plus sign. It never crosses the axis. There are no nodes, right? No radial nodes. When you have a node, that's when the wave function changes sign. Okay? So, I'm going to put that 2S wave function in the same place in space as this 2pzwave function. When I do that, since this is a wave, it's going to constructively destructively interfere. So up here where I'm constructively interfering this positive uh wave function with the positive part of the 2pz wave function. Hey, I'm going to get a lot of positive wave function. That's what that's what this lobe that's where this lobe comes from. But down here where this is positive and this is negative. Well, that's going to be destructive interference. And because this negative part of the 2pz lobe is actually larger than than the 2s is positive. Well, I'm going to have a little bit of leftover of a negative wave function. All right. So here it's easier to see how you get this shape by the interference of that wave function with that wave function. And then correspondingly I'm going to let this wave function and that wave function destructively interfere. So if this is still positive, positive minus a positive is going to give me little bit of a wave function and it's going to be negative. And then positive minus a negative. Hey, that's going to give me a positive. Here's my big positive wave part of the wave function. All right, that's a little bit easier to see now than in the sp3 case where it's not so easy to see. Okay. All right. So, these are now my two new 2P wave functions. And the atomic wave functions here haven't done anything to them. Okay. So, now I'm going to put these wave functions all on one plot. Hey, they all have the same origin. It's the carbon right in the center. So, I'm going to put them all on one plot. Here they are. And what I did is that I rotated the Z-axis was going up and down here. The Z-axis in this picture is coming this way. It's parallel to the floor. Again, strategically placed for the next bond formation. Okay. All right. But here you can see the 2px wave function, the atomic wave function untouched. And perpendicular to it, you can see the 2py wave function untouched. Okay. Okay. So now I'm going to take another sparbon wave function and bring it in. And I'm going to let the sp wave functions on the two carbons overlap so that I form a sigma bond. Sigma formed by the carbon 2 sp carbon 2 sp. Hey, that's my sigma bond there. Okay, but now you know what's going to happen. We're going to let the atomic wave functions on the two carbons constructively destructively interfere. Oh, I'm going to bring in hydrogens's first. Sorry. We for brought in the hydrogen and form this carbon this sigma bond between the carbon 2sp wave function and the hydrogen 1s wave function. And we've got acetylene except now we've got to let the 2 P atomic wave functions interfere. The atomic wave functions on each carbon interfere except I wanted to point out this geometry. I got this all wrong. Okay, this is 180 degrees, right? Because the SP wave functions lie in a line. So the hydrogen carbon carbon hydrogen here, right? That bond angle is 180 degrees. We have a linear molecule. Okay? And now we're going to let the uh 2p wave functions interfere. When we did that, we're going to form a pi bond, right? The interference of this 2py and this 2py, this is going to be a pi bond. It's pi because it's not cylindrically symmetric around this carbonarbon bond axis. There's electron density above the plane of the slide and below the plane of the slide. So we've got a pi bond here. And then finally we're going to let these two atomic wave functions constructively and destructively interfere. Right? the 2px. Again, we're going to form a pi bond. It's pi because it's not cylindrically symmetric around the b bond axis. There's electron density up here and electron density up there. Hey, what we've got here is a triple bond. We have between the two carbons one sigma bond, one pi bond, and another pi bond. The two pi bonds are perpendicular to each other. That's important. So, a triple bond is always composed of one sigma bond and two pi bonds. If that's the case, whether you're looking at a triple bond on carbon or nitrogen or anything else that forms a well almost anything else that forms a triple bond. Okay? But for your intent of purposes, carbon nitrogen going to form a triple bond. Okay. Okay. So that's important here. Okay. So, uh those are our our hybridization schemes that we're going to look at. And it's going to allow us to um it's going to allow us to uh describe the bonding in lots and lots of molecules. And one of the molecules that I want to describe the bonding of is this molecule. It's methyl nitrate. Okay? And this is going to help you out on the homework here. All right? So suppose you're asked to describe the bonding in methyl nitrate and you're given this structure. Well, you know the first thing you have to do is to write down a skeletal structure and to actually in your mind get down what the le structure is for methyl nitrate. All right. So, um, a couple of days ago I told you that when you see a CH3 species like that, that's a methyl group. Hey, that's always terminal. That's a carbon with three hydrogens bound to it. And so, that's what we're going to do. We're going to make this carbon there with the three hydrogens's bound to it. And then if you've got a long molecule like this, one place to start is to then just bind the this atom to the next atom. So I did that. I put the carbon bound to the oxygen. And then following that rule, I took the oxygen, bound it to the nitrogen. And then following that rule, I got two oxygens here. I put the oxygen on this nitrogen and the oxygen on that oxygen. Okay? And then I drew the Lewis structure. I counted my electrons, drew it up. There it is. Or there's a Lewis structure. But now what I'm going to do is I'm going to calculate the formal charge. So all of these atoms here, if I do it right, have a zero formal charge. I then find a formal charge of plus one on the oxygen and minus1 on the nitrogen and I see that the sum of the formal charges is zero and the overall charge on that molecule is zero. So it looks like I did everything right. However, is this the correct Lewis structure for methyl nitrate? No, it is not the correct structure for methyl nitrate. And it isn't because we've got a negative formal charge on the nitrogen and a positive on the oxygen and oxygen is more electrogative than nitrogen. So this is not a adequate structure for methyl nitrate. This does not describe the chemical bonding in methyl nitrate. So, what does Well, to do that, let's uh look at the let's look at the board here. Whoops. I was going to raise the screen. Okay. So, let's look at the bonding here in methyl nitrate. So, here's another Lewis structure that I could draw. All right, CH3 oxygen. And then I could have put the double bond here between the oxygen and the nitrogen. And then I could have bonded the two oxygens to that nitrogen. And there's a bunch of lone pairs here, right on the oxygen. That's all. Okay. But now, if I go and calculate the formal charges on that, well, I'm going to get a + one on this oxygen, right? I'm going to get a plus one on that nitrogen and I'm going to get a minus one on this oxygen and minus one on that oxygen. Hey, that's a lot of distribution of charge here away from the distribution of charge in the isolated atom. So, let's see if we can do a little better. So, again, starting with the methyl group here at the end, let's do this. Let us bond the oxygen to the carbon and then singly bond that nitrogen to the oxygen and then doubly bond one oxygen and then singly bond the other oxygen. And there's going to be a resonance structure to this, right? Because I could have switched where the double bonds were here. And if I go and I calculate the formal charges, I find now everything's got a zero except the nitrogen has a plus one. And this oxygen has a minus1. And that's a much better situation than a lower energy situation than a plus one on an oxygen and a minus1 on the nitrogen. All right. So there's the resonance structure. I won't draw it but that's the uh that is the le structure here for methyl nitrate. Now clue if you see an NO2 like that written like that hey that is always going to mean the o the two oxygens are bound to the nitrogen. And if you ever see the word nitrate like in that expression, that means all of those oxygens are going to be bound to the um to the nitrogen in some way. Okay? So on an exam, if you see an NO2, those two oxygens are going to be bound to the nitrogen. If you see the word nitrate, the three oxygens are going to be bound to the nitrogen. Yes. If I do that, then I'm going to have these five bonds to the nitrogen. Okay? And uh that is going to give you a very high formal charge. It's not going to be the lowest energy structure. Okay? Okay. So that's our structure. But now the question is to describe the bonding in this molecule. So let's do that. Let's describe that bonding. And let me erase this structure here. Do that. Okay. So what do we have? We have three carbon hydrogen bonds. And this carbon here is bonded to four different atoms. That carbon has no double bond, has no triple bond. If it's bound to four different atoms and it does it has just single bonds, the carbon is always sp3 hybridized. All right, that's something to know. So what that means is that these carbon hydrogen bonds are sigma bonds. There sigma bonds form between the carbon and the S2SP3 wave function and the hydrogen 1s wave function. All right, that describes the bonding in the carbon hydrogen bonds. Okay, what about this bond the carbon oxygen bond here? How do we describe it? Well, we already said this carbon is sp3 hybridized and so we can write this carbon as sp3 and then this oxygen here. Well, this oxygen has got two bonds to it. It has no double bonds, no triple bonds. So, this oxygen is also sp3 hybridized. This oxygen looks like the oxygen in water, right? So, this is going to be a sigma bond. It's going to be symmetric around that axis between carbon 2 sp3 and oxygen 2 sp3. Hey, we got that bond. Okay. Next, we have an oxygen nitrogen bond. How do we describe the oxygen nitrogen bond? Well, the oxygen we already said was 2 sp3 hybridized. So, we know that. But this nitrogen, this nitrogen's got a double bond to it. Is it? If it's got a double bond to it, well, that nitrogen is 2 sp2 hybridized, but this is still a single bond between the oxygen and the nitrogen there. It's symmetric. And so that bond is a sigma between the nitrogen 2SP2 wave function and the oxygen 2SP3. Okay. Next, the nitrogen oxygen double bond. How are we going to describe that? Well, uh the it's a double bond. It means we got two bonds. One of those bonds is a sigma bond. As I said, it's going to be a sigma bond between the nitrogen 2 sp2 wave function and the oxygen 2 sp2 wave function because hey oxygen here is also double bonded. If we use that rule, we'll consider the oxygen to be 2 sp2. It's a sigma bond. But now we got two bonds. So the second one has to be a double bond. What's that double bond going to be? Well, it's going to be between the nitrogen 2 pwave function because the pi bonds are always between the unhybridized wave functions. And notice I'm going to leave out the x or the y here because I don't really know. Okay. and between the oxygen 2p wave function. I left out the x and the y there. All right. And then finally, I have the nitrogen oxygen bond. That second nitrogen oxygen bond. And what do I have there? Well, it's a single bond. It's going to be sigma. It's symmetric around the axis. is going to be between the nitrogen 2 sp2 wave function and the oxygen uh 2pz wave function. Okay, it's going to be 2pz in that case because uh we're here along the bond axis. Okay, it's a sigma bond. It's not a pi bond. The sigma bonds are along the bond axis. Okay. All right. So that's methyl nitrate. Now I'm a little bit rushing to do something here. Uh and that is I want to describe to you one other kind of bonding. But this is a bonding that is not a bonding within the molecule but it's um I'm going to do this. It's actually bonding between molecules. And this is called hydrogen bonding. All right. In hydrogen bonding, what you have to have is a hydrogen and you have to have a hydrogen bond bond bonded to an electrogative element like oxygen. So a good example is water, right? Water is bound to an electrogative element. and we got two lone pairs. But in hydrogen bonding, you've got bonds between molecules. This is intermolecular bonding. And what happens is that the that this hydrogen here will interact very strongly with the lone pair electrons here on its neighboring oxygen forming a bond. It does so because this hydrogen is kind of desshielded. The oxygen being so electrogative is kind of pulled all the charge toward it. So this this hydrogen kind of looks like a little bit positively charged delta plus where this is kind of delta minus. And so this hydrogen being really small, hey, it can get close to the oxygen lone pairs where there's a lot of electron density and form a bond. And that bond ranges from 20 to 60 k per mole certainly not as strong as a covealent bond. You know, CH bond, it's 400 K per mole, but about the tenth of that strength and it turns out to be very important. Hydrogen bonds determine the properties of water. They determine the structure of proteins. DNA owes its its helix helical structure to hydrogen bonding. Trees stand up straight because of hydrogen bonding in the cellulose chains. The strength of nylon is determined by hydrogen bonding. And whether or not you have a bad hair day is determined by hydrogen bonding. For example, on the slides on the side, what you see is the protein of hair. This is a polyeptide. It's a repeating unit here of COH NH COH NH again and again and again. And here's another repeating uh here's another polyeptide or another peptide strain with this repeating unit. Well, what happens? Well, what happens when um your uh hair is actually wet, what happens is that the hydrogens on the uh nitrogen, you can see in that chain up there, what happens is that they are hydrogen bonded to water molecules. And you can also see in the second chain over that uh the oxygen on the carbon here is hydrogen bonded to a water molecule. So when your hair is wet, the actual polymers in your hair kind of slip by each other, right? However, if you then take your hair and you put it in some very strange configuration and you dry it, right? You you uh remove these water molecules that are hydrogen bonded to your hair. Well, what happens then is that these two chains now kind of lock into registry. They kind of bond together because these hydrogen these water molecules are gone here. And so now they hydrogen bond to each other. The hydrogen bonds to the oxygen on the CO and the two chains are in registry. And then when you let your form go, well then your your strands actually stay in that registry for a little bit until the humidity wipes that out. Okay, bad hair day. See you on Friday.