So we're going to talk today about binary search trees, something called randomly built binary search trees. And I'll abbreviate binary search trees as BSTs throughout the lecture. And you've all seen binary search trees in one place or another. In particular, recitation on Friday. So, we're going to build off of the basic ideas presented there and talk about how to randomize them and make them good. So, you know that there are good binary search trees which are relatively balanced. something like this. If the height is log n, we call them balanced and that's good. Anything order login will be fine. In terms of searching will then cost order login. And there are bad binary search trees which have really large height possibly as big as n. So this is good and this is bad. We'd sort of like to know, we'd like to build binary search trees in such a way that they're good all the time or at least most of the time. And there are lots of ways to do this. And in the next couple of weeks, we'll see four of them if you count the problem set. I believe today we're going to use randomization to make them balanced most of the time in a certain sense. Uh and then in your problem set, you'll make that in a broader sense. But the one way to motivate this topic, so I'm not going to define randomly built binary searches for a little bit. One way to motivate the topic is through sorting, our good friend. So there's a natural way to sort n numbers using binary search trees. So if I give you an array A, how would you sort that array using binary search tree operations? It's a black box. Yeah. Build a binary search tree and traverse it in order. Build the binary search tree and then traverse it in order. Exactly. So let's say we have some initial tree which is empty and then for each element of the array we insert it into the tree. That's what you meant by building the search tree. So we insert AI into the tree. This is the binary search tree insertion standard insertion and then we do an in order traversal which in the book is called in order tree walk. Okay, you should know what these algorithms are, but just for very quick reminder, tree insert walk basically searches for that element AI until it finds the place where it should have been if it was in the tree already, and then adds a new leaf there to insert that value. Tree walk recursively walks the left subree, then prints out the root, and then recursively walks the right subree. And by the binary search tree property, that will print the elements out in sorted order. So let's do a quick example because uh this turns out to be related to another sorting algorithm we've seen already. So while the example is probably pretty trivial, the connection is pretty surprising. At least it was to me the first time I taught this class. So my array is 318 2675. And I'm going to visit these elements in order from left to right and just build a tree. So the first element I see is three. So I insert three into an empty tree. That requires no comparisons. Then I insert one. I see is one bigger or less than three? It's smaller, so I put it over here. Then I insert eight. That's bigger than three, so it gets a new leaf over here. Uh, then I insert two. That fits between one and three. And so it would fall off this right child of one. So I add two there. Six is bigger than three, less than eight. So it goes here. Seven is bigger than three, less than eight, bigger than six. So it goes here. and five fits in between three and five. Three and six rather. And so that's the binary search tree that I get. Then I run an in order traversal which will print 1 2 3 5 6 7 8. Okay, I can run that quickly in my head because I've got a big stack. But it be a little bit careful. Of course, you should check that they come out in sorted order. One, two, three, five, six, seven, eight. And if you don't have a bit big stack, you can go and buy one. Always useful. Uh memory costs are going up a bit these days or going down they should be because of the uh politics but uh price fixing whatever. So the question is what's the running time of this algorithm? And there's no here this is one of those answers where it depends. Uh the parts that's easy to to analyze are well initialization the in order tree walk how long does that take? n good order n for the walk and for the initialization which is constant. The question is how long does it take me to do n tree inserts? Anyone want to guess any kind of answer to that question other than it depends? I've already stolen the thunder there. Yeah. Big omega n login. Big omega of n login. That's good. It's at least n login. Um, why? Right. So you gave two reasons. The first one is because of the decision tree lower bound. That doesn't actually prove this. We have to be a little bit careful. This is a claim that it's omega n login in every all the time. It's certainly omega n login in the worst case. Every sorting every comparisonbased sorting algorithm is omega n login in the worst case. It's also n login every single time. Omega n login because of the second reason you gave which is the best case best thing that could happen is we have a perfectly balanced tree. So this is the figure that I have drawn the most on a blackboard in my life the perfect tree on 15 nodes I guess. So if we're lucky, we have this. And if you add up all the depths of the nodes here, which gives you the the search tree cost in particular, these n /2 nodes in the bottom each have height, each have depth log n, and therefore you're going to have to pay at least n login for those. And if you're less balanced, it's going to be even worse. That takes some proving, but it's true. So it's actually omega n login all the time. Okay, you've seen that there are some cases like if you know that the elements are almost already in order, you can do it in linear a linear number of comparisons. So, but here you can't. Any other guesses at an answer to this question? Yeah. Big O N squ big O N squ Right? We're doing n things and each node has depth at most n. So the number of comparisons we're making per element we insert is at most n. So that's at most n^ squ. Um any other answers? Is it possible for this algorithm to take n^ squ time? Is are there instances where it takes theta n already sorted. If it's already sorted, that would be pretty bad. So, if it's already sorted or if it's reverse sorted, you're in bad shape because then you get a tree like this. This is the sorted case and you compute. So the the total cost the the time in general is going to be the sum of the depths of the nodes for each node x in the tree. And in this case it's 1 + 2 + 3 + 4. This arithmetic series there's n of them. So this is theta n^2. It's like n^2 over two. So that's bad news. Some the worst case running time of this algorithm is is n^2. Does that sound familiar at all? An algorithm's worst case running time is n squ in particular in the already sorted case. But if we're lucky, right, the lucky case would be if the as we said it's already it's a balanced tree. Wouldn't that be great? Anything with omega login height would give us a sorting algorithm that runs in n login. So in the lucky case we're n login but in the unlucky case we're n^ squ and unlucky is sorted. Remind you of any algorithm we've seen before. Yeah. Quick sort. Turns out the running time of this algorithm is the same as the running time of quicksort in a very strong sense. Turns out the comparisons that this algorithm makes are exactly the same comparisons that quicksort makes. It makes them in a different order, but it's really the same algorithm in disguise. That's the the surprise here. So in particular, we've already analyzed quicksort. We should get something for free out of that analysis. So the relation is BST sort and quick sort make the same comparisons but in a different order. So let me walk through the same example we did before. 675. So there's an array. We're going to run a particular version of quicksort. I have to be a little bit careful here. Sort of the obvious version of quicksort. Remember our standard boring quicksort is you take the first element as the partition element. So I'll take three here and I split into the elements less than three which is one and two and the elements bigger than three which is 8 6 75. And in this version of quicksort I don't change the order of the elements 8675. they're let's say the order is preserved because only then will this equivalence hold. So this is sort of a stable partition algorithm. It's easy enough to do. It's a particular version of quicksort and soon we're going to randomize and after we randomize these this difference doesn't matter. Okay. Then on the left recursion we split in the partition element. There's things less than one which is nothing. Things bigger than one which is two. And then we you know that's our partition element. We're done. Uh over here we partition on eight. Everything is less than eight. So we get six 75. Nothing on the right. Then we partition at six. We get things less than six namely five. Things bigger than six namely seven. And those are sort of partition elements in a trivial way. Now this tree that we get on the partition elements looks an awful lot like this tree. Okay, it should be exactly the same tree. And you can walk through what comparisons does quicksort make. Well, first it compares everything to three. Okay, except three itself. Now if you look over here, what happens when we're inserting elements? Well, each time we insert an element, the first thing we do is compare with three. If it's less than, we go to the left branch. If it's greater than, we go to the right branch. So we're making all these comparisons with three in both cases. Then if we have an element less than three, it's either one or two. If it's one, we're done. No, no comparisons happen here. I mean one to one. But we compare two to one. And indeed, when we insert two over there, after comparing it to three, we compare it to one. And then we figure out that it happens here. Same thing happens in quicksort. For elements greater than three, we compare everyone to eight because here because we're partitioning with respect to eight here because uh that's the next node after three. As soon as eight is inserted, we compare everything with eight to see in fact that it's less than eight and so on. So all the same comparisons just in a different order sort of turn 90 degrees. Kind of cool. So this has various consequences in the analysis. So in particular the worst case running time is theta n^ squ uh which is not so exciting. What we really care about is the randomized version because that's what performs well. So randomized BST sort is the f is just like randomized quicksort. So first thing you do is randomly permute the array uniformly picking all permutations with equal probability and then we call BST sort. Okay, this is basically what randomized quicksort could be formulated as. And then randomized BST sort is going to make exactly the same comparisons as randomized quicksort. Here we're picking the root essentially randomly and over here in quicksort you're picking the partition element randomly. Same same difference. Okay. So the time of this algorithm equals the time of randomized quicksort because we're making the same comparisons. So the number of comparisons is equal and this is true as random variables. The random variable the running time of this algorithm is equal to the random variable of this algorithm. In particular the expectations are the same. Okay. Okay. And we know that the expected running time of randomized quicksort on n elements is oh boy n login. Good. I was a little worried there. Okay. So in particular the expected running time of BST sort is n login. Obviously this is not too exciting from a sorting point of view and the sorting was just sort of to see this connection. What we actually care about and the reason I've introduced this DST sort is what the tree looks like. What we really want is that search tree. The search tree can do more than sort. In order traversal is a pretty boring thing to do with the search tree. You can search in a search tree. So, okay, that's still not so exciting. You could sort the elements and then put them in an array and do binary search. But the point of binary search trees instead of binary search arrays is that you can update them dynamically. We won't be updating them dynamically in this lecture, but we will in Wednesday and on your problem set. Um, for now it's just sort of a warm-up. Let's say that the elements aren't changing. We're building one tree from the beginning with all we have all n elements ahead of time. We're going to build it randomly. We randomly permute that array. Then we throw all the elements into a binary search tree. That's what BST sort does. Then it calls in order traversal. I don't really care about in order traversal. What I want to because you know we've just analyzed it. It would be a short lecture if I were done. What we want is this randomly built BST which is what what we get out of this algorithm. So this is the tree uh resulting from random BST sort randomized BST sort okay resulting from randomly permuting the array and just inserting those elements using the the simple tree insert algorithm. Question is what does that tree look like? And in particular, is there anything that we can conclude out of this fact that the expected running time of BST sort is n login. Okay, I've mentioned cursory what the running time of BST sort is several times. Um, it was the sum. So this is the time of BST sort on n elements. It's the sum over all nodes x of the depth of that node. Okay, depth starts at zero and works its way down. U because the root element you don't make any comparisons beyond that you're making whatever the depth is comparisons. Okay. So we know that this thing is in expectation. We know that this is n login. What does that tell us about the tree? This is for all nodes x in the tree. Does it tell us anything about the height of the tree for example? Yeah. intive sense it says that the height is about log and not the n right intuitively it says the height of the tree is theta log n and not n but in fact it doesn't show that and that's why if you feel that that's just intuition but it may not be quite right indeed it's not uh let me tell you what it does say so if we take uh expectation of both sides here we get n log n so the expected value of that is n log So over here well we get the expected total depth which is not so exciting. Let's look at the expected average depth. So if I look at 1 / n the sum over all nodes in the tree of the depth of x that would be the average depth over all the nodes. And what I should get is theta / n because I divided n on both sides and I'm using here linearity of expectation which is log n. So what this what this fact about the expected running time tells me is that the average depth in the tree is log n which is not quite the height of the tree being lo. Okay, remember the height of the tree is the maximum depth of any node. Here we're just bounding the average depth. So let's look at an example of a tree. draw my favorite picture. So, here we have a nice balanced tree, let's say, on half of the nodes or a little more. And then I have one really long path hanging off one particular leaf. Doesn't matter which one. And I'm going to say that this path has length well the total height here I want to make root n which is a lot bigger than log n. This is roughly log n it's going to be log of n minus root n or so roughly. So most of the nodes have logarithmic height. And if you compute sorry logarithmic depth if you compute the average depth in this particular tree for most of the nodes let's say it's at most uh like half of the um let's say at most n of the nodes have height log n and then there are root nodes at most down here which have depth at most root n. So let's say it's at most root n times root n. In fact it's like half that but not a big deal. So this is this is n so this is n log n or sorry uh average depth I have to divide everything by n login would be rather large for an average height average depth. So the average depth here is log n but the height of the tree is square root of n. So this is not enough. just to know that the average depth is log n doesn't mean that the height is log n. Okay. But the claim is the theorem for today is that the expected height of a randomly built binary search tree is indeed order and login or sorry login PST order login. This is what we this is what we'd like to know because that tells if tells us if we just build a binary search tree randomly then we can search in it in login time. Okay, for sorting it's not as big a deal. We just care about the expected running time of of creating the thing here. Now we know that we can once we prove this theorem we know that we can search quickly in expectation. Okay, which in fact most of the time. So the rest of today's lecture will be proving this theorem. It's quite tricky as you might imagine. It's another big probability analysis along the lines of quicksort and and everything. Um yeah. So I'm going to start with an outline of the proof. Is there any questions about the theorem? should be pretty clear what we want to prove. Uh this is even weirder than most of the analyses we've seen. It's going to use a a fancy trick which is exponentiating a random variable. And to do that, we need a tool called Jensen's inequality. We're going to prove that tool. Usually, we don't prove probability tools, but this one we're going to prove. It's not too hard. involves some basic analysis. So the theorem or the lema says that if we have what's called a convex function f and you should all know what that means but I'll define it soon in case you've forgotten. If we have a convex function f and we have a random variable x, you take f of the expectation that's at most the expectation of f of that random variable. Okay, think about it enough and draw convex functions that is fairly intuitive, I guess, but we'll prove it. What that allows us to do is instead of analyzing the random variable that tells us the height of a tree. So xn I'll call the random variable RV of the height of a BST randomly constructed BST on nodes will analyze well instead of analyzing this desired random variable XN sorry this should have been a capital We're going to analyze we can analyze any convex function of xn and we're going to analyze the exponentiation. So I'm going to define yn to be 2 to the^ xn. Okay the big question here is why bother doing this? The answer is because it works and it wouldn't work if we analyze xn. We'll we'll see some intuition of that later on, but it's not very intuitive. This is just a bizarre analysis where you need this extra trick. So we'll we're going to bound the expectation of yn and from that and using Jensen's inequality, we're going to get a bound on the expectation of xn. a pretty tight bound actually because if we can bound if we can bound the exponent up to constant factors the exponentiation up to constant factors we can bound xn even better because it takes you take logs to get xn so we'll even figure out what the constant is so what we'll prove this is the part of the proof is that the expected value of yn is order n cubed here we won't really know what the constant is. Don't need to. And then we put these pieces together. So let's do that. What we really care about is the expectation of xn which is the height of our tree. What we find out about is this fact. Uh so leave some some horizontal space here. we get the expectation of 2 to the xn. That's the expectation of yn. So we learn that that's order n cubed and Jensen's inequality tells us if we take this function 2 to the x we plug it in here then on the left hand side we get uh 2 to the e of x. So we get 2 to the e of xn is at most e of 2 to the xn. So that's where we use Jensen's inequality because what we care about is e of xn. So now we have a bound. We say well 2 to the e of xn is at most n cubed. So if we take the log of both sides we get e of xn is at most the log of n cubed. Okay. I'll write it in this funny way log of order n cubed which will actually tell us the constant this is 3 log n plus order 1. So uh we will prove that the expected height of a randomly constructed binary search tree on nodes is roughly three login m at most. Okay, I'll say more about that later. So you've now seen the end of the proof. That's the foreshadowing. And now this is the the top down approach. So you sort of see what the steps are. Now we just have to do the steps. Okay. Step one take a bit of work, but it's easy uh because it's pretty basic stuff. Step two is just a definition. We're done. Step three is probably the hardest part. And step four we've already done. So let's start with step one. So the first thing I need to do is define a convex function because we're going to manipulate that definition a fair amount. So this is a notion from real analysis. Analysis is a fancy word for calculus if you haven't taken a proper analysis class. You should have seen convexity in any calculus class. A convex function is one that looks like this. Okay, good. Um, one way to formalize that notion is to consider any two points on this curve. So I'm I'm only interested in functions from reals to reals. So it looks like this. This is f of something and this is the something. If I take two points on this curve and I draw a line segment connecting them, that line segment is always above the curve. That's the meaning of convexity. um it has a geometric notion which is basically the same but for functions this line segment should stay above the curve. The line does not stay above the curve. If I extended it farther it goes beneath the curve of course but that segment should. So I'm going to formalize that a little bit. I'll call this x and then this is f ofx and I'll call this y and this is f of y. So the claim is if I take any number between x and y and I look up and I say okay here's the point on the curve here's the point on the line segment the value of that point on the y value here should be greater than or equal to the y-value here okay to figure out what this point is we need some essent I would call it geometry I'm sure it's an analysis concept too but I'm a geometer I get to call it geometry. Um, if you have two points P and Q and you want to parameterize this line segment between them. So I want to parameterize some point here. The way to do it is to take a linear combination. And if you've should have taken some linear algebra, linear combination looks something like this. And in fact we're going to take something called an aphine combination where alpha plus beta equals 1. Okay, it turns out if you take uh if you take all such points some number alpha times the point p plus some number beta time the point q where alpha plus beta equals 1. You take all those points you get the entire line here which is nifty but we don't want the entire line. If you also constrain alpha and beta to be non- negative, you just get this line segment. So this forces alpha and beta to be between zero and one because they have to sum to one and they're non- negative. So what we're going to do here is take alpha * x plus beta * y. That's going to be our point in between with these constraints. Alpha plus beta= 1. Alpha and beta are greater than equal to zero. Then this point is f of that. This is f of alpha x plus beta y. And this point is the linear interpolation between f ofx and f of y the same one. So it's alpha * f ofx plus beta * f of y. Okay, that's the intuition. If you didn't follow it, it's not too big a deal because all we care about are are these the symbolic answer for proving things. But that's where this comes from. So here's the definition. Uh it's a function is convex if for all x and y and all alpha and beta greater than or equal to zero whose sum is one. We have f of alpha x plus beta y is less than or equal to alpha f ofx plus beta f of y. That's just saying that this y-coordinate here is greater than this y or is less than or equal to this y-coordinate. Okay, but that's the symbolism behind that picture. Okay, so now we want to prove Jensen's inequality. Okay, we're not quite there yet. We're going to prove a simple lema from which it will be easy to derive Jensen's inequality. So this is the theorem we're proving. So here's a lema about convex functions. You may have seen it before. It will be crucial to Jensen's inequality. Yeah. Okay. We have so suppose this is a statement about affl combinations of n things instead of two things. So this will say that convexity can be generalized to taking n things. So suppose we have n real numbers and we have n values alpha i alpha 1 up to alpha n. They're all non- negative and their sum is one. So the sum of alpha k I guess k = 1 to n is one. So those are the assumptions. The conclusion is the same thing but summing over all k. So k = 1 to n alpha kx k take f of that versus taking the sum of the alphas times the fs k = 1 to n. So the definition of convexity is exactly that statement but where n equals 2. Okay, alpha 1 and alpha 2 are alpha and beta. This is just a statement for general n. And you can interpret this in some funnier way which I won't get into. Uh oh, sure, why not? I'm a geometer. So this is saying you take several points on this curve. You take the polygon that they define. So these are straight line segments. You take the interior. If you take an aphine combination like that, you will get a point inside that polygon or possibly on the boundary. The claim is that all those points are above the curve. Again, intuitively true from if you draw a nice canonical convex curve, but in fact it's true algebraically too. Always a good thing. Any suggestions of how we might prove this theorem? This is this lema. It's pretty easy. So what technique might we use to prove it? One word. Induction always a good answer. Yeah, induction should shout out at you here because we already know that this is true by definition of convexity for n equals 2. So base case is clear. In fact, there's an even simpler base case which is when n equals 1. If n equals 1, then you have one number that sums to one. So, alpha 1 is one. And so, nothing's going on here. This is just saying uh that f of 1 * x1 is at most uh 1 * f of x1. So not terribly exciting because those that holds with equality. Okay. So we don't even need the n equals 2 base case. So the interesting part although still not terribly interesting is the induction step. This is good practice in induction. So what we care about is this f of the sum this linear combin f of this linear combination fine combination x k * x k summed over all k. Now what I would like to do is apply induction. What I know about inductively is say f of this sum if it's summed only up to n minus one instead of all the way up to n. Any smaller sum I can deal with by induction. So I'm going to try and get rid of the nth term. I want to separate it out. And this is uh fairly natural if you've played with aphine combinations before, but it's just some algebra. So I want to separate out the alpha n xn term and I'd also like to make it an affl combination. This is the trick. Sorry, no f here. If I just removed the last term, the alpha ks from one up to n minus one wouldn't sum to one anymore. They'd sum to something smaller. So, I can't just take out this term. I'm going to have to do some trickery here. X K plus the F. Good. So you should see why this is true because the one minus alpha N's cancel and then I'm just getting the sum of alpha kx k= 1 to n minus one plus the alpha n xn term. So I haven't done anything here. These are equal. But now I have this nifty feature that on the one hand these two numbers alpha n and one minus alpha n sum to one. And on the other hand, if I did it right, these numbers should sum up to one. Just going from one up to k one up to n minus one. Why do they sum up to one? Well, these numbers summed up to one minus alpha n. And so I'm dividing everything by one minus alpha n. So they will sum to one. So now I have two alphine combinations. I just apply the two things that I know. I know this this aine combination will work because well why why can I say that this is alpha n f of xn plus 1 - alpha n f of this crazy sum Shout it out. There are two possible answers. One is correct and one is incorrect. So which will it be? Oops. This should have been less than or equal to. It's important. It's on the board. Can't be too difficult. So I'm treating this as just one big x value. So I have some xn and I have some crazy x. I want f of the aine combination of those two x values is at most the aphine combinations of the fs of those x values. This is hypothesis is the inductive hypothesis with n equals2. Unfortunately, we didn't prove uh the n equals2 case is a special base case. So we can't use induction here the way that I've stated the base case. If you set n if you did n equals2 base case, you could do that. Here we can't. So the other answer is convexity by convexity. Good. That's right here. Okay. So f is convex. We know that this is true for any two values of x uh for any two x values and provided these two sum to one. So we know that this is true. Now is when we apply induction. So we know so now we're going to manipulate this right term by induction. See before we didn't necessarily know that n was bigger than two but we know that n is bigger than n minus one. that much I can be sure of. So this is 1 minus alpha n times the sum k = 1 to n -1 of alpha k over 1 - alpha n time f ofx k I got that right. This is by induction the induction hypothesis because these alpha k's over 1 - alpha n sum to one. Now these 1 - alpha n's cancel and we just get what we want. This is sum k = 1 to n of alpha k f ofx k. So we get that f of the sum is at most sum of the fs. That proves the lema. Okay. A bit tedious but each step is pretty straightforward. Hope you agree. Now it turns out to be relatively straightforward to prove Jensen's inequality. That's the magic. And then we get to do the expectation analysis which will use our good friends indicator random variables. Okay. But for now we just want to prove this statement. If we have a convex function f of the expectation is at most expectation of f of that random variable. Okay. This this means this is a random variable, right? It if you want to sample from this random variable, you sample from X, then you apply F to it. That's the meaning of this notation f of X because X is a random variable. We get to use that f is convex. Okay, it turns out this is not hard if you remember the definition of expectation. Oh, I want to make one more assumption here, which is that X is an is integral. So, it's an integer random variable, meaning uh it takes integer values. Okay, that's all we care about because we're looking at running times. This statement is true for continuous random variables, too. But I would like to do the discrete case because then I can to write down what E of X is. So what is the definition of E of X? X only takes on integer values. This is easy but you have to remember it. Good drill. I don't really know much about X except that it takes on integer values. Any suggestions on how I should expand the expectation of X? How many people know this by heart? Okay, it's not too easy then. Well, expectation has something to do with probability, right? So I should be looking at something like the probability that X equals some value X. That would seem like a good thing to do. What else goes here? A sum. Yeah, sum. Well, X could be somewhere between minus infinity and infinity. That's certainly true. And you have some more something missing here that what what is this sum? What does it come out to for any random variable X that takes on integer values? One. Good. So I need to add in something here, namely X. Okay, that's the definition of the expectation. Now f of a sum of things where these coefficients sum to one looks an awful lot like the lema that we just proved. Okay, we proved it in the finite case. It turns out it holds just as well if you take all integers. I'm just going to assume that. So I have these alpha these probabilities these alpha values sum to one. Therefore, I can use this inequality that this is at most uh get this right. I have the alphas. So, I have a sum x= - infinity to infinity of the alphas which are probability capital x= little x times f of the value f of little x. Okay. So, there it is. I've used the lema. So, maybe now I'll erase the lema. Okay, I cheated by using the countable version of the limo while only proving the finite case, but it's all I can do in lecture. Um so this is blemma. Now what I'd like to prove and leave some blank space here is that this is at most e of f ofx. So that this summation is at most e of f ofx. Actually it's equal to e of f ofx. And it really looks kind of equal, right? We've got sum of some probabilities times f ofx almost looks like the definition of e of f ofx but it isn't. Got to be a little bit careful because e of f ofx should be should talk about the probability that f ofx equals a particular value. Um we can relate these as follows. Not too hard. You can look at each value that f takes on and then look at all the values k that map to that value x. So all the k's where f of k equals x the probability that x equals k. Okay, this is another way of writing the probability that f ofx equals x. Okay. So, in other words, I'm I'm grouping the terms in a particular way. I'm saying, well, f ofx takes on various values. Um, clever of me to you switch. I used to use k's in the notes, so I better call this something else. Let's call this y. Sorry, switch notation here. makes sense. Probability I should look at the probability that X equals X. So what I really care about is what this f ofx value takes on. Let's just call it Y. Look at all the values Y that f could take on. That's the range of F. And then I'll look at all the different values of X where F ofX equals Y. If I add up those probabilities uh because these are different values of x those probab those are sort of independent events um so this summation will be the probability that f ofx equals y this is capital x this is little y and then if I multiply that by y I'm getting the expectation of f ofx so think about this these two inequalities bolt. This may be a bit bizarre here because these sums are potentially infinite, but it's true. Okay, this proves Jensen's inequality. So, it wasn't very hard, just a couple of boards once we had this this powerful convexity lema. Um, so we just use convexity. We use the definition of e of x. We use convexity. That lets us put the fs inside. Then we do this regrouping of terms and we figure out oh that's just e of f ofx. So the only inequality here is coming from convexity. All right. Now comes the algorithms. So this was just some basic probability stuff which is good to practice. Okay. We could see in the quiz, which is not surprising, this is the case for me too. You have a lot of intuition for algorithms. Whenever it's algorithmic, it makes a lot of sense because you're sort of grounded in something that you know because you're computer scientists or something of that ilk. For the purposes of this class, you're computer scientists. Um, but with sort of the basic probability, unless you happen to be a mathematician, it's uh less intuitive and therefore harder to get fast. And in quiz one, speed is pretty important. On the final, speed will also be important. The take-home certainly doesn't hurt. So, the take-home is more interesting because it requires being clever. You have to actually be creative and that really tests algorithmic design. So far we've mainly tested analysis and just can you work through probability? Can you figure out what the can you remember what the running time of randomized quicksort is and so on. U quiz two will actually test creativity because you have more time. It's hard to be creative in two hours. Okay. Okay, so we want to analyze the expected height of a randomly constructed binary search tree. So as I've defined this before, but let me repeat it because it was a while ago almost the beginning of lecture. I'm going to take the random variable of the height of a randomly built binary search tree on nodes. So that was randomize the n values. Take a random permutation. Insert them one by one from left to right with tree insert. What is the height of the tree that you get? What is the maximum depth of any node? I'm not going to look so much at xn. I'm going to look at the exponentiation of xn. And still we have no intuition why. But 2 to the x is a convex function. Okay, it looks like that. It's very sharp. That's my best I can do for drawing uh 2 to the x. You saw how I drew my histogram. Um okay, so we want to somehow write this random variable as something. Okay, in some algebra and the main thing here is to split into cases. That's how we how we usually go because there's lots of different scenarios of what happens. So I mean how do we construct a tree from the beginning? First thing we do is we take the first node we throw it in make it the root. Okay. So whatever the first value happens to be in the array which we don't really know how that falls in the sorted order. We put it at the root and it stays the root. We never change the root from then on. Now of all the remaining elements, some of them are less than this value and they go over here. So let's call this R for the root and some of them are greater than R so they go over here. Maybe there's more over here. Maybe there's more over here. Who knows? Arbitrary partition. In fact, uniformly random partition, which should sound familiar. whether there are k elements over here and and n minus k minus one elements over here is for any value of k that's equally likely because this is chosen uniformly. The root is chosen uniformly. It's the first element in a random permutation. So what I'm going to do is parameterize by that how many elements are over here and how many elements are over here because this thing is again a randomly built binary search tree on however many nodes are in there. Because after I pick R, it's determined who's to the left and who's to the right. And so I can just partition. It's like running quicksort. I partition the elements left of R, the elements right of R, and I'm sort of recursively constructing a randomly built binary search tree on those two subp permutations because subp permutations of uniform permutations are uniform. Okay, so these are essentially recursive problems and we know how to analyze recursive problems. All you need to know is that there are k minus one elements over here and n minus k elements over here. And that would mean that r has rank k. Remember rank in the sense of the index in the sorted order. So go. So if the root r has rank k. So this is a statement about conditioned on this event which is a random event. Then what we have is xn equ= 1 + the max of x k minus one x n minus k because the height of this tree is the max of the heights of the two sub trees plus one because we have one more level up top. Okay. So that's the natural thing to do. What we are trying to analyze though is yn. So for y we have to take 2 to this power. So it's 2 * the max of 2 to the x kus one which is ykus one and two to this which is y n minus k. And now you start to see maybe why we're interested in y's instead of x's in the sense that it's what we know how to do when we solve a recursion. When we solve like the expected running time we haven't take expectations yet here but when we compute the expected running time of quicksort we have something like two times I mean we have a couple of recursive sub problems which are being added together. Okay, here we have a factor of two. Here we have a max. But intuitively we know how to multiply random variables by a constant because that's like there's two recursive sub problems of the size equal to the max of these two. Okay, which we don't happen to know here but there it is. Um whereas one plus we don't know how to handle so well. And indeed our techniques are really good at solving recurrences except up to the constant factors. And this one plus really doesn't affect the constant factor too much it would seem. Okay. But it's a big deal in exponentiation. It's a factor of two. So here it's really hard to see what this one plus is doing. And our analysis if we tried it and it's a good idea to try it at home. See what happens. If you tried to do the what I'm about to do with XN, the one plus will sort of get lost and you won't get a bound. Just can't prove anything. With a factor of two, we're in good shape. We sort of know how to deal with that. I'll say more. when we're when we've actually done the proof about why we use yn instead of xn but for now we're using yn. So this is sort of a recursion except it's conditioned on this event. So how do I turn this into a statement that holds all the time? This should sorry divide by the probability of the event more or less. Uh indeed these events are independent or they're all equally likely I should say they're not independent. In fact, one determines all the others. So how would I how do I generally represent an event in algebra? indicator random variables. Good. Remember your friends, indicator random variables. All of these analyses use indicator random variables. So they will just represent this event. Uh and we'll call it Z and K. It's going to be one if the the root has rank K and zero otherwise. So in particular the probability of these things are all equally likely for a particular value of n. If you try all the values of K, the probability that this equals one, which is also the expectation of that indicator random variable, which you should know because it only takes values one or zero. The zero doesn't matter in the expectation. So, uh this is going to be hopefully one over n. I got it right. There are n possibilities of what the rank of the root could be. each of them is equally likely because we have a uniform permutation. So now I can rewrite this conditional statement as a summation where the Z and K's will let me choose what case I'm in. So we have yn is the sum k = 1 to n of zn k* 2 * the max of x sorry y k - one y n minus k. So now we have our good friend the recurrence. We need to solve it. Okay, we can't really solve it because this is a random variable and it's talking about recursive random variables. So we first take the expectation of both sides. That's what we really that's the only thing we can really bound. Yn could be n squ in an unlucky case. Sorry, not n^2. It it could be n^2. It could be two to the boy could be 2 to the n if you're unlucky because xn could be as big as n the height of the tree and yn is two to that. So it could be two to the n. What we want to prove is that it's polomial in n. If it's n to some constant we take logs it'll be order log n. Okay. So we'll take the expectation and hopefully that will guarantee that this holds. Okay. So we have expectation of this summation of random variables times recursive uh random variables. So what is the first I forgot a bracket. What is the first thing that we do in this analysis? This should linearity. Yeah. linearity of expectation. That one's easy to remember. We have a sum. So, let's put the E inside. Okay. Now, we have the expectation of a product. What should we use? Independence. Hopefully things are independent. And then we could write this. Then it would be the expectation of the product. And heck, let's put the two outside because it's not no sense in keeping it in here. My Y's are starting to look like X's. I can't even read them. Sorry about that. It should all be wise. Okay, very wise random variables. So why are these independent? So here we're looking at the choice of what the root is, what rank the root has in a problem of size n. In here, we're looking at what the root I mean there are various choices of what the search tree looks like in the stuff left of the root and in the stuff right of the root. Those are independent choices because everything is uniform here. So the choice of this guy was uniform. And then that determines who partitions in the left and the right. Those are completely independent recursive choices of who's the root at in the left sub tree, who's the rooe in the left of the left subree and so on. So these r this is a little trickier than usual. Before it was random choices in the algorithm. Now it's in some construction that where we choose the random numbers ahead of time. It's a bit funny but this is still independent. So we get this just like we did in quicksort and so on. Now we continue. And now it's time to be a bit sloppy. Well, one of these things we know. Okay, E of ZN K that we wrote over here. It's 1 / M. So that's cool. So we get a 2 over n outside and we get this sum of the expectation of a max of these two things. And normally we would write well I think that's pretty sometimes we write t of max or y of the max of the two things. Here we got to write it as the max of these two variables. And the trick I mean it's not too much of a trick is that the max is at most the sum. So we have non- negative things. So we have 2 over n sum k = 1 to n of the expectation of the sum instead of the max. Okay, this is in some sense the key step where we're losing something in our bound. So far we've been exact. Now we're being pretty sloppy. It's true this max is at most the sum, but it's a pretty loose upper bound as things go. Keep that in mind for later. What else can we do with this summation? This should again look familiar. Now, now that we have a sum of a sum of two things, kind of like it to be a sum of one thing. Sorry. You can use linearity of expectation. Good. So that's the first thing I should do. So linearity of expectation lets me separate that. Now I have a sum of two n things, right? I could break that into the sum of these guys and the sum of these guys. You know anything about those two sums? Do we know anything about those two sums? They're the same. In fact, every term here is appearing exactly twice. Once a k minus one, once an n minus k and that even works if it's odd, I think so. In fact, we can just take one of the sums and multiply it by two. So, this is 4 n times the sum and I'll rewrite it a little bit from 0 to n minus one of e of yk. Just check the number of times each yk appears from 0 to n minus one is exactly two. So now I have a recurrence. I have E of YN is at most this thing. Just write that for memory. It's about that. Cool. Now I just have to solve the recurrence. How should I solve an ugly hairy recurrence like this? Substitution. Yay. Not the master method. Okay. It's pretty nasty recurrence. So I'm going to make a guess and I've already told you the guess that it's n cubed. I think n cubed is pretty much exactly where this this proof will be obtainable. So substitution method substitution method is just a proof by induction. And there are two things every proof by induction should have. Well, almost every proof by induction being fancy. It should have a base case. And the base case here is n equals order one. I didn't write it, but of course if you have a constant size tree, it has constant height. So this thing will be true uh as long as we set uh true if C is sufficiently large. Okay. So, don't forget that. A lot of people forgot it on the quiz. We even mentioned the base case. Usually, we don't even mention the base case. And you should assume that there's one there. And you have to say this in any proof by substitution. Okay. Now, we have the induction step. So I claim that E of YN is at most C of N cubed assuming that it's true for smaller N. You should write the induction hypothesis here, but I'm going to skip it because I'm running out of time. Now we have this recurrence that E of YN is at most this thing. So E of YN is at most 4 N sum K = 0 to NUS1 of E of Y K Now notice that k is always smaller than n. So we can apply induction. So this is at most 4 / n from k = 0 to n minus one of c * k cubed. That's the induction hypothesis. Cool. Now I need an upper bound on this sum. If you're uh if you have a good memory, then you know a closed form for this sum. But I don't have such a good memory as I used to. I never memorized this sum when I was a kid. So I don't I don't remember it. You know, everything I memorize when I was less than 12 years old. I still remember all the digits of pi, whatever. But anything I try to memorize now just doesn't quite stick the same way. Uh so I don't happen to know this sum. What's a good way to approximate this sum integral? Good. So in fact, if I'm going to take the C outside also. So this is 4 C over N. The sum is at most the integral if you get the range right. So you have to go one larger. Instead of N minus one, you go up to N. This is in the textbook. It's intuitive, too. If as long as you have a monotone function, that's key. So you have something that's like this. And you know the sum is taking each of these and waiting them with a value of one. The integral is computing the area under this curve. So in particular, if you look at this approximation of the integral, then I mean this thing is certainly this would be the sum if you go one larger at the end and that's at most the integral. So that's proof by picture but you can see this in the book you should know it from 042 I guess. Now integrals hopefully you can solve integral of x cubed is x 4th over 4 right yeah got it right and then we're evaluating that at n and at zero subtracting get to zero doesn't matter because 0 to the 4th power is zero so it's just n to the 4th over 4. So this is 4 C over N * N 4th over 4. And conveniently this four cancels with this four. The four turns into a three because of this and we get n cubed. We get c n cubed. Damn convenient because that's what we wanted to prove. Okay. So this proof is just barely snaking by. No residual term. We've been sloppy all over the place and yet we were really lucky and we we were just sloppy in the right places. So this is a very tricky proof. If you just try to do it by hand, uh it's pretty easy to be too sloppy and and not get quite the right answer, but this just barely works. Let me say a couple things about it. Um my remaining one minute. So we can do the conclusion again. I won't write it. have time but here it is. Um we just proved a bound on yn which was 2 ^ xn. What we cared about was xn. So we use Jensen's inequality. We get that 2 to the e of xn is at most e of 2 to the xn. This is what we know about because that's yn. So we know e of yn is now order n cubed. Okay. We had to set this constant sufficiently large for the base case. We didn't really figure out what the constant was here. didn't matter because now we're taking the logs of both sides. Get e of xn is at most log of order n cub. This constant is a multiplicative constant. So you take the logs it becomes additive. This constant is an exponent. So we take logs it becomes a multiple. We get three log n plus order one. This is a pretty damn tight bound on the height of a randomly built binary search tree. The expected height I should say. In fact, the expected height of xn is equal to uh well roughly I'll just say it's roughly I don't want to be too precise here. 2.9882 times log n. This is a result by a friend of mine Luke Devoy if I can spell it right. in 1986. He's a professor at McGill University in Montreal. So, we're pretty close. 3 to 2.98. And I won't prove this here. The hard part here is actually the lower bound that it's only that much. Um, right. I should say a little bit more about why we use YN instead of Xn. And it's all about the sloppiness. and in particular this step where we said that the ma the max of these two random variables is at most the sum and while that's true for x just as well as it is true for y it's more true for y okay this is a bit weird uh because remember what we're analyzing here is all possible values of k this has to work no matter what k is in some sense I mean we're bounding all of those cases simultaneously the sum of them So here we're looking at k minus one versus n minus k and in fact here there's a polomial version but so if you take uh two values a and b and you say well max of a b is at most a plus b and on the other hand you say well max of 2 to the a and 2 to the b is at most 2 to the a plus 2 to the b. Doesn't this feel better than that? Well, they're of course the same. But if you look at a minus b, as that grows, this becomes a tighter bound faster than this becomes a tighter bound. Okay? Because here we're looking at absolute value, absolute difference between a minus b. So that's why this is pretty good and this is pretty bad. We're still really bad if a and b are almost the same. But we're trying to solve this for all uh partitions into k minus one and n minus k. So it's okay if we get a few of the cases wrong in the middle where it evenly partitions. But as soon as you get some skew, this will be very close to this whereas this will be still pretty far from this. You have to get pretty close to the edge before you're not losing much here. Whereas pretty quickly you're not losing much here. That's the intuition. Try it. see what happens with XN and it won't work. See you Wednesday.