Everything I say today is going to be for n byn systems but uh for your calculations in the exams 2 by two will be good enough. So our system looks like that. Uh notice I'm talking today about the homogeneous system not the inhomogeneous system. So homogeneous and uh we have so far two basic methods of solving it. Uh the first one on which we spent the most time is the method of where you calculate the igen values of the matrix the igen vectors and put them together to make the general solution. So igen values e vectors and so on. A second method which I gave you last time I called the royal road simply calculates the matrix e to the a and says that the solution is e to the a * x0 the initial condition that's very elegant or the only problem is that to calculate the matrix e to the a although sometimes you can do it by its definition as an infinite series most of the time. The only way to calculate the matrix E to the A is by using the fundamental matrix. In other words, normal the normal way of doing it is you have to calculate it as the fundamental matrix time normalized at zero. So as I explained at the end of last time and you've practiced in the recitations, you have to find the fundamental matrix which of course you have to do by igen values and igen vectors and then you multiply it by its value at zero inverse and that by magic turns out to be the same as the exponential matrix. But of course there has been no gain in simplicity or no gain in ease of calculation. The only difference is that the language has been changed. Now the today is going to be devoted to yet another method which saves no work at all and it only amounts to a change of language. The only reason I give it to you is because I've been begged by various engineering departments to do so because that is the language they use. In other words, each every every each person who solves systems, some like to use fundamental matrices, some just calculate, some immediately convert the system by elimination into a single first or single higher order equation because they're more comfortable with that. Some talk, especially if they're writing papers, they talk exponential matrices. uh but there are certain number of engineers and scientists who talk decoupling express this the problem and the answer in terms of decoupling and that's therefore what I have to explain to you today. So the third method, today's method, I stress it's no more than a change really no more than a change of language. And I feel a little guilty about the whole business because it's uh you know instead of going more deeply into studying these equations, what I'm doing is uh it's like giving a language course and uh uh I'm teaching you how to say hello and goodbye in French, German, Spanish, Italian. uh it's not going very deeply into any of those languages but I have you're going into the outside world where people will speak these things. So uh here's an introduction to the language of decoupling in which some people is is the exclusive language in which they talk about systems. uh now I think the best way to well in a general way what you try to do is as follows you try to introduce new variables you make a change of variables I'm going to do it just uh two by two just to save a lot of writing out and so let's call the change it's a it's going to be a linear change of variables because we're interested in linear systems so the problem is to find U and V such that something wonderful happens. Such that when you make the change of variables to express this system in terms of U and V, it becomes decoupled. And that means the system turns into a system which looks like u prime equals k1 * u and v prime = k2 * v. such a system is called decoupled. Why? Well, and a system a normal system is called coupled. Let's write it out what it would be. it would look like uh oh I can't use a let's not write it out you know what it looks like uh this is decoupled because it's not really a system at all it's just two first order equations sitting side by side and having nothing whatever to do with each other it's this is two problems from the first day of the term it is not one problem from the next to last day of the term in other words to solve this all you say is you is equal to a constant is some constant times e to the k1t and v equals another constant times e to the k2t. Coupled means coupled means that the x and y occur in both both occur in both equations on the right hand side and therefore you cannot solve separately for x and y. You must solve together for both of them. Here I can solve separately for U and V and therefore they have the system has been decoupled. Now obviously if you can do that it's an enormous advantage not just to the ease of solution because you can write down the solution immediately but because something physical must be going on there. There must be some insight there must be there ought to be some physical reason for these new variables. Now that's what I plan to start with. So my plan for the lecture is first to work out in some detail a specific example where the decoupling is done to show how that leads to the solution and then we'll go back and see how to do it in general because you will see that as I do the decoupling in this particular example that that particular method though it's suggestive it will not work in general. I need a more general method. But let's first go to the example. It's like one it's a slight modification of one you should have done in recitation. I didn't I don't think I worked one of these in the uh lecture but uh to describe it uh I have to draw two views of it to make sure you know exactly what I'm talking about. So it's our old sometimes it's called an ice cube the two compartment ice cube tray problem. You know, you fill an ice and it's a very old-fashioned type of ice cube tray, not a modern one, which is all all plastic and where there's no leaking from one compartment to another, but the old kind of ice cube tray, you know, you there were compartments and these were metal separators and you leveled the liquid because it could leak through the bottom. They didn't go right to the bottom. Uh, if you don't know what I'm talking about, it makes no difference. Uh, so I'm going to let So, this is the side view. This is meant to be twice as long. But to make it quite clear, I'll draw the top view of this thing. Uh you have to imagine these this is a rectangle. All the sides are parallel and everything. This is one and this is two. All I'm trying to say is that the cross-sectional area of these two chambers, this one has twice the cross-sectional area of this one. So I'll write a two here and I'll write a one there. Of course, it's this hole here through which everything leaks. I'm going to let X be the height of this liquid, the water here, and Y the height of the water in that chamber. Obviously, as time goes by, they both reach the same height because of somebody's law. Now, what's the system of differential equations which controls this? Well, the essential thing is the flow rate through here. So that flow rate through the hole uh in units let's say in liters per second just to so you understand I'm talking about the volume of liquid that goes in that goes through in AI'm not talking about the velocity uh that's proportional to to the uh area of the hole, the cross-section, the size of the hole. So, the area of the hole, the cross-sectional area, right? And it's also times the velocity of the flow, but the velocity of the flow depends upon the pressure difference. And that pressure difference depends upon the difference in heights. All those are various people's laws. So, times the height difference. And of course you have to get the sign right. So I just point out the height difference is proportional to the pressure to the pressure at the hole. And it's that pressure at the hole which determines the velocity with which the fluid flows through. So where does this all produce our equations? Well, uh, x prime is equal to therefore some constant depending on the area of the hole and this constant of proportionality with the pressure and the units and everything else times the pressure difference I'm talking about. Well, if fluid is going to flow in this direction, that must mean the height, the y height is higher than the x. So, it should be to make things to make x prime positive, it should be y - x here. Now the y prime is different because again the rate of fluid flow is determined this time it will be x minus if y prime is positive if this is rising as it will be in this case it's because the fluid is flowing in that direction. It's because x is higher than y. So this should be the same constant x minus y. But notice that that will not that's the rate at which the right hand side is the rate at which fluid is flowing into this tank. That is not the rate at which y is changing. It's the rate at which 2y is changing. Why isn't there a constant here? There is. It's one. That's the one. That's this one cross-section. So the area here is one and the area cross-sectional area here is two. And that's the reason for the one here and the two here because we're interested in the amount by which the fluid is the rate at which fluid is being added to this which is only related to the height. The rate at which the height is rising if you take into account the cross-sectional area. So there's the system. uh in order to make uh use nothing but integers here I'm going to take C equal to uh two so I don't have to put in halves so the final system is x prime equals uh minus 2x you got to write them in the right order right and y prime equals the twos cancel because c is two so now it's x minus y so there's our system and now the problem is I want to solve it by decoupling it. I want in other words to find new variables u and v uh which are better more natural to the problem than the x and y that are so natural to the problem that the system the new system will just consist of the two side by side equations instead of the single equation. So the question is what should u and v be? Now the difference between what I'm going to do now and what I'm going to do later in the period is later in the period I'll give you a systematic way of finding what U and V should be. Now we're going to psych it out. Psych out what they should be in the way in which uh people who solve systems often do. I'm going to use the fact this is not just an abstract system of equations. that comes from some physical problem and I ask is there some system of variables which are somehow go more deeply into the structure of these of this what's going on here than the naive variables which simply tell me how high the two tank levels are that's the obvious thing I can see but are there some variables which go more deeply now one of them is obvious sort of obvious and suggest tested both by the form of the equation and by this this is it's simply the different the difference in heights is in some ways a more natural variable because it's that's directly related to the pressure difference which is directly related to the velocity of flow they will differ by just constant so I'm going to call that the second variable uh the difference in heights let's call it so that's x minus y that's a very natural variable for the problem the question is what should the other one be? Now you sort of stare at that a while until it occurs to you that something is constant. What's constant in this problem? Well, the tank is sitting there. That's constant. But what thing which might be a variable is clearly a constant must be a constant. It will be the total amount of water in the two tanks. These things vary, but the total amount of water stays the same because there's it's a homogeneous problem. No water is coming in from the outside and none is leaving the tanks through a little hole. Okay. What's the expression for the total amount of water in the tanks? X + 2 Y. Therefore, that's a natural variable also. It's independent of this one. It's not a simple multiple of it. It's a really different variable. So this represents the total amount of This variable represents the total amount of water of liquid in the two tanks. This represents the pressure up to a constant factor. It's proportional to the pressure at the hole. Okay. Now what I'm going to do is say okay this is my change of variables and now let's plug in and see if what happens to the system when I plug in these two variables. How do I do that? Well so I want to substitute get the new system the new system or rather the old system but in terms of the what makes it new is in terms of u and v. What will that be? Well, u prime is x prime + 2 yp prime. But I know what x prime and plus 2 y prime is because I can calculate it from this. What will it be? x prime + 2 y prime is -2x plus twice y prime. So it's plus 2x that's zero. And how about these two? 2 y minus twice this because I want this this plus twice that so it's 2 y minus 2 y again zero the right hand side becomes zero after I calculate x prime + 2 y so that is zero that is of course clear now that makes sense of course because since the total amount is constant u prime that says that u prime is zero Okay. What's V prime? V prime. Well, that's X prime minus Y prime. What's that? Well, once again, we have to calculate. It's X prime minus Y prime is - 2X - X. That's - 3X. And 2 Y - Y that makes 3 Y. + 3 y. All right. What's the system? The system is u prime = 0 and v prime equals -3 * x - y. But x - y is v. In other words, this these new two variables decouple the system. And we got them as as scientists often do by physical considerations. These variables go more deeply into what's going on in that system of two tanks than the simply the two heights which are too obvious as variables. All right. What's the solution? Well, the solution is u equals a constant and v prime and v is equal to well the solution to this equation is some constant arbit a different arbitrary constant from that one. These are side by side equations which have nothing whatever to do with each other remember times e to the minus3t. Now there are two options. Either one leaves the solution in terms of those new variables saying they're more natural to the problem. But sometimes of course one wants the answer in terms of the old ones. If you do that then you have to solve back. Uh I'm in order to save a little time since this is purely linear algebra uh uh I'm going to write what the uh instead of you know taking two minutes to actually do the calculation in front of you I'll just write down what the answer is. So to ex so to express in terms of uh you and x and y. So in other words, this is a perfectly good way to leave the answer uh if you're allowed to do it. Uh but if somebody says they want the answer in terms of x and y, well, you have to give them what they they're paying for. Uh so in terms of x and y you have first to solve those equations backwards for x and y in terms of u and v in which case you will get uh x = 1/3 u + 2v using the inverse matrix or just do elimination whatever you usually like to do and the other one will be 13 u minus v. And then if you then turn these substitute in you'll see what you'll get is 1/3 of uh C1 uh C1 U is uh sorry U is C1. uh plus uh so or C1 + uh 2 C2 E -3t and this is 1/3 uh what is it C1 minus C2 EUS 3t and so the final solution is in terms of the way we usually write out the answer. Then x will be what? Well, it will be 1/3 uh c1 times the igen vector 1 1 plus 1/3 * c2 * the igen vector 21 * eus 3t. So that's the solution written out in terms of x and y either as a vector in the usual way or in terms separately in terms of x and y. But notice in order to do that you have to have the equations these backwards equations. In other words I need the equations in that form I need the equations because they tell me what the new variables are but I also have to have to have the equations the other way in order to get the solution in terms of x and y finally. Okay, that was all an example. Uh, for the rest of the period, I'd like to show you the general method of doing the same thing, which does not depend upon being clever about the choice of the new variables. And then I at the very end of the period I I'll apply the general method to this problem to see whether we get the same answer or not. So what's the general method? Our problem is to decouple. Now the first thing is you can only you can't always decouple. You must to decouple the igen values must all be real must all be real and nondeffective. If in other words if they are repeated they must be complete. You must have enough independent igen vectors. So they must be real and complete. If repeated they must be complete. They must not be defective. A common the most as I told you at the time when we studied complete and incomplete. The most common case in which this occurs is when the matrix is symmetric. If the matrix is real and symmetric then this is you can always decouple the system. That's a very important theorem. Very important theorem. Uh because particularly since many of the problems equilibrium problems normally lead to symmetric matrices and they're solved by decoupling. Okay. So what are we looking for? So we're assuming this and we need it. In general, otherwise you cannot decouple if you have complex values and you cannot decouple if you have defective igen values. Well, what are we looking for? We're looking for new variables. UV equals A1 B1 A2 B2 times the XY And the question is this matrix is called D. It's called the decoupling matrix and it's what we're looking for. How do I choose those new variables U and V when I don't have any physical considerations to guide me as I did before? Now the key is to look instead at what you're going to need. Remember, we're changing variables and we're changing I told you from the beginning, first days of the term, when you change variables, look at what you're going to need to substitute in to make the change of variables. Don't just start writing equations. What we're going to need to plug into that system and change it to the UV coordinates is not U and V in terms of X and Y. What we need is X and Y in terms of U and V to do the substitution. So the what we need is the inverse of this. I'm so I'm going to write that. So this is in order to do the substitution what we need is xy oops let's I shouldn't have called these let's call them uh prime. Okay the real a1 and a2 is the is going to be let's call these a1 because these are going to be much more important to the problem than the other ones. Okay, I'm going to I should call this matrix D inverse. That would be a sensible thing to call it instead. Since I since this is the important matrix, this is the one we're going to need to do the substitution. I'm going to give it another letter instead. And the letter that comes after D is E. Now, E is an excellent choice because it's also the first letter of the word vector. And the point is the matrix E which is going to work is the matrix whose columns are the two vectors. The columns are the two bioonductors. Now, even if you didn't know anything, that would be practically the only reasonable choice anybody could make. What are we looking for? We're looking for a linear to make a linear change of variables like this really means to pick new I and J vectors. You know, from the first days of 1802, uh you what you want is a new coordinate system in the plane. And the coordinate system in the plane is determined as soon as you tell me what the new i is and what the new j is in the new system. So what you have to to establish a linear change of coordinates amounts to picking two new vectors which are going to play the role of i and j instead of the old i. The old i and the old j. Okay. So pick two vectors which somehow are important to this matrix. Well there are only two. to the igen vectors what else could they possibly be so the only thing to try now what's the relation I say that with this uh this automatically makes what happens is I say that alpha one corresponds an alpha 2 these are vectors in the xy system well if I change the coordinates to U and V in the UV system. They will correspond to the vectors 1 Z. In other words, what the vector that we would normally call I in the UV system. And this one will correspond to the vector 01. Now, if you don't believe that, I'll calculate it for you. It's very easy to the calculation is trivial. Look what have we got. XY equals so XY equals A1 B1 A2 B2 this is the vector the column vector alpha 1 and this is the column vector alpha 2 okay now here is U and V okay suppose I make U and V equal to 1 Z what happens to X and ly you matrix multiply 1 0 1. So a1 + b1 plus 0 it corresponds to the column vector a1 b1. And in the same way uh 01 corresponds to a2 b2 just by matrix multiplication. And that shows this thing that these correspond. So in the UV system the two igen vectors are now called I and J. Uh well that's looks very promising. But we still now the program now is to do the substitution to substitute into the system x prime= ax and see if it's it's decoupled in the uv coordinates. Now, I don't dare let you do this by yourself because you'll run into trouble and it nothing's going to happen. You'll just get a mess and you you'll say, "Hey, I must be missing something." And that's because you are missing something. uh what you're missing and this is a good occasion to tell you is uh that in general uh threequarters of the civilized world does not introduce igen values and igen vectors the way you learned them in 1803 uh they use a different definition which is identical I mean it's not it's equivalent it leads to the the concept is the same but it looks a little Our definition is what? Well, what's an igen value and I vector? The basic thing is this equation. What's it? This is a 2x2 matrix, right? This is a column vector with two entries. The product is the has to be a column vector with two entries, but both entries are supposed to be zero. So I'll write it this way. So this way first defines what an igen value is. It's something which makes the determinant zero. And then it defines what an igen vector is. It's then a solution to the system that you can get because the determinant is zero. Now that's not what most people do. What most people do is the following. They write this equation differently by putting it having something on both sides using the distributive law. What goes on the left side is a alpha 1. What is that? That is a column vector with two entries. What goes on the right? Well, lambda 1 times the identity times alpha 1. Now the identity matrix times anything doesn't just reproduces what was there. So there's no difference between writing the identity times alpha 1 and just alpha 1 all by itself. So that's what I'm going to do. This is the definition of igen value and igen vector that that all the other people use. Uh most linear algebra books use this definition. uh most books use a different approach and they say here is an igen value and an igen vector and it requires them to defy them in the opposite order. first what alpha 1 is and then what al lambda 1 is see I don't have any determinant now so what's the definition the definition and they like it because it has a certain geometric flavor which this one lacks entirely this is good for solving differential equations which is why we're using it in 1803 but this has a certain geometric content this way thinks of a as a linear transformation of the plane a shearing ing of the plane. You take the plane and you do something to it or you like that or you squish it like that or you rotate it. That's okay too. And the question it asks is the matrix defines a linear transformation plane. Every vector goes to another vector. Is there a vector which is taken by this linear transformation and just left alone or stretched is kept in the same direction but stretched or maybe its direction is reversed and it's stretched or it's shrunk. But in general if there are real values there will be such vectors which are just left in the same direction but just stretched or shrunk. And what is the lambda? The lambda then is the amount by which they're stretched or shrunk the factor. So this way first we have to find the vector which is left unchanged and then we essentially unchanged and then we have to then the the number here that goes with it is the stretching factor or the shrinking factor. But the end result is the pair alpha 1 and lambda 1 regardless of which order you find them satisfy the same equation. Now, a consequence of this definition, we're going to need in the calculation that I'm going to do in just a moment. So, let me calculate that out. What I want to do is calculate the alpha A, the matrix A* E. I'm going to need to calculate that. Now, what is that? Well, remember E is the matrix whose columns are the igen vectors. So that is the matrix alpha 1 alpha 2. Now what's this? Well, in both Friday's lecture and Monday's lecture, I use the fact that if you do a multiplication like that, it's the same thing as doing the multiplication a alpha 1 and putting it in the first column and then a alpha 2 is the column vector that goes in the second column. But what's this? This is lambda 1 alpha 1 and this is lambda 2 alpha 2 by the calculation by this other definition of igen value in igen vector. And what's this? Can I write this in terms of matrices? Yes indeed I can. This is the matrix lambda. This is the matrix alpha 1 alpha 2 times this matrix lambda 1 lambda 2 0 0. Check it out. Lambda 1 plus z plus 0 lambda 1 times this thing plus 0. The first entry is exactly that. In the same way the second column doing the same calculation is exactly this. So what's that? That's E times this matrix lambda 1 0 0 lambda 2. Okay, we're almost finished now. So now we can carry out our work. We're going to substitute do the substitution. So I start with the system. Remember where we are. I'm starting with this system. I'm going to make the substitution. X sorry X is equal to this matrix E whose columns are the igen vectors and that's going to be I'm introducing in other words new variables U and V according to that thing is it did I uh ever say U so U is the column vector sorry U is the column vector U and V and X as usual is the column vector X and Y so I'm going Plug it in. Okay, let's plug in. So what do I get? I take the derivative. So E is a constant matrix. So that makes E * U prime is equal to A * X is E * U again. And now at this point you would be stuck except I calculated for you A * E is E times that Freddy matrix diagonal matrix with the lambdas. So this is E times that funny matrix of the lambdas, the igen values and still the U at the end of it. So where are we? E * U prime equals E * this thing. Well, multiply both sides by E inverse and you can cancel them out. And so the end result is that after you've made the substitution in terms of the new variables u, what you get is u prime equals lambda 1 lambda 2 0 0 times u. Let's write that out in terms of a system. So this is uv what does it say? UV prime is equal to well this is uv here. So it's lambda 1 * u + 0 * v. And the other one is v prime equals 0 * u + lambda 2 * v. We are decoupled in one just one sentence. In other words, you would say, in other words, if you were reading a book that sort of assumed you knew what was going on, all it would say is as usual, that's to make you feel bad or as is well known to make you feel even worse. uh uh uh the system is decoupled by choosing as the uh new basis for the system the the igen vectors of the matrix uh and in terms of the resulting new coordinates the decoupled system will be the following where the constants are the igen values and so the solution will be the solution will be u equals c1 uh * e to the lambda1 t and v is equal to c2 * e to the lambda 2t. Of course, if you want it back in terms now of x and y, uh you'll have to go back to here to these equations and then plug in for u and v what they are and then you'll get the answer in terms of x and y. Okay, we have uh just enough time to actually carry out this little program. It takes a lot longer to derive than it does actually to do. So let's do it for this system that we were talking about before. Uh let's this can go down. Okay. So decouple decouple the system XY prime equals the matrix is -2 1. Okay, what do I do? Well, I first have to calculate the igen values and the igen vectors. So the E, EVs and EVs. Okay. The characteristic equation is lambda squared. The trace is -3. But you have to change the sign. Uh the determinant is 2 minus 2. So that's zero. So there is no constant term here. It's zero. That's the characteristic equation. The roots are obviously lambda equals 0, lambda= -3. And what are the igen value? What are the igen vectors that go with that? With lambda equals 0 goes the igen vector - 2. Well, I subtract zero here. So the equation I have to solve is minus 2 a1 plus I'm not going to write 2 a2 which is what you've been writing up till now. The reason is because I ran into trouble with the notation and I had to use as the igen vector not a1 a2 but a1 b1. Uh so it should be a b1 here not the a2 that you're used to. uh the solution therefore is uh alpha equals alpha 1 equals uh 1 one and for lambda= -3 the corresponding vector this time will be uh now I have to subtract -3 from here so minus 2 -2 minus - -3 makes one so that's a1 + 2 b1 1 equals 0. So a logical choice for the igen vector here the second igen vector would be make b1 equal to one let's say and then a1 will be -2 okay now what do we have to do now what we want is the matrix E the matrix E is the matrix of igen vectors so it is the matrix 1 1 -2 1 the next thing we want is what the new variables u and v are. Uh for that we will need e inverse. How do you calculate the inverse of a 2x two matrix? Uh you switch the two diagonal elements which doesn't okay there I've switched them. Uh and you leave the other two where they are but you change their sign. So it's two up here and negative one there. Maybe I should make uh this one purple and then that one purple to indicate that I've switched them. Uh oh, I'm not done yet. I have to multiply divide by the determinant. What's the determinant? It's 1 minus -2, which is three. So I have to divide by three. So I multiply everything here by 1/3. Okay. And what's the decoupled system? So the decoupled system is so the the new variables are u equals3. So right it's u. So in other words the new variables are given by d. So it's uv equals uh 1 2 -1 1 * 1/3 uh uh * xy. That's the expression for I've covered it up now, but that's u of v in terms of x and y. It's this matrix D, the decoupling matrix, which is the one that's used. And that gives the system u = 1/3 of x + 2 y on top. And what's the v entry? V is/3 of - x + y. Now, are those the same variables that I used before? Uh oh. Ah yes. Uh the top one this is my new and better you. The one I got by just blindly following the method instead of looking for physical things with physical meaning. How does it it differs from the old one just by a constant factor. Now that doesn't have any effect on the resulting equation because if the old one is u prime equals 0, the new one is a third u prime equals 0. It's still the same equation in other words. And how about this one? This one differs from the other one by the factor minus 1/3. If I take multiply that v through by minus a3, I get this v. And therefore that two does not affect the second equation. I simply multiply both sides by minus a third. So the new V still satisfies the equation uh minus3 * V.