Okay. Yeah. Welcome everyone. So now we're get coming to the um another section of the course which is generative models. We'll have three lectures on generative models and generative models are you know the new name for them is generative AI. So this is the you know the big thing of 2023 and you know continuing on into the into this year 2024. [snorts] Okay. So we're going to learn all about what generative models are. Um again this is one of those topics which you could teach without mentioning deep learning at all. Of course we'll talk about deep generative models but the place where generative models are having um innovation is mostly in deep learning. That's that uh they kind of go hand in hand. Okay. So I want to come back to this picture because we had three lectures now on representation learning and the way I like to think about generative modeling is it's just the inverse of representation learning. So these two things representation learning and generative modeling [snorts] uh are very tightly coupled and we'll see actually in next lecture u models that do both representation learning and generative modeling at the same time. But we're talking about this direction now. We've so far in the last few weeks talked a lot about going from data to some kind of you know lowdimensional embedding and now we'll be going from um simple lowdimensional embeddings to data. Okay. So today we'll be just a tour of a bunch of the uh fundamentals of generative modeling and some of the popular models like diffusion models and GANs. And then uh next week we'll be looking at variational autoenccoders which are a model that does both directions uh jointly. And then we'll talk about um conditional models which is how can I condition a generative model on some data to predict some other data. And we'll we'll in lecture 16 we'll really get out what are these things useful for? So it might be a little confusing when you first come across generative models to know like why do we care about these things? They're things that make random images, random stories. Why would you care? Well, we care because you know chat GPT is a generative model and we know that that something that's popular. But we'll talk more about the applications of generative models in lecture 16. Okay. And yeah, I I love generative models. So I just think that, you know, my favorite topic is representation learning, but my even more favorite topic is generative modeling. And I think they're really the same topic. And this is just like the coolest thing in AI. So uh to me, uh generative models are kind of the core of of intelligence. And you know, that's kind of played out in the last few years with this generative AI revolution. Um, but it's it's just super cool stuff. Okay, so I'm going to start by giving a little math background. Um, because we're going to be using a different type of math than we've used previously in this class, which will be probability. Uh, this will be things that you should have already seen. If you haven't, you should touch up on this. Okay. Then we'll talk about what's a generative model. Um, we'll talk about density functions, energy functions, and samplers. uh and then we'll get into a survey of a few of the currently popular generative models. So, one will be the auto reggressive model. Uh the next will be the diffusion model and the next will be the GAN, the generative adversarial network. So, you know, there's a lot you could have a whole lecture, a whole class on, you know, diffusion models, but we're we're just going to go through the basics of it and um hopefully you'll have this toolkit that you can read up on um in your own work. Okay? And then and the good news is all generative models use the same principles. So there's not there's you know very tight connections between all of them. You can often cast one model as another model with like some exchange of variables. A diffusion model is a type of variational autoenccoder and an auto reggressive model is a small variation on a diffusion model. They're all connected. Okay. But you don't know what those terms mean presumably yet. So don't worry. We're going to we're going to see some connections. So what I uh want to start with is yeah what is the definition of a generative model and there's basically two definitions in the field. There's uh the definition that I will focus on which is an algorithm that generates data and there's a definition that you may have come across in a statistics class or probability class a slightly older definition which is a uh the joint distribution of uh some data. So probability of you know a joint configuration of x's y's and other variables. Okay, so these are actually highly related um concepts, but I think it's simp like our real goal in generative modeling, especially in this era that we would call generative AI is we want algorithms that make things that look like data. So what's data? It could be images. We want algorithms that make images. What's what's data? Proteins are data. We want algorithms that make pro proteins, design proteins, right? Uh design drugs. We want algorithms that write stories and chat with us. This is generating text. That's data. So this is in contrast to um other forms of AI which are more about um analyzing or classifying or deciding like making decisions taking data and saying this data is of type X or this data means I should turn left with my car. Um so going from data to decisions or abstract representations is what we've seen before but now we're going from uh something to data. Okay. But most of the time we'll we'll be generating data by either explicitly or implicitly modeling a distribution. And I I I think that this is all probably well known to you at this point in um in history, but these things are all over the world now. Uh generative models are what you know make it so that you can type in a sentence on your favorite text image model and say you know a group a photo of a group of robots building this data center and you get almost photorealistic uh pictures or you can make videos of this now. It's it's this thing is this stuff is advancing so quickly. Uh but what you might not know as much or not see yet in the media as much is that generative models also can be used to generate uh scientific data. um data that is not just for entertainment but might be for some kind of engineering application or logistics data of some form or uh in this case this is a diffusion model a type of generative model which is uh generating um some structures uh that describe the geometry of a um protein. So we have this input which is like I want you to make me the um I want I want you to tell me what the binding sites are on a protein and I'll use a diffusion model for that that process. Uh here's another example. Here is a an image to image model. So it's generating the output of this model is an image but the output is a CT scan image and this is conditioned on an input which is an MRI image. So it's taking a it's saying what would it look like if the doctor hadn't scanned with an MRI machine but had scanned with a CT machine. So we'll talk about that setting as well. Okay. So generative models are not just for entertainment but where they became popular was yeah writing funny stories and having chat bots and making funny images. Okay. So let's go over a little bit of math background to get us all on the same page. And this is material that if you haven't seen it before, you should review, but you should have taken some kind of probability or statistics class. Uh so we are going to be assuming that. Okay. But we're going to be changing the way we think about neural nets. So so far we've mostly thought of neural nets as functions that map from some input data to some output data. And uh in fact we've thought of them as you know the classical definition of a function which is for each unique element of the uh for each element of the input space there's a unique element of the output space. So it's a um many to one mapping or maybe a one to one mapping but it's not a one to many mapping. Okay. So for every element of the input there's only one output. Okay. And that's not going to be sufficient for generative models because we want to make we want to make a whole distribution of things. And so we're going to change our perspective a little bit. Uh let me just give an example of the function perspective on neural nets. Uh for a image classifier, the input might be a tensor in um an n by m by c number of color channels dimensional tensor. We're going to learn a function f. It will be a neural network and it will our goal is to output a class prediction. So it will be an integer from one to d where d is the number of classes. Okay. So instead we're going to now think of neural nets as or or the models that we'll consider are going to be mappings from some input space X not to a object Y but to a distribution over objects Y. So we call that with this fancy uh script P the the space of probability distributions over the space Y. And that might seem a little bit weird but it's like going from data to a distribution over possibilities not just one answer. And we've seen that in fact already. In fact, almost all the things that we've seen or you'll encounter in machine learning can be recast from this perspective. So, one example is uh classification. We actually model it as softmax regression. Right? This is the standard thing we've been doing in machine learning. We [snorts] uh learn a function from in this case let's say images to a distribution over the probability that will that the image contains each of the dclasses. So this little triangle is meant to indicate the simplex which is the space of all categorical distributions over D categories. Uh and for D categories it's the D minus one simplex. So like you know if I have a binary classifier zero or one then I my distribution will be um you know how much probability do I place on class one and how much probability do I place on class two and that will be like a line. Um okay so um this is this is the way we'll think of what we're actually modeling. We're modeling the probability of some output conditioned on that the input which is thought of as a random variable takes on some value x. And again this is something that does characterize the classific classifiers we've seen in the past. If we have a uh you know vanilla regression where we're doing regression with respect to a uklitian like squared error loss then you can recast that is outputting a Gaussian distribution over the possibilities and the mean is your what you're regressing. Okay. So the main perspective here is that the outputs of neural nets are either implicitly or explicitly going to be distributions of possibilities as opposed to just one like point prediction. So this was in that hacker's guide lecture I talked about um this idea that uh in a lot of deep learning we're going to um be predicting something from something and this little trick this hack is that you you you make the thing you're conditioning on. So you're going to predict like the the class of an image but better than that would be to take your whole experience of the photographers's life before they took that photo. uh if you condition on more information like a stack like a video then you get less uncertainty over the output and the neural nets we had looked at before we're making these point predictions just saying for this input I'm going to predict what is the possible label Y or what is the possible outcome Y [snorts] but in reality there's some um set of possibilities it's not always that there's only one answer there could be you know this image could be a cat with probability 50% and a dog with another probability and it becomes a complicated distribution to model and I said uh just put more information into X to reduce that uncertainty. But now I'm going to tell you if you don't have that luxury, if you can't put more data into X, what do you do? How do you model a complicated output distribution that's not just a point? Okay. Okay. So that's what generative modeling tries to tries to deal with. So a little bit more notation. Um so we'll talk about random variables. They'll be characterized by a distribution. So random variable um has a is a you know a set of possible um atoms and there's a distribution over uh what values that random variable will take on and that distribution is either a discrete or continuous. If it's discreet we call it a probability mass function and if it's continuous we will call it a probability density function. um and a realization of that random variable will be indicated with a lowercase variable name. So a sample from the distribution uh of possible settings of that random variable will be a realization X and we'll call that the probability of X and you can think of that as a mass in the discrete case or a probability density of X in the continuous case. Okay, so uppercase letters in this course are random variables. They're characterized by distributions. lowercase letters are realizations. They're characterized by scalers just the probability of that realization. Okay, so just um formally a probability mass function is a mapping from data to scalers. Uh and the scalers are between zero and one. So the probability can be zero up to 100% up to one. And the uh the sum of all the probabilities over all possibilities uh sums to one. That's just the definition of probability. So if you ever have a vector that sums to one like let's say you you normal you do L1 normalization of a vector of activations in a neural network and all of the and also you have like a sigmoid so that the numbers are all between 0 and one. Well that vector you can call that a probability mass function. That's just mathematically what a probability mass function is. Okay. Um probability density is the same thing except it's over continuous space and it integrates to one and uh the densities don't have to be uh they can go to infinity. So it's just the densities are non- negative. Okay. So again this should be stuff you know from probability infroprobability. Uh but it's a little bit of a different way of thinking about things and it's the the fundamental language of generative modeling. So you should refresh yourself on that. And the notation that is linked in the schedule for the very first class uh and that you should be using on your problem sets and we're using throughout the class uh has a section on probability and we have some shorthands. So one shorthand that might confuse you a little is if I write P of capital letter X I mean a distribution of this random variable and if I write P of lowercase letter X I mean the scalar probability of random variable X taking on value X. So this is um shorthand for like the distribution overx and this is shorthand for the distribution uh sorry the scalar probability of the realization random variable x takes on the value little x. Okay. So this is on on this slide as well from the notation doc. Okay. Okay. Cool. Any questions about uh the math background before we now get into generative models? Yeah, when it's a continuous probability function, how can you define the density? I mean from my understanding is that it's always zero. >> Yeah. So great question. So the question is for uh probability density functions like how do you define probability the probability of a you know infantessimal thing shouldn't go to zero. So the definition is you always only define um the probability of a variable taking on some value over an interval. So the probability of x being between you know zero and 0.1. So it's all defined with respect to the integrals. But usually we we don't worry about that. This is like when you kind of start thinking about measure theory and like the proper way to define things. But just think of it like the probability that x takes on that value. It's really defined as some integral. >> Yeah. Could you expend one more time how we can think of a neural network as an implicit distribution? >> Yeah. How can we think of a neural network as implying a probability distribution? We'll we'll show I'll show a bunch of kind of examples of this. But basically, let's say that I'm doing regression with an L2 loss. I'm going to predict some number. I will interpret that as I am predicting a distribution over outcomes parameterized by the mean equals my output of my neural network. So that that is like a And that interpretation is valid because the probability of the data under that Gaussian model is equal to the squared error loss function. So this is some something you can you can look into the connection between like Gaussian max likelihood modeling and uh le squares regression. >> So so it's not that the the network is like a sample of a distribution is that the output is a distribution itself. >> Well, we'll see both. So there's two two possibilities. One the network is outputting samples from a distribution and the other is the network is outputting parameters of a distribution. So I'm going to talk about both. Okay. So okay let's build up some intuition. Um so so that was math background. We're going to get some intuition and then we're going to get back to the math. Um so I like to start with generative models from this perspective that uh we already know about things like classifiers. take data and output a label. And so again, I like thinking of generative models as the inverse of that, the opposite direction. Take a label or some abstract description like I want you to make me a bird and output the thing that we would normally call data. There's no definition to label versus data, but you kind of have an intuition of that what that means. So yeah, like precisely mathematically there's really no no distinction here, but generative models are when the outputs are something you would think of as data. Okay. So, um what is what is the problem? The problem is that in this direction there's many possible outputs that match the input. Right? So, in this direction, there's only one possible label that is the correct label for this bird. But in this direction, that robin is just one possibility out of many. Okay? So, there's a distribution over correct answers. Okay? So, how do we model the distribution? So, we're going to see a few different ways, but here's um here's one of the ways. We take a function generator called a generator. That's a neural net. It's a deterministic function, but we condition it on some random variable. So, we make multiple outputs by taking the function and conditioning it on some random variable. And that will be these dice. So, we roll the dice, we input that into our system, we get one outcome. We roll the dice, that's a different setting of numbers, and that gives us another outcome. And this is the way that you can turn a normal neural network into a sample something that can sample from a distribution by conditioning it on uh random variables. Okay. So sometimes people will call these random variables these dice in this diagram as noise. I think that's a confusing term. They're noise in the sense that they are random. They're random variables. They're randomized. But they're not noise in the sense that they're meaningless or something that you want to get rid of or ignore. These dice rolls, you should instead think of them as specifying everything about the data that's not specified by your input command. So if I say I want to make a bird, well everything else that's not specified by that, like what color is the bird, what species is the bird, has to be specified, made deterministic by determined by these random variables. Okay, so they're uh they're specifying you what's the color of the bird? If I roll that, I'll change the color of the bird. What's the angle of the bird? If I roll that, I'll change the angle of the bird. What's the size of the bird? Right. Okay. So, that's that's kind of how uh a generative model will output randomized possible birds for the input command, make me a photo of a bird. Okay. So rather than thinking of them as dice rolls, another way you could think of them as these sort of like control the underlying control variables that that uh control the output that you're going to you're going to get. And uh I could spin this knob randomly and then it's like noise a random variable that change gives me a random bird. But I could also set that knob that dice now I'm going to think of as a knob to a value of the bird I want. And um and this is something that we'll see in a lot of the applications of generative models during the models by controlling the latent variables that are input into the models. Okay. Okay. So this is all kind of to build up this kind of intuition about what's going on. Um now let's I I want to have you do a make a generative model really quickly. So um one of the places where generative modeling got started is statistics but another place where it got started is computer graphics actually. So in computer graphics, the name for a generative model is uh the classical name is a procedural procedural graphics. It's a way of making random content for your video game or movie. I want to draw a random map for my video game. So I will write down a procedure that creates a random map. That's a generative model. So let's let's make a generative model like that. So we're going to take in a random variable. It will be a coin flip. So a buli random variable. and we're going to try to make a um a generative model of rivers. So, here's how it's going to be. Uh does anyone have a coin? Somebody has a coin. An object you can flip. Google can do it for you if you want. You can search coin flipper. Okay, good. So, why don't you do this? So, um here's the start of the river. So, I flip the coin and it will determine if the river goes left or right. >> Heads is left. >> Okay. Yeah. Heads is left. >> Okay. Left again. >> So, I don't know if you can still see it, but anyways, it's going that way. One more time. >> Okay, cool. So, I think that's a pretty cool river. And then my computer rendering engine would probably like make it a little thicker, smooth out the borders, paint it blue, and then there I there I go. I have randomly generated a river from a distribution. Okay, you could do the same trick with trees. You could like flip two coins. One coin is like how many branch maybe roll a dice, how many branches and then the other coin is like what's the angle of the branch? So you can write little scripts like this. You probably have done it in some of your um coding experience. Okay, so I wrote a little program that does that. It's just exactly what we did. So what is the program doing? It's flipping a coin n times and um drawing the river by just changing the heading of the river by some 10 degree angle. Depending on if I flip heads or tails, it will choose left or right. Okay. So, what is that? That's a mapping from random variables to generated imagery. And that's that's how generative models tend to work. Okay. So, here's a more complicated mapping. Um but again you can specify so many you know details of the world just via um choosing a a random variable that determines each of the attributes of the image. So in this case I have a Berni variable n of them for the river turns I have a Gaussian variable for the color of the grass it's like brighter or darker I have a uniform variable for the number of trees. This is like top down look at some you know river and you could say those random variables are noise but uh what we'll think of them as is as control knobs that specify all the attributes of the data and a formal name for that is latent variables. So a latent variable is any um variable that determines uh how the data looks that is not directly observed. Okay. So uh these latent variables are the thing that underly the causal like process of generating the data. Okay. So um yeah just that's one one concept to start with is that this kind of uh generative models that we'll see are going to be taking noise as input and turning it into data and you should really think of the noise as the latent variables. Okay. So now let's talk about um how to learn such models. So you could handcraft this, write down like a Python script or play a game in a class. But how do you actually learn that program and represent it as a neural net? And this gets to the question that was asked earlier. There's going to be two different approaches. One I'll call the direct approach. The direct approach is I'm going to learn a function that directly samples random generated data points. Okay, it'll start from Z which is going to be our name for the noise or the latent variables. So the dice rolls or the coin flips and it will output data. Um, and the other approach will be what I'll call the indirect approach, which is rather than learning a function that goes from random variables to data. I'll learn a function that scores the probability of a data point. And so this is a function that should assign a high score, a high scaler to uh data that I like and a low number to data that I don't like. Uh, and there's a lot of different varieties of what that scoring function could be. Uh the most basic one would be it's the likelihood of the data. The probability of the data is is a mapping from the data to a scalar. Um if it's a density, it's a non- negative scaler. Okay. Then if I have such a scoring function, I can generate data by searching for data points that score highly or by sampling from the distribution uh given by that that score. So it's like the the direct approach directly you know give me data points indirect approach give me a score that I can optimize to find good data points or data points that are high probability. Um notation wise there is kind of a historical name for this top one which is called implicit generative model. I'm not sure that that name is still around or sticking around but you might come across it and if you do don't worry that's implicit sounds like it's kind of indirect but this is the direct approach. Okay, so what it means is that the sampling procedure implies a probability distribution you're sampling from. That's why it's called implicit. Okay, so this direct sampler implies a distribution that you could have drawn samples from. And this this distribution, the scoring function uh implies a sampler that can generate data directly. Okay, so we'll see both of these types of models in more detail. Okay, so let's start with the direct approach. The direct approach is the one that is um kind of the more popular uh characterization right now whereas the indirect approach is the more classical characterization of generative models. Okay. So the direct approach is I start with I train the model by giving it a lot of examples. It's just regular machine learning. Right? I give you examples and I try to make more stuff like the examples and um I'll take the data I'll output parameters of a parameterized function that can map from random noise or from latent variables that are randomized to uh that have simple distributions to data samples that look like the training data. So the objective is to make more data that looks like the training data. Right? Okay. So this in our class will be a generative a neural network but it doesn't have to be a neural network but that's the thing that tends to work the best and um we call these two phases training and now we use a different term rather than testing we might call it sampling but it's the same as the testing phase for any neural net that's fit to data uh it's just when I run it or you might call it inference or deployment uh but from a generative model we can also just call it sampling from the model okay so um the indirect approach is I already described it but let's look at it in a little bit more detail here. So uh it is take some data and this is what you would have seen in like your statistics classes or probability classes. You take some data and you learn a scoring function that places high score where the data lives. [snorts] Okay. So the most standard one would it be a probability distribution that has high probability where the data lives. So that the samples that you observe are uh samples from the distribution that you learn. Okay. But it could also be an what we call an energy function which I'll show you or something more exotic some other type of score function. And then sampling is no longer direct. Now sampling is I have my my function that scores the probability of every possible uh value of X. Right? So this is a onedimensional distribution the X-axis. What's the probability of of coming up with this value of X? Okay, it's high probability. And I can sample from that distribution using another algorithm which uh will be called a sampling algorithm. And uh we won't go into too much detail about about these but um you probably uh you may have seen these before as like marov train Monte Carlo is one type of sampling algorithm. Another type is called rejection sampling. Just take a random sample and reject it if you know in proportion to its probability under that scoring function. Uh so there's a lot of sampling algorithms for how to go from this distribution to samples from that distribution. Okay. So this is the indirect approach. Okay. So what's the goal of generative modeling? Uh the goal is to make synthetic data that looks like real data. Make more stuff that looks like your training data. Okay. So the modeling questions to answer are what does it mean to look like the training data? What does it mean for to be making more stuff that's like the training data? It doesn't have to be an image. It could be looks like in an abstract sense. And there's a lot of answers to this question. They lead to different types of model. But we've kind of converged on one main one in machine learning which is that you should make more data that has high probability under a density model fit your training data. Okay. Okay, so this is called the max likelihood objective. We're going to go through that in a little bit more detail now. Okay, so here's again the density model. It's a mapping from data to uh positive numbers or non- negative numbers in fact and it's um going to be parameterized by parameters theta which are the weights and biases in a neural network [snorts] and think of that as being uh assigning you know a likelihood a probability to every point along some data space X. So here data is just a one-dimensional space and here's my training data. My training data is examples of what uh you know what the data looks like and I want to make more like it. So in order to maximize the probability that my model P theta places on the training data I will start with some model. Maybe I have um my my neural network is going to uh output this shape. So it's going to output a structured object of this shape. Okay. Now how does it actually do that? just going to output the parameters of a parameterized function. Like a Gaussian is a parameterized function specified by the mean and the variance. So I could output the mean and the variance and and that's then my neural net is telling me that that's the distribution it thinks explains the data. But it could be a mixture of Gaussians or it could be any I could output like the shape as some spline, right? So the network can output a set of numbers that parameterizes the distribution. Okay, so here's what I'll do with max likelihood modeling. I'll simply uh so the definition of a probability distribution is constant mass right so this area under the curve has to be constant one okay so I will push up the probability I place where the data lives I'll increase the probability my model places on the data and because it's constant mass I'll have to take away mass from somewhere else where the data does not live okay so I'm outputting a set of parameters that character ize a parametric family of distributions that integrate to one. So, so every possible setting in the parameters specifies a curve where the area under the curve is one. And if I increase the curve where the data lives, I necessarily decrease the the curve where the data does not live. Okay? And that's the idea of a density model. So, a gradient update to my density model will increase, you know, the probability I place on the data and therefore decrease the probability I place elsewhere. Okay. So the output of my neural network is a set of parameters that that characterize this curve. >> Yeah. Question. >> Yeah. >> One thing I'm just a little confused about. [snorts] >> Yeah. So the um I think the question is if the probability density can go to infinity how can I like how does that make sense numerically like um how can that still integrate to one? This is that kind of subtlety of continuous probabilities. We um characterize the distribution with probability density function which is not actually a probability. The probability is an integral of the probability density over some interval and that specifies the probability of being in that interval. And if the interval is infantimal then the um density can go to infinity over an infant decimal interval. So it's like infinity divided by infinity roughly. You get into you know the subtleties of continuous math. Okay cool. So what is our objective going to be to fit my density to data? I gave you the intuition but um formally we we like to minimize the difference between uh the world's true data generating distribution. So these data points these black data points came from some unknown process. We're going to call that unknown process P data. We'll use that all over the place in the next few lectures. P data is just the probability uh from which the distribution from which the training data was sampled. But we don't know that. We don't have access to that. And then we're going to fit our model to be close to that distribution according to the KL divergence. It's just a measure of the, you know, the difference between two distributions. And we want our model distribution to be the same as nature's distribution that generated the training data. So um we're going to see that it will come out to just pushing up probability where the data points live. But mathematically, here's what it looks like. So this is the definition of KL divergence. It'll be negative log of how much probability the model places on a data point divided by how much probability nature placed on the data point. Okay. So we we want these to be the same. Um so we want these to to go to one. Uh so that log will of you know one will be zero and then I will be minimizing this and I'll eventually get these to be to be equal. Okay. Uh so we're we can separate out the the log of the ratio into uh how much log probability I place on the data uh sorry how much log probability of the model places on the data minus how much log probability nature placed on the data. I want that difference to be zero. We can't actually measure how much probability nature placed on the data. We don't have access to that. We only have access to samples from P data. We don't have access to the function P data. That's just the universe. Okay. So the nice trick is that in order to maximize so okay we're minimizing the difference but now we got rid of the negative sign. So we're going to maximize this this uh this term uh this equation. Well in order to maximize this with respect to the parameters theta the parameters theta don't appear in the second term. So that's just a constant. So we don't actually have to consider that in the maximization. So we drop that second term. And that's great because we didn't even have a way of evaluating that second term since we don't have access to P data directly. And instead we are going to maximize the probability the model places on the on the on samples from the distribution. And whenever we try to maximize an expectation in machine learning, we're going to tend to always approximate that with a set of s uh a s finite set of samples. So this is the probability the model places on the population and this is the probability that the model places on the set of samples from the population which are our training data. Okay. And this is called uh you know max likelihood learning, right? Maximize the likelihood the probability that the model places on your training data which are samples from some some unknown data generating process P data. Okay. So you should recognize this as being the same form as we saw uh with um soft max regression or it's kind of max likelihood is usually the thing that we're doing in data modeling is often the thing we're doing. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Question. >> If you don't have a regularization term, is this just going to lead to like direct delta spikes on your data points? >> Yes. >> Okay. If you don't have a regularizer, will this just lead to direct uh delta function on your data points? That's going to be the next slide. So wonderful. So this is the question that's that that comes up all the time in generative modeling. It's kind of confusing. So here's a question for you. Is a filing cabinet, remember the filing cabinet from the lecture on generalization. Is a filing cabinet a good generative model? Okay. So what is a filing cabinet? I'm going to define it as follows. I will train the generative model by taking my data set X and I'll just put every data point into a file. So I'll just add to the cabinet and then to sample from my learn generative model this cabinet I will simply take a random drawer or random file and pull it out. So is this a good generative model? What do you think? >> Does it make new stuff? >> Doesn't make new stuff. Okay. Um but it it it it does make data which is identical to the training data. So that that's like that kind of seemed like what we wanted. We want to make data that's identical to training train training data, right? That's what max this does maximize the likelihood. This is the max likelihood solution uh or this is getting the highest likelihood you can possibly get just memorize the data and output the same data. So what so but you got you're right but any other answers want to elaborate on this like how how could we avoid this solution? This is intuitively a bad solution. I I didn't do anything. Any thoughts? Okay, so here here's how I like to think about it. It's exactly the same as overfitting in classical machine learning. So if you understand overfitting, then you can understand why the filing cabinet is a bad generative model. So here's my training data and exactly as you said the um optimal generative model in the the max likelihood generative model if I have like infinite capacity uh I can fit any wiggly curve is to put a delta function on all the data points on all the training points. Okay but the true data generating process is something unknown which here as a cartoon it could look like that. So these blue dots are just samples my training data samples from some underlying process. So what did it got? What went wrong here? If I take new samples from that same process, they'll land somewhere else and I'll have placed zero probability under this model on those samples. So what matters in generative modeling is the probability you place on the test data on new samples from the data generating process. We optimize the probability you place on the training data. But what matters is the probability you place on the test data. Exactly the same as overfitting in machine learning where you actually care about test performance not training performance. But here test performance is going to be the density you have placed on new samples from the true generating process and you have to control capacity or regularize in order in order to avoid the memorization solution. Okay. So that's what overfitting looks like for a generative model. So the goal of a generative model is not to make exactly the training data or actually maximize likelihood on the training data. It's to make things that are new but capture the important statistics and realistic properties of the data but are infinitely new. We can quantify that as likelihood of the test data under a model. Now if I don't have an explicit representation of the density then it's not easy to quantify this and that's why these methods that uh the direct methods just produce samples but not densities are a little bit hard to calibrate right it's a little bit hard to know what the test data likelihood is but with density models I can just cross validate by having a test set and measuring the likelihood I place on the test set okay so here's the um the way that you can measure the quality of your generous model you can evaluate it you can't fit on This is like the test score, the validation score. You sample new samples from the the world. You make a split your test split or your validation split. You measure generalization error as the likelihood your model places on the test data. Okay. Any questions about density models? And then we're going to do energy models. >> Yeah. >> How exactly some parameters like what is actually P sub theta how is it parameterized? Um you can parameterize it in a lot of different ways. So one example would be the network outputs two numbers two scalers right? So it's a two dimensional vector that would be sufficient to parameterize a one-dimensional Gaussian. The first number is the mean the second number is the the variance. Another option is like the network could output a thousand numbers and that would be sufficient to characterize or let's say 100 numbers or 100 plus 10 numbers that would be sufficient to characterize a 10 dimensional Gaussian where I have a coariance matrix which is 10 by 10. So 100 numbers and a mean which is 10 dimensions. So I have to output the number of my the vector output by my network has to be all the parameters of the family of distributions that I am considering. And if I want to do a mixture of Gaussians and I have I want to output like two Gaussians, I can do that with two * 100 + 10 numbers. And if I want to output other funny shaped curves, I can do that with uh other parametric families. It doesn't have to be a Gaussian, but that's the general idea. So uh like assuming that you have a finite set of validation data let's like I assume your procedure would be to train this until your validation like loss starts to increase and then you like do early stopping to try and find a good point at which you've you've got a good generative model. Um is there an analogy similar to what we learned before about inductive bias in these models? Like presumably if you're trying to generate images, you should [clears throat] somehow be able to add a form of bias or regularization that says like images should not look like static. Like you should not be able to have just a zero value pixel next to something that's like a max value pixel like images have this sort of smooth quality. So does that show up in how you regularize in the loss or is that like a >> Yeah. So yeah, great question. So um can we add inductive biases to generative models to prevent them from finding bad solutions and kind of encourage them to find the good solution that actually generalizes to the test data and all the tricks that we have from other um deep learning can can apply here. So you can use a an architecture which has some kind of spatial smoothness. Um so like a convolutional architecture has like baked in spatial locality. Uh you can use positional codes in transformers that have baked in kind of inductive bias towards spatial locality. You can um use regularizers that you can do all the tricks basically like there's a very there's a lot to say but you can do everything. Yep. Okay. Uh question in the back and then I'll move on. >> Yeah. Is there a connection between max likelihood estimation and empirical risk minimization? Uh generally yes. So I would I guess I would say um empirical max likelihood which is like maximize likelihood you place on the data. That's what you know empirical means is on the training data. Um that is a form of empirical risk minimization for the risk function which is the likelihood of the data. But you could have more general risk functions that might not have interpretations as likelihood. But t uh typically the ones we use like squared error or L1 error these all have interpretations as some type of um likelihood function. Okay. So let's talk about energy based models. So energy based models are I I said that the indirect approach this is another possible indirect approach. The indirect approach is you try to score your data and then sample from or optimize the score. Find find data points that have high score. Energy based models say well what if the score is not a probability but it's it's just an unnormalized probability. Okay so remember that the definition of a probability density is it integrates to one. Uh an energy function is just a probability uh that is unnormalized. So for any probability I can uh I can represent or yeah for a you know broad family of functions I can represent them like this. This is sometimes called the Boltzman distribution. So it's a exponential of the negative energy divided by a normalization and any energy function any function E uh that is not necessarily normalized will through this math uh imply a probability function P that is normalized because I just divide by the normalization constant right so whatever E is if I divide by Z which is this integral P will be normalized >> yeah energy function just a map from data to a scalar between negative infinity and infinity >> uh just like the score. So think of it as an unnormalized probability. >> Yep. Unormalized probability. Y >> kind of like the thing that goes into softmax. >> Yes. So the logits in a softmax classifier can be uh considered the energy and then soft max is just you divide by the normalization. You exponentiate you divide by the normalization. Okay. Okay. So, why are energies good? Because they're often sufficient. So, okay. So, first of all, why are probabilities bad? Because probabilities need to be normalized. So, my family of functions I search over is just normalized functions. And if I search over like arbitrary curves like let's say the neural network doesn't parameterize a Gaussian which is normalized, but it just just outputs like um some like polomial curve, right? Uh or maybe it just outputs a set of numbers or like the control points on a spline like uh whatever. Or maybe it just outputs like a number per data point, right? Um so I could have a network that takes in data and just outputs a number between negative infinity and infinity. Well, how would I normalize that? I have to do this integral over all possible settings of the data and that's intractable. I don't want to do that. So that's why probability densities are bad because I have to consider families that are normalized and that's very restrictive. But energies are sufficient because energies energy ratios are equal to probability ratios. Okay. So the probability that I place on let's say I want to say which is more likely that it's going to snow tomorrow or there'll be a hurricane tomorrow. So that's some probability ratio and maybe that's the type of thing I need to decide for what to how to prepare for some disaster. Okay, it's often times relative judgments are what matter. And so relative judgments, the relative probability of x1 / x2 is equal to here's the definition of uh my energy function. And notice that the normalization functions cancel out. Okay, so that means that exponentiallyated energies provide the same um ratio as probabilities and I can evaluate um you know whether hurricane is less likely or more likely than snow by just looking at the energy ratio as opposed to the probability ratio which is intractable unless it's unless I know the normalization. >> Yeah. >> Energy ratio. >> So I guess energy ratio includes exponentiation. It's going to difference or >> um yeah if you you could do like some so the question is like I I said energy ratio I meant exponent e to the negative energy divided by e to the negative other energy is equal to probability ratio if you took a log of that you could see you know it'll have another form it'll be some difference okay so this is relative probabilities are often all you need for decision-m in particular they're also all you need for um a lot of samplers so like marov chain Monte Carlo only requires relative probabilities. So you don't need to have a normalized density you're outputting. You can just output arbitrary unnormalized numbers and still sample from that the implied distribution. Okay. So um energy functions are often all you need. Yeah. >> Um can you explain the negative sign? >> Yeah. So that's just a definition. You could have you don't need that. It's just the definition. Um because E is just a function that outputs negative or negative infinity to infinity. So the definition is energies are related to negative probabilities. So low energy means high probability. Just a definition. Okay. So why would you actually want a probability? Why wouldn't you always work with energies? Anyone have some thoughts on that? Why would I ever care about using normalized probabilities if if you know if if all what I'm saying is true? Yeah. Any thoughts on that? Yeah. >> How would you scale them to different concepts perhaps? >> How would you scale them >> to different concepts? >> To different concepts. Yeah. I So, how would you scale them to different concepts? I think that's getting at what I think I I agree with that probabilities put everything on the same um kind of unit in on the same playing field. Like you're kind of scaling things to have the same unit. So 90% probability can be you know in one domain is 90% probability in another another domain but the energies could be arbitrarily scaled uh or arbitrarily offset. So I think probabilities are often more interpretable and more exchangeable between different problems. If you go to the hospital and they tell you your energy of having cancer is 10 million what are you going to do with that? Right? But if they say your your likelihood is 0.1% you're going to be okay that's fine. Okay. So human interpretability is the most obvious, but I think there's other reasons beyond that too. Um, so how do you optimize an energy based model? How do you fit an energy based model to data? So here's how you do it. So we do the same thing we did before. We find our data and we decrease the energy where the data lives. Okay, remember decrease energy means increase probability because energy is related to probability by negative. E to the negative energy is probability. Okay. So, what's wrong with this? We're going to decrease our energy where the data lives. Okay. What's wrong with this? What's wrong with this? Sorry. Yes. Not constant mass. What's wrong with this is I could just decrease my energy to be negative infinity everywhere. If my only goal is decrease energy where the data lives, I can just say, well, I'll also decrease energy everywhere else. I'm not forcing it to be normalized. So there's no necessity to to increase energy where the data does not live. So the simple solution is I will add a term to increase energy where the data doesn't live. Okay. So the way you do this is you decrease energy where the data lives and you increase energy where the model places high energy. You actually sample from the model. So I I said you can sample from an energy uh you can sample from the distribution implied by an energy without having the normalization constant. That's what things like uh marov chain Monte Carlo do. Okay. So I can sample from my energy function but I I I can't evaluate the probability. But I can take these points and I'm sampling where there's low energy because that means high probability and I'm going to increase energy there and I'll get this solution. If I repeat this process, I decrease energy where the data lives and I increase energy where my current energy function implies high probability via sampling. I I go like that and eventually I get this. And here I decrease energy where the data lives and I increase energy where the model has placed high probability and they cancel out. So eventually I get a delta function on the data points and at convergence of this algorithm the positive term which is decreasing energy equals the negative term which is increasing energy because the model places energy exactly where the data lives. Okay, so that should therefore kind of convince you graphically that this thing will converge to a solution that fits the data. It will overfit in the same way that other generative models overfit. Uh but we'll just do early stopping or regularization of various forms. Okay, so at convergence the green arrows and the red arrows cancel out. I get zero delta between them and the thing stops. So let's look at that mathematically. This this algorithm is called contrastive divergence and uh variations on this come up a lot. It's even connected to you know contrastive learning but um you know a little bit indirectly. Okay, it's another contrast the contrast between where the data lives and uh where the model has placed high probability. You want that to cancel out so that the model places high probability exactly where the data lives. Okay, so mathematically here's how you derive that. Um, this is the kind of thing that you might want to work through yourself after the after the lecture. Uh, but I'll go through the steps for you here. So, we're going to do max likelihood learning with energy based models. So, max likelihood learning is I want to update the parameters, find the gradient of the parameters that will increase the probability I place on the on the data. And I'm writing it in terms of the expectation over over samples, but you would really do this on empirical uh training set. Okay. So I can rewrite my probability distribution as an energy function divided by a normalization. Okay. And now I'm parameterizing the energy function. So the neural net e is just a mapping from data to a number. And I'm going to parameterize that by uh theta which are the weights and biases. Okay. Now I'm going to take the log and split it into into two terms. It'll be place high energy where the data lives and uh then have this extra term related to the normalization integral Z. Okay, so that's the that's called the positive term. That's those green arrows and this is the negative term. That was the red arrows. So how uh this one's easy, right? This one is just I have my samples from the data and I just do back prop to increase the energy I place on those samples or sorry decrease the energy. Remember negative energy means high probability. But how do you measure the normalization? How do you measure the gradient of this normalization function? Okay, so here's the full derivation which you might want to kind of walk through after the lecture. But here here's what it is. It turns out that this thing has a very simple form. Uh so the gradient of this uh normalization function uh sometimes called the partition function is so uh grad of log of f ofx is equal to 1 / f ofx grad of f ofx that's an identity from calculus so it's a good thing to kind of remember so this is equal to 1 / z grad of z okay now I can write the definition of z the definition of z is the integral over x of uh this is like in the soft max. This is exactly what we do. This is just the more general setting. This is the normal normalizing um constant. So the integral over how much energy I place on all the data. Okay. Oops. Sorry. So then uh the next line is going to be um chain rule. Okay. So this is just the gradient of e to the negative function of x is you gradient of e to the x is e to the x times the gradient of whatever was in the exponent. That's just the chain rule. Okay. And then this line here is just rearrangement of terms. I'm taking this ratio this uh dividing by z pulling it into the integral. So now I get this term which simplifies to p again. So it's just rearrangement of terms. That's the definition of p is equal to this term. I found it again. But now I have an integral of p of this thing. And this is the whole the whole point is to rearrange the terms until I get something that looks like an expectation. That's an expectation. An expectation is integral of p of x f ofx. Right? That's expectation of f ofx under the distribution p of x. Okay. So I got an expectation. So this is all equal to expectation of samples from the model of the gradient of the energy. Okay. So what does that why did I do that? Because if I get things into the form of an expectation, I know how to approximate expectations on finite data. I don't have to compute an integral over some analytical infinite, you know, set. I approximate expectation with samples. And we know how to do that. That's just sample from P evaluate this and backrop. Okay. So here, so here we go. We converted this funny looking term into now just another expectation. Both of these expectations can be approximated with samples. This is samples from my training set and this is samples from my model and that's the gradient that will maximize the likelihood of the density implied by the energy uh for an energy based model. Okay, it's called contrastive divergence. Any questions? >> Yeah, just one question on the derivation. You pulled out like a minus sign, but it wasn't, if I understand correctly, it was not a subtraction. It was like times negative one. that I think. Oh, yeah. Sorry, that's a little This is a times negative one. Yeah. Yeah, that's not subtraction. That's probably confusing. Yeah. Good. Okay. So, that's the math. But, uh, you can also just kind of keep in mind the intuition. Okay. Push down energy where the data lives, push up energy where the model currently places high probability. Eventually, those cancel out and the model has fit the data. Okay. Okay, so we've seen a few different families of um generative models. Now, we've seen that generative modeling takes data and you can learn a density function that assigns a normalized score to the data. You can you can define an energy function that uh gives you a um unnormalized score to the data and you can also directly sample um by learning a mapping from random noise or latent variables to data. Okay, so you can represent the data generating process in any of these ways. Either directly generate data from initial random variable or um sample from a density or energy fit to the data. Okay. And each of these things then will have a family of generative models and deep generative models that have one of these forms. And a lot of deep generative models have multiple of these these forms simultaneously. Okay. So finally we're going to get to the the you know popular named deep generative models. All of that was really just background on generative modeling and and probability theory. Okay. So let's start. We're going to talk about three now. We're going to talk about auto reggressive models which we've actually seen before. We're going to talk about diffusion models and we're going to talk about GANs. Then tomorrow or not tomorrow but next week we'll talk about um VAES variational autoenccoders. Okay. Okay, so auto reggressive models are kind of the simplest one to understand. So I'll start there. So auto reggressive models are these next word predictors uh or next data point predictors. So you know I do once upon I try to predict what's the next you know word right a and then I repeat the process. So we've seen this a few times time. So how is this a generative model? What what probability distribution is it sampling from? Okay. And I don't have to go in temporal order. That's just a particular choice. Okay, so recap. I think I've shown this slide before. We train an auto reggressive model with standard supervised learning. We have a data set of sentences. We just chop the sentence into the um prefix and the final word or the the next word in in at some point in the sentence. That's a supervised learning problem. I can just try to like treat it as classification. Predict the next word. Okay, so that's my learning algorithm. And my sampling algorithm and now I'm going to call it sampling, right? is I run I predict the next word but I'm not going to necessarily um just predict one word I'll predict a distribution over words right so it's like if it's if each word is treated as a class I can output a categorical distribution I can do softmax regression and sample from that distribution okay so why is this a valid probability model why does this actually do max likelihood density modeling of a distribution the reason is because of this equation which is I think sometimes called the chain rule of probability but it says that the probability of a set of words or a you know a vector x so a set of data points x um is equal to the probability of you know x2 given x1 so x1 through xn are the elements of my vector x so I just do probability of x1 * probability of x2 * x1 right so that becomes probability of x1 and x2 and then I multiply that by probability of x3 given x1 and x2 two. Okay, so this is an identity identity from prob probability. Okay, so I can just write that in the shorthand form as this is product over all the conditionals of the next token given the previous tokens or the next word given the previous word next data point given previous data points. Okay, so here's what that looks like for the probability of once upon a time is equal to the probability of once times the probability of upon given once times the probability of right. Okay, so it's a product of all those conditional probabilities and auto reggressive modeling is simply modeling all of those conditional probabilities in a sequence and um trying to maximize the likelihood. So how do I model probability of time given once upon AI just do next word classifier. So I just output a categorical distribution over my vocabulary size. The number of categories is the number of words I could possibly predict. So once upon AI output a probability mass function, a categorical distribution over all the possible next words. There's a few other ways you could do it in in natural language processing, but this is kind of the the basic idea. Okay. Um what about in image processing? Here's how you would do it in image processing for an auto reggressive model. I just I'm going to start drawing this bird and at any point in my drawing, I'm going to predict the color of the next pixel given all the previous pixels. Okay? So I can out I can quantize my pixels just like I showed in one of the colorization examples earlier. I can quantize my pixels into classes red, green, blue and so forth and output a categorical distribution over the classes. That's just softmax regression that we've seen before. And then I sample from it by just sampling from a categorical distribution. Right? So if I have it's easy to sample from a categorical distribution, right? I can just like take the unit the unit interval 0 to one. I can take a uniform sample from zero to one and I can kind of walk through my probability vector until I get to um until I get to the segment that is been sampled from. Um so we can we can easily sample from a categorical distribution and then we just repeat the process. So I go from nothing to next pixel, next pixel, next pixel. It's the same as predicting the next word in a sentence. Okay. Um, and this is just again I think one of the early slides in this course was classifying images into categories. And here I'm classifying next pixel into categories. And my loss function is the um the likelihood that my model uh my model which is not really specified here but anyway f f theta places on the ground truth class. This is the amount of probability my model places on the ground truth class. Okay. I want I want to maximize that max likelihood modeling. Okay. So um yeah just spilling it out for a different data type. So now my supervised data I learn from is examples of patches of pixels and the next the next pixel in the sequence. I do supervised softmax regression and I can predict the next pixel in the sequence given the previous pixels and I can actually sample to create a randomized variety of birds in this way. Yeah. Question. >> So would you characterize this as a density model? Yes. >> Yeah. So what would I characterize this as density model? Um sampler. Uh energy model. What do you all think? Who thinks density model? Raise your hand. Okay. Who thinks energy model? Who thinks uh sampler or um the direct approach? So I think density model was highest vote. I think that these these things are a little fuzzy. You can actually I'm not sure there's a correct answer here, but I would characterize it as a density model because we're outputting the density over the next pixel given the previous pixels. And we're actually going to do that for every pixel in sequence or every word in sequence to get a probability that's explicitly represented. So this actually you can multiply all of those probabilities together and you'll get the probability of the entire image. So the the product of all the conditional probabilities is the probability of the entire image. That's a density that's that integrates to one. So I would call it a density model. Okay. Um and people do this in a lot of sequential data modeling problems. Time series modeling uh is often auto reggressive. So here's another example where we're going to predict the next sound wave. uh in a in a sound. So this is like for music modeling or audio modeling I simply predict the next um like the you know uh I have some representation of sound and I predict what the sound will be on the next uh time step. Okay. So it looks exactly like language modeling. Uh this is just auto reggressive modeling on another domain. Right. Um, so, oh, maybe it was a little, let me, sorry, let me just go go up here. So, just to clarify, um, I'm trying to maximize the likelihood I place on my training data. So, the likelihood I place on my training data is the product over the likelihood I place on each next observation in this sequence. Okay? And if I'm using log probabilities, it becomes the sum over the log probabilities. So the likelihood that the auto reggressive model places on a training example is the sum of the log probabilities it places on every next pixel in the sequence. And I just sum all those up and backdrop and that's how you do optimization. Okay, so that's um that's kind of what this picture is showing is I will just make a prediction. and I'll compare to the ground truth measure the probability under my cateoral distribution that I have output of that ground truth point and I'll sum up all those probabilities and back prop through this graph. So that's how you actually train the thing. Okay. Okay. So same as what we saw in other sequence modeling in previous lectures like RNN's we talked about you know you output predictions you measure the error but now I'm just giving it this probabilistic language. Okay. So next next model uh that we're going to talk about is diffusion model. So diffusion models are really clever because they make the following observation. They say that you know it's pretty hard to these are one of these more direct generative models. So they're directly mapping from a random dice roll to a sample as opposed to going through a dist uh through a density or an energy function. Okay. So diffusion models make the very clever observation that it's very hard to convert noise random variables into data structured objects. But it's really easy to convert structured objects into noise into random variables with simple distributions. So just imagine that these birds are like balloon animals filled with some kind of colored gas, right? And then you pop the balloon. What happens? all the particles spread out randomly and eventually they become just uniformly distributed in a space. Physically that's called a diffusion process and diffusion models are exactly the same thing except um you're diffusing in some highdimensional data space like whatever your data is it might be like a tensor and you're diffusing by just randomly perturbing it until it becomes uniform or it has a simple distribution typically Gaussian. Okay, so converting images to noise is really easy. Here's how it looks like. I just take an image and I let the pixels diffuse outward. So I simply take every pixel and I add a little bit of noise and add a little more noise. I add a little more noise. Eventually I get to a state which is like fully entropic. Very simple distribution. Maybe it's uniform. In the models that we'll see it's actually going to be Gaussian. If I just add a sequence of Gaussian random perturbations, I end up with a unit Gaussian um uh at the very end of that sequence. Okay. So diffusion models convert data to noise and then just learn to reverse the process. So so easy, right? So it's extremely hard to know how to do that. Mapping from noise to data, but I supervise it by telling it the exact path to take. So every little step of dnoising of going from noise to a little less noise is a very simple just remove a little bit of noise, right? It's a very easy thing to model. I can model it with supervised learning. Okay, so I simply I've created a lot of noisy sequences like this on my training data. I turn them all around and I then chop it up and for every um noisy to less noisy pair, that's like a XY target. A noisy to a less noisy. And we'll index uh the noise level with t. So higher noise means higher t. Just use supervised learning to to reverse the process. And this learns a mapping from random noise to images. And to sample an image, I simply can sample a random noise vector and put it through that mapping that I've learned, that reverse diffusion process as it's known. Okay, so here again is what it looks like. I create a data set of noisy and less noisy images by having started with less noisy images and adding noise. And I do supervised learning on that. That could be as simple as just like mean squared regression try to predict you know according to L which might be the squared loss the less noisy image from the more noisy image and you can do this with any data not just images it's just an example okay and uh this converts generative modeling into a bunch of supervised tiny little prediction problems okay I'll get to the question in just a second um so yeah okay I'll do the question now yeah go ahead I wanted to ask so in each step is each is each step the same probably the same model or there like a bunch of different models doing each step individually. >> So is each step the same model? Is f um the same function for all t or is it different for t? Either option is fine. Uh the most common option is you make f a function of x and you condition on t. So you just tell the network what time step you're on. But but that's you know a modeling choice. it's not fundamental. Okay, so if I uh we'll I'll get to that equation in a minute. Um but anyway, if I want to sample a new image, well, I've converted all of my data at the end at t equals big t, meaning like AST goes to infinity, it turns if I'm adding gaussian noise, it um asmtoically becomes a unit gaussian uh if I do it with the right um scaling. And that means that I can now if I reverse the process, I start with a unit Gaussian sample, roll the dice which are unit Gaussian variables and then I d noiseise with my learn function and every unit gaussian sample gives me a different noisy image uh which are like the latent variables that specify all the properties of the data that you will generate in the end. Okay, so sampling is really easy. It's just slow because you have to do this run the dnoising neural network over and over and over again like for t time steps and um when these first came out t was large like a thousand. Now people are showing how to do this with t being pretty small like even going down to one uh but you typically have to do a few time steps. Okay so here's a gaussian diffusion model mathematically. Uh so we're going to define a data generating process that starts from a simple distribution unit Gaussian and maps to data and we're going to train it by training the dinoiser that predicts the less noisy image from the more noisy image to invert the noiser which is a simple deterministic process that adds Gaussian noise to an image. Okay. And we can condition the dinoiser on the time step so it knows like what is the current noise level and that helps it be a better predictor of of what the true like data point should have been. Okay. So the forward process is simply add Gaussian noise which is a unit gaussian epsilon t uh and scale that noise according to some uh scale beta which is can be time varying as well. uh and there's some like engineering details about how do you select beta uh but in general you can you can do this in such a way that at the end of the day you will get unit gaussian noise asmtoically AST goes to infinity okay the reverse process in fact with the reverse process you're going to treat every little step as a small Gaussian um max likelihood density modeling problem okay so the reverse process f is not going to just predict the noiseless image or not going to just predict the less noisy image. It's going to predict the mean of a Gaussian distribution over uh the less noisy image. Uh this is just there's various reasons but this gives kind of a nice mathematical probabilistic interpretation to what's going on. Okay, so the next dinoised time step will be a sample from a Gaussian whose mean is the output of my neural network deninoiser. Okay. So, um people like to use these these terms P for one of the processes and Q for the verse process. Uh and connects to kind of the standard notation and things like called variational inference. But you don't have to worry about it too much. We'll just we'll just say the forward process is Q which X of T is a Gaussian centered on um X of T minus one. And the reverse process I'm trying to learn is another Gaussian but it's centered on a function of the noisy image. Okay. So the forward process is just add noise and the reverse process is predict the mean of uh of a reverse Gaussian. So predict the mean and then sample from that Gaussian. Okay there's a lot of variations and other ways you could do this kind of vanilla Gaussian diffusion model. Um, and if you want, I I wrote like a very vanilla version of this. Uh, so you can play with the code lab if you want. Uh, but now I think there's probably better better ones out there. Uh, I want to make the connection between diffusion models and auto reggressive models. So they're almost the same thing. So both of them use a very simple trick. You change generative modeling of a highdimensional structured object into a sequence of very very simple modeling problems. In auto reggressive modeling, you convert your data into a sequence of simple categorical density modeling problems, aka classification problems. Um, okay, again, you're free to choose other types of simple sequences, but that's just the most common choice. So, think of it this way. You start with a structured data object, and you remove one one data point at a time until you get to nothing. And then that supervises the reverse process diffusion model. You start with a structured complicated object. You add noise kind of globally to every data point until you get to a very simple uh uh distribution you can sample from and then you you supervise it to reverse the process. This is your training data that is going to supervise the reverse process. This is your training data that will supervise the reverse process. This is easy to sample from. You're just sampling one pixel color. Okay? Like let's say I have 256 possible colors. I just take a random um I I I I have a categorical distribution over the 256 possible colors that occur in natural images. Super easy. Okay. And then I just reverse the process by trying to classify the next the next pixel given the previous pixel. Okay. So the whole point is that a common strategy in generative modeling is turn a complicated structure of distribution into a sequence of simple distributions and model that sequence of simple distributions. Okay. Okay. So in the last like two minutes I'll just do I'll do GANs. They're very simple. Don't worry. Um, I know there's a lot in this lecture, but I'm I'm I'm hoping that I want to give you the intuitions and then in the problem sets and in the readings, you can kind of dig a little more into the math and and work it out. Okay, so GANs are a whole another class of generative model. Uh, GANs um are a okay I'll tell you what they are and then I'll ask you are they direct or indirect. So they start with a latent variable which is a vector of random numbers and they um map it through a generator network to an image and then they play this game where they ask another neural network to decide if the image looks like a real data point or a synthetic data point sampled from the model. So is G a direct or indirect approach? Who thinks direct? Okay, who thinks indirect? Interesting. Oh maybe it's more subtle. Okay, I I would have called it direct because we're directly mapping from a random uh variable to a sample from a distribution. But with D, it becomes a little more confusing. So yeah, maybe either answer could have an interpretation which is correct. Okay, so G tries to synthesize synthetic images that fool D and and and um that's a typo. G sorry that should be D. um D tries to identify the fakes. Okay, so why should that work? That should work because if G is able to make output data points which are indistinguishable from your training data points, then it must be that you're outputting things that um are uh from the same distribution. You can prove that in fact. Okay, so D plays this game. D is a classifier for is it a sample from G my synthetic data or is it a sample from the real world a real photo of flamingos. Okay, this is just a binary softmax classifier. I'm going to try to maximize the probability I place on uh real and minimize the probability I place on fake and that will be a classifier of real versus fake. and G uh tries to fool D by trying to minimize the uh accuracy that D will get on fake synthetic images. So G just minimizes the exact same objective that D was maximizing. Okay, so D is going to try to place um basically low probability on this being a real image and G will simply try to place cause D to place high probability on this being a real image. So it'll try to update its parameters to make an image that causes D to get a low score on that on that synthetic photo. Okay, so this is a minmax game. It's an adversarial game, but think of it more like a student and a teacher. D is the teacher and G is the student. The teacher is saying, "Hey, you need to make a realistic painting and you didn't get it quite right. The shadows are wrong." So G will update its parameters to make realistic shadows and then D will say, "Oh, that looks indistinguishable from what I consider, you know, realistic art. So therefore, uh you've done well." Okay. Um so that that's again I think uh this is just a summary figure of it. I should stop there and we'll continue with two more lectures on generative models next week.