The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So there's going to be three lectures and these are three lectures that I don't particularly like because they're kind of uh traditional but you know I think we have to do it. We want to understand spectra. We want to be able to uh understand what's in spectra. And so the first one this one is mostly selection rules. In other words, what do you need in order to get a particular kind of spectrum? And the next one is about relative intensities. Where do they come from? Uh and uh we'll we'll touch a little bit on that. And the third, which is the nicest one, pictures of spectrum. What do they look like? So that we know you know what to see I mean spectra are have a lot of information but uh if once you start you need to have some kind of an idealized view of what's going to be in the spectrum. Remember we have a pretty good idea of energy level diagrams but spectra aren't energy level diagrams. They're transitions between energy levels. And so it takes the information from different energy levels and combines it in a way that you have to begin to learn how to take apart. And so uh I think we'll have three lectures of this type. Okay. And so one of the results of today's lecture is that you will get a deeper sense of the rules for the three main kinds of spectra. If you have a permanent dipole moment, you can have a pure rotation. If there is a change in you as there would be when you vibrate certain vibrations then you get a vibration rotation spectrum and uh for an electronic spectrum you have to worry about electronic symmetries. you're you're going to need there to be some electric dipole transition moment that's not zero and the electronic symmetries will tell you when that's true. So here we have a pronto dipole moment which is the m dipole moment of a state of an electronic state and here we have when the molecule vibrates the dipole moment might change and it turns out that that's what makes it possible to change the vibrational uh quantum number and at the same time change the rotational quantum number and if there is an nonzero electric dipole transition moment then we can change vibration and rotation and so this you all know. Uh, but I'm going to try to go a little deeper than what you probably saw originally. Now, I don't know whether the the website for Hogan's monograph is in your notes. It's on the web. Uh, and uh, you definitely want to read JT Hogan uh, uh, NBS Monograph 115. It is a really really beautiful introduction to the stuff you need to know about that. You don't need to hear it from me. You can just get it from him. Okay. So, we're concerned about a particular electronic property which is the electric dipole moment. And so we have electric dipole moment which the operator is this thing which is that's right. So this is the electron times the uh uh vector connecting the electron to the center of mass. It's a sum over the individual electrons. This is the electric dwell moment or at least this is the thing that we care about. We tend to ignore the nuclei. The nuclei take care of themselves and for rotation and vibration. I mean uh uh you can show the nuclear contribution but this is the the more complicated thing because the nuclei aren't doing much but the electrons are somehow spread. So this is the operator and we're going to want to by integrating over the electronic coordinates get some sort of a operator initial final vector r. So if we integrate over the electron coordinates, we convert this operator into a function a function of r which may still be operating between uh vibrational or vibration rotation energy levels. So the first big step is the Bopen approximation takes us from an operator to the electronic coordinate which is embarrassing which is something we don't particularly want to deal with is integrated away. And one of the things we do because we've written the wave function as a product of these three factors is that we integrate out various of the the variables to reduce always to the thing we want. Okay. So that's one of the key building blocks. Another thing is that we have a molecule and the molecule is rotating doing stuff and we have a laboratory where we are and where our detectors are and our lasers are. And so we want to know about uh uh what does the LA what what does the what can you do in the laboratory to something uh that has all of its stuff in the body frame. And so we're going to be concerned about the relationship between two coordinate systems uh both centered at the center of mass of the molecule. So we the two coordinate systems coincide uh at the at the origin. The origins of the two coordinate systems coincide but the orientations of the two coordinate systems are not fixed. and we're going to be averaging over uh the body fixed coordinates, but we're going to want something that describes the relationship between the lab and the uh body. And so we're going to use capital letters for the laboratory and lowercase letters for the body. And uh so in order to uh talk about how the body presents itself to the laboratory, we're going to be integrating over the the the coordinates that determine the orientation of the body relative to the laboratory. And uh uh crucial in that will be the direction cos. Okay. So last time we had some kind of exact Hamiltonian and we replaced it by a zero order Hamiltonian and some kind of a perturbation term. And then we used perturbation theory to get the uh energy levels electronic vibration rotation energy levels. So you sort of know about how to do this or that it is something to do and you also get wave functions EJ. So, you know, you start out with a a picture, a zero order picture that involves the the building blocks that you understand rigid rotor, uh, harmonic oscillator, some model for electronic and we add whatever was left out and from that we can get energy levels and wave functions. Now we want to use this uh to uh get spectra. I mean if you were quantum chemists so you would be satisfied with just calculating this stuff but we're experimentalists for the most part and we learn about the things that you use to describe these effective Hamiltonians by looking at spectra. So we're going to our world is the spectra not the calculations. And so we're going to find out how to get to these things from what we can observe in the laboratory. And so that's what we're going to be talking about. So the Borne offenar approximation uh enabled us to separate the energies into electronic energies, vibrational energies and rotational energies. And uh so this is the electronic uh transition uh operator and we write this as a vector I function of R. In the spirit of the Bournehoffman approximation the wave functions are parametrically dependent on R. So when we do this integral over r little r we still have some function of r. So this is now what's called the transition transition moment function initial and final. It's a vector. It has three components. Okay. The next thing we want to do is we want to get rid of the theta fi the orientation of the body relative to the laboratory. And so we exploit we have a this dot product here and we're going to write this uh in terms of how should I have I probably should have written this now instead M So we're interested in this dot product. And so we're going to have the electric field uh in the laboratory capital X unit vector X plus electric field in the laboratory Y unit vector Y etc. and dot it into m x little x + m y. Okay, so we have this dot product and uh x x um is cosine X. This is the direction cosine that relates X in the laboratory to X in the uh body. And we, you know, we just this way. And so we collect all of these combinations of unit vectors laboratory and body and we write them as this vector this matrix L uh alpha and it has laboratory and body components. So we have this is a 3x3 matrix that provides the transformation between the laboratory and the body and it's a perfectly well-known object and u So this uh you can write this matrix as some function of theta and phi which are the orientation of the z-axis the z-axis of the in the body frame relative to the laboratory. Okay. And so um and so this is this is the direction cosine matrix. So these are X, Y and Z. This is the transformation. These are body. So this matrix tells how you get from body fixed coordinates to laboratory fixed coordinates. And this is a function of theta and fi the orientations of the z axis the body fix z-axis relative to the xyz axis in the laboratory. And this is a trigonometric object which you could write down from what you already know. And I don't have room to write this here. So it's in the notes. It's a 3x3 matrix. And uh uh what we would like to do is to take this matrix and uh uh calculate these quantities. Omega I J IM alpha LP omega F. Okay. So this is a these are this is an explicit function of the orientation of the laboratory uh relative to the body. These are state vectors. What we really ought to put in here is, you know, we should write these omega and then it's a function function of theta and phi and we are going to be integrating theta and so this this notation is a little bit awkward because we really have a function of theta and we have a symbol a state vector and we really are going to be doing an integral over it. So this is what we want and so this is the direction cosine and these are the direction cosine matrix elements and since the only thing that goes into them is geometric factors and universal functions they are universally tabulated. They are things that tell you everything about uh uh transition probabilities uh for different combinations of these quota numbers. Okay. So it they are things that you would expect you could write in terms of transformation coefficients like cleft Gordon or vector coupling coefficients and in fact they are uh this is the first time you're going to see see those things in this I'm not going to do it that way because that's needlessly elegant and anybody who knows me knows that I not okay So we have this this thing which tells us something about uh the uh the selection rules and the relative probabilities for transitions between different initial and final rotational. Okay. So these things are tabulated. You can read about them in Hogan. And now there are three kinds of things that we care about that we get from I didn't skip anything. I didn't skip anything want to. the type of band, the branch and uh the polarization. Okay, so the branch how does J change? Well, first of all, we have a photon. We normally think of a photon as having an angular momentum of one. Whether you believe that or not, it doesn't matter. I am going to use that idea. So a photon can transfer one unit of angular momentum and so delta j can be zero plus or minus one. And these direction cosine matrix elements have in them something that tells you the relative probabilities of for a change in j 0 plus or minus one. But you also have to tell it well what how would how did omega change and how did m change. So uh the type of band has to do with delta omega being zero or plus or minus one. This is called parallel. This is called perpendicular. So if omega doesn't change, there are certain patterns of J uh for patterns of transitions for delta J of zero versus one. And so there's a characteristic shape of a band if omega doesn't change or omega does change. And again, omega is a projection of J on the body. uh and if J can only change by one, omega can only change by one. But if J uh doesn't change, omega can still change by plus or minus one. Okay. So, and then the polarization has to do with delta M. And delta M can be 0 plus one. And this when you have delta m of zero we say we have a z polarized and uh when we have delta m plus or minus one we have x or y polarized transitions. So this controls the the orientation of well we call it parallel because the the transition moment is parallel to the interuclear axis. We call it perpendicular because the transition moment in the body is perpendicular to the interior axis for diatomic molecules for anything well some for for nonlinear molecules there are three directions rather than two but for diatomic and linear polyatomics you know we care about parallel and perpendicular and this idea of parallel versus perpendicular even for uh fairly complicated molecules is very important. because it carries with it a a characteristic uh feature in the spectrum par for parallel type transitions. J does uh uh delta J of zero is weak. Q branches are weak. These are called delta J of zero is called a Q branch. P delta J of plus or minus one is called P and R branches. So if if you have a parallel transition, you tend not to have Q branches. If you have a perpendicular transition, the Q branches are strongest. And so these are really really they jump out at you. These are features that you see in the spectrum and you say, "Oh my god, I can tell just by looking at it that uh that it's a parallel or perpendicular transition." So in nonlinear molecules is it empirical that if you have weak Q branches you call it parallel type and if you have strong Q branches you call it perpendicular type or is there a there's a little bit more to it but yes I mean uh you're almost always looking to see you see most molecules are near symmetric tops and so one quantizes is relative to the near symmetry axis. And so it's either the transition moment is either parallel to the near symmetry axis or perpendicular to it. And this gives rise to very dramatic changes in the profile of the band. So it's one of the most useful things to recognize that there are different orientations of the transition moment in the body and those translate into profound differences in the appearance of the spring. Okay. And M uh that's the projection of uh J in the body frame. And uh this is relatively unimportant. However, often uh you can use the polarization in the uh uh the polarization of radiation especially in double resonance experiments to learn something about what J is. So uh but this is a relatively uh minor thing. Now these direction cosine matrix elements are generally written can generally be expressed as you will see in hog as a product of three factors a factor that depends on j omega uh or j initial omega initial so I'm going to use spectroscopic notation so a factor that's j omega dependent a factor that's J M dependent and these two factors look the same they're just the symbols are different and a factor that just in the denominator involves some RJ okay so you these direction cosine matrix elements are a product of three things and generally you're interested in one or the other of these and this is Okay. So, excuse me. Now, um you one of the beauties of using bracket notation is that we tend not to look at wave functions ever. We we manipulate them as symbols and that's usually okay. But sometimes there are hidden phase convictions that cause you to make uh usually a sign error which uh often results in something which is supposed to be allowed being forbidden and vice versa or some kind of interference effect being constructed when it's supposed to be destroyed. And these are very very hard errors to find because you generally you know you say oh I understand what I'm doing and I understand how these things ought to behave. So if you if you just say well suppose I choose theta and fi zero uh what will happen? And what you normally would expect because you're clever people and you don't want to do a calculation. You normally expect that little x is going to be parallel to big x and little y is going to be parallel to big y and z is parallel. And that's not right. If you substitute in uh what you get with theta and phi both chosen to be zero, what you discover is the direction cosine matrix has the form 0 - 1 0 1 0 0 1. And and so you see that when this is applied to uh uh so when you take this matrix and apply it to uh u little x little y z. what you get is minus y uh x and z. So this matrix with this choice of uh theta and fi or this choice of phase. Notice normally when you have two coordinate systems to specify the orientation of one relative to the other you have three angles but we're just keeping track of the orientation of uh the the um z-axis relative to the laboratory frame. And and for this choice, what we end up getting is that uh x goes into minus y, y goes into x. So there's an extra rotation by pi / 2 that you didn't expect. And this this is a that is a face choice that uh can come back and burn you if you're not aware of it. And it turns out that the phase choice for direction cosiness uh normally used by spectroscopists and by quantum chemists are different. And so you can't just continue manipulating the symbols without sometimes asking well what did they really do? And so this is one of those times. Okay. So do quantum chemists use a phase choice that sets it to zero so there is no rotation. No, they choose this one. Okay. because of this. No rotation. Okay. Doesn't mean we're we're better or more moral or anything, but you know, it turns out that this is a source of confusion. It does seem reasonable that you would make no rotation when the angles are Yeah. coincidence. And so what is that other oiler angle? It's the rotation about Z. So, you know, you fix that. I mean, you know, I didn't say anything about that oiler angle because we didn't think about it. But the spectroscopists and the quantum chemists choose that third oiler angle so that instead of having this ridiculous result, uh, you get X, Y, and Z and spectroscopist use that and the quantum chemist use this. Okay. So, where are we now? So we're massaging our little our main equation down to uh simp we have the probability for a transition that's going to be now proportional to a sum of stuff. Notice I'm putting it inside the absolute value. And a probability is always the square of uh an a matrix element or amplitude. And so the probability is going to be the sum over the uh the space fixed and body fixed uh axes. We have the uh electric field coordinates in space. We have the IM R F and this is integrated over R and we have this omega I can't write it here I al S space body. Uh, okay. So, that's all in here. And so, this contains everything. Now, it's set up to actually analyze the various cases. Is SP the same thing as LP? Yeah. And in fact, there's another criminal thing I often do because uh my co-author on the book, she refused to let me call it body fix. It's molecule fix. I don't know why uh because it may be that in French there was something a little bit too suggestive about that. But anyway, I don't You didn't want to get confused with your body, right? Well, that's the, you know, that's because that's the lab. So anyway, so sorry about the notation. Okay. So now we have um we have three different kinds of transition. So a pure rotation transition in a pure rotation transition, we're not changing electronic states. So uh this uh uh the for pure rotation transition the electronic states I I guess I have a notational problem. Um EI is equal to EF and VI is equal to VF. So there's no change in electronic and no change in vibrational quantum numbers. And so what can we immediately say about the various terms here? Um So if we're going to have delta omega equals z, it requires this not to be equal to z. If we have delta omega Well, we've chosen initial state is equal to the final state. So, omega is um so um and this also requires that uh the uh MX So if there's no change in omega, we have one component of this not zero. The other two are zero. Now for a diatomic molecule, we're talking about this electronic integral. Uh and so we can have a polar diatomic molecule. Um and uh uh so it's certainly possible to have a dipole moment along this direction. But suppose we look at a reflection plane. All diatomic molecules have reflection planes containing the two nuclei. And uh so there's absolute so that's a good symmetry operation. Uh and so whatever you have above the reflection plane you have to have below the reflection plane. You cannot have a perpendicular dipole moment in a dipole in a diatomic molecule. So for for a transition uh in which the electronic state doesn't change you know the only thing that can happen is to have a nonzero Z component of the transition moment the perpendicular components are going to be zero certainly. Yes. Do you mean all those to be I MC I? It should be I if we're not changing the rotation that should be an I I and in fact it is so in my notes and so yes. Okay. So that's why I was confused because I was wondering what the hell I was doing. Okay. So now we can have a diatomic molecule in a state that that has uh uh omega not equal to zero. We can have a diatomic molecule in a triplet state that has several different omegas. But we cannot have a diatomic molecule that has a perpendicular component of the moment. And so we have strictly a delta omega equals zero selection rule. Now if we have a center of inversion symmetry here as you would for homonuclear then uh the electronic wave functions are classified either G or U and the transition the uh this is classified U in it's bundatana and so any nonzero integral is going to be between uh a g and a u state and so you cannot have a transition where the electronic you cannot have if you have a homonuclear molecule then there is no permanent dipole moment this function is rigorously zero and so you get the selection rule or the the fact that N2 has no permanent has no pure rotation spectrum CO does and uh there's only going to be uh transition there's only going to be Ztype transitions and you need a heteronuclear molecule. Now as you go to polyatomic molecules there's more complicated stuff going on. uh you can have a permanent uh you can have a a component of the dipole moment that is not along the near symmetry axis. And so you can uh um observe different kinds of uh pure rotation transition. So the pure rotation transition where we've chosen the electronic state not to change and the vibrational state not to change. We have the requirement that there be a nonzero dipole moment and there can only be one component of a non-zero dipole moment along the the Z-axis and that means omega. Okay, what else do I want to say? That wasn't very beautiful. Um, so the next step is well suppose we want vibrations to change. So we're interested in vibration rotation spectrum. What does it take for that to occur? Well, we can write the critical thing this uh this dipole moment function as a power series. So um for a diatomic molecule it's still it can only be uh you can only no matter what you do even if you stretch the molecule you can't arrange for a dipole to occur perpendicular. So we're interested only in the Z component. We're keeping the electronic state fixed. We want to know uh the art of evidence and so we write this power series. You can't have a dipole moment with an external field perpendicular to the inter nuclear axis due to some polarization. You can you can polarize the molecule. Yeah. But again, the molecule is free to rotate. And so you apply an electric field. What is it going to do to I mean eventually it's going to rotate to a line, right? Minimize the energy and whatever. But certainly if you impose an external field you can you can spoil the isotropy. So the molecule is rotating and it it's not free to rotate uh it's now rotating in a uh in a in a potential and so there'll be splittings in the energy levels. You can make states of different things. Yeah. So, but I I have not applied an external field. I'm just uh asking well what will you observe with a weak uh field. Okay. So, we have this and this is the displacement uh for the harmonic oscillator. And we know that if we have matrix elements for harmonic oscillators, we know that the only non-zero ones are going to be ones that change v by plus or minus one from this term. And from this we have uh a selection will delta v of 0 plus or minus 2. So we get the sense that if the dipole moment changes with R that's what this is well then you can change V by one and so you get a propensity rule which says for a vibration if this dipole moment changes and you can have a vibration uh like in nitrogen uh the dipole moment is zero and stretching it doesn't do anything in CO the dipole moment at equilibrium is almost zero but stretching it does change the dip the dipole so this thing is the thing that makes the transitions occur and this is the the main thing that enables you to change the quantum number so this is how big how how probable and this is yes or no but this is a power series. It's not just two terms. I mean this gave rise to pure rotation spectra. This gives rise to vibration rotation spectrum. This gives rise to some weaker transitions overtone transitions. Uh and so this is not a selection rule. This is it the what you expect is for the vibrational modes where the dipole moment changes and now I'm generalizing beyond uh diatomic molecules because it's short step but there will be transitions where that mode changes by one and uh if you have a polyatomic molecule you can imagine that there will changes in the dipole moment and not just along the Z-axis but along whatever axis the vibration chooses and so you can get some pretty interesting phenomena. Okay. So that's uh so pure rotation spectra require a dipole moment vibrational spectra require a change in the dipole moment and electronic spectra you just have to have this initial state uh m uh no we need to have m i f are not equal to zero. So, and how do we do that? Well, we classify the initial state and the final state according to their irreducible representation. And the we classify the transition moment operator. And so the integral here has to be totally symmetric. And so you get electronic selection rules. And so you can have things like G sigma G+ going to sigma U plus you. And uh so if you have a homonuclear molecule uh you can go from you always go from G to U. You can go sigma to pi. You cannot go between plus minus. And so there's, you know, there's stuff that you can figure out from symmetry. So there's three kinds of transitions and many people get confused because it's not taught anymore. It's in the elementary physical chemistry course. Maybe you saw it. Uh but in America all the stuff about spectra of small molecules is gone from uh the quantum mechanics course. And so many I've asked on cubes you know what are you what do you need to have a pure rotation spectrum and uh I get the most amazing answers but it's a very simple thing so we have three kinds of spectrum three distinct things that make them possible and we have two we have symmetry and we have how big and uh uh usually when you're looking at the spectrum you don't care so much about how big you care about isn't possible. But if there's a a fundamental transition where the vibration changes by one and an overtone, you normally expect that the overtone will be weaker than the fundamental. By how much? Well, that depends because these transition moment functions or dipole moment functions are often complicated. But again there's another simple rule and that is that electronic properties change as a function of r slowly. If they change fast, it's because something unourred has occurred. And that's interesting. But generally, you don't expect things, you know, if they if they're allowed to change with R because of symmetry. They will, but the change will be slow. electronic properties are are going to change with J slowly because J uh affects the R integral. I mean if you if you have a potential energy curve and you're vibrating in this potential energy curve and you add to this potential energy curve a centrifugal term uh which is JJ + one over uh 2 u r 2. So when r gets small this gets big. So you're you're you're adding something that this to the curve that does this, it shifts the amplitude out. And so you can have J causing a change in the R, the average value of R. And so you can have very very subtle changes in electronic properties with J that's called centrial distortion or whatever. And uh so you expect these things to be very very slow and you expect you know what the sign of these things will be and whenever it isn't that way it's telling you that something special has occurred that there has been an accidental degeneracy of two kinds of states something that you had neglected which results in something very interesting and so uh you you want to approach spectra with the idea of this is what I expect and it's very simple and uh many things are not supposed to happen when they do happen then you get excited because this is something to figure out and usually it tells you something very special about the molecule and so I think well in fact I've actually talked a little too long so uh I will continue with this tomorrow and I think the main subject will have to do with what goes into Can I ask two quick questions? No. One is something I'm confused about. Um, you said that even when delta J equals Z, delta omega can change, but delta omega is just a projection of J on the Z axis. Suppose you're going from J= 10 to J= 10. So J can have a projection on the body axis and there's no reason why the projection can or cannot change. The the change in the projection quantum number has to do with symmetry along which axis is the the dipole. Oh, I see. I see. So, I mean, normally you think if J doesn't change, Yeah. Well, you're going J equals Z to J equals Z. And of course, well, omega is zero in both cases because omega has to be. So, it but J= 10 to J equals 10, you can have omega going not changing or going up or down. There's no reason. Okay. The other question I had was a little bit weirder. Um, so normally we do spectroscopy by having a laser in a laboratory or a lamp in a laboratory interacting with molecules that are moving sometimes very fast. Oh, I think this is not a quick question but well. Is this a counter revolutionary? Well, I mean I was going to ask so what happens a couple things. So first of all, what happens if you trap the molecules and they're not moving with respect to the laboratory? um and you know say that they're very cold also when they're trapped you know does that let you does that just simplify a little bit of algebra or does that get you something? Well, if the molecules are free to rotate, then there's nothing different. If you have trapped them uh in one J state, I mean, well, what you normally do, if you trap them in a particular J state, it still doesn't do anything because they're still But suppose you trap them in a strong electric field, then it's called pendular states. But what has to happen then? You've destroyed J. Mhm. So you have a molecule now that's oriented in a laboratory because you applied a strong enough field and that field achieved that by saying okay I'm mixing states of different J's. J is what makes it be able to move. If J is destroyed then you you can say it's project it has a projection that doesn't average to zero in then let me ask the opposite question. So what happens if you do your spectroscopy by using uh emission from atoms or molecules that are moving along with the atoms and molecules that you're trying to see or you mean they're exciting each other. They're exciting each other and then or there's there's some kind but they're not relative to each other. Say there's some kind of coherence between them that you you know something like you you have a molecule that then breaks and emits as it breaks and there's something we're getting to entangled states. I don't know. I I mean yes there are there are things you can build where the the two pieces came from one thing in in some organized way. And you have to be careful about saying that now they're free to move relative to each other uh uh randomly, right? Uh and there are probably some consequences in the laboratory associated with the correlated motions of two fragments. And uh but I'm not prepared to answer that question. Normally if you have two things that are uh that were not one thing initially They're oriented randomly and so you have body frames and laboratory frames and you you just have to do those transformations to to establish a correlation between two body frames requires a trick. I it might be possible to do this. Uh I mean I mean for example suppose you have a very short pulse uh and so this molecule got excited at this time this molecule got excited at that time uh and the molecules that got excited had their J's oriented in a in a way that is preferentially uh so that you have some selection on the orientation the body frames. these two things there's probably some I mean what if one is an ion that's out around and something else is coming into the ion and then they're interacting for some for some time um close to each other because this is something that uh you should think about uh and it's certainly an active area of you know when do you observe correlations between particles and when uh does the independent nature of the particles wash out any correlation? What do you have to do to create a coherence that can be detected in length? I mean often you can create some kind of coherence or correlation and but sometimes uh there is no observation you can make that doesn't destroy that but you know it's a very useful way of thinking okay I want to create some correlation somehow and then I want to read that to so that I can see how that evolves and there are some very beautiful uh uh studies of you you create with multiple photon, multiple steps of exitation uh things called uh um alignment and orientation and higher multiple moments. And so you've created something and then you have to read those things and the relaxations of the alignments and the orientation tell you something about the the uh TEDs or components of the interactions between molecules.