Okay, great. So, welcome. Um, this lecture is going to be on generalization. So, this is the the next topic in the series of, you know, how do you approximate functions? Now, do they actually generalize? And the the basic question is do neural networks generalize? And well, we'll see yes, the answer is yes to some degree. And then the the question is why why do they generalize? Okay, so okay, a few logistical reminders. Problem set one is due today. Problem set two goes out today. Uh problem set two will be posted sometime after this class. So we always will post problem sets after the the lecture. Um, and you might want to look at the first question of problem set 2 if you happen to have time before Thursday's lecture because it can kind of help motivate. You don't have to solve it, but it can help kind of motivate and put into context what we'll see on Thursday. So, I'd recommend taking a look at at that first problem. Uh, and then you'll kind of know what to look out for in the lecture to help you solve that problem. Um, so just a little piece of advice and I think that's it. So, we're going to go right in. So the outline for today will be what is generalization? That should be review. Uh you've all taken machine learning or uh classes like this before. Okay. Then the next question is do deep nets generalize. Uh then we'll see that there's some classical theories of generalization and they don't actually work very well for deep learning. So we'll see some failures of classical generalization theory at explaining phenomena in deep learning. And then I've already given away the answer that to some degree deep nets will argue do generalize. So why why do they generalize? Uh what does this tell us about their um inductive biases and preferences toward solutions that uh will generalize over solutions that simply fit the data but don't generalize. Okay, so that's the outline. And I should also um say that the material in this lecture is not really textbook material. We gave a few readings but they're kind of recent papers so we just listed them as optional. Um this is very much ongoing science. This is to me maybe kind of the biggest or one of the biggest open sets of like questions of topics of inquiry in the field of deep learning and in AI in general is exactly what are the generalization properties of deep networks. They seem to work a lot better than we would have expected from kind of classical theory. So so why we don't actually know we don't have all the answers. This lecture will just pose some questions and give some initial threads that you could pull on. Uh but this is going to be a topic that will change a lot over the next coming years. I think this will develop a lot. Okay. So let's go over the basics of approximation versus generalization. We've so far talked in this course really only about approximation. So approximation is I have some training data. I want to ask how well can I fit that training data and we measure the fit with the empirical risk which is um the first equation up here. So we just say what is the loss L incurred over all of my uh training data points. This is a supervised setting where we have data points X and outputs Y. I'm trying to predict the correct output Y for a given X. So I just sum up all of my prediction errors according to my model F and my loss function L. Okay, so this is the just the a on average what is my prediction error. And we had a few lectures and in the problems that you worked out cases where you can um find that you know a class of functions can minimize that towards zero uh with sufficient capacity with sufficient width or depth. Okay. But that's not actually what we care about in machine learning. All we actually care about is the test error which um can be called the population risk. So the population risk is on new samples from the world new samples from the data generating process P. So new samples XY new new observations how well it do I do in expectation and this is like the population because it's over the entire population of um observations I could get from my world's data generating process B. But you could also have like an empirical um test risk which would just be over a sample like my test set is a sample of 10,000 images. How well do I do on them? Okay, so we have three different kind of topics um that we can factoriize machine learning into. One is uh how well can you approximate the training data and that's what we've talked about so far. So what is the uh in my family of functions I'm considering parameterized by theta what is the best theta star that will achieve the lowest empirical risk and we've said that you can get it to you know go to zero under some conditions okay so we can fit our training data but the next then the next question is uh optimization how do we actually find that theta star and we've talked a little bit about that we saw back prop and on Thursday's lecture we'll talk more about optimization. Uh but we said that you can you know you you can often find theta star to some degree and this lecture is well wait a second if you find that really good uh parameter vector on the training data uh what is the population risk what is the risk on the test data. So what is the gap between the training training error and the test error and that's the question of generalization and that's all we actually care about because we want to do well when we deploy the system in the world and we see new observations. Okay, this should be reviewed. This is this is like you know ML 101. Okay. Yeah. Question >> are an approximation supposed to have a hat on it. Question about training data. >> Yeah. I think you could ask the question um so an approximation yeah typically it would be can I can I minimize the empirical risk on the training data? Yes. So, oh I I see. Yeah, we could have we could have denoted that with a hat, but I suppose you could also ask the question uh is the best possible function in the hypothesis space going to achieve low risk on the population as well. So you could ask both of those are questions of approximation. Okay. Okay. So let's go over some intuitive ideas about generalization just to kind of get warmed up and get you thinking about this. Okay, so here here's a um a bad data set. Suppose we have a data set which is just a bunch of photos of cats and we want to train a cat versus dog classifier. So clearly this is not going to work. You only observe cats. You're not going to get a cat versus dog classifier, right? So so what what's wrong with this this data? What would make for better training data for a cat versus dog classifier? Some obvious ideas. Yeah. You want to have some dogs. Yeah. Yeah. What else would you What if you have just one cat, one dog, and then a lot of copies of that that image. You want diversity. You want coverage. You want to show all your different conditions. So, there's certain properties of the data that are critical. You can't really understand generalization without understanding the data distribution that you're training on. And if your training set doesn't represent all the interesting aspects of variation that you'll encounter in the world, then you're not going to generalize well. So, so data is critical to generalization and we have to understand data to understand generalization. Okay. The other thing that's critical to understanding generalization is the model which will be most of what we focus on. I just wanted to start by saying that the data is also a critical part of the uh recipe for Okay. So, here's here's a bad model. um the filing cabinet. So the filing cabinet model is going to be this little Python program here where we have a dictionary called cabinet and uh if we see a new data point X, we put it into our cabinet along with the correct prediction Y for that that X and if we come across that X again, we just like hash into that cabinet. We just pull out that file. We see what the answer is. So this is sometimes called memorization. I'm just memorizing my training data. But uh the questions for you are well what will the approximation error be of the filing cabinet model? Yeah, zero right. So so the approximation error is zero because for every data point that I train on I can retrieve the exact memorized answer. Okay, what about the generalization error? What will the generalization error of the filing cabinet be? Okay, generalization error is the difference between the empirical risk and the population risk. So roughly what will it be good? Will it be good? Will it be bad? >> Bad. Yeah, it'll it'll generally be bad unless it happens to be that like the true function we're modeling is zero almost everywhere, which would be a very strange function because we said by there's an like if I if I don't have my file in the cabinet, I will just not know what to do. But maybe that was I got lucky and the true function is zero everywhere. So you could have a filing cabinet that gets slow generalization error, but it would be a very strange function that you're modeling in that case. Okay, so we'll come back to the filing cabinet um model and you know one of the questions is are deep nets like filing cabinets or like something else? Do they just memorize and not generalize or do they do something else? Okay, here's another bad bad model just I guess a little bit for fun. Um, so this is Paul the octopus. And Paul can decide who's going to win a soccer match uh between two different countries. And Paul was like super accurate. And people would make their bets based on what Paul said. And what Paul did is just went and like went into the tank of the flag that it thought would win the match. And it was like getting it got six out of six correct predictions. So would you trust Paul to make the correct prediction next year? Yeah. Right. Probably. is probably like some super intelligent octopus. No, obviously wouldn't trust Paul. It must have just it generalized. Sorry, it fit the training data. Well, it's not a filing cabinet. It is making some decision, but it's like it happened to get lucky. It's it's like some random function that happened to fit the training data, but you'd never expect it to actually have a true model of soccer. Okay, so you can have functions that get lucky and do um make interesting predictions out of sample on the test data but wrong predictions and Paul as an example. Okay, so our our our big question in this course in this lecture is do deep nets generalize. Okay, so here's um a simple warm-up. Uh here's the filing cabinet fit to these black data points. Okay, so my training data is the black points. Um, it's a scalerto-scaler mapping. I'm predicting Y given X. And the red line is the fit of my model. And if my model is a filing cabinet, what it's saying is that I've memorized that if I see one of my training data points, I know exactly what to predict. That's the kind of red lines like the delta functions going down to each of those dots or up to the dots. And everywhere else, I'll predict zero. So anything that is not anything on the x-axis any uh point I could sample on the x axis that's not in my training set that's not where the black dots lie I will predict zero for. So this is a very kind of bad kind of generalization. So here's the same data where I've just fit it with a three layer MLP relu MLP. Okay not too surprising a view can fit data but notice that it fits it in a very different way. So both of these achieve zero approximation error. Both of them have fit the training data. But if that were all that mattered then we would have to say these are equally good. But that's not all that matters. It also matters how you interpolate and extrapolate from the training data. And deep nets do that in a way that's you know marketkedly different than a filing cabinet. Okay. So memorization is just what do I predict on the training data points and filing cabinets can memorize deep nets can memorize and generalization is what do I do on the points where I didn't have training data and we might expect that this type of kind of interpolation this type of generalization is better than that other type because most functions in the world are going to be you know smooth as opposed to spiky. You could imagine a adversarial world where that's not the case. But our world um looks more like this on the right. Okay. [snorts] Okay. So that's a very simple deep net. But the real feats of generalization that we get excited about these days are with fancy big modern nets. Okay. So here here's a little experiment you can do. I just ran this for myself this weekend, but I think it might be a fun thing to for you to play with or maybe take into a final project. So, let's try to ask are modern deep nets big the best model you can think of um are they acting like a filing cabinet or are they doing something more? It's a little bit hard to say because if you train on enough data and these are trained on, you know, billions or trillions of data points. If you've trained on enough data and you just memorize the data, well, your test conditions might look um identical to your, you know, if I've trained on infinite things, then my test cases are just the same as my training data. Um, so are they are they close to that just memorizing like nearly infinite things or are they not? Um, so LLM, if you don't know, this is large language model, chat, GBT, latest, greatest, deep, deep nets are are in that family. Okay, so big model. Um, so is it acting like a filing cabinet? Can we actually measure if it's generalizing or not? So here's a question we can ask. How big would the filing cabinet have to be in order to do the feats of prediction that chat GBD or some big LLM can do? Okay, so remember our model of the falling cabinet is just we return zero if we have a data point that we've never seen before. Okay, so here's just a simple counting experiment. I think you can make more sophisticated versions to this but um I I found it fun. Okay, so we'll sample a sequence. So language models are deep nets that take sequences of words as input and make some prediction from them. Okay, so we'll sample a sequence of nwords and we'll be sampling from a vocab of size m. Okay, so we have like m nouns, a thousand different nouns and we make a sentence of length or a set of a sequence of nouns of length five. So then n would be five. So how many unique input sequences are there? Okay. So just simple combinatorics m to the n, right? So I have n possible m possible words and I have n of them in a row. I sample independently each one. That's the number of such sequences. So now we can we can ask well if we take a random such sequence and we input it into our model, did the model make a reasonable prediction? So technically, if this is our model of the filing cabinet, we're just asking did it make a non-zero prediction, but did it did it make did output like a correct a correct prediction. So we can take our favorite language model. We can ask our favorite question about the input sequence and have the language model try to solve that question. That's how they work. You can prompt them to ask to to um answer different questions about your input sequence. It will ask how often is the output um something that's non-trivial, not what a filing cabinet would do. And then we can say that the filing cabinet in order to get get the score of s equals the um number of unique sequences times the percent of times those sequences mapped to something non-trivial. It would have to be that big. It'd have to be um taking that many unique sequences and um achieving this proportion of correct predictions. It would have to have that many cabinets. Okay. Okay. And if that number is really really big, bigger than we think language models are or bigger than the amount of data they've been trained on, then we know that language models are not doing memoriz pure memorization. Okay. So, so I ran you, you can make up your own version of this, but just to convince myself, I ran it like this. I took 30 fruit names, okay? Apple, orange, pear, whatever. Okay? So, my vocab is size 30 and my sequence length is size 10. So, I'm going to sample 10 random fruits from that list. So, there's, you know, um 10 to the 30th possible uh input sequences. And then I'm going to have my language model um answer this question about those sequences. So, uh we'll talk more about language models and prompting later, but just you've all done this with things like GPT or Claude and so forth, right? You can say how many citrus fruits, this is just my my toy problem I'm giving it to try to estimate these probabilities. How many citrus fruits are in this list? And I give it this random sequence of 10 fruits sampled from that vocab of size 30. And it gets it correct. And so I did this five times. It's not I'm not saying this is like the best experiment, but I got five out of five. So it was correct every single time. So my estimate for the probability of being correct is is one. So now we can just estimate you know P * M to the N uh is going to be 100 trillion. Okay. So the filing cabinet would have to have 100 trillion files. Okay. Also the training data the way the filing cabinet works is it only you know inputs a new data point into the cabinet if it sees that data point in the training set. So it means the training set has to have 100 million examples for that model. Sorry 100 trillion. And we think that chat GBT and things like this are trained on more like uh tens of trillions. So I think I exceeded that. But you could always make this list longer and run the same experiment, get it to a quadrillion and really convince yourself that these things are not just memorizing. Okay, another just for fun one. We could do the same thing but we can use a um text to image model and now have it draw the fruits and ask you know how many unique different you know how how often will be correct in drawing the fruits. So I asked that to this you know chat GBD can do both these things. Now these are kind of multimodal models. So you can say draw these fruits. I sample a random sequence of 10 fruits and I check if it's correct. Okay. Is this one correct? I said no. It's almost correct. I think I got nine out of 10. I don't think it has the passion fruit but anyway. I don't know what passion fruits look like. But I I I called this one incorrect. And so I estimated >> Does it have another wrong thing? Okay. Yeah. cantaloupe or okay. >> Oh yeah, coconut's missing. Maybe that was a passion fruit up there. But anyway, this one's wrong. Um, but I I ran this eight times and one of one out of the eight times I thought it got it correct. I really saw each of the fruits represented. So now our proportionate P is, you know,.125 one over eight and that means that you'd have to have a filing cabinet of size 12 trillion. So I don't think this has been done 12 12 trillion images. Uh, but it's hard to know. You know, OpenAI is secretive. Okay, but you can do these types of experiments and I think you can pretty quickly convince yourself that the way that modern deep nets are working is not like a filing cabinet. It has some properties in common with the filing cabinet. We'll come back to that, but that doesn't fully explain what they're doing. Okay. Um yeah, and and so just suggestion for final project. I think it'd be fun to really do that like systematically and rigorously and try to actually estimate, you know, how many unique concepts these things have. Um, I haven't really seen very many papers that that that do this type of experiment, but I think it'd be fun. Okay, so here, so I got kind of excited about the feats of generalization of deep nets um in this project uh from a few years ago. And so what we did here is we trained an deep net to take its input sketches and produces output photos of cats in this case. Okay. So, um, a neural net just maps and we'll we'll talk about these, you know, generative models and image image models a little bit later in the course, but for now it's just, you know, a mapping from X to Y. It happens to be sketches to to photos. And so, what what we did in this project is we didn't use human handdrawn sketches because those are expensive to acquire. So, instead we just use this thing called HD which is like an edge detector and it's like a proxy for what a human would have drawn, but it doesn't quite match what a human would really draw. So from a kind of naive machine learning perspective, you would say if I train this on a ton of examples of edge maps and cats and I give it a new edge map, it should predict a new cat because this is just generalization to independently and identically sample data points from the same population. Okay, so that's like classical um generalization theory in machine learning. The really interesting thing is it also worked when you gave it handdrawn cats which it had never been trained on. So these are inputs that are actually out of distribution systematically different than what it was trained on. Okay. So um you know in the prehistory of of deep learning this was the the popular thing of the day. Uh now of course we've seen much more exciting things. But so I sketch a cat right it doesn't look anything like an edge map and it it it just works and it's still cool even today. So, you know, people had a lot of fun and this is just this is generalization. It's never been trained on these these types of things. It has some kind of creativity almost. I don't you know, we have to be careful not to anthropformize too much, but there's something here which is which is a little bit magical and not fully understood. But I think we can we can start to get a sense of what's going on uh with an experiment like this. So, I'm just trying to kind of build up intuitions, do simple kind of experiments. We'll get into some more um technical theory in a bit. Okay, but here we go. We I I just draw two two eyes. Um now, what if I draw three eyes? What's going to happen? Okay, it's never seen a photo of a cat with three eyes. How would it know what to do? But it it works. It just puts that eye where where that eye was drawn. Okay, a lot of eyes. Okay. Um you can add the body. That that makes sense. So So how is it doing this? How is it generalizing to more eyes than it ever saw at training time? And I think there's not like a single explanation, but the the best one I have in mind is it's the inductive biases of convolutional nets. So this network was a convennet. We've seen that. What do confnets do? They take an input, they chop it up into patches, okay? and then they independently and identically process every patch. So they're factorizing the problem into a lot of independent decisions. And when you have like decompose something into these independent components, you get what's called compositionality where you can um you know make the you you can take a new composition of things and factor them into these independent components, these patches, and it should um it should know what to do because it only ever has to you know, imitate the training data on these patches and then the combination of the patches is just the rule of, you know, stitch them together. Okay, so for every single patch, it's doing indistribution generalization. It's seen a lot of things that look like ovals and they match eyes and then it can generalize to more eyes because I've just factorized the the problem um in this in this simple way. Okay, so architectural um constraints and biases and the way that we enforce symmetries and factorization into our models allows you to do certain kinds of feats of generalization and we saw we saw that with um you know the ability of graph nets to generalize to you know new permutations of their inputs because they're permutation invariant or equivariant. So that's just built into the architecture. I don't have to have seen every permutation. I can just have seen some permutations and then it will generalize to other permutations. That's baked into the architecture. It's not something you have to learn from the data. So architecture is one of the main levers we have for these feats of generalization that that violate um just like statistical learning theory or or that go beyond just like naive statistical learning theory. Okay. So let's get a little bit into generalization theory and start with the the classic picture. Uh so most of generalization theory comes from um AAM uh comes from this the AAMS razer idea. It's all it's all variations on AAM's razor in some sense. So just to remind you Aam's razor says among competing explanations that fit the data equally well you should prefer the simplest. Okay. And the generalization way of stating that is that this the simplest model that fits the data will will be most likely to be the true model. Therefore it will be most likely to generalize the best. Just one one little note is that I think sometimes people forget to um add the fits the data. So it's not true the simplest model is most likely to be true or is most likely to generalize best. It's the simplest model that fits the data that actually explains the data. Okay? You need that. Okay? Otherwise you you get these absurd statements like oh well I should use a linear model but no it doesn't fit the data. So you you have to use a complex enough model that it fits the data. But then you want to prefer the simpler one. And there's a lot of deep arguments for why that should be the case. It's intuitively, you know, clear from the idea of AAM's razor that we, you know, learn in grade school or whenever we learn it. Um, but it also there's deep mathematics that can be used to derive like formal versions of the statement. Yeah. Question. >> Yeah. >> Right. the question that's really interesting. All uh there's another quote all models are wrong but some are useful. Um yeah that that's that's intriguing to think about. I would say that the all models is so this is only in the set of models that are in the equivalence class of all equally well fitting the data. So, so they're not we're not really considering models that are wrong in terms of only approximating the data. So, it's a slightly different setting that that we're we're looking at there. Um, but yeah, I don't know. I there's probably more kind of discussion around that, but I I don't have a crisp answer right now. Yeah. Question. >> Has this statement been proven rigorously or is it a heristic? >> So, I would say in this form it's certain. So, the question has this statement been proven rigorously or is it a heristic? In this form it's a heristic because how do we measure s simplest how do we measure generalization like we need to make these mathematically precise to make it rigorous but there are rigorous versions of the alams razor argument uh the the my favorite one is is this one from various people including salamov um which is that the shortest program that perfectly fits or generates the data that just outputs the the data set is the one that will generalize best and make the best predictions. Uh there's an equivalent version of this statement which is that the mo the you know the most compressed representation of your data is the best model of your data. There's some equivalency between these two things. So I'm not going to get into all the technical details of that. Uh but this is kind of the place to start reading if you want mathematically precise arguments for AAMS Razer. [snorts] And the problem though is that finding the shortest program that fits the data requires searching over the space of all possible programs like imagine searching over the space of all possible Python programs. You just can't do that. And deep learning doesn't search over the space of all possible programs. It just searches over the space of all weights and biases of a particular model architecture. So this is completely intractable, but it comes up in like algorithmic information theory and areas like that. So it's good to keep in mind this this is this is kind of like the mathematical basis for generalization theory. But actually um finding the optimal program or the shortest program is intractable. So we're not going to quite do that. But but if but but this is what we want. We want to measure we want a way of measuring simplicity or complexity of a hypothesis space uh or of a solution um to a problem. And uh this is kind of the best notion of of simplicity but we can't quite use it. So what else can we use? Okay. So let's do a quick re review of overfitting the idea of overfitting and the bias variance trade-off. So uh remember that the test error is equal to the train error plus the difference between the train error and the u test error. And we call the train error the bias. And the difference between the test error and the train error the the variance. And the kind of classical machine learning 101 picture of how things work is that as I increase the kind of capacity the number of functions under consideration in my hypothesis space that I'm searching over as I make bigger and bigger and bigger deep nets with more and more and more parameters then eventually I'll you know I'll get universal approximation. you know if I get width goes to infinity I can fit any function so I can minimize my loss on the training error so the training risk goes down but I'll start overfitting and the test risk will eventually go up because I'm finding uh fits to the data which are kind of fitting to um properties of the data that don't actually generalize like noise or the fact that I got this particular batch of samples as opposed to a different batch of samples okay so um this is the overfitting scenario that you have likely seen before. And one of the ways of measuring model capacity, modeling the x-axis or measuring, you know, the complexity of a hypothesis space is via number of parameters. And this is one of the classical ways that you might have encountered. If I want to, you know, find my best machine learning model, I need to control the number of parameters. If I have too many parameters, it'll overfit, right? So let's look at what that what happens if I'm doing some kind of polomial regression onto these um these red points here. Okay. So the orange line is my uh fit to the data and if I use a like degree one polomial this is I think it's not quite polomials it's a particular family of polomials I'm I'm doing finding the coefficients of a weighted sum of a particular family of um simple functions like legendra polomials I think in this case but it doesn't matter too much uh so I'm going to say with d equals 1 is the degree of that family of polomials it's just d equals 1 means linear uh and a linear fit can't do a great job. The true function is the blue line and the training data is the red points. Okay, what happens as I increase the um you know the wiggliness of the polomials in my family include more and more polomials that are higher and higher frequency and the kind of wiggles that they can express. Okay. So if I go up to a quadratic or cubic model in this case, well the ground truth function happened to be cubic or happen to have order three leandre polomial and uh I get a really good fit right and then overfitting is if I go up to have too many kind of degrees of freedom I can actually not only recover the the the true data but I'm also kind of fitting to the noise. Right? This deviation from the blue line is just noise and the model is you know wildly deviating in order to to to capture that aspect that doesn't actually generalize that doesn't actually tell me something about the true smooth underlying function. Okay, so this is our classic picture of overfitting. But here's here's the surprise if you haven't seen it before. What happens if I go not to d= 20 but d equals a thousand and have a really really expressive class of polomials that can fit really really crazy wiggly functions. Is it going to go more crazy and overfit even worse in the sense that these deviations will just go to infinity? Um, or will it do something different? What do you think? Some of you probably have seen this before, but let's go P. >> I mean, you should have a large manifold of that all fit perfectly, right? >> Yes. >> So, some of them could be good, some of them could be bad. Yeah, that so the answer that that's a quite sophisticated answer is uh you should have a large set of functions that all perfectly fit the data and so um some of them should be good and some of them should be bad. But which one will you arrive at? Well, it's going to depend on other factors. It's going to depend on how you're searching over that space or what optimizer are you using? How are you minimizing uh your training error? It's going to depend on other factors beyond just um uh you know randomly selecting one of one of the solutions that fits the data. Okay. Well, so here here's what happens for this um regression problem with these polomials. So when d equals a th00and you actually are able to fit this really spiky function but it aderes much more closely to the true smooth solution. Okay. And this phenomena is called uh leads to what is called double descent. So it's the idea that overfitting is actually the classical picture of overfitting is a little bit inaccurate. And what actually happens is you start overfitting really badly as you add more parameters. But eventually if you had enough parameters for certain types of models including deep nets and also including these polomial regression problems you end up um getting this kind of behavior where you start actually getting better generalization error with more parameters and and the basic hypothesis here is that and this is provable for certain simple systems but it's not really provable for deep nets. uh but the basic hypothesis for deep nets in the general statement is that the learned model has two components. It will with enough capacity it will find a simple fit to the data and then it will also use like little spikes of capacity to to fit the outliers. So there's kind of some kind of simple component plot which is predictive and generalizes well to new samples from the the population and a spiking component that overfits noise and um things that don't generalize in the training data. So it's like memorization. Spikiness is like memorization, right? I'm just memorizing those. You know when my input is this, I memorized what it was. So it's memorization plus generalization. It's a really interesting combination that um until a few years ago people didn't widely appreciate. Okay, there's a nice visualization of this with an MLP um that you can f find at this link. It looks basically the same as what I'm showing you, but not quite as um not quite as spiky. So, you know, deep nets always are a little bit messier than um more classical models. So, it's easier to see with this polomial regression model. >> Yeah, question. >> So, I guess I could see that this is always true, but network doing like a stoastic optimization process. I'm wondering how you can make sure you'll always arrive at this and not as you said like a function like wildly. >> Yeah. So the question is for polomal regression there's a closed form solution and you can really prove that this will be what happens that solution will have this property and that's the case for a neural net um the solution you arrive at will depend on the initialization which might be random. will depend on the stoastic mini batches which are going to be random. There's a lot of randomness and it's hard much harder to make clean statements about what solution you'll arrive at. So uh instead we can make empirical statements. We can say that if we run this neural network over and over again with the atom optimizer or the SGD optimizer here's what we observe and I'll show you that on the next slide. Or we can make theoretical statements like um the distribution of solutions that will be arrived at under certain conditions will uh be smooth and spiky with high probability stuff like this. Yep. One more question. >> When would you know that you're using the right comput computational resources rather than optimizing to a new model? So if it if it takes a thousand to make an optimal um solution but it takes a lot of comput computational effort should you stop some point stop at some point or turn to other model that will potentially be better. >> Yeah. So uh when when should you decide um you know where where to stop in an optimization process or like is a question or early stopping. Yeah. So that that's a that's a hard question. Um, and so the the number of steps of gradient descent that you do is kind of a hyperparameter and it can affect the solution. And if you do too many, then you might be overfitting. And that's kind of a classical idea. But what we'll what we'll kind of see is that in this neural net era, it tends to be just train forever. And the longer you train, the better you do because of there's like a double descent phenomena which I'll show in the next slide in in terms of computation. The longer you train, the the better you'll do in this particular uh family of models. is is a general principle but um yeah of course there's more that can be said about that. Okay. Okay. So this this was a really cool paper from a few years ago that got people um excited. Uh so the double descent phenomena is just a consequence of what I already showed you. So we have regular classical overfitting as I increase my my capacity of my hypothesis space which we're right now naively calculating as number of parameters in the hypothesis space then my training error goes down but my test error eventually goes up. I overfit. But then after overfitting eventually I learn the simple function and the spikes and so I actually start to generalize better again. Okay. And there's this thing called interpolation threshold which is the point at which I can perfectly memorize all the training data. And I think one intuitive I'm not sure if this is going to turn out to be precisely true but my intuitive picture of what's going on is that you're trying to fit the training data. So you kind of have to memorize it and you have to learn a really crazy function to memorize it. But then once you add more capacity where now there are a lot of solutions that equally well memorize the data, equally well interpolate the data, then you have then you can select within all of those set of solutions that fit the data the one that is the smoothest or has other nice properties. And the pressures that select within the set of things that fit the data, the one that is the smoothest are sometimes called regularizers or implicit regularizers or inductive biases. And we'll talk more about those in a bit. It's like for a while you're just fitting the data. You have to find a crazy fit. And then once you have more capacity, you can search over that kind of degeneracy to find the one that is the best in other according to other criteria like smoothness. Okay. So yeah, we'll go question. Yeah, for example, you said um [clears throat] all like the inside class is like you should stop at the first place or you should train like no training until the second coverage of >> Yeah. So the question is um should you stop at the first minima of the double descent curve where you have low risk on the population or should you stop at or should you just train forever and generally I would say that um it'll depend on you know how much capacity you you have available to to you like uh because this is costly to move out on the x-axis capacity can be measured in you know parameters but it could also be measured in flops. So there's kind of double descent also in compute time and um so it'll depend on the kind of costbenefit analysis there but generally in deep learning we're out in this regime. We're past the first peak and we're in the part where you just train longer and longer and longer and it smoothly will get better. That seems to be the empirical property we have. Uh okay one more and then we'll have to move on. Yeah. What's the uh correlation between doing polinomial regression and obtaining for a higher order similar to like Taylor series is that >> yeah some approach infinity then you get approximately arbitrary function >> what's relationship between polomial regression and um deep deep nets so roughly you can think of the last layer of the of MLP as a linear combination of some you know uh basis functions of some features. So every neuron on the previous layer is like a feature of the data and um those features could be like polomial functions of a scalar input and that would be polomial regression or they could be uh forier uh they could be signs and cosiness with different frequencies and in deep learning they'll be learned functions but they have the capacity to learn those types of functions if those are the right ones to learn. Okay, so here's the empirical an empirical result of doubles ascent. Um, and this is training an MNEST classifier. And you can see this really happens. So the train error just always goes down as I add more weights. So I increase the width of my model. I get universal approximation. But test error spikes and then it goes back down. Okay, this stuff is a little finicky to actually observe in practice. So like I I actually tried to make my own example of this and I couldn't get it to work. But if you read the double descent papers, you'll you'll realize that uh it only really shows up in certain regimes and you have to make sure not to have momentum and this and that and you know weight decay. There's a lot of kind of aspects of the optimization process that can make this disappear. Uh but it is a real phenomena that that does exist in the right conditions. Okay. So don't worry if you don't see it in your graphs. You might just be out in this regime or you might have other effects that are dampening out that spike. Yeah. Question over here. Yeah, I'll have to think I'd have to think a bit more about the interaction of momentum with this, but I would say that um generally all the tricks that we use in practice are just getting rid of that spike and pushing us more out to the right. So, it's not like we're losing that benefit. We're just we're reducing the negative effect of having this this this spike in the middle. Okay. Okay. Okay, so one of the interesting things um that could help explain this phenomenon is that the more feature features that you have that you're regressing on top of these could be features like the hidden units of MLP or in this case these are what are called random forier features like random signs and cosiness um random periodic functions to the data. As I have more more and more features, well, event at first I underfit the data and then I start using all the features and my weights I assign to those features spike because I have to to, you know, to make a linear combination that fits the data, I have to be using all of them. Um, but then what happens is as I add more and more features, the the norm of the weight vector, the parameter norm, the norm of that vector, the size of that vector actually decays. So I have more features but the weights I'm applying to those features are getting smaller and smaller in terms of their overall magnitude the norm of the entire parameter vector. So it's like more features means lower norm parameter solutions. So in some sense kind of smoother in a in a particular sense. And so this is just saying that counting number of parameters is not the right thing to do. It might be that the parameter norm or some other property of the parameters is is what um is the more meaningful measure of the uh complexity of the solution or how wiggly it is or how much it deviates from a nice smooth fit to the underlying trend. >> Yeah. Question. >> Did that line up that peak line up with the interpolation threshold? >> So um the question is does that peak line up with the interpolation threshold where you perfectly fit the data? Yes, it's exactly at the interpolation threshold and you can you can like show these things for linear models and it's all provable but for deep nets it's just empirical. Let me keep going and we can come back to more questions later. Okay. So how should we measure complexity? So number of neurons, number of weights, number of parameters. No, that that that's that just doesn't work. Um so double descent shows that as I increase the number of neurons and number of parameters I don't necessarily um overfit. So number of parameters is not really the right notion of complexity according to the classical theory that having more expressive higher capacity um hypothesis space will cause overfitting. So number of parameters, no parameter norm, maybe that seems a little bit better, but it has its own its own flaws. Just to emphasize this with like maybe a really obvious example, you know, does does the number of parameters a deep net has uh what why would we actually expect that to matter? So consider these two deep nets uh f and g and f has uh a lot of parameters, right? a lot of edges and G has only a few parameters, a few edges and we're going to consider a new function h which is just a combination of a tiny tiny bit of f 10^ the 100 worth of f and then almost entirely uh we're going to use g. Okay. And now we're going to ask like how many parameters would it take to fit h to some epsilon degree of approximation. And and the point here is that you know if I just fit h with g I would only be using a few parameters but get within epsilon is 10^ the100th of the of the correct solution. So it's kind of like the count of parameters is not what matters. Something about the size has to has to also be what matters in terms of how well I'm able to approximate um different types of functions. Okay. So parameter norm size of the parameters matters more than count. But parameter norm is also not everything. Okay. So let's let's try another another um idea from classical theory which is okay. It's not number of parameters that that is the proper measure of the complexity of a hypothesis space or a neural architecture. Uh how about the number of unique functions in the hypothesis space? It's another measure of capacity. Okay. And this is um related to a theory that um Vapnik and Cheranis I don't know if I got the pronunciation right. Anyway, VC theory. Um so remember generalization error is the difference between the training error and the test error or the training error and the population error. And the basic argument of this theory says that if the number of training data points I fit to is much larger than the number of functions under consideration in my hypothesis space that I'm searching over, then you can guarantee to some degree that the population error matches the training error. So it's something about the size of the training data and the and the size the number of distinct functions that I'm searching over. something about the ratio between these things. Okay, so the intuition is is like this. So we could define something called a false false positive, which would be a function that fits the training data but has high population risk. Uh a function that just gets lucky. It fits but it doesn't generalize. So what is the chance of getting a getting a false positive if I'm searching over all of the different um candidate functions in my function class? So the chance of getting a false positive will be high if we just have more candidate functions like if I just have uh more candidate functions there's more random ones that will to get lucky right so that intuition um and then it should be lower if I have more data points because every additional data point rules out certain candidate functions from being able to fit the data right every new data point is a new constraint and it says there's there are fewer functions in my hypothesis space in my function class that can fit the data. Okay, so therefore, if the function class is small and the training data is big, the chance of a false positive of just getting lucky is low and therefore I have a higher chance that I really found a solution that generalizes. That's that's kind of the rough argument and you know you can make this mathematically precise. I have one more picture to make this argument just in case that that wasn't clear. But let's let's imagine that I have this very simple setting. I have a hypothesis space which is a discrete set of candidate functions. These circles. So every circle is a candidate function. The purple circles are the functions that fit my training data. And the true function is in green. And we're going to make some assumptions. We're going to assume that there's no noise in the training data. We're going to assume that the true function is in the in in this set. So it's not like I can't I have a chance of finding it. uh and we'll assume that my kind of way of selecting from this set is just I pick at random one of the purple points and and the true function is also one of the the true function also perfectly fits the training data. So so my optimization algorithm is just pick at random one of the points that fits the training the training data. So what happens as I increase the training data? Okay, as I increase the training data, some of those purple points turn off because if I add a new data point, some of the functions that fit the data previously no longer will fit the new data because there's more constraints. Every new data point adds new constraints that you might violate. Okay, so as I increase data, I I strictly will decrease or at least um not increase the uh number of these purple points. So what happened as I add training data? Right now I have a one out of six chance of if I randomly sample one of the the purple or green points, one out of six times I will get the true function. But if I add more data now it's one out of four times. Okay, so adding data will increase my chance of getting the true function under this procedure. Okay, if I reduce the capacity, what does that mean? That just means removing circles. So the capacity is the number of functions in my function class. If I just remove circles at random. Okay, it's not necessarily how you would normally reduce capacity, but this is one model of reducing capacity. I will um while still making sure that the true function is within my hypothesis space, then uh I will remove some of the purple spurious uh fits and I'll uh increase the probability of if I just select a random function getting the right one. Okay, so there's there's these two things that are happening. control capacity, add more data, they'll they'll both um end up increasing my probability of getting the true function that generalizes. Okay, so um a few more technical details. How do you count the number of functions in a function class? I said we could have a discrete set of functions under consideration, but with a neural net, it's a continuous thing. So it turns out that for the VC uh theory it suffices to do the following. You simply uh count up how many discrete um outputs your function can apply to the training data. So um the simple version of this is I'm going to assume that my function is outputting it's a binary um output. So it's going to output negative 1 or one. So it's like classifications, binary classifications of my my data. Uh these are called dichotoies. And let's say I'm doing an image classification system. So I have some number of images. And one unique dichotomy is plus one to the first image, plus one to the next image, negative one to the thousandth image and so forth. And I can count up how many unique dichotoies I can apply to my data. And that will be called the uh VC dimension of that um of that model. And just one sec. So VC dimension is the number of dichotoies over my end training points. And you can prove under some assumptions this generalization bound that the population risk will be bounded by um something related to this uh square root of d overn. So if I have if my model class can represent more dichotoies, can classify the training data in more different ways then my generalization bound will increase and I will not be able to say how well I'll do on the on the test. There's like more functions under consideration. So de increasing but as I add more data n then uh that will rule out more and more of the spurious fits and so we have this ratio and we say that our population error will be bounded by this ratio. Okay. says uh the cartoon argument is the same but you can prove under some conditions that this is the exact uh bound that you get. Okay, let me go let me finish this argument and then we'll go a few questions. Okay, so here here's the interesting thing. Neural nets can basically fit any dichotomy over regular data sets. So given a data set of cats versus dogs, I'm trying to classify. I can train the neural net and it will correctly classify cats and dogs, right? But I can do the following thing. I can randomly shuffle the labels. So I take my data set where the cats are labeled cat and dogs are labeled cat dog. And now I'll just randomly permute the labels. Assign each image a random label. Okay, just choose a different random ordering. So now the some dogs are labeled cats, some cats are labeled dog, some cats are labeled cats. It's completely random labels. And it turns out that in practice the neural nets we use can fit any random labeling. So in other words, they can achieve any dichotomy. So in other words, um the VC dimension is the total possible numbers of dichotoies of end points. Uh so how many different ways can I binarily classify n points two to the n possible possible ways right okay so every single point I can I can assign either a plus one or a minus one and then I can do that for every other point for n points and so the vc dimension d is equal to 2 to the n and the generalization bound is like exponential number of data training points is like 2 to the n over n square root of that and it turns that this is just extremely loose and in practice it's just vacuous. It says that my uh population error will be like greater than 100% if this is a classifier uh or my population error is less than like 10 10 billion% or something like this. Um okay so as n becomes large this scales exponentially and it becomes a vacuous bound. It doesn't really it tells us nothing about how well the system will generalize. Okay, so the VC theory doesn't explain deep learning. It has the right I think paradigm of thinking about the size of the hypothesis space, the number of constraints, how many functions could uh fit the data without generalizing well. But the assumptions it makes are violated and don't take into account the full picture of all of the factors that are leading uh that are affecting deep learning. I think you know one of the main ones is that in deep learning we're not just picking a random hypothesis that fits the data. We're using gradient descent and that's going to pick certain hypotheses and prefer certain hypotheses over others uh among all hypotheses that fit the data. It might prefer simple ones over complex ones which we'll see in a minute. Okay. So empirically uh and this is one of the optional readings uh there's a nice paper from a few years ago called um you like understanding deep learning requires rethinking generalization. It just it ran that experiment. It it took emnest and cfar and some of the classic data sets and it randomly shuffled the labels and it showed that you can get a 100% training accuracy on any random shuffling of the labels. But if you use the true uh labels then your test accuracy will be high but if you use if you like just randomly shuffle the labels now there's no ability to generalize at all. your test accuracy will be low. And VC theory would say that um this uh the generalization bound is completely vacuous. It doesn't tell us anything about how how well one or the other of these things will generalize to the test data. So there must be something more about what neural nets are doing that's not explained by VC theory. Okay. So neural nets can fit random labels yet when they're trained on real labels they generalize. This is the violation of classical theory. Okay, any questions there? I think we had a few. So, we can go back to the slides where you had them if you still have them. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Dichotomy is a labeling a binary labeling of all of the training data points. So a vector of uh assignments of the trending points to you know zero or one negative one or one. Okay. Okay. So how should we measure model complexity in the deep learning era? Should it just be the number of distinct functions a model can represent? No. Because deep nets can represent a huge number of functions and so many functions that the classical bounds on that tell us how capacity relates to generalization don't hold. They would say that this is like way too high capacity of model. There must be some other thing. There must be something else that is uh helping us to find solutions that generalize rather than solutions that don't generalize. Okay. And unfortunately, I have to say that for deep learning, we we really don't know what it is. It's still an open question. There's a lot of papers, you know, there's a lot of new ideas on this. I'm not saying that we don't know anything, but uh a lot of the classical tools aren't working in this era, and it's a great thing to for us to try to make progress on. Okay. So let uh I'm gonna use the final section to talk about um some of the inductive biases and pressures that do lead deep nets to find solutions that generalize um that give us some some inkling of where the theory might go. Uh and some practical tips. But the recap so far is that empirically deep nets generalize. They can make reasonable predictions often accurate predictions on inputs that are not in their training data. And you can even show this for large language models and things where that they've been trained in so so much data, but you can just make a counting argument that they still um can't possibly be just memorizing. They have to be doing some generalization. Okay, in generalization just from first principles requires some kind of inductive bias. You have to have something that rules out the filing cabinet. Only fitting the training data cannot fully explain generalization because you can fit the training data by just memorizing the training points but not having um saying anything about the the samples in between the out of distribution samples in between the training points uh or sorry the out of sample samples in the test set. Okay. So the inductive biases can't really just be about classical notions of model capacity like number of parameters or VC dimension which is number of functions that can be represented by that hypothesis space. So we need to understand what are the inductive biases and how do they relate to meaningful controls on the expressivity and the capacity of the model. How do they prefer simple or smooth solutions over other solutions and how do we measure that? And this is very much open and ongoing research. So deep nets must have some nice inductive biases. They must control the complexity in ways we don't fully know how to characterize. So what are these inductive biases that deep nets have that allow them to generalize? Okay. So why do deep nets learn functions that generalize? And the basic question is other than fitting the training data, we understand that that's approximation. We understand that fitting the training data is critical. That's part of the recipe for generalization. But but there has to be something else other than fitting the training data. What are the other pressures that affect the solution that deep nets arrive at? There must be some other pressures that affect which of the two solutions that both perfectly fit the training data does the deep net choose and why does it choose the one that works and not the filing cabinet one which potentially it would have the capacity to do in some cases. Okay. So if we fit the training data, what's left to consider? So um this purple space is meant to be it's the same space as I showed in purple dots before but I'm going to give it this name version space. So the version space is the set of all hypotheses in the hypothesis space that fit the the training data. So in neural nets like if I'm an MLP the version space is the setting the the set of all settings of the parameters the weights and the biases that perfectly interpolate that perfectly fit my training training data that achieve zero training error. So some blob within this the set of you know functions I'm searching over which is the set of weights and biases of the uh MLP if that is my model. Okay. So basically uh the point is that some points in this set are bad and don't generalize and some are good and do generalize. Why does why do deep nets find the ones that are good and do generalize to some degree? Okay, so these are all kind of ideas that are out there but are not yet completely like standard or proven, but I think that they're fun to think about. Okay, so the first one is um the idea that there's a simplicity bias in what's called the parameter function map. Okay, the parameter function map is remember that we're trying to find functions that fit the data, but we're trying to find them by searching over parameter a parameterization of those functions. So we have access to the parameters the weights and biases but every setting of the weights and biases defines actually some mathematical mapping f and there might be you know some parameter vectors like two parameter vectors could define the same f right like if I have if I have a network which is just um adds a bias of one on one layer and then subtracts the bias of one on the next layer and otherwise has an identity. Well, that is equivalent to just a network that adds a bias of zero and then adds a bias of zero, right? So plus one minus one equals zero. There's there are a multiplicity. This is a mini to1 mapping, right? There's a multiplicity of parameter vectors. They're all mapped to the same function. So the parameters and the function space are not the same thing. And we can look at the parameter function map. And this is what was observed by these authors a few years ago empirically. They didn't prove this, but they've observed it empirically. If you just sample a random set of parameters in an MLP or some other neural net models, most of them will map to functions f that are simple according to this is not number of parameters. This is not number of distinct uh this is not vc dimension. This is another one lmple z complexity. It's like saying uh you know limple ziv is one of these compression algorithms and I think this is saying like if I run that function f on some data how well can I compress it with this algorithm. So another crazy complexity measure that's hard to understand exactly how that would relate to uh generalization but they tried that one and so they're saying that uh this is like a probability distribution I believe um it's a little hard to interpret this plot but there's high probability of finding uh if I take a random parameter vector random setting of the weights and biases in a network most random settings will be will be down here it'll be higher probability and only a few will be functions will will define functions that are really um uncompressible and complex in that particular sense. Okay, so saying so here's here's a way to look at like an intuitive way of looking at this. So if we randomly pick a point in the parameter space of the neural network, this will tend to map toward simple functions. So imagine that we're organizing this hypothesis space by the simple functions. The smooth compressible functions are down at the left and more complex wiggly incompressible functions are up at the right. >> [snorts] >> So most random samples will be simple. And then what does learning do? Learning just moves our parameters and therefore moves the functions they map to toward the version space. It moves you toward the space that fits the data. And so we'll end up in this little section where uh we're at the corner of the version space where we have simple functions just by chance because most random um initializations of my parameters map to simple functions and most of the volume as I walk through you know parameter space will also map to simple functions and so just by chance we will find a um a solution that is simple in that sense. Okay. So um I was involved in another paper that that looked at that but looked particularly at um a measure of simplicity which is the the the rank of the kernel. So I'm going to describe what that means but we found that there's also this bias in the parameter function map toward solutions that are low rank in in a in a certain sense. Okay. So here's a MLP wre and here's a deeper MLP and uh one of the classic stories and we'll come back to this in the representation learning lectures but one of the classical stories is that shallow nets let's say I'm trying to classify between 10 different classes indicated by the colors and I'm trying to take my data and you know map them to a space where they're all linearly separable so I can classify them right so the classic story is that deeper nets with more parameters have more capac capacity to organize the data and separate all those classes. Okay, so that's the picture here. We get better linear separation of all these classes at the top of the network. Now I'm going to characterize that distribution at the top of the network with a kernel matrix which is going to be the similarity between every data point and every other data point. So this creates a a matrix a bariate function and it's called the kernel of my em embeddings that the neural network arrives at. Um so every row and column is uh every row is a data point and the column is another data point and the blue value is the similarity in the representational vectors at the output of that network. So we'll see these kinds of kernels a few times. This is a a kernel that characterizes the representation at the output of the network over the input data. And if it's kind of block structured like it is here, that means that it's found clusters. So um that's like all the red points have grouped together into one block and all the purple points into another block. And that's that's good. So that's kind of what we're looking at looking for. If we want a good organization of my data that's easy to like classify, that's very clustered. It will look block structured like this. Okay, so the common understanding is that deeper nets have greater capacity to organize the data into this like clustered structure that's easy to then make a prediction on top of to classify. But the interesting thing is if you get rid of the nonlinearities, you actually get the same effect. So just a linear network, just a stack of linear layers also will result in a deeper linear net results in more blocky kernels. Okay, so we're going to characterize now the kernel with its rank. So the rank of that matrix is like how many you know linearly independent rows and columns there are. Okay, so blockier matrices have lower rank. Lower rank is like I have clustered the data into a simpler format and that's useful for classification. So you get the same phenomena with deep linear nets and deep linear nets are equivalent to one linear transformation. So that you can't explain this phenomena as the the deeper nets have more capacity to organize the data. So what's going on? Um the argument that we make in this paper is that products of matrices tend to be low rank. So it's this again it's like a parameter function math. If I have a random set of weight matrices, if I have more of them just um it will be higher probability that I will output vectors whose kernel is lower rank. So this is a property of like random matrix theory that products of random Gaussian matrices will result in a low rank matrix. Now deep nets are not products of random matrices. Uh but the the full argument is that if I'm looking at the weight space of a neural network and I'm sampling a random point, if I have a shallow network, then most random points will be full rank. And if I have a deeper network, whether it's a linear net or a nonlinear net, I will tend to map to lower rank solutions just by chance. Now optimization will pick out which of you know which of the parameter vectors actually is in the version space actually fits the data. But because most of the volume of parameter space is mapping to low low rank solutions low rank um representations of the data when the network is deep there'll be this kind of bias. There'll be the bias that if I'm if I'm just searching over some random location I'll tend to be more likely to find low rank solutions than high rank solutions. And empirically this is what happens. So a lot of these things are only like kind of provable and uh analyzable in like linear models but then we can show it empirically in in in real deep nets. And what I'm showing here is the the rank it's called effective rank. It's just really kind of like the rank of the matrix but a slightly different version of it. Um so higher rank means you have um these representations of your data that are less clustered and lower rank means like this more clustered like structure and on the y- ais is the probability these are like probability densities. So this is empirical PDFs probability densities uh of if I randomly sample parameters of a neural network of different depths. So if I randomly sample the parameters of a depth 16 network, the um functions that it maps to will be these functions that map to low rank embeddings. Okay, I know there's a lot of moving pieces here. Uh but basically deeper nets will be biased toward functions that are simpler in the sense of having lower rank structure. Okay, so one more way of looking at it. So this is the um rank which is in color and in height. Uh if I'm navigating two different dimensions of my hypothesis space. So my hypothesis is parameterized by two. My parameter space has you know a million parameters weights and biases but I'm going to look at just two of them. And I'm going to chart out as I walk around uh that space what is the effective rank. And the point here is that as I add depth, so with a single layer model, I will have this kind of narrow ridge of low rank functions uh as I navigate my parameter space. But a two-layer model, I'll kind of pull that ridge apart. And so more volume of the parameter space will map to low rank functions. And if I combine this with optimization, I'll just uh you know, more of the solutions will lie in the low rank uh space as well. Okay. So yeah, one set of ideas is that deep nets are biased toward simplicity according to lamp or according to the rank of the functions that they learn. Uh just because most parameterizations, most settings of the parameters map to these simple functions. Another idea is that actually the optimization dynamics really play a big role here and that I'm not just picking a random solution in my version space. I'm actually using an optimizer which will prefer some solutions over other solutions. And sometimes I'll have explicit um regularizers that prefer simple solutions in my in my optimizer or in my objective function. And so one of those is called weight decay. It's just saying that um as I optimize I'll tend to uh shrink the weights uh a little bit on each optim update step and this tends to make weights that aren't actually being used go to zero and so I'll end up learning a um set of weights of my neural network which have lower norm and are simple in that sense. Um often we initialize our weights and biases of our networks near zero and this acts like a a bias toward finding solutions that have again low norm um solutions low lower norm parameter vectors. And then there's a lot of interesting work on the implicit biases of gradient descent and stoastic gradient descent. And so one one idea here is that stoastic gradient descent well gradient descent with a fixed step size is kind of descend down. But let's say that I have a really really sharp well in my objective function in my energy landscape. Well, gradient descent can't go into a really sharp well if I'm using fixed step sizes. It'll just jump right over. It'll be uh that well will be too small. So, what gradient descent with a fixed step size will do is it'll tend to find these what are called flat minima. So kind of basins that are low loss uh but are low loss over a kind of you know a large region of the parameter space that I'm searching over and these flat minima um can be argued to generalize better than these narrow minima. The narrow minima might be more like um just a a weird solution that got lucky. But the flat minima is one that will generalize better. Okay. So I don't I'm not going to go into all the arguments for for why that's the case, but you can see these papers if you're if you're interested, [snorts] but the optimizer is a critical part of the recipe, too. And it can affect the generalization properties. Okay. But I think all of what I've said so far is not actually the most important. I think the most important is the following two slides is the architectural symmetries and and we saw these in combinets and we'll see these in transformers and other models too. So our architectures are built to have certain invariencies. Like if I'm pooling over channels with a max pooling operation, I'll be invariant and and my my filters are like edge detectors. I'll be invariant to the orientation of that that bird's beak. I'll fire regardless of what the orientation of that bird's beak is. So max pooling achieves this kind of invariance over the dimension we're maxing over. Okay. um equariances. So graph nets and confets have these equivariances. If I permute the labeling of the nodes then I will permute the uh predictions uh translation equivariance. If I have um a filter and I slide it across the image then if I you know shift the image by some amount I'll shift my predictions by that same amount. So these these are um symmetries that are kind of built into our architectures that cause them to uh exhibit out of sample uh generalization because if I I know if I just shift my image I it will respond in the way it was trained to respond on the unshifted image right that's that's what the symmetry gives you and then this kind of compositionality I was mentioning before that the confinet and a lot of architectures they factor the the this input signal they maybe chop it up into little components. They learn something about every little component. But then the conjunction of components uh is just given by something that's defined by the architecture. It's not learned. The conjunction of the outputs of these little patchwise filters, patchwise predictors is not learned. It's just you stitch them all back together. Okay. So I think this is where really the real the real power and the real explanation of why things like chat GBT uh why they actually do these featurization. It's not so much am I well I don't know but I I think it's a lot about like it factorizes the world accord it carves the world at its joints. that factories this world into, you know, um parcels which are words and sentences and paragraphs and then compositions of these things will um will will be arrived at not from learning but from uh just how the architecture um is built. Okay. And then a lot of neural networks have domain knowledges baked into them. For example, Sarah gave the example of the nerf model which um you know it's a neural architecture but it it uses equations of perspective geome projection and it uses equations of light transport and these are built into the process and so it will it'll generalize to new viewpoints because it's using kind of um structure. It's it's not just fitting to data. It's data plus structure data plus constraints. And this is a you know drug discovery drug um prediction problem where they've baked in structure they know about how drugs are supposed to interact with each other and the conjunction of fitting to data under structural constraints is what can allow you to generalize. Okay. So I want to end with one final point which is well maybe maybe we can actually go back ultimately to this theory answer. The theory answer is that the shortest program that fits the data will be the one that generalizes. I said it's intractable. But what if we say we don't have to find the shortest. Finding the shortest is intractable. Maybe we don't have to optimize for the shortest program, but we can just say a short enough program that fits the data will will generalize. And so this is a um something that I've just kind of come back to, you know, over the years. This is a conversation I had with Ilia Sutzker who's well known as, you know, one of the founders of OpenAI. Um and so he had this thing he said, which is, you know, deep, this is not direct quote. This is just the rough memory. Uh deep nets generalize because they find small circuits that fit the data. And so at the time I didn't quite get it. I was like small circuits. What are you talking about? Deep nets are huge. Like don't we need all of these inductive biases and regularizers and simplicity biases like that seems critical to understanding deep learning and we need to bake those in. We need to put those in our models, right? He said no no it's okay. Deep nets are finite. That's enough. Finite is small. Anything finite will look small if you have enough data. And I think that was a deep insight and maybe led to some of the success that he's had. So I'll so I'll end there. Thank you.