The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a creative common license. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. Several pieces of good news. Uh since Brett is back now, uh all of chapters five and six uh of my notes, that is to say, all that we've covered in class, plus a little more, uh are on the web page now. So, I was cautious at the beginning of the semester and didn't put that up and then forgot that it wasn't there. So now you have something to work with particularly on any uh experiments of uh for example minimum degree ordering. Oh, and also uh there's a movie now uh uh Tim Davis from Florida and Perolof Pearson uh my friend here uh created a little movie to show the order that um elimination occurs and I had a lot of email with Tim Davis. So uh on those on that one-page handout it mentions for 2D leelass's equation it mentions n cubed for the for the nested dissection where you cut the region in half and half and half by separators. I I believe and I think it experiments will show that minimum degree is even better but the analysis is extremely weak apparently on minimum degree. So uh anyway, one possible project either for now or for uh the the final project would be some experiments to see what the actual uh convergence is like and maybe a little understanding of uh minimum degree. Yeah. So we'll talk more about that. Anyway, there's a movie and um a lot more material there on the website and it's getting up it'll get updated as uh and corrected as I as I do the edits. Okay. Uh second announcement, second bit of good news. Uh I made a mistake. That's not normally good news, but this time uh when I was I reported a little calculation for multi-grid and I computed the wrong thing. You remember that I computed M. M was the Jacobe uh so M was the the Jacobi matrix the I the the iteration matrix with Jacobi which is I - D inverse A this is for the 1D second differences so in fact 5 by five was my this was the this was the 5x5 matrix that we've been talking about and Now this is multiplied by it's divided by multiplied by d inverse which is a half but then with a waiting factor that becomes a third. So that's weighted jacobi now and this is what we would get for ordinary simple iteration and it's not satisfactory. You remember it had an igen value lambda max. The spectral radius was about 0.9 let's say. Okay. Then I reported about the igen values of M S the the multi-grid matrix S M and I was a little disappointed in its igen values. The reason is I should have been doing I minus S N. When I do that, I'm not disappointed anymore. The igen values. So this has let's see what what are the igen values of this. You remember S has S is the is the matrix that tells us how much error we're capturing. S is the matrix that came from uh the error we captured at the end of multigrid was S times the error that we entered with and um so the error that's left so the the remaining error the new error is is the rest is the part we don't get and that's what I forgot that's I minus S E. So that's why I should have been using I minus S. So then the step one of multigrid does a smoother. Steps 2, three, four do leave me with leave me with I minus S. And step five did another smoother. And this is just with one smoother which one Jacobe step which you would probably do three. Anyway, the igen values of this were what? Well, this has two zero igen values and three ones. So, this this matrix has values 0 0 1 one1 because why is that? Well, we get two zeros. You remember the igen values had to be zero or one because s^2= s and i - square s^2= i - s. So we remember that now the question is what's the what are these and the answer was 1 nth is a triple igen value. I was astonished to discover 1 ninth of course 00 survive the rank is three and this this is now looking much better I mean what I reported last time was some more like 7/8 or something and I thought oh multi- grid what you know it's not showing its true colors but actually it does so that's the this is the kind of value we expect like one/10enth for uh for a multi-grid cycle and uh so much better if we just did 3 m for example I would get to down to 0.9 cubed which is more than 7 where by doing multigrid instead we're down to 0.1 okay so that's the that's the good news and of course if you experiment a little you'll find different numbers for different sizes and really see what's happening. And in fact, you could do 2D. I I'm I mention all this partly for now if you're wanting to do it now or partly for eventually later. Oh, and thinking about projects, just one word to repeat that uh the Monday after spring break, I think that's April the 3, uh no class. Um so it won't be w it'll be Wednesday that I'll see you again, but uh Mr. Cho will be available his office hour. So So that's April 3rd. If you wanted to discuss issues with your project with Mr. Cho, that would be at class time in in his office 21:30 at at 1 at 1:00. Okay? So, otherwise, take an extra spring break and I'll see you Wednesday. Okay? So that's various bits of good news and oh one other thing that I guess I didn't finish in that lecture was to identify the two uh the two values. Um yeah well IGEN vectors maybe th those will be in the notes too. the the I guess I found one igon vector 1 2 2 1 and glancing at the matrix I didn't spot the other one but it's it has one oscillation it's 1 2 0 - 2 minus one anyway this is the main thing this much better result okay so that's multi- grid which we now can use as our iteration Or we can use it as a preconditioner. Many uh recommended methods use multigrid as a preconditioner before something even more powerful. Well, I don't know about even more powerful. Multigrid people would say not possible. But uh some some situations we may want to go to a different method but we want a preconditioner and multigrid is excellent. Okay by multigrid I include the smoother so it' be that would be a good that would be a possible preconditioner for something else. Okay so where are we now? We're into the new section starting this moment. And uh what's this section about? It it's about this things associated with this name Kryof. So I'm going to use the letter K for the things that are associated and I'm always solving AU equal B. Okay. So what's the there's a kryof matrix that's created exactly as you see here. That's this is the J the one with J columns B A B A 2 B up to A to the J minus 1 B and the Kryoff space is the combinations of those vectors. That's what this word span means. All com I I could erase spand and say all combinations of maybe that's even more familiar. So spand by is the same thing as saying all linear combinations of of those J vectors. And of course that's the same as saying it's the column space of the matrix because the column space is all combinations. Okay. So why am I interested? Why was Kryop interested? Why is everybody interested in these vectors? Because actually that's what an iteration like Jacobe produces. If I use Jacob's method or any of the Gaussidell any of those after one step I've got B after two steps there's a multiplication by A in there right and some combination is taken depending on the particular method so after two steps I've got a combination of B and AB after three steps Jacobe produces some combination of B A 2 B. In other words, all those iterative methods are picking their J approximation in this space KJ. I should put a little J on to be indicate that that's so we have these spaces are growing. They grow by one dimension by one new basis vector at each iteration. And the point is Jacobe makes a particular choice XJ the or U.J the approximation at after J steps. But does it make the best choice? Probably not. In fact, pretty definitely not. And so the idea is let's make the best choice. Let's not just use a simple iteration that builds in a choice that might not be so terrific. Let's make the best choice. So that's there are a whole lot of Kryof methods which all choose XJ. I'm let me since I think this section we use X I'm going to change that to X. They'll all be iterative. They'll all start with X0 as zero say and then the first guess will be B maybe or maybe not. Maybe some multiple of B. Actually a good cryoff method will take the best multiple of B as the first guess and not necessarily one times B and onwards. So uh we have this word best coming up. What's the best vector in this space? And uh there are different methods depending what I mean by best and they oh let me tell you the name of the method that I'm going to concentrate on first and and most will be the will be the conjugate gradient method CG the conjugate gradient method And and how is it what what determines XJ? It chooses XJ in K J. the the space that we always look for the we look for our approximation in. Let me not forget to say these these vectors B A square B and so on. They're easy to compute because each one is just a matrix multiplication from the previous one. and a matrix is we're assuming we're working with sparse matrices and mostly and especially sometimes especially symmetric ones. So, so I just let me put in here before I even finish that sentence that CG this is for a transpose equal a symmetric it's it's only for those and positive definite so symmetric positive definite so it's a a limited class of problems but a highly highly important class And uh you you may say what do we do if the matrix is symmetric but indefinite? Well, that comes next. Or what if the matrix is not symmetric at all? Well, if you're brave, you might try conjugate gradients anyway. But if you're cautious, then you would use one of the other methods like minres. Maybe I just multi mention one more on the on our eventual list. Actually, that tells us probably what choice it makes. Minres chooses the XJ with to minimize the residual minimum R. You remember r is b minus a x the resid the residual r will always denote the error in the equation and uh so it's minimum residual. Okay. So that that's a natural choice. But you'll see that this is a fantastic uh method superior just quicker than minres in for for a nice a nice reason. So it chooses XJ in KJ and I think the rule it uses is that uh I think XJ should be orthogonal. I'll go and check it in my notes to the residual RJ. Let me just be sure if I if I'm going to write that down, I better be sure I said it correctly. Yeah. Well, no, actually I didn't say it correctly. Okay. RJ is orthogonal to the whole space KJ. It turns out that we can choose XJ. When I make a choice of XJ, it's in KJ. Now, when I compute R, that's a there's a multiplication by A to get the residual. So, that moves us up to the next space. And I'm going to make a choice to where this is orthogonal to the whole space KJ. Well, you we have to do conjugate gradients. And I'm not I can't start on that for a good reason. I have to start with a with something called Arnoldi. And what's Arnoldi about? Well, let me come back to these vectors. Easy to quick to compute. But what's the other property? every everything in applied math, numerical mathematics, you're choosing basis vectors and you're looking for two properties. And and I guess this is like a general rule whenever you meet a whole new problem. You're you're in the end you're going to construct some basis vectors if you're going to compute. And what properties are you after? You're after speed. So they have to be quick to compute and work with. Well, these are multiplying by a is sparse matrix multiplication. You can't beat that. But the other property that you need is some decent independence and not just barely independent. You want the condition number of the basis somehow if I use that word to be uh good. not not enormous. And and best of all, you would like the basis vectors to be orthonormal. Orthonormal that's the best that's a condition number of one. That's the best basis you could hope for. And the point is that this construction produces a lousy basis from the point of view of conditioning. So Arnoldi Arnold's job is orthogonalize the the Kryof basis which is B A B and so on uh producing orthonormal basis Q1 1 Q2 up to QJ. Okay. And and it's just beautiful. So So Arnoldi is taking like a a preliminary step that Kryof has to has to make to get something that's numerically reasonable to work with. Then then if it's fast and our noli doesn't so we we have to form the we have to do a multiplication by a and you'll see one here in the middle of our noli and then of course so if you look at those 10 lines of mat lab and I'll we could go through them a little you know carefully but let's just take a first look. So the first step is like Graham Schmidt, right? It's it's this is a sort of Graham Schmidt idea. You take the first vector B, you accept that direction and the only step remaining is to normalize it. Divide by its length. Fine. Then you go on to the next. Then you have some trial vector t which would in this case be ab which won't be orthogonal to the original b right? So this won't be orthogonal to that one normally. So of course you've got to compute uh an inner product between them and subtract off the right multiple of the previous one from the current T to get the improved T and then you're going to normalize it again. So you compute its length and divide by the length. You see that overall pattern in Arnoldi? It's it's a the familiar idea of Graham Schmidt of take a new vector, find its projections onto the ones that are already set, subtract those components off, you're left with a piece that and you find its length and normalize that to be a unit vector. So it's very familiar exactly the type of algorithm that we would you would write down immediately and it's it just involves the one multiplication by a so that uh it's not going to cost us a lot to make the vectors orthonormal. Well, wait a minute. Is it going to be expensive or not? That's like the key question. It's certainly going to produce a good result. Producing orthonormal vectors is going to be a good thing to do, but is it expensive or not? Well, that depends. It it's it's it's certainly not expensive if the new trial vector t has only components in the in one or two of the already settled directions. In other words, if if I only have to subtract off a couple of earlier components, then I'm golden. And that's the case when a is symmetric. So that that is the will be the key point here. And I just make it here. If a is symmetric, a transpose equals a, then I only need in this subtracting off when I'm headed for the new Q. I only need to subtract off H JJ J multiplying the qj the the Q that was just set and the one before h J minus one J only need I'll call that a short recurrence. It's short because it only has two terms. And then there'll be a new H J + one J which is just the length there. So it'll be really be there'll be a the one of these magic things in so many parts of mathematical analysis. A three-term recurrence relation will hold. In fact, I guess the reason we see three-term recurrence relations in oh the genre polomials, chby chap polinomials, all those classical things. The reason is actually the same as it is here that some thing in the background is symmetric. Okay. So I have to I guess I'm I want to put a few numbers on the board so you see what is a typical input and output to our nulli and you'll see it's symmetric and then we want to you'll see it's short recurrence and then we'll want to see why. Okay. So, so I I worked out a typical Arnoldi example. Uh, now that one here. Okay. Now, I think this is a good example to look at. So, the matrix A is not only symmetric, it's diagonal. So, of course, to find A inverse B is like not difficult. But we're going to do it through conjugate gradients. So that means that we don't figure out a inverse which of course we easily could. We just use a very sparse. Here's our right hand side. Here's our quoff matrix. It has b in its first column. It has a * b in the second column. multiply by a again to get the third column and a one more time to get the fourth column. So that's k four, right? And for a 4x4 problem, um that's the end. So actually here I'm carrying Kryof to the to the end to to the point it just there's no more to do because once I've got the the KJ the combinations of those are all of R4 all of fourdimensional space now oh yeah that that raises an important point about how we're improving on iteration. If I was using Jacobe or Gaus Sidell or one of those others then well I won't say for this particular A but usually uh after four steps I am by no means finished. It's I've taken four steps I've got closer but I haven't got the exact answer. But now in this new world of Kov methods after four steps I will have the exact answer. Why? Because Krylooff methods take the best x4 out of the space spanned by those four columns. Well, the whole spaces R4 is spanned by those columns and picking the best one must be the answer. So, so X4 will actually be a inverse b the answer we're looking for. So, these methods are oh that are on the one hand direct methods. They finish after four steps. Finish. You've got the answer. Now, that's actually how they were born as direct methods that gave the answer from a from a an interesting iteration and they nearly died for that reason. They were not born and died or were on death's door as direct methods because for as direct methods there they're there they're there are better ones. Then some years later it was people went back to it and back to conjugate gradients and notice that thought of as a just going part way gave very successful answers. So, so we're going to think of Krylooff. We're we're planning to stop before J equals N here in this picture. J equals N= 4 here, but we plan to stop for J much below N. I mean our we're thinking of applications where n is 10 the 5th and we're going to stop at 10 squared 100 steps maybe or 10 steps. So so that took that meant a total re consideration reanalysis of conjugate gradients and it was a it's now back to a big success. So that's a rather unusual thing that uh a method that people have put aside gets picked up again and becomes a favorite as as conjugate gradients have. Okay. So let's just see what first of all I was saying that the basis those basis vectors are not very independent. It's not a good basis. It's it's of course it's a detractive basis. And maybe do you know the name for a matrix that has this particular form? the columns are constant then that's the key column there and then it's first powers second powers third powers do you remember whose name is associated with that matrix it comes up in interpolation and it starts with a V yeah anybody know Vandermond yeah Vandermond so so I could call it V for Vandermond here. Yeah. And Vandermon matrices are not very well conditioned and actually Yeah. It's it's how do you how do you uh so so now a little time out to say um because it's so important h how do you judge the good or poor conditioning of a matrix? How do you how I mean these those vectors are linearly independent. The determinant of V is not zero. A matrix is not singular, but it's too close to singular. And and how do you test the the suppose you have a basis uh as we have here and you want to know is it good or not good. So, of course, you always put your basis vectors. Let me call them just well, I don't want to call them V because well, I guess I could call them V. They come out of Vandermon. V1, V2, V3, V4. Okay, that's our matrix. Well, I I essentially I want its condition number. And and to find its condition number, I it's not symmetric. So I can't just take the igen values of that. You might say look at lambda max and lambda min. The condition number is associated with max divided by min. But when the matrix isn't symmetric uh just taking its igen values directly is not cool. It's uh it's not reliable. I I could have a matrix that's badly conditioned but all its igen values were one. I mean a matrix with ones on the diagonal and zillions up above the diagonal would be would have values one but it would be badly conditioned. So the right way to take it is vranspose v look at look at v1 transpose v2 transpose v3. As always, if a matrix isn't symmetric, if the matrix V is not symmetric, good idea to form VRpose V. That is symmetric. It does have positive igen values. And those igen values, the igen values of VRpose V are the singular values or rather the singular values squared. of V. So I guess I'm saying you can't trust the igen values of V. It's the singular values you can trust. And the way to find singular values is form VRpose V that gives you a symmetric matrix its igen values. So the the ice value would be the ice singular value squared. It's just, you know, it's just it's like somehow it's got the phase out and it's looking at magnitude. Okay. Anyway, if I looked at, so the condition number, the condition number is sigma max over sigma min. And well, it's not enormous for this 4x4 matrix, but if I go up to 10 by 10 or 100 by 100, 100 by 100 would just totally wipe me out. 10 by 10 would already be disastrous. Completely disastrous actually. 10 by 10 um Vanderbone matrix with one, two, three, four up to 10 as the points would be uh well it would have entries of if if that ended in a 10 and I had 10 rows would that'd be something like 10 to the 9th power. I mean the the dynamic scale would be terrible. Okay. So finally just to V transpose V is called the Graham matrix. So that guy Graham is coming back in as uh as uh giving the good measure. It measures uh that so the point was then that this measures the dependence or independence of the V's. This that ratio the bigger that ratio is the more dependent they are. And what's the ratio if they're orthonormal? What's the ratio of the Q's? What's the condition number of the Q's? If if we've run our noldly and got a good basis, it's one. If what is this? What's the Graham matrix? If this is qranspose q with the q's the orthonormal basis in the columns then qranspose q is the identity right so so it's a gram matrix so so qranspose q would be the identity and its condition number is the best possible one lambda max is one lambda min is one the condition number is one. Okay, so that's just some comments that about why why Arnoldi gets brought in to fix the situation. Okay. So, so now I'll just leave those 10 Arnoldi steps on the board. The notes uh give 10 comments. I'm quite proud of of my my mat lab is unreliable actually. You'll you'll find a few errors like after end I accidentally put a semicolon which was absurd but the comments I'm pleased with. And then the numerical example that runs through one cycle of this um to with this with these numbers to see what uh Q2 is is I hope useful. Okay. So that's uh now why do we have a short recurrence? This was this is a key point here. And in this example, if I work out the hes, I'll discover sure enough uh H13 will be zero. H14 will be zero. The H matrix Oh, well, now let me tell you what the H matrix Oh, here's the key equation. Here's our nully. Here's our noldi in matrix language. Let me see if I can remember our ni in matrix language. So arnoldi is taking the matrix. Yeah. So arnoldi in matrix language is going to be this. It's going to be I'm I'm It's going to be a Q= Q h actually let me put in well I don't know can I I I I can't write out all of Q. Uh so this will be well what's the first so this is that's the big equation a very important equation that we have now all the pieces for so so a is our original matrix that we were given symmetric let's say q is our basis from out of our ni and h is the as the multipliers that that gave that basis. So this QH is a little bit like Graham Schmidt. Do you remember Graham Schmidt is described by Q * R. Q again is orthonormal. So it's an orthogonal matrix. In Graham Schmidt, R is upper triangular. Here it's not. Here it's Hessenberg. So H stands for Hessenberg. Let let me I'll write down what the actual H is for these for these numbers. I won't write down the Q. Okay, I'll just write down what H turned out to be for those numbers if I did it right. Five halves. The lengths were Oh, interesting. The lengths all turned out to be five halves. And this turned out to be five on two. This turned out to be the square of four five four over five. And this turned out to be the square of 9 over 20. And the point is there'll be from here there's this one is just below the diagonal and the the and it will show show up as symmetric roo 5 / 2 45s and 9/20ths. Okay. So what am I seeing from that particular H which somehow can't be an accident. It must be that it's um built in. It's the fact that H is symmetric and trid diagonal plus tri diagonal and and what does that triagonal tell us? It tells us that we have short recurrences. It's the three it's this three uh three term recurrence relation is is what is what I'm seeing here in matrix language because there are three nonzeros in in the columns of H. All right. I was going to write out I was going to try to understand this one by by looking at the first column. What if I take the first column of both sides? That'll be a times q1 right q1 is the first column vector in the first basis vector and what do I have here when I take q's times h's do you you remember do you do matrix multiplication a column at a time you you should okay so so this says take five halves of the first column And this says take that factor times the second column. Okay. And I could track back and see. Yes, that's what Arnoldi has produced. Okay. And then the second one, the next one would be an AQ2. The next would be an AQ3. What? Well, look here it is. I want to show that H is symmetric when A is. Could you do that? We know what we know what the property of Q is here. We know that Q is because Arnoldi made it that way. Has QRanspose Q equal I. And I can in one step show that H is symmetric if A is symmetric. How do you do that? I guess we need a formula for H. So I just multiply by Q inverse. So that's good. And even better is to recognize what Q inverse is. So what is Q inverse here? It's qranspose. Anytime we see Q, that's my letter always for an orthogonal matrix. So this is qranspose a Q. And now what? The arguments finished. We're we're we're here. Q if A if now this if A is symmetric, what can you say about that combination? If A is a symmetric matrix, it is symmetric, right? That's that's how you get symmetric matrices. You start with one, you multiply on one side by a matrix and on the other side by its transpose. The thing has to be symmetric because if I take it's if I transpose this whole thing, what will happen? To transpose things I write them I transpose I their transposes come in the opposite order. So Q its transpose comes first. A its transpose comes in the middle. But what's that? The transpose of A is A. We're assuming A to be symmetric. And then the transpose of QRPOSE is is Q. So we got this back again but when we transpose so it's symmetric. So h is symmetric. So this so so the conclusion is h H h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h equals hpose. And then we know immediately that it's tragonal because every h from arnoldi is hessenberg. We know that these zeros are here. the the the Arnoli cycle ended with this went down. It produced HIG's in column J but it stopped one below the diagonal. So we know these are zero. But now if we know the matrix is symmetric then we know these are zero. And of course it works out that way. Okay. So the conclusion is that we can orthogonalize uh the Krylooff basis uh quickly, easily and work with that basis either explicitly by computing it or implicitly by by keeping things orthogonal. And that's what conjugate gradients will do. So next time I'm going to make an effort to describe the conjugate gradient method. I I'll pick the highlights of it. It's uh it's uh uh has fantastic properties and to verify those properties in full detail is often more confusing than not. If you if I I if you see today's lecture, you're seeing the important points uh the role of uh symmetry of a and the in and the arnoli algorithm. Okay, so that's uh our first lecture on the uh Kryoff ideas and uh next time we'll probably be we'll complete that topic and it will be on the web. Okay, so I'll see you Wednesday for the for the end of Kry. Thanks. Good.