The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. I uh gave you an extension for your paper Wednesday, so you don't have to ask. It's just automatic. If you want to give it to me today, that's fine, too. Uh everybody's busy this time of year, so I try to leave a little flexibility in there. If Wednesday doesn't work for you, talk to me after class. Uh, I don't like to have you lag too far behind because then it kind of messes up other stuff that you have to do. I'd rather have you do something maybe less perfect, but get it in on time so you can, you know, MIT has always uh got 15 things for you to do every time you turn around. So, uh, okay. So we are now uh looking at some a number of works uh post Darwinian works works that came out after the origin. Not that they wouldn't have come out without the origin, but certainly this book wouldn't have. This book uh Butler's Arowan uh which is nowhere spelled backwards more or less uh is a uh it's a type of utopia, what we call a dystopia, and it's kind of riffing and playing with some of the ideas of evolution. Uh, and it is a satire. So, satires are hard for people to read. Uh, a lot of people just don't quite get the satire because, you know, it seems to be saying things that are totally outrageous and yet it's saying them that are in a way that's tongue and cheek. And so with Butler, you have to sort of think a little bit before you interpret what he's saying literally because there all kinds of uh weird little uh uh uh behaviors in the book uh uh among the people that uh uh this this uh uh voyager, this traveler discovers. So, uh, I thought maybe it'd be helpful for us to say a little bit, uh, about utopias before we read the, uh, before we get into the book. Um, so what do you know about utopias? Have you read a few of them or you've come across them before? I mean, I I would love to teach a course just on utopias because it's a fascinating type of uh, literature. But uh what are some of the uh what are the things? Has anybody read any utopias or dystopias? What's that? Okay. Elorado and Volter was a a little a little chapter of a utopia. Is that a single working example? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh what uh I mean most of you have read 1984 I I assume or uh Animal Farm. Yeah, these are inverted utopias. These are what we call dystopias. Uh they use some of the rules of utopia, but they present a world that is highly undesirable. But people have been writing utopias for hundreds of years. And uh what is uh so just to um some of the I just sent these to you just to give you some things to think about. These were in a packet I sent out. Um but a lot of them play with ideas. They're idea. They're works of ideas. works in which people uh think about idealized societies of various sorts. Uh and there are some different types that I mean there the classifications are not hard classifications. Some of them blend from one to the other but they tend to come out in a variety of forms. Um, of course there are the earthly paradise, earthly paradise utopias. People have written about worlds in which uh they imagine uh sort of perfect condition for humans. Uh and examples of this would be uh old myths uh and and also in some sense Genesis the uh the paradise uh of the Bible and other other religious traditions have sort of paradisel like conditions where uh people may have lived before they they committed some terrible sin and were thrust out of the out of the paradise. So this uh this idea of paradise is is uh very much u here's uh earthly paradise of uh a bos famous artist uh and he's uh this was done in 1510 and you you sort of if you study this you see all forms of pleasure. This is a kind of earthly paradise where everybody's enjoying you know some some some expression of the senses. So oftentimes earthly paradises have uh uh some of the traits are you know complete comfort and and escape from the ills of the world. It's a very non-malthusian world the the sort of uh type of world that might exist. Uh, and of course we're always interested in I mean there there's something about these uh a world a paradise a world a paradise that's attractive and we do our best with our technologies and so forth to create better surroundings for ourselves. So this is a kind of a a human impulse to improve the conditions of existence as as Darwin might say conditions of existence that's what we all survive in and they're harsh and they're uh for most organisms unmanageable. Um and so humans have this capacity to change their conditions of existence. That's very much what we're doing here today. It's around freezing outside this morning and we're sitting on in here in this nice warm room and sort of so we have changed our conditions of existence if you will and we do this on a massive scale in in contemporary society. Uh other types of utopic literature include sort of political and social uh worlds that uh have been uh posited by thinkers through the ages. Uh Plato's Republic was a kind of a a world in which he imagined what the right and perfect or best kind of political world might be um and a world of u u that would work in some sense for the greatest benefit of society. Um other people have imagined uh Thomas Moore was a uh uh another thinker who actually wrote one of the first utopias. He he he titled it utopia. What does utopia mean? Utopia in like the roots or no? No. Perfect society. Well, that's that's what we associate with it. But the word itself means nowhere. So it it it's it's an admission that it doesn't in some sense utopic literature starts with the uh admission that this does not exist. So it's a it's a kind of a complex thought experiment you might say. How would we organize ourselves if we did it in the best way we possibly could? that idealism um can be supported in a variety of ways and we have other types of utopias or utopic uh works uh that are based on technology. How how is technology utopic? What is it about technology that pursues utopian ideals? Well, I mean we never technology can never quite make things perfect, but in coming up with like technological advances, our goal is to like increase probably standard of living in some way for somebody. So I guess advances in technology some may see as leading us toward a utopic place but then also like technological advances are also kind of what are getting us into a lot of trouble with like population size and everything. So I feel like it can be a little bit deceiving. Well, yeah, there there's a cost to things that uh that are developed and sometimes those costs turned out to have uh secondary elements that are, you know, rather overwhelming, but yes, there's that. Jake, did you have something to add to that? say that technology uh well like you said with uh the conditions of existence the I mean it can't bring us at least as far as we are can't bring us all the way to utopia but it I mean it moves us in the right direction it takes thing takes bad things and makes them either a nonfactor good things and as you say we're we're trying to improve the human tradition. Utopias have also been part of the satirical tradition. Uh Butler's uh one of his uh one of the one of the writers who he modeled his work on or who he not modeled so much but he was thinking of was uh Jonathan Swift who wrote Goliver's Travels and uh anybody here read Goliver's Travels see the work? I don't Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, after that, well, Goliver's Travels is uh, you know, it's a it's a it's sort of just a a fantasy, a fiction that is u written by Jonathan Swift in the early 18th century of this voyager who goes out and he voyages to all these different lands and in each land he discovers, you know, different types of people who he interacts with and through these interactions uh Swift is able to write uh satirical portraits of contemporary British society. He uses this travel to kind of fantasize in ways that are critical of society. So that's so that's that's a direct model for Butler's work. Okay. So back to Butler. Um, so yes, utopia is a is a is a nowhere. It's a generally highly idealized uh human- centered tradition. um and oftentimes is either uh offering or seeking a sort of uh perfect adaptation between the human and his or her environment. So that's that's sort of the the goal and this is secured in a variety of ways. can be secured uh you know sometimes politically through organization technologically through technological development uh and sometimes uh through uh religious religions I mean religions are definitely uh ways in which people try to adapt to their circumstances u and you know they're they're they're driven by ideas every every much as uh some of these others other utopic traditions are. Uh Butler went to New Zealand in the 1860s as a young man. He uh he was um a graduate of Cambridge University. uh he uh was originally following a course of math study of mathematics, but at the end it just he couldn't quite keep it together. And so he ended up graduating in sort of religious uh more of a religious studies studies in in the Bible and things of that sort. um sort of a pre-clerical educational prep. And at one time he was considering uh becoming a cleric uh uh some sort of u uh religious uh uh leader. So at the end of his studies, he decided this was not something he could really do. who he just didn't want to be didn't want to become part of uh he he didn't want to become a cleric and go out and have a you know a group of people who he led and so forth. He he just felt that this was not an appropriate uh form of uh employment and life work for him. But his father disagreed with him very strongly because his father was was a cleric and uh they had monumental fights and so they finally settled it that Butler would immigrate to New Zealand and so off he went. So he he uh he went to New Zealand and he was there in uh uh 1859 when Darwin's origin came out and he was fascinated by the book because uh he was a sheep he owned a sheep station there and he did a lot of breeding. So when he got Darwin's origin uh variation under domestication and all this uh language uh it made a whole lot of sense to him and of course he was uh a graduate of Darwin's university too. So he had read uh many of the works that Darwin had read including Paley and Paley turns up back in in this book and in fact Paley is one of the key uh one of the key objects of the satire and you know in a in an interesting not not in a a nasty way but in a fascinating intellectual way. Okay. So, uh this is uh uh this is this is the setting for this work. Okay. So, excuse me. Um uh what's what's going on in this book? What are some of the things that uh you noted here? And uh what are some of the big ideas here that Butler? It's it's a tale. Yes, it's a tale of a guy who goes over the hill. Actually, this hill was uh if you go way back up way back up in this area up here, someplace up here is actually where he he actually went up there. So the uh the start of the book actually is quite accurate with uh he was a pretty good uh hiking he was a budding mountaineer not quite there but he was pretty pretty good on his feet and he uh so this is the the mountain range that uh the narrator in Arowan goes over and he goes over this mountain range And as uh as as Candid as uh Candid did in in Vololier's Candid uh over the mountain range into this world, this kind of new world and it's a kind of a utopia. So it's it's one of So it's going to be a thought experiment. That's what it is. It's a whole bunch of encounters and he develops a society. So what are some of the characteristics of this society that he discovers? Claire, well, anything to do with illness is almost like a crime. Um, people are imprisoned if they're seen as being sickly at all, whereas like things that people would be imprisoned for in our world aren't punished really at all. And it seems like beauty and aesthetic things are very selective for. Okay. Yes. So he says here, here's a a short or here's a quote. Lastly, I should say that the people were of a physical beauty which was simply amazing. The women were vigorous and had a most majestic gate, their heads being set on upon their shoulders with a grace beyond all power of expression. The men were as handsome as the women were beautiful. I felt simply abashed in the presence of such a splendid type. A compound that is all that is best in Egyptian, Greek, and Italian, so on and so forth. What What's he encountering here? Beautiful people, Jake. Well, beautiful people, basically. And And why are they beautiful? Uh how did they be how did they come to be so beautiful? They selected themselves for basically they took people who are like really sickly and stuff and sent them to prison basically. Okay. They got in trouble. All right. So you you get into you get into trouble in this society. If what are some of the reasons for getting how can you get into trouble Chris? I think it was for example. Okay. Probably anything mechanical, right? Or any sort of Oh, yeah. If if you have if you have a a watch or anything mechanical, watch out. You're going to get We'll We'll come back to that. That's that's a big that's a big uh air or uh crime. It's it's a type of crime. Yeah. One that I didn't really understand was that you weren't imprisoned if you committed like theft. I didn't really understand that. Yeah. These people have the really bizarre opinion that if you embezzle or you steal, you are what? They don't treat it as a crime, do they? They treat it as a illness. You are ill. you should be you should be you know you need to get help from your local straightener and you know and yet if you are if you have pulmonary consumption i.e. TB, tuberculosis. How do they treat that? you up. Okay. Is allowed to persist in their Charles, what do you think of this this arrangement? I think it's like it's kind of a reverse. It's like a he's trying to reverse just the kind of the values and the underlying fabric of society between society he portrays and our society and it's like it's just like there's like a humorous aspect to it that kind of it's like in it's a little bit satirical just there's like a little bit a lot obviously that's like that's subjective but I think there's like an element that really just makes you think about why. Okay, that's Yeah, it uh it occurred to me that while this isn't a perfect uh analysis that at least to some extent it seems like the selection forces in Arowan are switched in uh from the ones we have where the natural selection forces in our world are the ones that the people put pressure on there like the sickness this and that sensing and the one that people put on here are more of the natural. Okay, now you're getting at something. Yes, there is there's something going on here with this selection and this whole phenomenon and think Darwin, you know, Darwin's world in the origin, humans are outside. How how does Darwin's world work? Does it work like our social world or does it work like this world that Butler's painting for us? In some sense, a thought experiment is this. What what would a society look like if it behaved according to Darwinian principles and strengthen those principles? Is this making any sense, David? Well, it's it's sort of a difficult question to answer just because Darwinian principles say um people act based for their survival and for reproduction based on their traits. Um but part of Darwinian Darwin's theory is sort of similar to Smith's where Smith says people act on their own behavior but that's best for society. Um if everyone acted solely like Darwin like Darwin's um evolutionary pressures I don't think we'd be able to have the society we had right now. Um that's a very big that's a very Yes. And and this is this is when you read this and you get into it, you realize they're punishing illness. What happens to those analopee out in the plains who are ill? They tend to be the ones that get a a little slower and get picked off. Uh what about the little fish or whatever that is good at stealing you know the rocks from or whatever uh from its neighbor it like it will tend to live over its neighbor. Yeah. Theft does not get punished in nature. I mean, theft can be, you know, if if if you know how to if you're if you're a cuckoo and you can lay your eggs in the bird's nest and have somebody else uh hey, you don't have to go to all the trouble to feed the young. So, in the natural world, our moral uh the way we think of our society and a moral framework is is pretty much absent in the natural world. I mean things just basically are have a fundamental utilitarian. Is that right? Is that what you're going to I was just going to add to the question that you asked. Well, I think that if you so like basically Darwin's principle is based on like how nature has there's like a like nature the selection process in nature is like an invisible hand. And if you try to strengthen those principles, you decrease the chance of something that's not like that's not fit to survive like the chance of that something to survive like you make sure that if something is even the least bit um incompatible with its surroundings that it gets eliminated immediately. Yeah, I think like the result of this um would be like like suppose you had like obviously every person is multiaceted and you might not be so great at one thing but you might have a hidden talent and if you select against this person before they discover what they're good at before they find like their little corner in the world where they're good at doing something that can help the rest. like you're eliminating a lot of possibilities and so like in some ways you're selecting for the best but like you're also narrowing down and like there's only so much that a very narrow and not very like multi-purpose serving like community can do like not lot of variety. Yeah. Uh humans uh in in in this little work uh in Arowan are kind of uh uh they have adopted a philosophy that is based on natural world type of dynamics that we find which Butler found in in in in Darwin's uh uh origin and that dynamic is manifestly and very obviously hugely different from the world that we live in. We do not select people in our society uh and punish them for being ill do we David? Uh we don't but we do um sort of reward those who are who like are better and like I say this like physical appearance like people who are who look better usually make more money um whether or not you if you're taller you uh by each inch adds so much to your average there's actually I read an article about how I don't I read an article about how there was an appearance bias and how people are now trying to like get legislation to stop that cuz um it was unequal. But so part of what you're saying is we fight we fight socially against evolutionary pressures evolutionary pressures. That's what our laws are. Our laws for equity and equality and so forth are trying to fight against any kind of uh natural selection principles because the world the natural world of Darwin is not the model for the social world of humans. And to the degree that you see the absurdity of these uh arrangements where they're punishing people for being ill and you think that's really not right, you are basically reflecting a uh idea of the world that we try to cultivate in our societies. So our societies are not based on evolutionary principles in the sense that we're using those evolutionary principles to uh create the rules of the societ the behavior of the society. I don't know if this is all coming through. Maybe this this work is uh yeah Chris I think if we did apply Dar Darwin's principles to society we converge to a bunch of like type A individuals you know always on their blackberries always trying to produce as much trying to micromanage trying to produce as much as they can to gain as much revenue as they can and outlast everyone else. Okay. Uh well yeah maybe so uh but a lot of these people work within the rules you know within the laws. So we have a whole law we we have laws and a whole system of regulation of social behavior that we uh that we promulgate in order to avoid simply uh might makes right. I mean, might makes right in nature, does it not? Might is not supposed to make right in our society, is it? It's not supposed Yeah. Sometimes we wonder, but yeah, I'm going to disagree with pretty much everything that's been said in the last five minutes because I think our society is much closer than to this than we're willing to admit. We absolutely punish people for illness. Anytime someone is schizophrenic or bipolar or you know has this stuff we put them on drugs we lock them in hospitals if someone's underachieving they suddenly get punished not in a direct way but they absolutely get pushed down to a level of society that can absolutely be considered punishment we're not willing to look we don't want to look at our world and say that's it and so we can step aside but I will stand firm absolutely that we do this all the time well but there's punishment in the sense that they get like looked down on by society but it's not punishment and they don't actually reproduce. Well, how do you how do you want to make them because the thing is is you can change the metrics slightly, but once you can pick whatever you want, but we'll always have that kind that form of punishment. And one of the things is, you know, if you steal a watch that morals can be at least according to this this culture, morals are sculpted. Morals can be moved, but when you have genetic material, you can't change that. So, if someone's sick, lock them away because there's without technology, there's nothing we can do to fix that. But if we have a good, you know, upstanding moral code, we can send someone to a straightener and just correct their kind of cognitive structures to make everything better. With like with evolutionary punishment is like just in a singular sense not allowing somebody to reproduce. And there are plenty of like sickly individuals who if they were parts of herds out in nature, they wouldn't be allowed to reproduce and they wouldn't persist. But for us, we are allowed to. So I agree that yes, like sick certain sicknesses are punished in a certain sense, but if you're talking about like evolutionary mechanisms, I don't really think that we punish for that. Okay. Yeah. Well, you know, I I I I have to say uh I think you're both right because this is what this is what Butler's trying to do. He's trying to make us think a little more deeply about how people really do behave. the development of eugenics in the 19th century. Uh so we're we're we're starting we're we're getting in this book is taking us into that territory. It's a it's a satire. So it's you know he's not recommending anything in this book. It's just it's a book to try to make you think to make you think about you know what is the base of your society. Is your society uh entirely a natural thing, an expression of natural principles, or is it something quite different? It's an effort to fight the the the world or to resist becoming part of this natural world that Darwin had painted with such force and compelling. uh uh detail. And so Butler is saying, "Okay, that world exists out there." But is that the world in which we exist? Are we trying to create that, recreate that world? And I agree with Devon. I I I I think I think his answer is highly ambiguous because yes, ostensibly we fight against what we call injustice. You know, the punishment of the weak and you know, holding people who are unfortunate to uh uh in in some way as as responsible for their misfortunes. But there there are it's it's not just that simple. There there are other elements that we still express in spite of ourselves or in spite of, you know, the the ideals that we espouse with our our laws and our social and our religious principles. And so he's not arguing for he's just trying to make you think about this and and sift through the world you live in and try to understand it in a little more complex way. So why why are these people so down on machines? What is it about machines that they think compromises their society? Because they you know they find his watch and he gets thrown in jail. And he he he can't resist uh mentioning Paley says uh Paley said that uh even quote a savage who saw this watch would know it was made by you know some some deliberate force and so on and so forth. Why why are these people why is this culture so afraid of watches? Kevin uh to pull out a quote. I learned about four that 400 years previously the state of mechanical knowledge was so far beyond our own and was so adv advancing uh until one of the most learned professors of hypothetics wrote an extraordinary book from which I proposed to give extracts later on proving that machines were ultimately destined to supplant the race of man and to become uh to become uh instinct in the vitality of it different form and superior to that of animals as animals and vegetable life. So, okay, prophet wrote a book that is that is the the mad professor who we're going to read his his his his uh his theories for the next class because he has this whole theory about these machines having the capacity to evolve. They don't necessarily do it all by themselves but they have help from humans. But you know there are many examples in nature where other organisms help uh other organisms uh u reproduce. So we're going to get into that in in a big way for next class. But that's that's part of it. So they're potential competition. What are these machines also doing as far as the fitness of the individual? What do machines do machines have any impact on the uh the fitness of the individual? Jennifer, um feel like they're kind of like a way of like cheating yet. I mean, as I've said to you, if I don't have my glasses and I live in a a world that uh you know, so these allow me to survive on a par with other people, but what happens to my offspring potentially? Yes. Then they also like wouldn't be able to see it. So I feel like the more you have to rely on machines, the less fit you have to be. So it's kind of Absolutely. Absolutely. So more machines, less fit. That's why the Armonians are so upset about machines because they're trying to emulate nature. Uh and machines allow less fit people to operate on a par. So they get rid of machines. Uh okay. So this is a society with a vengeance trying to uh just uh adopt the principles of uh uh natural selection in the natural world as the code for their social and cultural behavior. And you can see what the results are. They're very very beautiful. Remember what he says. They all look like they're and you know if somebody's ill, they don't tell anybody. You want somebody to know that you're ill because uh that exposes you to their, you know, judgment and you may ultimately find yourself uh in the docket in court, personal bere bereavement court. that young man whose wife died. He what did he have to argue in order to get some kind of uh uh uh better sentence from the court? remember he said a uh the court said an extenduating circumstance was that he took out an insurance policy on his wife before so therefore he had a little bit of luck and so he didn't get punished quite as severely. So, you know, it's it's it's weird fascinating stuff, but you see what's happening here is Butler's playing with the social kind of uh platitudes of his time and he's saying, you know, if you look underneath these, it's it's it's a lot more complex than people like to think. Um so this uh personal bereavement court um well men Victorian England has developed partially out of this this tradition of uh natural naturalism if you will uh a a set of a series of developments that uh ultimately ely collected into what you could say loosely was a eugenical movement. Um and in some ways Butler's Butler identifies uh the the the one of the core concepts of eugenic thinking which is what what concepts that he develops is at the core of eugenics. I guess that you can make a perfect by only allowing people who exhibit traits of expertise. Yeah. That through social policies and various kinds of uh top-down principles you can steer the society toward a greater average health and capacity. So the selection of of uh of uh of the the the best and the brightest if you will put it in short end. Eugenicists were concerned that contemporary societies in to the extent that they promulgated the principles of treatment, equal treatment of people and and the laws which protected people who were vulnerable were the eugenicists were concerned that this was leading toward weak weaker populations in the sense of Butler because you know on the sheep on the sheep farm you really do you you select the strongest to breed and you know you get a better herd and you just keep doing that and eventually your her gets better and better. And so eugenicis were aware that one way of thinking about society would be to try to find ways to use those principles. Um now this as I as I keep saying this is not what Butler is advocating. It's just he's trying to get you to think along these lines so that you understand some of the implications of it. I mean, when you see this poor man with pulmonary consumption being sentenced to hard labor, you realize how absurd it is. However, he's tricked you into thinking about the cost of that. And the cost of that is, you know, uh that, you know, there's this this other side. So there was a lot of uh there was a lot of um sort of eugenical thinking that developed in mid Victorian England. And Darwin was not a gen eugenicist, but his cousin Francis Golton who was pretty influential and was a a brilliant u uh thinker was one of the pioneers of eugenics and u he was one of the first uh Gton was a statistician. He was fascinated with uh the metrics of uh humans, understanding humans in a statistical metrical way. Uh the person who developed the the the system for fingerprinting, identifying unique individuals through fingerprints, he was really into this stuff. uh uh and he was quite interested in the whole idea that levels of intelligence high intelligence were transported down through the generations and families. He wrote a book called inherit hereditary genius in which uh he studied uh members of great science families and you know what they did what what the next generation did and he tried to develop this kind of uh this this conceptual framework for thinking about how we could improve how Human societies might improve their average level of intellect and performance and the other side of it resist the uh the process of sort of I mean we call it a gene pool now but he didn't have those words before he was but he knew basically that uh there were principles of inheritance. So, uh this is what he was he was uh he was interested in doing. Um Darwin I don't myself consider Darwin a eugenicist of any type but he does say in his book that you know people who are poor should refrain from marrying and having children stuff like that. uh you know at some level it's just good advice you know can't afford try to try to work within your means so uh but uh his his cousin Gton was much more into you know understanding some of these principles and the a society developed in England eugenical society of of of London we're going to read a work later in the term uh by Thomas Henry Huxley which attacks this whole movement of eugenical thinking but it was quite strong in England and you know people like to say oh the Germans came up with eugenics and they did terrible things in the second world war but you know eugenics as a set of ideas was around long before the third reich I can tell you that uh and it was uh there was a movement in America I mean you know there's there's a whole history of this this type of thinking and it it emerged out of the kind of naturalism that Charles Darwin was part of. But it just indicates that you know ideas can be used in a variety of ways. Darwin as I said did not use them this way. He was not a eugenicist. Uh I mean there may be anybody who wants to argue that but I certainly don't but Gton definitely was yeah how does social Darwinism relate to eugenics uh it's an expression eugenics social darism is and eugenics are the same yeah okay so so we'll we'll see more of this it's it's just a it's a it's a side of this kind of thinking that uh needs to be understood and addressed and Butler here is one of the first harbinger of you know this whole wave of thinking butler there's nothing in his work that suggests that he was a eugenicist but in u in his um arowan he's sort of exploring this territory and opening them up and saying you know here are ways in which you can think here's here are ways in which you can use Darwinism to think about society be aware. Just a couple of things before we leave. Uh what about the religious establishment? What did anybody get through the musical bank section? Religion in among the Aeronians is pretty much just a empty uh uh it's it's it's sort of an empty ceremony. People go to these places and they uh show a certain kind of uh face if you will but fundamentally they don't really have much uh conviction that anything important is going to happen in the so-called now the musical banks are his the Awanians uh what what what the uh narrator here calls the Awanian places of uh worship and u these are banks that uh these are basically places where people go to be seen and they want to be associated with but fundamentally they don't pay any attention to them. This is pretty much Butler's view of of organized religion of his time. Butler's father was a cleric. This this is Butler's father's church here in uh in Langar uh England. And uh it's actually quite an interesting church. I went there to visit it once. Uh it sits up on this sort of null. His father renovated it. And apparently most people think he remodeled it. He he took his father took the the distinctive features of of of the church and kind of okay so what we're uh so this world is a world of biological juosition with social and uh there's a kind of a humor to it a satire to it butler's making use of this and uh I've given you a little dancing hippos uh clip here from Fantasia And part of the humor of that is seeing something natural do something unnatural. There there there's a kind of humor to it. And that's part of the source of the humor in in Arrowan.