The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. Um the other thing is so the last lecture before the break ended a bit abruptly because I ran out of time. So just to summarize what the main point was I mean probably you figured this out you know if you looked at the notes uh it's not that important but anyway just wanted to remind you that you know just to clarify what happened at the end we got the diffusion equation from two bits of information. So we I mean the unknown in this partial differential equation is a function that we call u that corresponds to the concentration of some substance. And we used a vector field that represents the flow of whatever the substance is whose diffusion we're studying. And well so we got two bits of information. One one that came from physics that said that the flow goes from high concentration to small to smaller concentration and that told us that the flow is proportional to negative gradient of a concentration. And the second piece of information that we got was from the divergence theorem and that's the one which I spent time trying to explain and that one told us that the divergence of f is actually negative partial u over partial t. So when you combine these two relations together that's how you get the diffusion equation. So I should say this is not the statement of the divergence theorem but this is something that we derived from it with quite a few steps involved. And so what we got out of that is the diffusion equation because we end up getting that partial u partial t is minus div f which is therefore positive k * divergence of grad u which is what we denoted by del square u the llassium. So that's how we got the diffusion equation. Okay. Anyway, um I let you, you know, have a look at the notes that were handed out in case you really want to see more. I just wanted to give the missing part of the last lecture. Okay. So let me just switch gears completely and switch to today's topic which is actually line integrals and work in 3D. So that's going to look a lot like what we did in the plane except of course there's a zcoordinate but you'll see it doesn't change things much when it comes to computing a line integral. It changes things quite a bit however when it comes to testing whether a field is a gradient field. So that's where we have to be more careful. So okay, let's start right away with line integrals in space. So let's say that we have a vector field F with components say P, Q and R. And we should think of it maybe as representing a force. And let's say that we have a curve C in space. Then the work done by the field will be the line integral along C of FD dr. Okay. So that's a familiar formula and what we do with that formula is also familiar except now of course we have a Zcoordinate. So we're going to think of vector dr as a space vector with components dx, dy and dz. So when we do the dotproduct of f with dr that will tell us that we have to integrate p dx plus qdy plus r dz. Okay, but it's still a line integral. So it's still going to turn into a simple integral, a single integral when you plug in the correct values. So the method will be exactly the same as in the plane. Namely, we'll find some way to parameterize our curve. Express XYZ in terms of a single variable and then we'll integrate with respect to that variable. Okay. So the way that we evaluate is by parameterizing C and express X Y Z DX DY DZ in terms of a parameter. Okay, so let's do an example just to convince you that you actually know how to do this or at least you should know how to do this. So let's say that I give you the vector field with components yz, xz and xy. And let's say that we have a curve given by x = t cub, y = t ^2, z = t for t going from 0 to 1. Okay. So the way we will set up the line integral for the work done will be well sorry. Okay, so before we actually set up the line integral, we need to know how we will express everything in terms of t and dt. So x, y and z in terms of t are given here. We just need to do also dx, dy and dz. Well, by differentiating you get dx is 3t ^2 dt. That's the derivative of t cubed. dy will be 2t dt and dz will just be dt. Okay. And so we'll evaluate the line integral for work. Well, that will be the integral of y zz dx plus xz dy plus xy dz which will become so y z is t cubed * dx is 3t ^2 dt plus xz is T4 time dy is 2t dt plus xy is t 5 dt okay so that just becomes the integral from well I guess t goes from 0 to 1 actually and we are integrating 3 + 2 + 1 that's 6 t 5 dt which I'm sure you know integrates to t 6 so we'll just get one Okay, so it's the same method as usual. And if you're being given a a geometric description of a curve, then of course you have to decide for yourself what the best parameter will be. It might be some time parameter t like here it might be one of the coordinates. Actually here we could have used z as our parameter, right? Because in fact this curve is x= z cubed and y = z ^2. And we could also have used maybe some angle. Well, not here, but if we had been moving say on a circle or something like that. Okay, any questions so far? No. Okay. So well because you know we can do a bit more practice. Let's do another one where we do the same vector field L F L F L F L F L F L F L F L F L F L F L but our curve C will be going from the origin to the point 1 0 0 along the X axis. So let's call that C1. then to 1 1 0. Let's call that C2 by moving parallel to the Y- axis. And then up to 111 parallel to the Z-axis. Let's call that C3. Okay. Um I'm sure that some of you at least are suspecting what I'm getting at here, but let's not spoil it for those who don't see it yet. Okay, so if we want to compute the line integral along this guy, this guy, then we have to actually break it into a sum of three terms. Okay, so well actually maybe I should call that C prime, not C because it's not the same C anymore. So I want to do the sum of the line integrals along C1, C2, and C3. And well if I look at C1 or at C2 actually so C1 and C2 take place inside the XY plane. So in fact you know that Z will be zero and DZ will also be zero. on both of these. And if you just look at you know the formula for line integral integral of y z dx plus xz dy plus xy dz well it looks like if you plug z equals 0 and dz equals z you'll just get zero. So these are actually very fast. Well, not sure if I Well, okay, let me write it. But right, so this is going to be zero. This is going to be zero. This is going to be zero. And we'll get zero. Okay. Now, if we do C3, well, there we might have to actually do a calculation, but it won't be all that bad. So, C3, well, X and Y are both equal to one. And of course, because they're constant, that means DX is zero, dy is zero, and on the other hand, Z varies from 0 to one. So if I look at the line integral on C3, well, so the first two terms yZ DX and XZ DY go away because DX and DY are zero. So I'm just left with XY DZ. But because x and y are one, that's just the integral of dz from 0 to one. And that will just end up being one. Okay. So if I add these numbers together, 0 + 0 + 1, I get one again. And of course, it's not a coincidence because this vector field actually is a gradient field. I'm sure some of you have already figured out what it's the gradient of otherwise we'll figure it out together. Um, and so that's why actually we get the same answer for these two paths going both from the origin to one one. I mean maybe I should point out to make it clearer. If you plug t equals 0 in the path up there you'll get 0 0. If you plug t equals 1 you'll get 1 one. So in fact, this vector field f that we have here happens to be conservative. And if you plot the two curves together, so Well, I'm not really sure if I know how to plot this correctly, but I believe that, you know, somehow, well, it's not exactly how it looks. Something okay, whatever. So, the first curve C goes from the origin to this point, and so does C prime, just in a slightly more roundabout way. So you know they both go from the origin to 11 one one. So it's not a surprise that you'll get the same answer for both line integrals. And how do we see that? Well, actually here it's not very hard to find a function whose gradient is this vector field. Namely, well, the gradient of XYZ looks like it should be exactly what we want, right? If you take partial of this with respect to x, you'll get yz then with respect to yxz and with respect to z xy. And so in fact what was the easier way to compute these line integrals? Well that was to use the fundamental theorem of calculus. We didn't actually you know once we have this remark we don't need to compute these line integrals anymore. We can just use the fundamental theorem. So if we know this the fundamental theorem well of calculus for line integrals blah blah blah 49 integrals. So that tells us that the line integral of a gradient field is equal to the value of a potential at the final point minus the value of the potential at the starting point. Okay? And that of course only applies if you have a potential. So in particular only if you have a conservative field a gradient field. Okay. So here in our particular example well so we have to look at let's call little f of xyz that potential xyz then we take f of 111 minus f of 0 0 0 and that indeed is 1 - 0 which is one so everything is consistent. Okay, so all this stuff so far works exactly as in the plane. Any questions? Nope. Okay. So let's try to see where things do get a little bit different. And the first such place is when we try to test whether a vector field is a gradient field. So remember when we had a function of two variables sorry when we had a vector field in the plane to know whether it was the gradient of a function of two variables we just had to check one condition n subx= m sub m sub y. Now we'll actually have three different conditions to check and that means of course more work. Okay. So, okay. So, what's our test for gradient fields? So we want to know whether a given vector field with components P, Q and R, whether it can be written as F subX, F suby, and F subz for a same function F. And for that to possibly happen, well, we need certainly some relations between PQ and R. And as before, this comes from the fact that the mixed second derivatives are the same no matter in which order you take them. So if that's the case, then I can compute f subxy, which is the same as fubyx in two different ways, right? fubxy should be p suby fubyx well since f suby is q that should be q subx okay so if you want that's the part of the criterion that we already had when we had only two variables but now of course we need to do the same thing when we look at x and z or y and z so that gives us two more conditions so p subz is f subxz Z which is the same as F subZX. So it should be the same as R subX and finally Q subz which is F sub YZ equals F sub Z Y equals R sub Y. Okay. Okay, so we have actually three conditions. So our criterion. So a vector field F equals PQR. And here to be you know completely truthful I have to say defined in a simply connected region otherwise we might have the same kind of strange things happening as before. So when let's not worry too much about it but just you know for accuracy we need our vector field to be defined in a simply connected region and that means for example well an example is just if it's defined everywhere you know if you don't have any evil denominators then um you can just you know go ahead there's no problem um is a gradient field exactly when so we need three conditions we need P subz well let's do it in order let's P suby = Q subx and we have P subz = R subX and Q subz= R suby So now how do you remember these three conditions? Well, it's pretty easy. You pick any two components. Okay, say the x and the z component and you take the partial of the x component with respect to z, the partial of the z component with respect to x and you must make them equal. And same with every pair of variables. In fact, if you had a function of many more variables, the criterion would still look exactly like that. For every pair of components, the mixed partials must be the same. But we are not going to go beyond three variables. So you don't need to know that this you need to know. Okay. So let me box it. Okay. So, well, that's pretty straightforward. Let's do an example just to see how it goes. Oh, by the way, sorry. You know, we can also Think of it in terms of differentials. Okay. So we can say so before I do the example let me just say in a different language if we have a differential given to us of the form pdx plus qdy plus rdz is going to be an exact differential which means it's equal to df for some function f exactly under the same conditions. Okay, that's the same thing just in the language of differentials. Okay, so the example that I promised of course I could do again the same one over there and check that it satisfies the condition, but then you know wouldn't be much fun. So let's do a better one. So actually let's do it in a way that looks like an exam problem. Let's say for which a and b is axy dx plus oh it's not going to fit here. It will fit here. A xy dx plus x2 + z cubed d y plus b y z ^ 2 - 4 z cubed dz an exact differential or if you don't like exact differentials for which a and b is the corresponding vector field with you know i j and k instead a gradient field. So let's just apply the criterion and of course you can guess that what will follow will be figuring out how to find the potential when there is one. Oops. Okay. Well, so let's do it, you know, one by one. So we want to compare P suby with Q subX. We want to compare P subz with R subx. And we want to compare Q subz with R suby. Okay, where we call P, Q and R, these guys. So let's see what is p suby that seems to be ax and what is q subx 2x okay q is this one actually let me write them down because otherwise I'm going to get confused myself so this guy here that's p this guy here That's Q. And that guy here, that's R. So, okay. So, this one tells us that A should be equal to two for the first property to hold. Okay. Let's look at P subz. That's just zero. R subx. Well, R doesn't have any X either, so that's zero. So this one isn't a problem. Q subz well that seems to be 3 Z ^2 R sub Y seems to be BZ ^ 2. So b should be equal to 3. Okay. So we need to have a equals 2 and this is an end. This is not or B equals 3 for this to be exact. Okay. So for those values of A and B, we can look for a potential using the method that we're going to see right now. For any other values of A and B, we can't. If we have to compute a line integral, we have to do it by finding a parameter and setting up everything. Okay, any questions at this point? Yes. If QZ was 3 Bz^ 2, how would you find if Q So if QZ was Oh, I see. Well, if I got the same answer, if I also got, you know, like or did you say BZ squ or 3 B square? 3 B square. Well, 3 BZ² for example, then I would need B to be zero because the only times that 3 BZ² equals BZ² as you know, not just at one point but everywhere I need them to be the same function of XYZ. Well, that would be if the coefficient of Z square is the same, that would give me B= 3 B, that would give me B equals Z. If you got B Z^² on both sides, then it would mean, you know, for any value of B, it works. And you wouldn't have to worry about what the value of B is. Okay, any other questions? No. Okay, so now how do we find the potential Well, there's two methods as before. Okay, so one of them, I don't remember if it was the first one or the second one last time, but it really doesn't matter. One of them was just to say that the value of f at a point let me call that x1 y1 z1 is equal to the line integral of my field along a well chosen curve plus of course a constant which is going to be the integration constant and the kind of curve that I will take to do this calcul population will just be my favorite curve going from the origin to the point x1 y1 z1. And so typically it would be you know the most common choice would be to go just first along the x- axis then parallel to the y- axis and then parallel to the z-axis all the way to my point x1 y1 z1. So I would just calculate three easy line integrals, add them together and that would give me the value of my function. Okay, so that's that method works exactly the same way as it did in two variables. Now I seem to recall that you guys mostly preferred the other method. So I'm going to tell you about the other method as well. But I just want to point out this one actually it doesn't become more complicated. The other one there's actually more steps. And of course here there's also actually a bit more steps because you have three parts to your path instead of two. So you have three line integrals to compute instead of two. But conceptually it remains exactly the same idea. So I should say it works the same way as in 2D. Not much changes. Okay. So let's look at the other method using anti-derivatives. So remember we want to solve we want to find a function little f whose partials are exactly the things we've been given. So we want to solve well let me plug in the values of a and b that will work. Okay. So we said a should be two. So f(ubx) should be 2xy. f(uby) should be x^2 + z cubed. And f(ubz) should be b was 3. So that was 3 y z ^ 2 - 4 z cubed. So we're going to look at them one at a time and get partial information on the function and then we'll compare with the others to get more information until we are completely done. Okay. So the first thing that we'll do we know that fubx is 2xy. That should tell us something about f. Well, let's just integrate that with respect to x. So, let me write integral dx next to that. So, that tells us that f should be well, if we integrate that with respect to x, 2x integrates to x^2. So, we should get x^2 y plus of course an integration constant. Now, what do we mean by an integration constant? Well, it means that actually for given values of y and z, we'll get a term that does not depend on x. It still depends on y and z. So in fact, what we get is a function of y and z. See, if you took the derivative of this with respect to x, you'll get 2xy and this guy will go away because there's no x in it. Okay, so that's the first step. Now we need to get some information on g. How do we do that? Well, we look at the other partials. So, f suby, we want that to be x^2 plus z cubed. But actually, we have another way to find it, which is starting from this and differentiating. Let me use let me try to use color for this. So, Okay. So now if I take the partial of this with respect to y, I'm going to get a different formula for f suby that will be x^2 + g suby. Well, if I compare these two expressions, that tells me that g suby should be z cubed. So now if I have this well I can integrate with respect to y and that will tell me that g is actually yz cubed plus an integration constant. That constant again does not depend on y but it can still depend on z right because we still haven't said anything about partial with respect to z. So in fact that constant I will write as a function h of z. So if I have this function of z I take its partial I will with respect to y I will still get z cubed no matter what h was. Now how do I find h? Well, obviously I have to look at f subz. Okay. So, f subz. Well, we know from the given vector field that we want it to be 3 y z ^ 2 minus 4 z cubed. So, in case you're wondering where that came from, that was r. Okay. But that's also obtained uh by differentiating with respect to z what we had so far. Ah sorry. So what did we have so far? Well, we had f = x^2 y + g. And we say g is actually yz cubed. plus h of z. Okay, that's what we have so far. So if we take the derivative of that with respect to z, we'll get well zero plus 3 y z ^ 2 plus h prime of z or dhdz as you want. Okay. Okay. So now if we compare these two we'll get the derivative of h. It will tell us that h prime is -4 z cubed. And that means that h is z to the 4 plus a constant. And this time it's at last an actual constant because it doesn't depend on z and there's nothing else for it to depend on. So now we plug this into what we had before and that will give us our function f. So we get that f is x^2 y + y z cubed minus z to 4 plus constant. Um if you just wanted to find one potential you can just forget the constant. This guy was a potential. If you want all the potentials they differ by this constant. Okay. So just to recap the method what did we do? We started with and of course you can do it in whichever order you prefer but you have to still you know follow the systematic method. So you start with f subx and you integrate that with respect to x that gives you f up to a function of y and z only. Now you compare f suby as given to you by the vector field with the formula that you get from this expression for f and that of course this one will involve g suby. So out of this you will get the value of g suby. When you have g suby that gives you g up to a function of z only. And so now you have f up to a function of z only and you what you will do is you will look at the derivative with respect to z. Well the one you want coming from the vector field and the one you have coming from this formula for f match them. That will tell you H prime you will get H and then you will get F. Okay, any questions? Nope. Okay, who still prefers this method? Okay, that's still most of you who is thinking that maybe the other method wasn't so bad after all. Okay, that's still a minority. Uh well, you can choose whichever one you prefer. I would encourage you to, you know, get some practice by trying both on at least a couple of examples just to make sure that you know how to do them both and then, you know, stick to whichever one you prefer. Okay, any questions on that? No, I guess I already asked actually. Well, still no questions. Okay, so the next logical thing is going to be curl and the theorem that is going to replace green theorem for work in this setting that's going to be called Stokes theorem. So let me start by telling you about curl in 3D. Okay, so here's the statement. So the curl actually is just going to measure how much your vector field fails to be conservative. And if you want to think about it in terms of motions, but also will measure the rotation part of the motion. So maybe I should say, well, let me first give the definition anyway. So let's say that my vector field has components P, Q and R. Then we define the curl of F to be R sub Y - Q sub Z * I plus P subz - R subX * J plus Q subx - P suby * K. And now of course nobody can remember this formula. So what's the structure of this formula? Well, you see each of these guys is one of the things that have to be zero for our field to be conservative. So by construction if f is defined in a simply connected region then we have that f is conservative is equivalent to if and only if curl f is zero. Okay. Now an important difference between curl here and curl in the plane is that now the curl of a vector field is again a vector field. See these these expressions they're functions of xyz and together you form a vector out of them. So the curl of a vector field in space is actually a vector field not a scalar function. Now, okay, so I've delayed the inevitable. I have to really tell you how to remember this evil formula. So the secret is that in fact you can think of this as dell cross f. So maybe you've seen that in physics. So this is really where this Dell notation becomes extremely useful because that's basically the only way to remember the formula for curve. So in fact, so remember we introduced the dell operator that was this symbolic vector operator in which the components are the partial derivative operators. So we've seen well if you apply this to a scalar function then that will give you the gradient and we've seen that if you do the dot product between Dell and the vector field so maybe I give it components P Q and R. Well, when you do the dot product between these two vectors, you'll get partial P partial X plus partial Q partial Y plus partial R partial Z, which is the divergence. And so now what's new is that if I try to do del cross f. Okay. So what is del cross f? So I have to set up the cross productduct between this strange thing that is not really a vector. I mean I can't really think of partial partial x as a number. um and my vector field pqr. So see that's really a completely perverted use of a determinant notation. Okay, initially determinants were just supposed to be you had a 3x3 table of numbers and you computed a number out of them and now I mean okay so these guys well they're functions so you know that counts as numbers but these are vectors and these are you know partial derivatives um it doesn't really make much sense except as notation. So you know if you try to enter this into a calculator or a computer will just you know yell back at you saying are you crazy and uh and and but okay so you know we just use that as a notation to remember what's in there. So let's try and see how that works. So the component of I in this cross product remember that's this smaller determinant. So that smaller determinant is partial over partial Y of R minus partial partial Z of Q. That's the coefficient of I. And that seems to be what I had over there. If not, then I made a mistake. Minus the next determinant time J. Remember there's always a minus sign in front of the J component when you do a cross product. So the other one is partial partial x r minus partial partial z of p plus the component of z is going to be partial partial x q minus partial partial y p and that's indeed going to be the curl of f. Okay. So in practice if you have to compute the curl of a vector field you know don't try to remember this formula just set up this cross productduct with whatever formulas you have for the components of the field and then compute it. Okay don't bother to try to remember the general formula. Just remember this. Okay. So what's the geometric interpretation of curl? Just to finish. So in a way I will say just curl measures the rotation component in a velocity field. So an exercise that you can do, it's actually pretty easy to check. Say that we have a fluid that's just rotating about the z-axis uniformly. Okay. So, your fluid is just, you know, rotating like that about the Z-axis. So if I take rotation about the z-axis that's given by a velocity field with components negative well at let's say at velocity at angular velocity omega that will be negative omega * y then omega x and zero And the curl of that you can compute and you will find 2 omega* k. So concretely this curl gives you the angular velocity of the rotation well with a factor of two but it doesn't matter and the axis of rotation at least the direction of the axis of rotation. It tells you it's rotating about a vertical axis. And in general if you have a complicated motion some of it might be you know there's a translation and then within the translation there's maybe expansion and rotation and shearing and everything and the curl will compute how much rotation is taking place. So it will tell you say that you have you know a very small solid say I don't know a ping- pong ball in your flow and it's just like going with a flow it tells you how it's going to start rotating. That's what curl measures. Okay. So on Thursday we'll see Stokes theorem which will be the last ingredient before the next exam. And then on Friday we'll review stuff.