The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Wells was uh very interested in trying to come up with a story, a narrative, a science fiction that would somehow capture some of the evolutionary themes of his uh earlier years. Um this was a a very successful piece of science fiction. Wells is not as well known now as he was in his own day but uh in his day he was a he was definitely a highly influential thinker and uh he wrote numerous books lots and lots of science fiction but he also wrote non-fiction uh journalism tons of journalism I mean I read one account of wells that um said he he published over four million words in his just in his fiction in books and then about twice that in his journalism. It's like so he was uh a writer of amazing output but he was uh fascinated with scientific themes and and especially with evolution. Uh he studied under th Huxley uh for a short while at the Imperial College. He didn't pursue it to the point where he got his degree but um he was a huge admirer of Huxley and uh thought that uh uh Huxley's ideas were absolutely crucial to the way in which one needed to approach uh the contemporary world. you know, understanding the science and the role of science, but also in some ways the limits of science. Um, but uh his time machine is probably one of the most successful science fiction works ever written. Uh it's been done in movies uh several times. Uh and you know, it's a it's it's quite a tale. Um, what? So, uh, I mean, I reread it again. Every time I start reading this, I can't put it down. I don't know what what it is. There's something about Wells's pros that just pulls you into it. And it's kind of fiction of uh uh intellectual fiction you know playing with some thought it's a thought experiment in some sense how could we think about the people of the vastly uh of the future and in in say 800,000 years from now. Um so we remember Darwin's taxa chart and you know the fact that you know we have thousands of generations there before species change. So uh this little mechanism of time machine allows wells to jump from now into this kind of imagined future. That's a key move of science fiction, isn't it? Science fiction often uses some kind of uh idea of science that it, you know, the science isn't quite there. We don't know what the principles of his time travel uh actually were. There's no effort to explain it, but it gets him into this space where he can begin to talk. So, what is it about this book? Um, did you also have this experience of just sort of starting to read and getting picked up into the story? Uh, how so? Why? What' you find about it, Charles? What you think? Well, like it's like you said like so for me like I start reading some some section of it and then like there were just like certain certain uh like not maybe not paragraphs but like few chunks that are just like really well really well written and like they kind of just draw me in and like I'll reread that little chunk that I see and that's kind of how I get stuck in there. Um like so for example this part was really nice. I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been. It had committed suicide. It had said so steadfastly toward comfort and ease. And so here it's talking about um nature versus intellectual versatility and how like just like the lack the the like the kind of just how when man is set to comfort and ease. There is no need for him to kind of stay alert and like stay alert in terms of just like the things that he'll think about and like just his effort to survive. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Uh these people have sort of arrived uh at a state where there's no struggle and uh I mean there is in some sense because one species uh uh you know feeds upon the other species but you know there there's kind of a mutual relationship there isn't there? It's not like the the little people on the top aren't getting something out of the deal. I mean, you know, both sides have sort of uh reached a kind of uh uh stage where they're getting something. So, what are some other impressions you had of of of this book just as a story, Laura? Um, in what sense? Well, just uh you know, how did you how did you feel about it as you were reading it? Was it uh I thought it was interesting because a lot of the other books you read have been more subtle in this way of like Darwinian thought. Yeah. But this one was really in your face like these two good point um ways and he actually like you know really discusses um you know evolution. So I thought that was pretty interesting. Did anybody notice any kind of principles of evolution that sort of found expression in the book, ideas of evolution? One of the uh well, let me put it this way. uh the Eloy uh what are they you know in what way are they how are they being maintained and what is it suggests about the Eloy in terms of uh their status in the world? Are they like equal partners or are they Yeah, David. Uh I think um well the Eloy are small so they're not physically fit. Um and I think I read somewhere that the the sexes were very similar to each other. Yeah. So sort of evolutionarily they converged into one. Mhm. And it sort of goes I think against evolutionary theory in the sense that you're in evolution you're always looking for that variation and that variation is what drives um natural selection. But again like there are no problems like out like disease or war in the society and so without the without the necessity there's no need to improve which is sort of ironic cuz we always we're looking for solutions and it's sort of HG wells sort of says like if we solve all our problems then you know what what'll happen next. I thought like their the androgyny and their weakness and everything was a really interesting point. And he he made the point that I guess it that there was no longer any competition in the species. There was no sexual competition. There was no um you know he said something about like when when society is perfect, it doesn't matter if you're weak or strong because the weakest still get by just as fine as the strong will. And the strong is unnecessarily strong. So extra effort. Yeah, it kind of gets weeded out. Yeah. I mean that that fits into the kind of in some popularized way uh the concept of evolution is you know if there's no evolutionary pressure for competition then there's no uh there's no process that's going to uh uh enable stronger to survive over weaker. So if if if people ultimately uh attain this this kind of perfect state uh you know I mean really and truly what what would it do to them? It takes us all the way back to that second part of Mouthus where Mouthys says you know uh necessity is the mother of invention. Necessity is what gives rise to the mind and this whole competition and and and and the quote that uh David read is right on that exact point. You know, if if there were no competition in society and society were totally stabilized, um you would uh under kind of a utopian dynamic or situation uh you would in time sort of just lose any kind of uh uh unique expression or advance. So this reflects something in Darwin's work in uh this whole concept of uh domestication. What is what does domestication do to species? Remember we talked about um um artificial selection? What about those domesticated species? what what happens to them as humans like like cats and dogs and cows and chickens and things of that sort. How are they uh you know as as organisms? How do they compare to their ancestral wild forms? Yeah. Well, they're no longer bred for like competition outside. They just they're substantiers or people who own them. So essentially if they go into the wild they'll just die out as soon as they get there since they can't compete. They can't compete. So they they become their forms become much more uh juvenile really. Uh domestication sort of tends to uh uh it it tends to fix organisms in their juvenile stages. They don't advance into more adult stages. And those stages are basically u less defined. So these little people, the Eloy are kind of list little domesticated humans in some sense. They've been domesticated as well, he says in the book uh in one passage, they're sort of like cattle. I mean different of course, but uh they're basically uh being maintained. So, okay. So, we have this uh this this sort of uh weird tale of uh the time traveler. um he's found these two different species and they no longer interbreed or whatever. They at least theoretically according to his theory is that they, as David said, they uh they became separated through sort of uh uh a division of labor, you might say, or one group became the source of uh the labor and the other group uh became the consuming group. And uh uh as as they developed into these advanced stages, they sort of separated into two types of species. And in some ways, this reflects some of the thinking of uh Stephvenson and Jacqueline Hyde. How are what are what are some of the parallels here between Jackal and Hyde and Eloy and Morlocks? Well, you have like there's like kind of a division between what used to be one. So obviously, but they're just on different scales. And one of them is thinking in terms of society. What would happen if you just put like all of a certain characteristic in one side and then everything that's the opposite on on the other like kind of like just separate out create this kind of gradient. Um and then obviously in Dr. Jackekal and Mr. H you have also this kind of separation of good and evil and how they how they feed off of each other. like there is this uh interdependency between Mr. Dr. Jack and Mr. Hyde just in different ways um and same for Eloy and Morlocks. Okay. Any other thoughts? Yes, definitely. Any other thoughts about Eloy and uh Morlocks and Jacqueline Hyde? David, they're both kind of like uh the kind of two forms specialize and I think in both cases kind of the the darker more primal form seems to dominate the Yeah. the weaker form. Yeah. How how do they compare just uh you know I mean if you had to choose to be not that you would find which which form would you rather be part of? Would you rather be a Eloy or Morlock? I mean in terms of you know the what are their different characteristic what what are some of the differences? I mean obviously one lives underground and has flax and hair and and uh no pigment in their skins. Uh yeah the evil really just aren't able to self sustain. They rely on the uh so was it the morlocks? Yeah, for everything from clothing to basically, you know, they'd have no chance of surviving on their own. Whereas the Morlocks, um, you know, even if they need the ventilation service from the Eloy, they're they're pretty much self- sustaining. They seem somewhat capable of doing things. Yeah, they they come from this long tradition of maintaining uh you know the the status quo and uh you could say that this world is a kind of a homeostatic world. It's it's reached a point of equilibrium. Uh so in some sense both parts depend on other but uh on each other but uh certainly the Morlocks are the ones that have at least some elements of ingenuity still. They maintain machines. They uh you know they they they produce all the goods and things simple as they are that the uh uh Eloy consume. Um and they basically take care of things. They're only uh their only uh uh requirement is they they sort of uh they dine on Eli. So, this is a very efficient world, isn't it? But, uh, what about the Eli? What are their qualities? I mean, the time traveler prefers the Eloy, doesn't he? What does he say about the Morlocks? What's his and how does that compare? Remember what they said about everybody who meets Hyde, you know, what do they say when they in Hyde's presence? something they, you know, hide is, you know, is there something that they don't like communicates something. And that same that same type of dynamic is uh being or interaction is is uh the time traveler's response to seeing more. He doesn't like them. They're somehow inherently uh negative, evil. Um so yeah there's uh there is this this this sort of um this development and teasing apart of different elements. I mean would it be fair to say that you know these are two parts of a unified human psyche or in some sense expressions. What about the uh what about the Eloy? What is it that the time traveler finds attractive? Casey, they're just like see they're like in the light in the light. So, it's kind of like, you know, obviously he's not going to like people in the dark cuz it's and they they kind of just seem to have everything going for them. the exception of the fact that they can't do anything for themselves. But I mean, he just kind of likes they play they play in the sunlight. Yeah. I think maybe he just relates to them more because in some ways it's sort of a social commentary of like higher and lower classes and it seems that the time traveler would have come from a place in society where he was sort of not of the working class, more of yeah, you know, higher class where he can sit around and talk about time travel and things. Yeah. So maybe he just relates more to this like the epitome of a higher class of beings that don't have to work for themselves. Okay. Yeah. You're sort of bringing in a parallel here to Jackal. Isn't I mean there's something in Jackal's personality, certain type of interest, a little bit of boredom. everything is uh you know he's he's well situated in society and the time traveler also is you know of that same kind of uh curiosity based on sort of a eccentric interest in various kinds of questions and this this this deep desire to figure out how to uh uh transcend some boundary and in Transcending these boundaries, both Jackal and the time traveler enter into this encounter with the other side. The other we would call it, some people would call it that other side of the psyche and in some sense that other possibility. So the mechanism in the one is the potion. You drink it, you become the mechanism and the other is traveling into the distant time and you suddenly see this human entity pulled apart through the vastness of time into these sub sub uh or these these you know evolved or devolved creatures. Yeah, David. I thought another interesting thing uh I thought of was how they treated him because it seemed like like the Aloy were like curious about him but then like lost interest and he described them as being like like they were too dumb to like you know remain interested in him and then but but also it seemed like they weren't afraid of him which seems strange because I mean I feel like with their relationship with the Morlocks like they would have been more I guess wary of of someone that they didn't like recognize. And then the Morlocks kind of don't treat him as equals either. Like they I mean they want to eat him just as well. But but they also kind of set a trap for him, which obviously they won't do for the Aloy. But um in both cases, it just seems like, you know, they they didn't even kind of question where he came from or anything. Like there's no there's no sense of understanding of for them of like evolution or anything. like they're not aware of it themselves. Yeah. He he he mentions that, you know, the intelligence is gone. There's no intelligence left. Uh because he's he's very disappointed when one of them asks if he came through the thunderstorm from the sun or, you know, and he's he realizes and he's dealing with, you know, uh a a people who have uh no mental capacity. They're very much like u well in some sense like children but you know children of today probably uh it's not exact peril because children of today are curious and have lots and lots of energy to you know learn new things and so on and so forth. These people just pretty much uh play um sit in the sun, eat, and interact at some low level. Yeah, David, the book also says that um the time machine, the time traveler said um that the Eloy didn't have any history, but they did they didn't know uh or have any accounts of their history. So, I was wondering if that had to do with their lack of intelligence cuz like obviously with history there comes identity. Mhm. Um, but I was wondering what people thought about that. Well, I think that you have totally just lost any sense of the past or the future. And all they really care about is living in the present like because they they don't seem to have like they wake up when when the sun comes up and they go to sleep. Mhm. uh when sun goes down and it doesn't seem like there's any like they're not they're they're not really worried about anything and it's just like they're just playing and it seems like they only have one like they only they're only looking at life from like present perspectives or not like and so in that sense like just the scope the scope in which they can see things has been narrowed down to just one very like very narrow time frame and I think that's like another demonstration of the like how the man man's mind has degenerated over time. Yeah. It just sort of lost interest. It would be almost like um you know um uh a parallel would be some incredibly uh uh wealthy individual who had been you know satisfied in all dimensions. everything is taking care of this person so forth and gradually loses interest in doing things and uh you know that's sort of a some kind of a process like that historicized through vast periods of time when you know things were taken care of uh there was this uh as I mentioned to you a couple of classes ago there there was this kind of theme at the end of the 19th century about degeneration a lot of people concerned about degeneration and the possibilities because degeneration is this notion that uh somehow civilization and higher entities can kind of uh retreat back into simpler less uh complex forms and become in some ways lose lose their capabilities. And uh this is this is a type of expression of this broad cultural sense. It's in certain individuals but collectively also that culture and civilization could go backwards. I mean don't you hear these narratives even today? Hey, I mean sometimes you hear you listen to political narratives, you know, oh, we're we're becoming, you know, our our society is losing its its capability to vigorously express itself and so on and so forth. You I mean, degeneration is always a kind of narrative that's available for people who want to speculate or say certain types of things about uh contemporary times. And uh Wells has kind of picked this concept up and in in in some ways brilliantly sort of projected it into this uh this world of a post almost post-evolutionary world. This is this is the end of this is the end of history, the end of culture, the end of civilization because those are all expressions of this human effort. as Huxley said, this human effort to kind of come to terms to create the the garden and the garden is always at risk and being taken back by the state of nature. Well, so that's that's where some of Huxy's ideas made it into this book. This is the garden. the the time machine is you've you've arrived at the garden and it is established and you're now seeing its long-term expression. And we all like to think of the garden as a highly desirable place as indeed it is. uh stretched out through vast periods of time, a state in which everything was taken care of, everything was beautiful, there was no more conflict would ultimately and in in Wells's speculation would ultimately result in a degenerated form of humans. Damn it. They talk a lot like when they're in the when they're in like the present time, they talk a lot about like what the future of mankind would be like and all the technological innovations. Um but then it's interesting that he chooses to go way beyond that and even even when they visit the museum. Yes. Which I thought was really interesting and that it seemed kind of totally out of place, but then Yeah. like the the innovations in the museum weren't all that advanced anyway, you know, like it seemed like he kind of didn't want to didn't want to foray into that into that kind of speculation about the He kind of just Yeah. You know, well, there was AI don't I don't remember if I had you read that section in Arowan. Arowan had a section on on the museum where after they pick up the uh after they pick up uh the uh uh Awanian traveler uh they find his watch and they take him to the museum where all these old machines are and so forth. And uh you know they sort of look and they see the watch and you know he sees all these sort of uh machines that used to exist in Arowan and uh he's being punished partly because he's reintroduced a machine into this environment. This is an echo way back in in Wells's book uh of this kind of this museum. It's a great it's a great device because as you say it sort of reflects on a past that existed but you know what does he get out of it? Well, he gets some camper to you know create the fire some more matches and he breaks off a lever from uh one of the machines to use as a weapon. That's that's all that's all the good he can get out of this uh this palace of green porcelain. Yeah. I think like as a reader, I like really wanted some kind of more obvious vestage of like the humanity that we're used to, you know, like the world that we're used to. Yeah. And and so that's when I was so interested to see like, you know, the the airtight glass display case and thing like that. Like finally, it's something familiar to us. But then it seems to only go as far as like, you know, he sees rusted like weapons instead of like rusted swords and things like that. So it's Yeah. I know you're you're making an interesting point and that is this book could have really you know Wells wrote it rapidly as he did most of his work. It's really a 100page novella but you could have really explored some of these ideas and a modern science fiction writer probably would you know if if if you if you I mean it's a it's a tremendous idea for a book. It's absolutely I think anyway I think it's a brilliant concept at that certain level to just sort of explore some of these ideas but you know it's it's unsatisfying at certain levels that whole chapter where he goes back into the pagod to get his time machine and inserts the levers so he can escape and the it's like I don't know two pages long and then he's gone and you you you think gee you know that was too fast you know else could have spent spent a little more time and created more of a scene and, you know, developed some texture to this. There there's not much texture in the book, is there? I mean, it's a little like uh it's a little like Candid, you know, Candid moves along and it bumps along and, you know, the chapters are, you know, two and a half pages or three pages and you're on to the next chapter and in the meantime, you've traversed the Atlantic or something and you're thinking, whoa, you know, slow down. But uh the point of the book is is uh is different than you know to create a a great fiction. It's it's it's a conceptual book as have all the books we've been reading. I mean the books we've been reading are largely conceptual books whether they're non-fiction or whether they're fiction are playing with ideas that are semi-connected with evolutionary speculation. And uh Wells is right in the center of that whole tradition because his uh his books were uh deeply informed by his understanding of evolution and this opened up all kinds of new mechanisms for him. But yeah, the that that green por palace of green porcelain uh sort of like the shining thing on the hill and you'd really like him to spend more time on it, but it's it's it's completely u decayed. There's not much left there and it's just uh remnants of things. So there's very much a sense of gradual decline isn't there in this even in this kind of environment where everything is you know he mentions that a lot of the buildings you know parts of the walk are cracked and certain you know things are maintained but not at a very high level. So there there there seems to be a kind of a a gradual decline. Um, so are there any other parallels in this book with Arowan? Everyone also played with the human form, didn't it? I mean, Butler was playing with the notion of, you know, can humans be selectors of themselves? Can they somehow improve themselves in their stock? These arrowians are they not also beautiful? He remarks on the beauty of these arwonians. And uh that's why you know to me Wells picks up this idea and he he goes in a in a very different direction with it. But you can see that there there are lots and lots of connections between these kind of speculative utopias. They're both utopias. Marijuana is utopia of a of a different type, but it's also utopian in which machines have uh disappeared through the choice of people. And the time machine is utopia in which machines have disappeared underground. They're down there someplace. But uh the Eli, could they run them? I mean, they're they're basically like children, but they do maintain one one last one last capability that ultimately uh is is uh uh meaningful to the time traveler. And that's of course in his personal relationship with the little person uh who he saves from the river and her sense of uh gratitude and devotion that comes out of that is the one human element, isn't it? That's almost the only human element that gets expressed in the book. It's it's a uh it's it's the thing that keeps him somehow engaged with these people this this capability. Uh so yeah, so this is uh um other gardens that we've dealt with. Uh I suppose uh uh the garden in Wonderland. It's also takes you down underneath. This one takes you down underneath into a whole different world. It's not the Morlock world, but it's a world underneath down into the rabbit hole. Um, we have any parallels between these two works? Um, so just like how Alice goes around and after every encounter of something new in this world, she makes she tries to form an idea of what like how the world works and how to explain things like what to predict, what not to predict. the time traveler as he goes through um exploring this new world 800,000 years uh in the future like there are certain every couple I don't know every dozen pages maybe like it'll be like some section where he just ruminates on the course of like the course of evolution or degeneration that man has taken and or like he'll just like ponder how like he'll he'll hypothesize um what evolution has done must have what evolution must have done to produce like the people today and like why they don't actually have to work and why they're so peaceful and why there is like social uniformity and so in that sense just like how Alice is learning after every encounter uh time traveler is learning and he doesn't quite and like even if he stays for a longer period of time he can he can never really know what really happen like you can only conjecture about it. I think that's the similarity. Yeah. Yeah. Nicely said. Yeah, definitely. There's this kind of mystery and this encounter with the environment and constantly trying to shape some idea of what's happening, what's going on. So there's a kind of a a learning process only in this case it arrives at a dark secret or it's not a secret but just at a at a kind of understanding of uh something completely contrary to what he first thinks. I mean, I think that's part of why uh the story turns into a page turner because you sort of wanna you're you're you're sort of picked up into this this world of and and you want to know more about you know what how this place works and uh it's it's uh I mean it's it's not I wouldn't say uh it doesn't have even close to the complexity of uh of uh uh Carol's work uh which is just a much more imagined and complex and and uh challenging piece of uh fiction but um it does have some of these elements only it's it's now using science. So what does this say about I mean science fiction science fiction is is not a form that was that common in the 19th century but Wells was one of the first I mean there were some other Jules Vern uh you could call Butler Butler was using scientific concepts to create a kind of a weird fiction maybe not exactly a science fiction work but uh so What does a what does a work like Wells say about the world of science and the world of fiction? Is this is this a pos is this a is this a mix that actually works? Can you actually make science fiction work? And if so, how does it what's what's the basis of its validity? Or is there any I think like science is so much about like discovery and answering questions and like there's always been like a kind of curiosity associated with it. And so with fiction, you know, the author has a chance to kind of answer some of these scientific questions that may not be answered um in our reality, but kind of in a more fanciful way. And I think it's very satisfying to readers to kind of see, you know, these concepts that they understand taken to a a level beyond, you know, what we can experience. Yeah. It we judge it at a in a different way, don't we? I mean, we don't expect it to stand up to some kind of scientific rigor, but uh you know, fiction fiction takes a holiday. I mean fiction fiction is a form of I mean especially speculative fiction it's a it's a way of speculating and thinking in terms of the some of the uh more uh rigorous principles of you know some scientific field. And uh so to kind of take these over into a world of fiction and to play with them and to think about them and to speculate about them is yeah it's it's satisfying even though we know it's wrong you know doesn't matter whether Jacqueline Hyde whe whether Jackal actually had some crazy potion that turned him into you know another being or whether time machine is capability. Uh people do talk about time travel from time to time. Uh I don't think the way in which he represents it has ever been even in ghostly possible. Yeah. Dave, I think it's interesting in a lot of science fiction like there's a kind of initial condition or explanation that the reader kind of has to get on board with um before they kind of allow themselves to be taken beyond it. and like you know Jacqueline Hyde it's this kind of potion and and so and and then in this case it's the the initial discussion of of you know time travel it's like like the book starts out with such a intellectual discussion of of the concept of time travel and I was kind of takenback by that actually um it's like almost kind of dense right at the beginning and then and then once they kind of convince you okay I understand like what where this world is going and kind of takes liberties and never really explains how it works. You know, there's some glowing thing on the machine and some mix of ivory and metal and everything, but Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But beyond that, once we've agreed to this kind of initial, you know, condition, we're good to go. Yeah. Yeah. We sort of uh we suspend disbelief, as they say, with a work of fiction. Uh a willing suspension. Uh and that opens up for us a gate and the gate happens to be this speculative world in which uh Wells really wants to talk about ideas. I mean the tale is not so important to him in my view anyway as you know exploring these notions of uh evolutionary evolutionary futures exploring some possible evolutionary futures and what they might look like. And uh the idea that's we could be talking about something over 800,000 years in in the future is kind of preposterous yet. You know, if if if you could do that and you could go here's one possible set of scenes, some way in which you could uh see the end point, the end of history. And of course, uh, for those who've read the whole book, if you got to the end chapter, the chapter after he escapes, he goes way, way into the future, what does he discover there? Well, heat death. What was called heat death in the in the 19th century. So, and that is, you know, the the fact that u there's going to be an end to the world. the world is going to uh uh there various theories but I think the contemporary is anybody here up with the contemporary astronomical uh projection for how the sun will die it will become a giant will it not will sort of expand into this vast uh and the earth itself will sort of uh lose its its diversity. Yeah, that chapter 11 was nothing short of riveting poetry. Like by the time I got to chapter 11, I was just I put the book down like holy wow. Um, you know, and did anyone else get if you get a chance like just read chapter 11. It's only like two pages long, but it's his description of, you know, it's just the slow death of not just the world, not just mankind, but the entire universe seemingly just collapsing on this one spot. Yeah. Yeah. That's kind of Yeah. The book has been illustrated on some cases by some in and and the illustrations are always excellent for this book because it's just it's it's visually I mean wouldn't you say it's it's visually a impressive book just just the visual not even that he is I mean the descriptions a lot of his descriptions are just super brief as we were saying you know it's it's a novella it's a very short piece, but at a conceptual level, the way in which the different ele the little children, the little tiny people and these uh creatures with uh no pigment in their skin and uh you know, I mean visually it just kind of assaults assaults you and uh this card garden of earth and you know this underground with the thumping machines and the smell of blood and uh and then the dying earth, the end of the the end of the world. And uh you know it it it it's in some ways not that we have to worry about the end of the world, you know, this is 800,000, but even so, isn't the notion that the place we live in is sometime eventually simply going to be nothing? I mean, doesn't that at some level communicate something? I mean we are living in a place that according to you know the principles of cosmology will collapse into the sun I think or yeah I mean is the time machine heretical what's that is the time machine heretical in that sense well you know I'm not really up onto the contemporary uh it was not in in in Wels's time it was not it was you know basically what basically followed the the general uh the general ideas that have been developed up to his time in in in astronomy, you know, and what we would call cosmology. Now, I guess in a more literal sense, the fact that you've got the earth going from stateless to changing and that you've got God creating man in his image and then man going up and somehow splitting into two rather fragile Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, I think everybody kind of takes a holiday when we get into science fiction and says, "Well, this is science fiction. We won't we won't hold it uh as as a uh project." But yeah, it it is. Well, in another way, it's a it's a good question because Wells himself was a socialist and uh in-your-face socialist and definitely had views of uh of the world that were you would say materialistic. I mean, he was a kind of a a radical, socialist, materialist, speculator with using science and the principles of science to sort of uh develop his uh general commentary on society and civilization. But you would have to say he was a a rabid secularist. He believed in you know this is this is it. This is the world. Everything else all this other uh all this other part of culture associated with religious views and so forth was just in Wells's view not a not a serious proposition. Oh, David, I was thinking about that in terms of like, you know, design and how we think about it. Like it's very clear where he comes down on that like just from reading it. And you can imagine if the book was written by, you know, I guess someone that was very religious or something like that and and was to express their ideas, you know, the the religious expression would be that humans are always kind of ascending to kind of a higher state of consciousness or existence or whatever. And so the future that he describes, I think isn't the same one that that like, you know, a religious person would would conceive of. It's it's the Earth without humans. There are no humans living at this time. It's just, you know, you know, crustation-like creatures crawling around on the surface of the earth. And you know that's those are the final uh or latest stage conditions of existence that allow you know some creature like this to survive. But no more Eli or Morlocks. They're long gone. What I thought really stuck out um throughout the whole book and there was really not even a discussion of it was the Sphinx and how it's kind of an anacronism in the world that he's created because I mean it's such a historical image, you know? I mean it's it's the Sphinx is even ancient history to us, you know, and yet it's a relatively new statue. I mean it's shiny, it's it's engraved and all this kind of stuff. And so I I just kind of always wondered why why that of all things was was in the was like still a centerpiece of their society when when nothing else remained. Good good question. I I've often wondered that too is just why did he choose Sphinx? Does anybody have a theory? I mean the Sphinx of course is a symbol of mystery and the unknown and the uh the uh the sort of unutterable uh and so at some sense it it's it's a conundrum a symbol of the conundrum and it rains over this I mean it's an image that is in the book and he comes back to it a couple times and It's sort of like I mean you could say symbolically it works to say something about the mystery of time and how completely unable we are to project in a you know highly complex world what things are going to be in the distant future. I mean that's the closest I can come. Yeah. It could also be like the physicality of it and that it's a man's face on like a different form. Okay. Yeah. No, it's uh it certainly is an important uh it's it's a really important part of this uh well maybe the uh the only the only major symbol in in in in the book. Uh he uses the word automatic civilization. this concept of the automatic was beginning to become part of the uh cultural discourse of the time. the the notion that you can automate and we're very much still into this this mode of thinking of you know automating things and making things self-maintaining uh creating a a kind of a world that uh so in some ways although it's it's it's clearly a work that was written over 100 years ago. uh some of the uh lines of thinking are still present in the way contemporary people think. Um and the other thing I was going to mention is uh he he uses some of the some of the terminology he uses in his book is very standard communist terminology. Uh he talks about the conquest of nature. This is a big thing in uh the communist uh discourse of Wells's time. But Charles and I were talking the other day uh and and we were sort of I said something and and you know we we discussed this a little bit. I said in some ways this book seems to be almost like a satire on the perfect state of communism because if communism actually arrived and produced uh this perfect world for everybody and each according to his capability, each according to his needs and so on so forth and perfect distribution of resources and a kind of a a static society. You would think we'd we'd ultimately reach the perfect stage and yet and they have here but what do you get? You get these kind of degenerated forms. So in some ways it's uh even though the wells is associated with this movement uh I've often wondered if you know it seems to me uh to be kind of uh uh satarizing this whole concept of everybody having you know the perfect state about the family structure of both cultures. Not at all. Um, I mean, one thing, one question I had is, for example, the Eloy, no one seemed to be concerned that we know went missing for quite quite such a amount of time. And when I started thinking about it, I realized I didn't notice any references to any kind of nuclear family or or group. And when I contrasted the Eloy with the Morlocks, you it seems as though the Eloy are extremely individualistic. You know, they have no they have no threats apart from the Morlocks anymore. they have food taken care of for them. They just go, they frolic, each to his own, you know, does whereas in the Morlocks, you've got exactly the opposite case where they kind of act as a super organism, you know, they they they seem to have no real selves onto them onto the onto their own, you know, apart from what I really read. Um, and instead they act as kind of this network that, you know, contin the social structures of the two groups, they seem to be diametrically opposed to. So, no, that that that's a good point. They they and they work collectively because they maintain machinery. They do all sorts of things. We don't see it but but yeah and and they harvest they harvest Eloy. They go up and you know so it's it's definitely uh there's a level of organization there that is totally missing from the Eloy who have uh you know I don't know how you characterize it. attention deficit disorder. I don't know. They all they all sort of can maintain a certain amount of attention and then they lose it and they're on to something else. And they even seem to, as you say, that's a that's an excellent point. They're they're they're different. There's and that also can be brought back to evolutionary principles. the fact that you know the nuclear family, the family and family social structures have adaptive value. But when everything is pretty much just taken care of and you have a static condition of existence, these things are extra energy. uh you don't need to use the energy and so a lot of things under those theoretically under those conditions would just break down. Just as if we look at domestic animals uh they probably have only remnants of the social structures that their ancestral forms had in order to survive. Uh so uh you know I guess one of the I'm sure I'm sure the the dynamic in Wells's mind of the thinking about Eloy is uh behind his thinking of Eloy is is really domestication. And so uh you know if you really want to understand who the Eloy are you go back and read Darwin's first chapter variation under domestication and uh you know and then you know the selecting force here will be not the Awanians who are selecting themselves but the Morlocks who are basically picking off the you know less robust forms and so on. Uh so in some sense humans have become domesticated uh entities. Well, it's all fantastic and uh but it it does kind of take you into this world in a in a sort of a a fictional way that allows you to think a little bit about uh some of these ideas u u in a in a in a in a new and different way, what some of their implications are.