Um as you have heard this is actually the last class of our course. It will be a split lecture. Um I'll start for half an hour then professor sed will continue and wrap up the course and then at the end I will also spend 15 minutes doing course evaluation. So we'll just leave you here with the forms and filling up. Um okay on my side here I think I'll end up um discussing a topic that's actually very dear to me. I think is um uh it's been a very intriguing and very fruitful application of uh um modeling and in particular modeling based on quantum mechanical uh energy schemes to an interesting set of scientific problems. Um you know we have said it over and over again sort of simulations allow you to do sort of computational experiments uh in areas where maybe things are happening too fast to follow them with a real experiments or maybe they happen on time scales uh sorry on length scales that are too small to really follow or as in this case they take place under certain thermodynamic conditions that are uh very difficult ult or even impossible to reproduce with an experimental apparatus. Let's let's look actually um at the first case and this is a research which a lot of work has been done at University College in London by Dariel F Gillan. So this is actually a cutout of the earth interior and in case you're not familiar with this the way it works is that we are actually sitting on a large liquid region. So you see on top here we have sort of the earth's crust and um what is very important for us is actually this region dark yellow and light yellow in which we have the so-called core of the planet that is mainly mainly uh mainly constituted by iron. Iron actually has a very stable nucleus nucleus. So in sort of the early formation of stars, it's one of the elements that sort of you know once created sort of was was more stable than than the other. And what happens in our planet is that we have a sort of increasing pressure going going inside and the inner core so-called again sort of mostly iron is actually solid. And um we know very well what is the pressure here at the boundary between the outer core and the inner core. This part is liquid. Pressure is increasing here. So this part is liquid. This part is solid. It's mostly iron. And for this sort of case, I will assume that is 100% irons. Although there is, you know, another problem of really how much impurities they are diluted. And we know very well what is the pressure there because we can sort of look at seismic waves and how seismic waves get deflected by that discontinuities. And the pressure is roughly 330 gigap pascal. But we actually don't know what is the phase diagram of iron at that pressure. And you see if we knew what the phase diagram of iron at that pressure was, we could pinpoint exactly the temperature here because these points here are sort of points of coexistence 330 gigap pascal between the liquid and the solid phase at that boundary. So if you want by knowing the pressure we would be able via the phase diagram of iron to actually pinpoint what is the temperature inside inside the earth and before sort of you know the set of experimental and theoretical work that I'll show the estimates actually for this were really sort of you know uh ranging in a very wide spectrum of possibilities from 3,000 Kelvin to 8,000 Kelvin and this is where a sort of ambinial simulations become very useful. ful because really once you believe your energy model there is no reason to sort of you know think that it would fail either because the pressure is too large or because the temperature is is too high and sort of you know in in all of this current sort of experimental capabilities to study this high pressure system uh sort of the best instrument is what is called the diamond anvil cell that is basically you know made by two diamonds. So, you know, the more perfect they are, the better that they squeeze whatever whatever you put inside. And, you know, diamond is transparent to a lot of wavelengths. So, that they are very useful to probe them with spectroscopic techniques. But basically, you know, the best you can do and you still sort of break up hundreds of diamonds in the process is that you can get to 300 gigap pascal if you're doing this at room temperature. But as soon as you want to study things at a higher temperature, realist of 200 gigap pascal is the limit that you can reach. While we want to figure out what's what's happening here, um there are other techniques, experimental techniques to sort of study uh um matter under sort of you know conditions of very high pressure and very high temperatures done with what is called the uh gunshot cannon in which you really sort of shoot pellets and try to sort of you know establish what's going on in the instant in which they hit their target. And so they they find themselves at very high condition of pressure. But it's very difficult to get accurate accurate data out of this. And so we'll see here actually sort of how um ambition simulation and in particular thermodynamic integration has been used to figure out what is going on in this in this region in this region here. And as usual sort of you know we you need to make sure that you believe your energy models. So these are a couple of validation curves. This is for HCP hyon that is one of the high pressure phases and a comparison between a sort of experimental results and simulation where the simulation are the sort of solid lines and you see it agrees very well in describing the equation of state pressure versus volume in this case. And then in particular this is a calculation of the um phonon modes the the vibrational frequency. This is something that you know you could very easily do with the quantum mechanical tools that you have done as a sort of post-processing of your laboratory three. Uh but again it works it works it works very well. So once you believe iron now the issue is trying to figure out what is it phase diagram at say which temperature you have coexistence between the solid and the liquid and you have actually done this in your laboratory for a sort of explicit method to find out the transition temperature by just doing a simulation of a liquid and a solid phase and figuring out at which temperature uh the boundary between the two phases doesn't really grow into each other. So the solid doesn't keep growing or the liquid doesn't doesn't keep growing. And you'll see an example of this in sort of what follows. The caveat in doing this kind of simulation is that they are still sort of very expensive to do abinio. You usually need at least 4 500 atoms to do such kind of simulation and sort of to kill the finite size effects. And this is even now borderline for what we can do even for the simplest elements. Uh there is another approach that I wanted to introduce first and is the one in which we actually sort of determine explicitly uh the Gibbs free energy. So in this case what you want to find out is thermodynamic stability at a given pressure and at a given temperature. So the Gibbs free energy is your correct thermodynamic potential. And so your goal if you want is being able to calculate the gives free energy of your solid system as a function of temperature and the gives free energy of your liquid system. And of course the point where these two free energy cross is really your coexistence point. Above that critical temperature the liquid phase is more stable and below that critical temperature the solid that solid phase is more stable. And sort of one possible way of calculating actually explicitly this um this free energy or in particular calculating the free energy difference with respect to a known phase is to use thermodynamic integration that is a technique that sort of has been discussed in some of the previous lecture by professor ceda. So I've just put up a reminder here and sort of you know the nomenclature is that we are using actually a Hamiltonian or an energy model that depends on a parameter lambda and the parameter lambda sort of is something that say brings us from the solid to the liquid because ultimately what we want to sort of figure out is what is the difference in gibs free energy say between the liquid and the solid or maybe between two solids, between one reference phase of the solid and another reference phase of the solid. And again, the idea behind thermodynamic integration is fairly simple once you skip all the math here. Again, sort of one can write out explicitly the partition. The partition function is written here and then it just sort of you know requires a little bit of math sort of figuring out that the derivative of the in this case Gibbs free energy um well sorry this is this is actually a constant volume so it would be um a sort of isalic simulation um no sorry it would be um constant volume constant temperature simulation so hel free energy so the derivative of the free energy energy with respect to this parameter lambda. Um you see once you sort of make the appropriate substitution that is you put uh the logarithm of the partition function and you work out explicitly what is that logarithm of the partition function in there you have 1 / q * the q over the lambda and 1 / q is the partition function here and this is the derivative of the partition function with respect to lambda. you basically get an expression that is nothing else than the average in your ensemble normalized by the partition function of the u over d lambda. So in order to calculate what is the derivative of the free energy with respect to lambda, you need to calculate what is the thermodynamical average in your ensemble of the derivative of the energy with respect with respect to lambda. And so this is a quantity that you can always calculate. And uh this is just an average over your ensemble. So let's uh let's look at sort of how this is done in a specific case. So I again I just written here the partition function the logarithm uh the free energy sorry as the logarithm of the partition function uh u will be our internal energy and this is what you calculate with your sort of quantum mechanical model and sort of for simplicity I've actually broken this in three parts that is I written out what is the energy at equilibrium and then sort of the energy for any possible configuration of the ions can be written as the energy at equilibrium plus what is called the harmonic term. So when you expand the energy of a system around equilibrium, the first derivatives are zero by definition. And so here you have the quadratic terms in the displacement of the position around the equilibrium position. And then you have all the nonlinear term that we'll call sort of an harmonic. And uh it's actually say in the case of a solid this makes a lot of sense because it's sort of fairly easy to calculate explicitly the integral of the partition function for this term in the overall energy functional and then this sort of is reserved for a explicit integration done using molecular dynamics. And because basically you have a logarithm of an exponential, if you sort of you know break out this thing in the sum of different terms, all the terms contribute separate free energy pieces to your overall system. And so you know we could sort of calculate say for a solid system what is the additional vibrational in this case free energy that comes on top of the equilibrium ground state energy and coming just from the harmonic term and I haven't worked out sort of the the algebra explicitly but it's actually fairly easy to do this integrals by writing the harmonic term in terms of the interatomic force constants. So if you sort of you know figure out with you know uh electronic structure codes what are the normal modes of your system that is um what are the modes that give you an expression for the harmonic term that is diagonal in the displacement and you find out the frequencies. Well, you can actually substitute this expression here in here, work out the integral and basically what you obtain is that your um harmonic vibrational free energy is just given by a sum over the logarithm of all your vibrational frequency. So this omega here would be your phon frequency. If you go back to what we had seen before for the case of iron when we have calculated the phonon spectrum here it is. So here what we have calculated is all the possible frequency for iron depending on the wave vector. So in principle we have a continuum of frequency and we just need to basically integrate these curves or sum over a s course representation of them to get the vibrational free energy at least the harmonic term and this is it. And so this is sort of a the first step. This can give me say what is the change in uh the vibrational free energy in going say from one phase to the other and I just calculate the phon frequency in sort of two different two different phases. What is more intriguing is the calculation of all the nonlinear term that can be very important at high temperature and um and this is sort of you know the slightly more difficult task because especially in an sort of abinio framework it requires um very extensive integration over your thermodynamical ensemble. So you would do something like molecular dynamic simulations or Monte Carlo simulation to sample as much as possible a set of representative microates but it tends to be very um expensive. So there is actually sort of a very useful if you want trick that that is often that is often used in order to calculate this um anarmonic term that remember the anarmonic term is nothing else than you know the overall vibrational free energy minus the harmonic term. And the trick consist in using in introducing uh reference classical potential so that a lot of your expensive sampling of the phase space can be done with classical simulations and the very expensive abinia simulation are only used to figure out what is the sort of difference in thermodynamical terms between your quantum potential and your classical potential. potential. So again you know sort of just a mathematical term I mean we can sort of you know think at our overall energy. Okay. So this would be the overall a apart from the sort of equilibrium term. So what we are trying to calculate is the difference between the whole term minus the harmonic term. But we actually introduce a classical potential that sort of hopefully reproduces as closely as possible the energies the interactions between all our atom. And so we can actually break down this term in two parts. One that has to do with the difference between the harmonic crystal and our reference system and one that has to do with the difference between sort of our overall energy term here or the overall free energy term including nonlinear effects minus the reference minus the reference system. And now this here is a calculation that involves only sort of classical potential calculation of your phon frequency. So this can be done very extensively over long classical simulation and in a way it captures all the complexity of the phase space. While this that is very expensive because you need to calculate the internal energy with sort of you know the quantum mechanical model is sort of you know you're trying to sample the difference between two quantities that are as similar as possible. And you know in the ideal case in which your classical potential is able actually to reproduce your quantum potential this goes towards zero. So it's something that is very simple to integrate. So by introducing basically a reference potential you're shifting a lot of the thermodynamical integration to the classical simulation and you're just using the quantum mechanical simulations to sort of sample the difference. And so this can be done actually with much shorter and much smaller simulations. And you know I won't go actually into the details of what you need to do for the case of iron that is what is a good potential but sort of you know people have figured out that something as simple as basically know sort of Leonard Jones like kind of potential on top of our harmonic term is actually sort of good enough to provide a reference a reference potential. So basically with all this uh formalism what one is able to do at the end is calculate free energy differences in which if you want the fundamental components are calculating the phonon frequency of your system in this case specifically for the case of a solid that gives you the first step in the vibrational free energy and is nothing else than this case a density functional perturbation theory calculation. You want the phon spectrum and then you need to do a number of molecular dynamic simulations on very large and sort of very extensive for classical potential. And then if you want you just correct your classical simulations with the difference between the classical and the quantum potential. And once you have all of that you are basically able to calculate all sort of you know the free energies that you need. And u I guess this is an example. I show you in a moment a more telling example in which again sort of you know we compare actually sort of what were our prediction for the pressure volume curve uh coming from the abinia simulation and experimental results. But more importantly if you want we are actually able to figure out when the free energy of the solid and the free energy of the liquid cross. And we can do this as a function of pressure. And so this is you know at this stage our best prediction for the phase diagram of iron as a function of pressure. In particular the black line here is sort of you know the set of simulation that I described. And you know there starts to be a reasonable agreement between the number of shock gun experiments and the number of simulation that puts roughly the temperature at 330 gap pascal just sort of above 6 6,000 Kelvin and so this was sort of you know when it came out the scientific literature it was sort of hailed as you know taking the temperature of the core of the earth and at this stage is again sort of you know our most accurate prediction of what is what is going on inside. Um just sort of to make the point that you know this is not the only way. Uh remember that you know one can also do the simulation of the coexistence between the solid and the liquid exactly as you have done sort of in your uh laboratory in your lab number four. This is actually a paper again sort of science 2000. So um really sort of you know um um state-of-the-art research and in this particular simulations they used classical potential. So again not not very far from what you have done with the only caveat that you know the classical potential had been extensively optimized to describe solid and liquid iron. And the way that optimization was done um it uh it used what is called the force matching method in which basically you do again extensive but small abinia molecular dynamic simulation and you sort of tune your classical potential in order to have the smallest mean queen mean square error with respect to the abinia simulation and that often because you have basically so many configurations And so you sample so many possible different environments for your atoms can somehow give you uh reasonably robust classical potentials again in sort of you know very simple cases. This case is just an elemental system and you know sort of in a range of temperature and pressure. So this was a sort of an example that I wanted to discuss a little bit more in detail. uh I think all this sort of research area of studying the properties of matter at extreme condition uh has been extremely fruitful from the point of view of abinia simulations and sort of you know there are other cases in which actually sort of you know the phase diagram of say methane under high pressure has sort of led to a number of interesting discoveries. There are all the sort of you know the planets uh Jupiter and uh and beyond often are made by mixture of you know methane, water or often say in the case of Jupiter a large amount of hydrogen and the phase diagram of this system again at very high pressure is largely unknown. One of the most interesting sort of prediction that was made uh already in the 30s by Vner was that you know uh hydrogen under high pressure should really start to behave as all the other alkali metals in the first group. If you think hydrogen is in there and is a sort of you know molecular gas at ambient condition but everything below it um it's really you know a simple metal lithium sodium potassium and so on and so forth and uh at ambient condition hydrogen if you want would belong much more to group seven with the hallogens that really form dimemer and gases like chlorine or bromine than on group group one. But if you keep compressing compressing there should be a point in which it becomes metallic and you know sort of we haven't really reached this state there are indication from the shotgun experiments that it could reach you know the metallic state at 350 400 gigap pascal but this is extremely important because say for a planet like Jupiter there is a huge difference if we are going to have in the inside of the planet say a molecular solid or a metallic solid or a metallic fluid. If we have a hydrogen that all of a sudden inside is a metallic fluid, well, we can you know have there right away like for the case of earth a significant source of magnetic field if we start to have a sort of circulation in that in that fluid. So all of this is is very important and I think one of the most intriguing prediction that actually sort of had originally come just as a hypothesis by Marvin Ross in 1981 was that in some of this planet there could be an interesting decomposition of methane. So basically what could be going on is that uh inside say Neptune as sort of you increase the pressure your methane molecule under the effect of pressure starts decomposing and this is actually has been seen in quantum mechanical simulations. And so what you have is that on one side is that you know the carbon atoms and that you have a breaking of the carbon hydrogen bond. And so you have formation of pure carbon of diamonds and you have formation of higher hydrocarbons. And actually there has always been a sort of experimental observation of an anomalous presence of high order hydrocarbons on the surface of this planet. And so this simulation for the first time provided a reason why there should be higher order hydrocarbons. They are basically created when methane collapses under pressure and then somehow from deep inside the planet this sort of convective currents bring this hydrocarbon up. But the other prediction that I think you know um even if not confirmed at the time is the most appealing is that at the same time you have nucleation of diamond and so there is sort of this beautiful picture of basically a rain of diamonds sort of you know taking place inside the planet and basically converging to the inside and again you know this was just a prediction but um I think in 2002 or 2003 maybe it's it's mentioned here no 19 1999 so just two or three years after the previous paper finally there were sort of diamond anvil cell experiments by made by Ryman journal at Berkeley and uh all of a sudden methane under pressure sort of gave rise both to higher hydrocarbons but also to the clear signature of diamonds. So they saw basically the nucleation of pure diamonds just just under pressure. And I guess this brought in general both in the geoysical and in the planetary community uh a lot of resonance for the importance of this abinio simulation in in the in the field. And the last example that I wanted to show uh in terms of sort of you know geohysical or planetary importance is actually the one of water that has a very intriguing phase that was sort of you know suggested for the first time again in 1999 and what I'm showing here is just a network of solid oxygen. So here I'm just showing the oxygen for a high pressure phase. In this simulation um we were looking at 20 gigap pascal of pressure and what happens is that if you increase the temperature enough actually water becomes a super protonic that is a very exotic phase. So the coalent bond between hydrogen and oxygen breaks apart and the system is still a solid again high pressure even if there is high temperature but the hydrogens start moving around like a liquid. So you have a coexistence of phases between a solid phase of one sublattis and the other sublattis that has gone that has gone liquid. There are a number of sort of materials that you know even at ordinary conditions do this. There are sort of you know some salts like silver iodide that does this and there are sort of interesting fuel cell materials that do this because again you know sort of in this case say when you have a super protonic in this case phase that is when you have that the protons behave as a liquid well this system becomes a very intriguing ionic conductor. But again this was a prediction from 1999 and actually just a few weeks ago came the experimental confirmation from Lawrence Livermore and uh lo and behold the super protonic phase of water has been found has been found at 47 gigap pascal instead of 20 gigap pascal uh as usual I mean you know because of all the errors involved in density functional theory and in this specific case also the errors involved with the sort of quantum mechanical description of the vibrational excitation that remember is above the Einstein gas and I'll conclude with the last slide that again it's not anymore sort of geohysical or planetary but is again another very intriguing example of what was discovered in the high pressure um regime and this is again some work from the late 90s that has to do actually with the behavior of alkali like um sodium or lithium under pressure. You know these are metals that we really sort of um describe and consider simple metals where the valence electron behave as as you know almost nearly free electron gas. Think at lithium for a moment. You have a core with two electron in the 1s orbital and then you have a single electron on the 2s orbital that becomes very deoized. And now this is what was discovered that I think it was very appealing and at some level was also confirmed uh recently by the Carnegie group that does a lot of these high pressure experiments. But basically when you start compressing your system what you have is that the 2s electrons starts over overlapping more and more if you want at very high pressure even the core of your lithium atoms start overlapping and what's happening is that pi principle becomes exceedingly relevant that is you start to have 2s electrons that by pressure would be forced to be almost in the same quantum state they start to overlap very significantly and what happens is that in order to escape this the electrons actually self-loize in the interstitial position. So the 2s electron from sort of you know being around the lithium atom sort of moves around and jumps into the interstial position it localizes and it actually pairs with another electron. So you have that you know your unit cell becomes double or sort of becomes more complex and actually your system has a phase transition from the metallic case of the sort of ordinary simple metals to an insulating case in which you have actually really pair of electrons localized in the interstitials. And again, you know, these are actually sort of, you know, cutting edge research that one nowadays can do on a simple computer because studying something like the equation of state of a simple metal in a variety of breatises in a variety of crystalallographic incarnation is is actually very simple to do. It's nothing different from what you have done for say silicon or the semiconductors in your first laboratory. Okay, with this I'll conclude my part and professor Cedar will continue from here and again as a summary just wanted to give you an example of a whole line of research that has come out from you know modeling and very accurate modeling and really going in directions where experiments would be sort of or still are exceeding exceedingly difficult or even impossible to do. And uh with this I I'll switch on to the next lecture. Let me so let me hammer in again the sort of overview the kind of guidelines by which we set up the course. You know I think by now hopefully you'll see the structure. Um we covered energy methods we covered simulation methods and then the last third of the course was really a a kind of showing you how these are combined together. Um and that's often still the very hard part. how you combine all these things um to um to sort of make impact on something. And this is uh being at MIT impact is is is the one thing we worry a lot about. Um and and if you see the kind of things that you know to integrate modeling more with materials research, uh there really these four poles that you need u there's obviously method development. Um and we taught you a lot about that. You know we told you what goes into DFT, what goes into molecular dynamics, Monte Carlo. Um, you know, there's a important factor of dissemination which is getting better and better than I think in modeling. You know, there's now a lot of stuff where you really just can fairly easily get access to codes, good quantum codes, good MD codes, sometimes for money, but in many cases for free. And then there's of course the education part which um we've tried to um address here. There's actually a picture from last year or two years ago. Um I actually think I have one from longer ago where see professor Marzari still has a beard. This is how you know how old that picture is. But anyway um but I think then the fourth poll is the one you shouldn't forget. Um you know you think that for modeling you only need modeling but I think what you need more sometimes than modeling is um the basic science of your field. I think without understanding the field in which you work uh the theory the material science of it there's really very little impact you can do with modeling because you can be a good modeler but if you don't know what to model uh you're never going to have impact you know unless you choose to remain on the pure theory and method development side but I would argue that even then you need to understand uh you have to have field specific knowledge because otherwise you never know uh what is going to be important to develop so I sort of hope you don't forget that. Um so um this being the end of the course, I'll give you a few more um maybe sort of loaded perspective uh personal perspectives on on on the field and what's good and what are d potential directions about it. Um you know this is what people want from you. They want properties, they want behavior, you know. Um and this is where you essentially start and typically you see people draw these kind of slides of the multiscale perspective. You go from atoms to microstructure to continuum. Um this is essentially has almost never worked. Um this is great for raising money. You know it's it's it's a great sort of cartoon view grab of what you do. It's rarely that you actually ever do this. Okay. There are very few properties where you make it across all the length scales. Um and so what you really do is um you know you you kind of connect at some level you sort of connect these through your brain. You know in many cases there are properties we determine just by doing stuff at the electronic level and we don't sort of bother coarse graining that explicitly through the link scales. And what you're really doing is you're using your basic materials theory knowledge for example that you know maybe when you work on um color of materials you know I mean I had this one jewelers once came to me and asked if I could predict color for gemstones and and for thin layer thin uh surface layers you know that they could use to coat. So in many cases you know those are fairly local properties especially in oxides and so uh so there you sort of decide yourself gee you know there's kind of one length scale that's important this one and I'm going to directly calculate my property so this is you okay this is I think why your field specific knowledge is in some sense more important than um all these multiscale techniques um this is my my my pet topic um that you know it may seem obvious that you can an obvious goal to try to simulate all the way from electrons to properties by coarse green the length scale but you'll have so much more impact if you just substitute that idea by knowledge okay I think if all the money that been spent on trying to integrate length scale had been spent on actually trying to integrate materials modeling with material science okay by connecting your field specific knowledge by trying to figure out what to compute which is often the hard part. We'd actually done um much better. So I'm going to give you an example which I I really like. Um it's not my work. It's it's done by people at Northwestern. It's on interranular and brittleman of iron. And this is sort of one of these things that you really think you need a multiscale sort of big kind of modeling approach on. Um essentially the observation is that um there's quite a few impurities in steel that imbrittle steel and there's some that actually enhance the interranal cohesion. Uh sort of the typical examples are phosphorus which is really bad. Phosphorus is a really bad and brittle of high strength steel. Uh whereas boron tends to enhance intergranal cohesion. So when you sort of hear about this for the first time you think well how am I going to study this? you know, you know, maybe I'll set up a big simulation with a grain boundary in and I'll put phosphorus there or I'll put bor on there and I'll try to pull it apart and that sort of be the brute force maybe you know multiscale approach you could embed that in a continuum theory. Um but there's a sort of very simpler a very basic theory that tells you there's a much simpler way to understand this and that's the rise wang theory um which essentially states that the the embriddling tendency of a solute depends on the difference in segregation energy between the segregation energy for that element to a grain boundary and to a free surface and you can sort of intuitively this is actually mathematically justified it's actually a quite elaborate theory that that I could that you can catch match in in two sentences. But you can sort of see why this is true from a driving force perspective. If you have an impurity that has a large segregation energy to a surface rather than a grain boundary, then its presence is going to enhance surfaces because then it can have that benefit from that large segregation energy. So those are going to be embrittleers. Okay? Because they will tend to promote the cohesion. Whereas the one that have a very large segregation energy at the grain boundary rather than the free surface will tend to promote cohesion. Um and so if you believe rightwing theory then this problem is very simple. All you have to do is calculate segregation energies and that you can do. See now you're back to the atomistic level. You know, you could set up a supercell with a grain boundary in literally calculate the energy there. Do the same on a surface and you really don't have to do um any dynamics. Um and that's what these folks did. This is out of work. This is a work that was published in science about 10 years ago now already by uh Art Freeman's group and Greg Olsen who sort of runs a a company that does atomistic modeling and other modeling for steel development. Um and essentially you see that this theory works out very well. Uh on one side you have the strong embrailers uh phosphorus and sulfur and they essentially have much higher this is the difference in segregation energy between the surface and the and the grain boundary. these uh very much want to segregate to the surface and that's why they tend to create internal surf surfaces whereas uh carbon to a lesser extent but born to a large extent promotes decohesion. So you can get a fairly easily a good insight of in in what are um imbrers without having to coarse grain across all the length scales. I'm sorry. Yeah. Uh why it's different, you know, that's actually what that paper's about. Why it's different essentially. Uh and I don't remember anymore, but I know it had to do with the bonding. This is why these pictures are here. Um there's a ver I think it probably has to do with the um well, first of all, boron is smaller. There's definitely a size effect. Born and carbon, you know, these two are much smaller than these two. Um, but there's another effect I think which has to do with their um, uh, these I think tend to prefer uh, in some sense have much more bonding potency. Um, so in a grain boundary they have a lot they have higher coordination. So they gain a lot more from coalent bonding than these two. Okay? So these two don't gain as much from being coordinated by iron atoms. I think that's what I seem to remember the gist of it. But uh that's exactly what that paper's about. Okay. Um to sort of end I I I wanted to uh mention one thing that we actually haven't talked about but I think that is becoming a fairly big issue in in computational modeling. Um you know there's sort of two ways that you know I've mentioned to go from all this stuff you can calculate at the atomistic and electronic level to the macroscopic level. One is to just sort of think your way through it. You know what's important and I'll just calculate that and then one is to sort of do this sort of much more explicit coarse graining or simply handing off information. You know with diffusion you can just hand off information. You can calculate activation barriers. you can put that in a kinetic monte carlo to get diffusivities and then you can hand that off to macroscopic diffusion theory and do simulations. Um there's really a third one that's emerging um and that's sort of essentially giving up on on trying to understand the relation between macroscopic and microscopic but rather try to determine it statistically and this has been done in chemistry for a long time. It's really only now I think reaching material science. Um you know chemists have used things like cusar which are a quantum structure uh I forgot about the a relations or something. Um but essentially their idea is that maybe there are certain macroscopic properties that are so hard to link to the electronic structure that you just try to correlate them. I'll give you an idea an example. Um one where this is done extensively is toxicity of molecules like you know how do you predict toxicity of molecules. This is a very difficult question. I mean you know how do chemists do it? Well they g they got a lot of experience essentially you know all these groups probably react with this part of your body and you know um but how do you even co grain towards toxicity? It's essentially what is toxicity? it's you know the reactivity with an enormous large potential of molecules what your molecule can do with it. Um so people have tried to do that with QARS. Essentially what they say is for a lot of molecules for which I know that they're either toxic or not toxic. I'm going to calculate with quantum mechanics as much as I can bond lengths electron densities electro negativities. I mean people literally have parameterized charge density surfaces for molecules and then they do a correlation study. do something like principal component analys linear regression and they see which factors at the atomic scale correlate most to the output and there are powerful data mining techniques that do exactly this this is where the field of science really intersects with a lot of other fields you know when you apply for a credit card uh the first thing that people do on the information you provide that the companies do is they data mine you predict essentially your risk of default default and that's all done with you know they with correlation studies they have enormous large databases of people who have been in default and they know that well you know if you're 23 years old you're probably more likely to default than when you're 47 and so all that comes out of data and people have essentially tried to do the same thing with the relation between macroscopic behavior and electronic structure and in chemistry is very well advanced I would say you can buy QAR software you know you do a search on Google you'll find it everywhere uh in in sort of solid condensed matter. It's really sort of in its infancy, but you're starting to see it. And one of the reasons I think it's in its infancy, it's harder. Uh the link between those properties and electronic uh structure is harder. There are intermediate scales which can mess up the relation like this would never be successful probably for mechanical properties because we know that things that you know two materials that look almost identical on the microscopic scale can have very different mechanical behavior depending on the impurity level depending on the micro structure. So you kind of already know ahead of time. You're lost if you try to correlate just to atomistic properties. But it may work for um for other cases. The other thing that makes this possible is that you know essentially we get enormous amounts of computing power and we can do very high throughput data generation at the atomistic level. And I was going to show you just one example. So this is the idea that you essentially correlate uh these things but let me skip through that um that you use some kind of learning method like neural networks or basian statistics or some kind of correlation method uh to correlate output to calculatable input. Um so let me show you one example. Um this is something I had gotten into myself and still am in uh since a few years. Um sort of a a very old problem and it was uh essentially trying to predict crystal structure of materials. It's a really old problem. It's essentially an unsolved problem and it's an intriguing one because you can actually show quite dramatically that the energetics of quantum mechanics the way we do it now density functional theory is actually pretty much most of the time accurate enough to predict the cradles create stable crystal structure. So what do I mean with predict? What it means is that the the true crystal structure will have the lowest energy but the problem is finding it. Okay. So what I'm saying is if I g if I gave you a list of 20 and I say you know the winner is among here you're done because you calculate the energy of all 20 and the lowest one will be the real one but you can't make that list 20 that's the problem. It's a search problem. It's an optimization problem rather than a sort of energy problem. So, so the idea we had is that um rather than trying to calculate uh the energy of all crystal structures um can you guess them by calculating a few and correlating their relation with a whole lot of other ones. Okay. So it's the same idea you know let's say you have a really big vector this is like you know the energy of all possible crystal structures whatever it is it's in the end we have to use finite numbers you'll see but can I just calculate a few that goes fast that's the one in blue and then predict all the ones in red without calculating them okay so that I get to sort of a complete vector and the way you want to do this is by correlation methods you know the the the philosophical question is really If you calculate a few pieces of energetics of materials, do you have enough information in there to say a lot more about the material? And you can do that explicitly. Some people would say, I'm going to calculate a few pieces of energetics, fit potentials to it, say, and then with those potentials calculate a large amount of other things. That's the explicit approach. The question you can ask yourself, can you do this implicitly? Um, and that's what we did by building correlations. Essentially we build a sort of a smart algorithm call it a neural net or whatever that essentially builds this relation. So you train it on large amounts of data sets for which you have the full vector. Essentially you're asking yourself is there correlation between you know the pink data variables and the blue ones. And it turns out that there that there is ah gee okay well this is the picture I forgot um you can actually with a few calculations predict very well the energy of other things and this is sort of the summary um you know this is out of a a very large collection of binary metals where we did the test and this is essentially out of how How many calculations do you need to do to get all the ground state structures in the system with a given accuracy? Because of course this is a statistical method. So you know you you're never going to get 100% accuracy unless you calculate everything. But what you see is that you know with something like 15 calculations you get 85 to 90% accuracy with the this is with the data mining technique. So this is an example of you build a predictive method w without a theory you know purely based on statistics. uh and you know you see more and more of that done. You know there are people who've built correlation methods between um um very basic electronic structure input data and um finite temperature data for example like melting point which you know I think as you've seen is a non-trivial thing to actually calculate because melting point you sort of need the intersection of the liquid uh and the bulk free energy. of the you could argue yourself how is that melting point already hidden in the energetics and can I extract that correlation okay so I'm going to skip through a bunch of slides because I want to give you enough time to do the evaluations um these were actually slides on examples of materials design maybe I should few more minutes say a few things about it uh one was band gap engineering uh the reason I put it in there is because band gap is the one thing people always think with DFT well I can't do anything useful you know the band gap's always like a factor of two sometimes more off uh but you can correct for that uh people have made empirical pseudo potentials that correct for it there are actually now methods out there um that will give you the band gap more accurately um but the whole idea is that you know um you still get a fairly systematic ordering of the band gaps and you look at can look at bunches of semiconductors And what I want to show you here, this was actually a Monte Carlo optimization of the band gap of super latises. These were aluminum gallium arssonite super latises. And essentially um the um the the configurational space over which they searched was uh how do you arrange the aluminum and the gallium on the cation sublattis? And so essentially this was a um a scheme a Monte Carlo scheme to sort of go to the largest possible band gap in that system. Okay, this a a fairly well-known example of material design purely by computation and you know you find that after about 10,000 Monte Carlo moves you seem to um find pretty much what the maximal band gap is uh in that system and then you can try to make that uh with MBE. A thermmoelectrics is one where there's been several abinio predictions um for very high thermal electric coefficient and I'll show you uh one one was this um uh lanternum and timonite essentially um okay so my last two slides are on the future of modeling uh I can't imagine a better field to be in um and I think there's a few reasons of the two things that we essentially benefit from tremendously. One is um computing power you know I mean when I started in this field in the early 90s I mean I mean I can't even think back anymore how slow and expensive computers were and you know that's in good a good 10 years ago. uh so we ride this curve you know with an enormous benefit in my department talks I usually show numbers I think in the last 20 years you've had an improvement of sort of performance versus price of of something like 10 to million that's how much more computing power you get for your buck now than actually about 15 20 years ago that's enormous there are no other techniques in material science that do that period so you ride this enormous curve and for whatever ever people say this is likely to continue at least for quite a while. Um I think the another one is that we benefit tremendously from all the developments in condensed matter theory because you know this allows us to compute those allows the the benefits in condensed matter theory allow us to compute things much more accurately and the third leg is the basic materials theory development uh which is probably the sort of weaker leg of that three-legged stool um but so this is one of the reason this field is still very good um you should keep in to pound scaling which we've only sort of cursively said something about uh but here's some examples of why scaling can kill you um if you know I put out some hypothetical examples um of linear scaling examples uh cube scaling examples and and worse you know if you take an example of linear scaling I think molecular dynamics with real space potentials is probably pretty well up to linear scaling these days because you can partition space as soon as you start partitioning space with finite range potential you can get exact basically linear scaling so I figured out you know what can you do in 40 years assuming we get about a factor of 10 to the 6 that's what you would get from Mors' law 40 years is about when you retire so I'm I mean I'm long gone by then but you you guys are going to retire so where will you be well let's say we can do 10 to the 8 atoms what is that 100 million you know the record is stands more at a billion now But you know, nobody kind of performs at the record all the time. You have to essentially take what you can do on an almost daily basis. So if you do 100 million atoms with potentials, you'll be able to do 10^ the 14 atoms. What does that buy you? I'm not fully sure. You know, you have to ask yourself, what can you do with 10^ the 14 atoms that you can't do with 10 to the 8? Because a lot of things don't depend on the number of atoms. They depend on the length scale. And so of course the length scale is the cube root of the number of atoms. So there you've only gained about well you've gained about a factor of 100 in length scale. But if you go to something that scales like you know the cube and I know this is a little overdoing it LDA scales in large problems much more like n squ n but let's say on small problems it's like the cube of n. So if you can do a thousand atoms now you know when you retire you'll be able to do a 100,000 atoms. So where is that going to take us? You know, I think it's going to allow us to do some things that we have a hard time with. You know, biological species, for example, where, you know, even this is really cutting it close. You know, you want to do proteins and DNA. Yeah, you know, people do dabble in it now and you can do it, but it's fighting against the frontier. You know, you got to do solvent and so people now make more ad hoc models for including the solvent. uh I think you know when you do a 100 thousand you are going to do biology much more are you going to do mechanical behavior I don't think so not in the direct abinition scale this is probably by no means enough to sort of span the length scale from atoms to microructure um of course if you believe that we're all going to be doing LD or the ren now you're up to what is this a billion atoms so starting to count you know of course when you have a billion atoms you're going to have to figure out how to look at them and like how to extract data from them which is non-trivial at these large simulations. you know the people who sort of broke these frontiers there was a group at Louisiana State that for the longest time drove this forward and I think may have done the first billion atom simulation um a lot of their research is in u data transfer data analysis visualization because think about it when you have a billion atoms how do you decide what's going on just look at it or like so that's actually a big chunk of that uh research and then I took one that's kind of excessive you know but let's say do you to heart with configuration interactions which is you know as close to essentially as close to the exact solution maybe that you could get for quantum mechanics except maybe quantum Monte Carlo now but um you know that scaling is depending on who you believe is somewhere from n to the 5th to n to the 7th um it's such small numbers that it's not even fully sure you can quite calibrate the scaling but so if you can do 10 atoms now you can only do a 100 by the time you retire. So, you know, these things are useful for calibration, but they're not going to allow us to say, you know, do DNA and do it uh more accurately. So, the only reason I'm saying is that um that you will still not be able to rely on Mors' law for all your problems. You'll still have to figure out ways to in a sort of smart way uh use computations. I always find it funny the proposals I read it's like you know we can't quite compute this but next year we can well most stuff you can't compute today you won't be able to compute next year either uh and so you'll still have to find shortcuts you know um if you count on being able to sort of put materials in a box and simulate the hell out of them and sort of you know figure out what comes out uh I think it's unlikely that that will happen in in in any reasonable time for all for a lot of properties there are properties you can do it for but for most things I don't think you can okay so it was a pleasure uh teaching you uh professor Marzar and I had a lot of fun we always have a lot of fun with this course um we're going to leave you with the course evaluations which have to be done and uh can I count on you we're not allowed to touch these so one of you has to return this to uh department headquarters or to Kathy Ferrell if can I count on one of just to pick him up and like Okay, thanks. Okay, thank you