The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Okay. Now today's lecture is long and complicated and one often asks well why should we approach vibration in what is an old-fashioned and computationally and uh computationally laborious way when there's a simpler way that is used by the quantum chemists but I'm getting ahead of myself. Last week we talked about rotation and depending on what kind of a top you can at most get the three rotational constants A, B, and C. That gives you some information about the geometry of the molecule. It gives you both quantitative information and qualitative information because sometimes uh you you see that the molecule is a symmetric top or you see that a molecule has no microwave spectrum at all because it's a spherical top or because it doesn't have a dipole moment. So you get qualitative information and uh uh if there's a lot of atoms, three rotational constants, if you can get three rotational constants, won't be enough to determine the molecular geometry. And that's too damn bad because that's all you get from spectroscopy. But you can do isotope shifts or isotopic substitution. And there's a set of equations equations which basically tell you if you substitute one atom at a time, it tells you how far that atom is from the center of mass of the molecule. And so using selective isotope substitutions, one can get more geometric information. uh but you're always going to be short. And so our concepts of uh functional groups of how are molecules built out of uh repeated units is really important in being able to des spectroscopy good geometry. It's interesting because you know you for microwave spectroscopy you measure these things to better than a part in a million. So there's you you know a lot and but you don't know everything. So is that really not enough to figure out? I mean there can't be two different configurations that have the same the same rotational constants to part in a million. Sure there can. Well, um um you can solve the geometric equations and I mean suppose you have uh well firmaldahhide for example has two different bond lengths and one uh and and actually two angles and and so three pieces of information will not be sufficient. However, uh you can determine whether it's planer or not uh by certain properties of the spectrum. Uh but you should not be able from microwave spectroscopy alone without isotopic substitution to determine more than three bits of structural information. Okay. Even if one has from sort of huristics some idea you know that hydrogen's don't make more than one bond and yeah but still I mean we're already assuming that the two CH bonds in in firmaldahhide are identical and that's reasonable a reasonable assumption uh and again it's confirmed by the the symmetry properties that appear in which uh which transitions and where the dipole moment is. But you really can't get uh as much information as you do say from X-ray crystalallography or NMR about the geometry of a molecule. You get it very accurately. You get a little bit very accurately. Okay. And so one solution is to think well let's go to the next step and look at vibrational spectra and vibrational spectra also tell you nothing quantitative about geometry. They tell you qualitative things about geometry. But vibrational spectra also have problems. Vibrational spectra provide too little information to determine uh all of the force constants in a molecule. Just a simple little calculation will convince you. If you have 3 n atoms, they're going to be 3 n minus 6 normal modes. And if you have I said three n atoms n atoms uh if you just do a simple uh calculation about how many bonds you will have for an n atom molecule as n gets moderately large it's a lot larger than uh 3n minus 6 and so you can't even from vibrational spectroscopy deter determine all of the uh force constants. So it's it's beautiful spectroscopy, but it's incomplete. And that's one of the beautiful things about it because you always want more and you always have to figure out ways to get the little bit more that you want. And uh okay, so we're going to talk start talking about vibration of polyatomics. And I'm really, you know, this I've got 13 pages of lecture notes and uh I can't possibly get through 13 pages of lecture notes. And uh so we'll see what I can see what we can do here. But so first of all uh what do we get from a vibrational spectrum? the there's a lot of qualitative information um based on group theory and uh one of the things you can get from uh the vibrational spectrum better than from the rotational spectrum because there's more information and more possibilities that can be ruled out. Uh you can get the uh the point group. Now, one of the things that uh people in my group uh have begun to uh realize is that point groups are often a too crude concept for describing molecules, especially when the molecules are undergoing large amplit are floppy that could undergo large amplitude uh vibrations. the point group there's always a permutation inversion group and uh there are going to be feasible and non-feasible operations. The set of feasible uh operations is isomorphic with a point group generally. And so this is a concept which you say well it's a little bit too crude but it's it usually works. But so the vibrational spectrum can tell you what is the qualitative symmetry of the molecule. It can also tell you the number of vibrations of each irreducible representation. So if you know group theory, you know what an irreducible representation is. If you don't, well, too bad. uh there there are flavors of vibration and they have symmetry consequences and there are 3 n minus 6 flavors and they divide themselves among the various symmetry species that are possible and it's possible very simply to figure out how many of each. You can also infer bend versus stretch or other qualitative things uh about the vibrations using a little bit of group theory and I I love doing this and so I probably will. So there will be some normal modes and some of them are predominantly bends and some of them are predominantly stretches and you can figure out from simple group theoretical uh arguments how many bends, how many stretches and what are their irreducible representation labels. You can work out the the infrared and ramen activity of the various vibrations. And this is really how you infer the point group of the molecule. And then uh since one is going to be taking spectra, different normal modes and combinations and overtones will have different rotational selection rules and you can tell from the group theory what those will be. So that's all the qualitative stuff that I can think of off the top of my head. And the quantitative stuff is well you get some force constants from the spectrum. Not all of them you but you get some force constants. uh you get uh you you you can predict the spectrum from force constants and geometry. So if you know the force constants and the geometry you can predict the spectrum and uh uh some for you can if you know the geometry and the spectrum you can go in the opposite direction. There are isotope effects and there are pictures of normal modes in terms of uh of internal coordinates. So with internal coordinates, those are bond stretches, angle bends, localized things, the way we think about the molecule. And so one can build up a picture in terms of arrows of various lengths and angles indicating what the normal mode looks like. And uh uh those are often very informative. And one of the nicest things about the quantitative picture is you can go beyond normal modes because the whole point of the normal mode treatment is to build up a basis set, a complete basis set in which we can expand describe anything that the molecule can do. And in 2008, we're pretty sophisticated and we're asking the molecule to to do very complicated things and hoping that we can understand that from the spectrum or from simple calculations. And so my favorite things about beyond normal modes have to do with perturbations. And there are certain kinds of perturbations that are oneoff. You know, you get an accidental degeneracy and you you analyze it and you learn something. But mostly when you have a perturbation, you have a whole family, a whole cascade of perturbations. And those are called polyads. And one perturbation leads to a whole bunch of insight into the vibrational dynamics. And so polyads and so beyond normal modes means dynamics and not just this piddling little dynamic of shaking around equilibrium but large amplitude motions are they organized or disorganized. Now this is why I'm giving a lecture. I'm not going to cover 13 pages of lecture notes. I'm trying to give a sense of what is special about the problem. Okay. Now there are two approaches to vibrations. One approach is computationally really simple and conceptually vacuous and that is well uh we could do what the modern quantum chemists do. Their goal is to get to the truth. They are going to calculate a number or a bunch of numbers as accurately as possible. and they're not too concerned at least in the act of calculating with what the numbers mean. The numbers are the numbers. So, uh we could say all right here we have uh mass weighted coordinates. It's just a convenience. If you mass weight then the equations get simpler and there's nothing all that special about it. So we we have the mass of atom I this is the displacement of atom I uh and so this is the displace the x displacement of atom I from equilibrium weighted by the mass. And so we have three cartisian displacements for each atom. Three n cartisian displacements. So we'll have 3 n of these. And the quantum chemists don't want to do a lot of thinking about this the the uh geometry of a particular molecule. They're going to solve. They're going to find the equilibrium structure and then they're going to take pin down all the atoms except one and displace one in x y and z directions and determine from infinite decimal displacements the cartisian uh uh uh um force constants. Uh so we have 3 n of these and these are force constants or or mixed second derivatives of this of the potential. So if you have that if you have these things then you can describe the potential as the sum over I and J of these force constants times the mass weighted displacements. So since we have mass weighted coordinates when we take the derivatives we're getting mass weighted force constants. Okay the mass is implicitly here. So anyway we get this this set we can determine the potential u and uh uh we can calculate the kinetic energy because the kinetic energy is uh uh given by the time time the time derivatives of the coordinates and one can solve for the vibrational normal modes. So this is and this is described in the older edition of Bernath. I'm not sure whether you anybody has the new edition of Bernath, but the one that uh uh pages 220 to 225 of Bernath tell you how to do this. So it's a straightforward thing. What you get quantum chemistry is ge chemically is the geometry and the force constant matrix and you find the normal modes. Basically, you're diagonalizing some sort of an equation and it with where it's a 3nd dimensional uh problem. You get 3N normal modes or 3 n frequencies. six are zero because there are you start with uh uh three n force constants uh and you know that they're going to be three translations, three rotations and so those are not vibrations. And so you do the calculation correctly, you're going to get six zeros. Now, it doesn't really matter anymore what the dimension of the matrix is. If you're wasting a few, you know, in if you have a 20dimensional matrix as opposed to a 26dimensional matrix, the computer isn't going to uh say, I can't do that anymore. So that it's it's a wonderful convenience to solve for the frequencies of the normal modes. And in fact, you can also do this without saying you just have harmonic potentials. You could have higher than cub cordic quadratic terms in the potential. And so you get numbers and people like numbers because they put them in tables and that avoids thinking. So these numbers now you solve some equations and you get igen vectors and that these igen vectors actually tell you what the normal modes look like. So it's not bad. You you know you find the frequencies and you find what the normal modes look like. But there at no point was there chemical insight. When you do isotopic substitution, you do it over. You have to do the problem over. Well, actually, you don't because you know what the force constants are, but you still have to solve the secular equation. Uh there are a lot of things that you can do quickly, but without a great deal of insight. So I think there's a great deal more insight obtained by doing the old-fashioned Wilson Deius and cross F and G matrix treatment of vibrational problem and um the notes are quite explicit and I'll cover as much of the notes as I have time for. Okay. So the there are a lot of matrices involved in this and transformations involved in this treatment. But the two key matrices are called the F and G matrix. F is force constant. It's 3 N minus 6 * 3 N minus 6 as opposed to little F which is what the quantum chemists use which is 3 N by 3N. And G means is short for geometry. And G has all of the masses and all of the things you know about geometry in it. And these two things are sufficient to generate all of the normal mode frequencies and uh uh uh the displacements from equilibrium these little arrow diagrams. So this is what you uh these are the key actors in all of this and what we're going to want to do is show where they come from and and how we solve this problem. Now all treatments of vibration start with classical mechanics and one goes back and forth between classical and quantum mechanics uh without any you know without even realizing it because a lot of the symbols are the same. But one of the neat things about the classical equations of motion is that they're expressed in terms of the lrangeian as opposed to the Hamiltonian. And uh uh the lrangeian in the lrangeian you you uh you express things in terms of coordinates and velocities and in the Hamiltonian you express things in terms of coordinates and momenta and really pretty much the same thing but uh there's an interesting minus sign that appears here rather than here. Okay. So let's begin and let me try to uh avoid overwhelming you with uh uh the many many quantities that we deal with. So our goal is we want to write the Hamiltonian as two separable So this is the kinetic energy. There are no cross terms. This is the potential energy. There are no cross terms. We want to somehow put the Hamiltonian for the nuclear displacements into this form. These are called the normal coordinates. And how do we get to them? Well, we get to them in a very laborious and tedious manner. But uh we get to them. So we have the uh displacements and so those would be SI1 3N. So there's there's three of these and they're defined x1 x1 equilibrium x to z n minus zn equilibrium. So these are the the simple displacements and now we go to the mass weighted displacements by multiplying uh by this mass matrix. So we want Q that's the square root of a square matrix multiplying this SI matrix. But this square matrix is diagonal. So the square root of a matrix in this case is just the square root of all of the diagonal elements because the there's nothing but uh uh zeros off diagonal. So that looks like uh uh m1 square root m1 square root m1 square root for x y and z for mass one and then finally m n square root and then we have uh x1 - x1 e zn minus zn e. So this is an easy thing. So the M matrix takes you between SI and Q. So what we're really interested in is internal coordinates and those are called S and they're not sometimes people use the notation S for symmetry coordinates. And there's two ways to get to S. One is from the mass weighted. Did I write down what the mass weighted ones were? I guess I did. Uh oh no, I skipped that. Where is it? Yeah. No, here. Here I have them. Okay. So one way is to get from the mass weighted displacements uh to the internal coordinates by this D matrix and the other is to get directly from the size by the B matrix. So here's a D or B. They basically do the same thing. And there is a lot of work or a lot of vector analysis in figuring out what they are. We will skip that for the time being because the purpose of this lecture is to show that the secular equation that we want to solve involves the product of the G and the F matrices. And we have to define what the G matrix is in terms of these things. And then we start doing it's a long complicated bit of analysis. So we have a transformation that takes us from SI to S or from Q to S. That's not enough. We then want to have a transformation that takes us uh from S to the normal coordinates. So we say that L minus one the inverse of the L matrix takes us from the internal displacements to the normal coordinates. So our job is going to be to determine B or D going from one to the other is trivial and L and L is going to be the transformation that diagonalizes GF but you don't know that yet. You don't even know what G is. And oh what a stupid thing I did. I got a blackboard over here. So let me just draw a road map. We have SI, we have Q and M to the 1/2 takes us there. And we have S and D takes us there. And then we have uh Q and L minus one takes us there. And if you want to go directly, we have B which is equal to D * M^ 12. So there's a whole bunch of matrices and transformations that we're going to deal with. Okay. Um we're going to show today that G the geometry matrix is going to be given by or defined as D dagger which is you know a kind of silly thing. You don't really know what G is and you certainly don't know what D is, but this is going to be the relationship between them. And we're going to have a secular equation that uh has this form and that's the condition for a nontrivial uh transformation L. So this secular equation has to be solved in order to determine L. Okay. So basically we're just going to be taking a trip through all of these equations. All right, I'll skip that. so um remember I'm going to want to separate the Hamiltonian in this way and uh so but let's just develop some notation. So this is still classical mechanics but we're going to develop a notation that uh invites transformation to quantum mechanics and expresses everything in terms of matrix algebra. So we have Q1 Q 3N. So here we have the uh mass weighted displacements and We can write this as Q1 star. Whoops. Q Q. So, you know, everything we know how to do with bras and cats, we're going to uh we're just going to be symbolically representing uh matrix multiplications. Suppose we want a unit vector the uh and so that unit vector will be in the i position. If we want then to pick out the i component of q, we do this and that just gives us q i. Okay. Just as in quantum mechanics when we have a bra and a cat it gives gives us a number and so these equations are nice compact ways of uh pneummonically representing all the transformations. So whenever you have a finished symbol like that you have a number. Okay, suppose we want something like this where we have S F S. So this would be the the force constant matrix and the internal displacements. And so we a symbol like this, you know immediately that's a number and that number is a double summation because we have two matrix multiplications. Um and so that is sum over i and j of s i star f i j sj. So these are values of displacements of the I and J internal coordinates and this is an element of the F matrix. And so this is a number and uh uh okay. So now what are we going to do? This is all formal. So we're going to be manipulating these B and D matrices. And so we start by just saying, okay, we've got these things. We're going to come back to them next time and figure out what they are. So we're going to define S in terms of SI. We're going to define F uh by expressing V the potential as a function of the S's. So this is a function of uh 3 n -6 internal displacements and uh uh we're going to somehow get this f matrix which will be given by derivatives mixed second derivatives of v and uh we're going to do some stuff we're going to uh define g uh by expressing kinetic energy in terms of s dots. So kinetic energy is velocities in the internal displacements and uh uh then we're going to get a secular equation and that secular equation is going to be expressed in terms of lrangeian t of s dot minus v of s. Remember the hamiltonian is t plus v but the lrangeian is t minus v. And that's you know that always bothers me but it always comes out to be true. It always comes out to give the right answer. And that's just because the lranchian equation of motion is just this. the partial the total derivative with respect to time of the uh partial derivative of lrangeian with respect to si dot is equal to is minus I'm sorry the partial of l with respect to si so this is the equation of motion and this looks like the gradient of the potential force And this looks like uh the uh uh uh the mass times velocity and we take a derivative. So that's force is equal to mass times acceleration. This is F= ma but just in elegant notation. So we'll get this equation of motion. We'll get a secular equation and we'll express that secular equation in terms of this product of matrices and then we'll solve the secular equation and we'll get frequencies and the transformation that diagonalizes the uh this uh matrix and that's the complete problem. So it takes a lot of note a lot of uh algebra and uh stuff to do all of this. But the important thing is it's all formal. It's all expressed in terms of these two things and one of these two things not both. And uh uh okay so let's begin. You don't really have to understand any of this from this point on. It's just turning a crank. I will attempt to provide insights as needed. But um every year, every time I give this lecture, and it's been 12 years since the last time I did it, uh it's been really hard for me to see what's going on because the equations block all view of what's what's really happening. But let me try see if I can give some uh oh my god overview. Okay. So we know that the mass weighted coordinates have this form. So we can write that as little q uh m 1/2. And now we go uh to the internal coordinate representation and we say s is equal to b * s or d * q. If we want the teeth internal coordinate, then we do this. And that's the same thing AST B Xi. And that's the same thing as this sum bi sum over i from 1 to 3 n of from x i. Okay. So all of this, you know, it's just writing writing stuff on the blackboard. Uh and then we have the relationship between S and Q and between Q or S. So now we're ready to begin. We want to write the kinetic energy and potential energy in terms of s. And uh so first of all we have the potential energy s1 s3n minus 6. And that's the same thing as this compact symbol. And that's the same thing as a power series expansion where we have the displacements all zero. And then we have the sum over the first derivatives partial of V with respect to S subt. And now I'm committing this crime which is traditional in this field to use this rather than the bar. But that's what you find in most of the books. And that's why I had to be kick dragged kicking and screaming to this away from this notation. And Okay. And then we then we we throw away the higher terms. So this is the P. And so then we say okay V of 0 is defined as zero. the bottom of the potential at zero displacements is zero. Then we find the minimum of the potential. The uh uh uh and so uh we we want all of the first derivatives of the potential be zero as well for all t. Okay, so we're only going to keep the second derivatives. This is zero by definition. This is zero by finding the minimum. And this is all we've got left. Now, for real problems, the potential doesn't end with the quadratic terms, but for defining a basis set, that's what we do. we use the or at least we generally use this uh quadratic term as the how you define the basis. So you end up with anharmonically coupled harmonic oscillators our old friend. Okay. Um so these these second derivatives become the force constants. The so ft t prime is going to be uh the second derivative of the potential with respect to st Now, as a since you're lulled into sleep by this beautifully lucid lecture, suppose we have a saddle point. Well, uh so there's three three situations. the minimum of the potential that what are the values of the second derivatives? Are what's their sign? Are they all positive or negative? And at a maximum, they're all negative. And at a saddle point, well, they're either positive or negative. At least one is going to be negative. Okay. So, but we're really interested only in the uh derivatives at equilibrium and that's how we determine the elements of this force constant matrix. Okay, what time is it? I can go on for a little bit longer. I keep committing this terrible crime of writing on the wrong blackboard. Okay. So we can write the potential energy as uh SF fs. But s is equal to bi. So v of kai is equal to 12 s b dagger f b s. Now an important thing the f matrix is 3 n - 6x 3 n - 6 dimensional there's this is 3nd dimensional this b matrix is not a square matrix doesn't matter we can still evaluate this mat this matrix product and but that's a caution and that is also uh a um in Bernath the F matrix no written as a lowercase F is 3N by 3N dimensional and so it's expressed in terms of these size uh but uh it doesn't have this neat transformation that reduces the dimension and so it's and and often People don't distinguish between the internal coordinate force constant matrix and the uh the full cartisian force constant matrix. Little f is just the stuff in the middle transform f. Yes. Okay. Okay. So we do similar things to the kinetic energy and uh um so I'm going to skip a step because it's it's clear in the notes and we're going to have to stop really soon. The kinetic energy gets written as uh um s dot d minus one transpose d minus one s dot. So we're exploiting the relationship between s and s. That's what d does. And so the kinetic energy has this form and we just call that guy g minus one. So we didn't know where we were going. We just have some matrices that take you from the internal uh take you from the mass weight from the cartisian displacements to the uh internal coordinates. And this product of things is called G minus one. And that's going to become one of the main actors in this whole drama. So we now have written the kinetic energy and the potential energy in simple terms which are beautifully suited for evaluating the derivatives in the lrangeian equation of motion which of course I've covered up or erased. So uh let me just write one more equation and then call it call it uh um so the lrangeian which is t minus v gets written as 12 I guess I it would have been more elegant to write it. Okay. So 1/2 the first term is the kinetic energy and it's a sum i and j of g minus one i j s i dot sj dot and then there's the kinetic the potential energy and the potential energy is f i j s i sj. So this is the lrangeian. And then we take the partial derivatives and the total derivatives and we arrange things. And what we discover is that uh we can simplify the uh okay I should I should just stop here because I'll start at the at at this point next time and uh I think it's going to take us more than three lectures to get through the three lectures that I planned for this problem. But it's silly to rush because after doing all this work, we have the lrangeian. We're going to get a secular equation that we have to solve in order to show that there is a non-trivial transformation between the S's and the Q's. And once we have that, then everything uh is beautiful. And then we have to go back and figure out what these things are. And that's the main topic of the next lecture. How do we impose uh center of mass and angular uh uh constraints on the problem? So we'll start here. Okay. Thank you.