Okay, welcome again everyone. Sorry for the delay. So yeah, we'll get started. Um, today is going to be about transformers. So it's it's a hopefully you're all excited because this is the architecture that you should use today. Like this will change, you know, next year there'll be a new architecture. Don't worry, things will change. But this is the one that will get you the jobs today. Okay, this is going to be a little bit more of a practical lecture. You know, with graph nets, we talked about the general like class of all the, you know, functions that could represent and so forth. Uh, and there's so many different possible ways of um parameterizing graph nets, but with transformers, we're just going to say there's there's one concrete instantiation that works, and that's what we'll learn about today. Okay. So we'll talk about kind of three key ideas behind transformers. Um one is this idea of operating over tokens. U the next this is going to be the only thing that's actually new is going to be called attention. Everything else will actually be just new names for old ideas. And the last one will be talking more about positional encoding which we've you know seen a few times now. And then I'll show a few different architectures and you know some ways of using these things. Okay. And so as I said like um there's so many architectures but right now there's just one you know to rule them all. There's this is the one ring architecture. Don't worry it will change. This isn't going to be the final architecture but um this this is the one right now. Okay. So there's this interesting book called uh Doniote written by Pierre Menard and okay you you probably are thinking I'm saying something wrong right? It's it's written by um Cervantes, but there's a short story that another guy um Boures wrote about this guy Pierre Bernard that rewrote the donote um word for word, exactly the same words but with entirely new meaning. And in the short story, it's uh the the meaning is new because the context is different. It's a different historical era. And the life of Pierre is different than the life of Cervantes. And um you're going to hear the same exact story. And if you read this, you would read the same exact story, but it have entirely new meaning because the context is different. And I think that's going to be a theme of the lecture today and also a theme of this whole class. We'll keep on telling you the same things, maybe word for word the same things, but because you have new knowledge and new connections you can make, it'll have new meaning. Okay, so this is like, you know, a few pages short story. If you want to read it, it's kind of fun. Uh, it's called Pierre Manard, author of the Kyote. Okay, so everything new is, you know, everything um old is new. Again, we're going to be riffing on the same themes. So, let's go back to convolutional architectures and we're going to see a limitation of them. So, let's say that I want to ask how many birds are in this image, right? We saw that you can do that with a CNN. chop it up into pieces. You process with filters. You aggregate the results. You count the birds. But what if I want to say, is the top right bird the same species as the bottom left bird? So, can a CNN do this? Well, you know, sure, if it's deep enough, if the receptive fields are big enough, it can do it. But it might not be the best way of doing that because remember, the CNN uh filters are all local. and local filters are not going to be the most effective at making um assessments about relationships that are more global in nature or distant. So CNN's are all, you know, they're built around this idea of locality. They factorized the signal processing problem into uh little local pieces that get put together step by step. Uh so they have this strong locality bias and that can be a good thing. That's good for a lot of problems. you know, if I want to understand something about um the population in this room, I don't need to go and like look at Mars. I can just locally look at what's going on in this room. Like most signals have uh the things that matter to assessing them are all kind of local. There's a smoothness to the world. Okay, but that's not always a good idea. And so transformers try to get around that. Okay, here's um just a diagram looking at the receptive fields essentially of a simple CNN. So this is a a two-layer convolutional network. um it's convolutional because uh every output neuron on this layer is going to be taking um input from just a local patch of the of of the first layer. So it's like a um length three filter over the input and you know if it's convolutional this would be the weights would be shared among all these filters. But notice what happens if I want to make some uh assessment about the relationship between the first uh input variable x1 and the seventh dimension of input x7. Okay. So on the second layer of the neur uh network let's say this is the input this is the first hidden layer and this is the output. on this layer the only these hashed nodes these hashed neurons uh have some dependency on X7 and for X1 it's these two over here and on the next layer the receptive field kind of expands out by one because the filter is a length three filter and so um you get a receptive field that expands out by one you can just trace the arrows back see what uh which neurons kind of get um some like imagine some dye is dropped onto that neuron and the dye bleeds out over the edges of this graph. Which ones is it going to hit? Which are in the support of this neuron here. Okay, so it's just um x1 is in the support of this neuron, this neuron and that neuron and x7 is in the support of the three neurons on the right. But if that's my output layer and I only have this, you know, depth 2 convolutional network, then no neuron in the output has gotten die from both x1 and x7. So it's impossible for this architecture to have made a decision that depends on uh the joint uh configuration of X1 and X7. Okay. So I could always make a deeper CNN, but this die just bleeds out slowly in convolutional networks. Okay. So the idea of attention is to say well let's have an operation that allows us to look more globally. But the problem uh there's another way of doing this, right? What is another way that we saw that you can have um neural networks that kind of process data globally? What what's a what is one of the architectures we saw that processes uh that doesn't have this locality bias of CNN's? Anyone want to shout it? >> Fully connected >> fully connected network and uh just a vanilla MLP. In a vanilla MLP with uh you know fully connected layers, every single output neuron is connected to every input neuron. So information is aggregated immediately globally. Okay. Okay. But CNN said, "No, no, we want to chop it up and, you know, factoriize the problem." And then attention says, "Okay, no, we want to look globally, but we don't want to have uh every neuron connected to every neuron because that would just be too much processing. That would mean that for this, you know, a mapping from Rn to RN, we'd have n squared edges and n squared parameters and it would just be too compute heavy, uh, too many parameters, uh, too much to learn." Okay, attention says, well, we'll look globally, but we'll look sparsely globally. So we'll when we get a new question, you'll just attend to the parts of the input signal that matter. So if I want to count how many birds, I'll attend to these locations. You know, if it's exactly coming from the um idea of attention in the human brain or in in your own life experience, you can attend to the things that are relevant to your problem. If your problem changes, you'll attend to different things, right? So you'll attend to um these two birds. If the question is, is the top right bird the same as the bottom left bird? And if the question is, what is the color of the sky? they'll just attend to, you know, the sky region of the image. Okay, so that's the intuitive idea of attention. It's meant to kind of model, you know, what humans might be doing when they uh process images or other types of signals. And we're going to talk about mathematically how that can be done. Um, so I'm going to go through these three kind of architectural pieces of transformers. Attention will be the second one. That's the really the new one in transformers. And then tokens and positional encodes will be just um the same as you've seen before. Okay, so new idea u not really new but sort of new idea number one is tokens. So it's a new name for uh what we actually saw in the GNN lecture. Um so a token is a vector of neurons. This is how I'll define it for the purpose of our course. Um so in the GNN lecture we talked about node attribute vectors or node feature vectors, right? So every node has a vector associated with it and we're going to give that just a new name uh which is a token. So a token is a vector of neurons and the way to think of it is that it's kind of like a little encapsulated factor in my computational graph. It's going to be a little packet of information that um will be a little bundle of information that will uh kind of all be um processed in a modular fashion. Okay, so we'll have a a set of tokens and these are the units that were um operating over and in transformers. Okay, so in graph nets the tokens were the nodes of the graph or uh the the feature vectors associated with the nodes. Okay, so uh we can have an array of neurons and that's what we operate over in MLPS and uh kind of vanilla neural networks. Um but in transformers we should kind of always be thinking about uh the basic uh data structure as an array of tokens as opposed to an array of neurons. So it's like an array of vectors or array of little encapsulated bits of information. You could also generalize the notion of token to be not a vector but it's some array of like structured information. In transformers the structured information is just a vector but there might be generalizations to this that come about later later in um you know in 2025 or the next year. [snorts] Okay. So I do want to note that I'm using the word token in a way that is not completely standard. uh I'm using it in the way that shows up in various computer vision literature but is a little bit um less common in natural language processing. So in natural language processing uh people mostly talk about tokens as being the discrete units of the vocabulary that we're modeling. So it's like a token is the letter A B C there's 26 tokens for the English alphabet or a token could be or we could tokenize with a different kind of vocabulary. It could be the um every English word as a separate token. So there's discrete units of the vocabulary that I'm operating over is what natural language people usually mean by the tokens. But it's a kind of weird definition. I think uh I I I prefer to think of the tokens as the kind of chunks of information that you are um factoriizing your problem into. It's a more general definition and that's the one we're going to go with in this lecture. Okay. So token is a vector of neurons. Um and a set of tokens is how I will represent some data. Okay. So just like I could have um confnets that operate over an array of neurons, I could have uh convolution over tokens that operates over an array of tokens that would just be like multi- channelannel convolution. Um so I can have different data structures built on top of tokens where now tokens are the new units. They're the new encapsulated units of um atomic information. In a neural net we have scaler valued neurons. In a token neural net we have vector valued units. Okay. Okay. And we could have a set that's un unstructured, unordered. And we could also have a set of tokens. And in transformer land, we'll the main thing we operate over is actually sets as opposed to arrays. But there's always, you know, variations on this theme that you can make up. Okay. So let's use a image processing example. Um, but I I want to just make sure we keep in mind that transformers like the maybe why they're so popular is because they're very agnostic to the domain. uh uh the recipe is once you turn your data into a set of tokens then you just use a transformer and this is one of the reasons they just dominate across so many different domains and basically all all domains where deep learning is applied that I know of I think transformers are currently the most popular kind of way of doing it uh or at least the most performant way of doing it okay so um that's that's one of the powers is they're very agnostic to the the input signal uh their um previous methods like CNN's were more tied to the locality properties of the signal. Okay. So, how do you turn data your data into tokens and then we'll just process tokens? That's the general idea of transformers. First, the domain expert turns data into tokens and then transformer generic transformer processes tokens. Okay. So, for images, this is the standard way of doing it, but you can imagine a lot of other ways that that one could do it. But you just break up the image into patches just like a competent. You chop it up into patches and then you turn each patch into a token by uh just projecting it into a flat vector and you could use some uh matrix that you multiply the pixel values by uh w tokenized to get a d-dimensional vector and that could be a learned matrix or it could be somehow hard-coded. So just a linear operation. Um, and I've basically already said this, but when operating over, you know, pixels, we're operating over like, uh, scaler valued measurements. Uh, what's the red color at that pixel? When operating over tokens, we're representing the input as, uh, an array of vector valued measurements. And the vectors are just the kind of um, projection of a set of RGB measurements in a patch onto a fixed dimensional vector in um, RD. Okay. Question. Do all the tokens generally have the same size? >> That's Yeah, they do. So, do all the qu uh tokens generally have the same size? Uh yeah, usually they do. They're generically like um a set of vectors in RD and um that is an interesting thing to you know maybe do for a final project or research project. I think you know variable size tokens could be really interesting. Uh it's not a standard way of doing it. Yeah, probably there's some challenges with hardware like you want to another idea of transformers is that they just match really really well to the GPU hardware and the software that we uh that we use and if you have variable size tokens now there's something you have to keep track of and how do you you know how do you um map that onto your hardware it might be non-trivial question in the very back >> yeah question if you're tokenizing an image do you want your patches to overlap and uh the answer is in standard architectures I think no you generally don't overlap uh but that might be a good idea just like in convolutional networks you can set the stride that's a parameter and you can have that same parameter here but um the current standard way of doing it is no overlap as far as I know that might change okay one more and then I'll move on yeah >> so are the tokens just like if you take the patches the patches are also just pixels >> and it would just be the token would be the pixels in vector form patch >> yeah so um the patches are the question is are patch is just pixels. Yes. So you you flatten the patch into just a list of numbers. It's a long vector that is the length the size of the dependent on the size of the patch and then you project that into a whatever dimensionality you want to process. Um dimensions. Okay. So yeah, you can tokenize anything. Um and again this is the power. Uh the general strategy is you take your signal your data you're processing you chop it up into little chunks where the chunks uh make sense as the kind of units of your domain. So usually that means local chunks because locality is a very good um inductive bias. So in images the standard thing is chop up into non-over overlapping patches. In language the standard thing is to chop up into uh little snippets of words which are called bite pairs. So uh I won't go into the details but basically um the kind of phone names or the you know the units of the language that you're operating over they could be you could operate over um single characters or three characters or entire words but the one that people like is just called a bite pair. It's like two two two byte representations of the um of the language. So you can learn this for English and there might be a bite pair that represents th and there might be a bite bite pair that represents iing. Okay. So that's um how you carve up English and other natural language and how you carve up sounds will often just be chopped into chunks like you do for an image. Okay. So once you have done that then everything else is domain agnostic. So this is the only like part where you have to actually consider your input domain. Not I mean yes when you think about the loss function and other formulations yes you think about your input domain but this is the main part. Okay. So uh here's a notation that we're going to use. So we're going to think of the tokens as just uh vectors. And I'm often going to describe an array of tokens or a set of tokens because it will turn out that actually the ordering is going to not matter. We'll have architectures or permutation invariant over the ordering of the rows of that matrix as uh this matrix T. So I'm going to just transpose my token vectors. Now they're going to be row vectors. I'm going to stack them up and that will be this matrix T. that will simplify a lot of the math. Okay, so when we're operating over tokens, this is the notation we'll use. We have n tokens in the rows and d channels. So we're going to use the same dimensionality for all tokens to answer that question. But uh and if you tried to use different dimensionality, the notation will become more complex and the math would be um you you'd have to do some more bookkeeping and uh yeah, it would be harder. Okay. So, um just like with regular old MLPS in networks built out of tokens, we have two basic operations. One is a linear combination operation and the other is a um a unit-wise nonlinearity. So, what is a linear combination operation? It's just a generalization of the of the linear combination over neurons. So, here's a linear combination over neurons. This is a linear layer. I have X in is a set of scalers X1, X2, X3 and X out uh is just another scaler [snorts] and I have a weighted combination you know W1 * X1 and so forth right this is the regular old linear layer going from R3 to R1 okay so what does a linear combination of tokens look like uh oh and right we just can write that in matrix form as w * xn you've done that a lot on the pet sets and in other places a linear combination of tokens is just going to a weighted combination of vectors with dimensions but if I only have three tokens three such vectors I'll have three weights that I can learn or decide to set the values of to create a linear combination. So it's um going to be you know a weight times the first vector plus a weight times the second vector plus a weight times the third vector. Okay. So uh you can represent that again in matrix notation. If we're using our um our t where t is um d n rows by d columns where d is the dimensionality of each token vector then w * that matrix t is just like taking a linear combination of the rows. Okay. So you can already see here that the token linear combination is less expressive than if I did the same thing over all the individual neurons that make up those tokens. Okay, it's kind of like a low rank uh transformation over the neurons because I only have three three weights that determine that combination, but I actually have 12 neurons that make up all of those tokens. And so you normally would have 12 weights if it were just a linear combination of neurons. Okay, so this is a this is a less expressive um family of of layers. In fact, it's a low rank uh operation. Okay, but we're thinking of the tokens as these like bundles these encapsulated units of of operations. We've just now defined how to take linear combinations of those those uh encapsulated units. Okay, so the next thing we need is the equivalent of a relu, right? the pointwise nonlinearity and with tokens we can have a token-wise nonlinearity instead of being a neuron-wise nonlinearity it will be a nonlinearity that operates on each token independently and identically okay so here's my pointwise nonlinearity from MLPS we have x out is equal to for each dimension of x in we just take a relu of that dimension right and a token wise nonlinearity is just going to be for each token in my array of tokens I will pass it through a nonlinear function f and it'll be the same nonlinear function applied to every single token. Okay, so um typically in transformers f is going to be itself an MLP. So transformers are kind of like a meta architecture like the units of the architecture are other neural networks. And you can also think of this operation as equivalent to a convolutional filter that is run across the sequence of tokens. Okay, it's uh it has it's a one by one convolutional filter. So what does that look like? It looks like this. I have a sequence of tokens. Now think of this as like um a spatial sequence or temporal sequence and the channels are in this token dimension. The um the vector dimensions of the token and the convolutional filter will just be something that operates on each token independently and identically. So this is what the uh token wise nonlinearity looks like. And you can also now map that in your brain onto a pointwise nonlinearity in an MLP. That would just be like I have vectors of length one and my operation I'm sliding across that sequence is a relu or a tanh or a sigmoid some pointwise nonlinearity. Okay. Okay. So now we've basically built what I'll call token nets. You know another name for this would be graph nets but I'm going to call it token nets for now which is almost identical looking to a MLP. So MLP is linear combination of scaler valued neurons pointwise nonlinearity and so on and token net is linear combination of tokens. Okay take a weighted sum of these three items followed by token wise nonlinearity. So each arrow on the second row is itself parameterized by an MLP. is you know a complicated nonlinear function and then repeat that process. Okay, so the motif is the same. It's just over these more complicated units. As opposed to being scaler valued units which are called neurons, it's vector value units which I'm calling tokens. Okay, so I already mentioned but this is also equivalent to that unrolled GNN that I talked about a few lectures ago. So in the unrolled GNN uh we have this aggregate function which is doing some kind of weighted combination and then we have a combine function which um now you can understand to be a unitwise a nodewise nonlinearity and then we repeat that process and gns also often have the property that you share weights across depth you don't have to but you can whereas transformers typically have the property that you don't share weights across depth but you can so this is a choice but the standard transformer you you have separate set of weights here and on the next layer and I'll tell you how those those weights actually get specified in a minute okay and just to remind you here was that picture of the unrolled GNN so in the unrolled GNN we have our graph and uh we take these you know now I'm calling them tokens they used to be called the node vectors and we aggregate but this is this is going to be in a critical difference in the GNN how we aggregate is determined by the graph connectivity. It's the adjacency matrix of the graph that tells us how we do this aggregate, where the arrows are in that linear combination. And additionally in the graph, that aggregate might be nonlinear. It doesn't have to just be a linear combination. Okay. Um, and then we also have a particular way of combining that through an update step. Uh, but it looks very much like a transformer that I'm showing you now, the tokenet version of the transformer, except that um these arrows are not fully connected. They are determined by the graph structure. So a transformer is going to be like a graph net but it's a fully connected graph net. So we have all the arrows at every single aggregation layer. And I'll tell you how those arrows values get determined which is going to be called attention but it's a it's it's you can can think of it as a graph net over a fully connected graph typically without weight sharing in depth. Okay. Any questions about the relationship between these different neural networks? MLPS, CNN's, graph nets, and now this tokenet I'm describing. >> Yeah. >> So the token wise nonlinearity will be typically an MLP and the parameters will be learned with back propagation. So they're free parameters that are learned via optimization >> and within there in that MLP there's like uh pointwise nonlinearities in that as well. >> Yes. Yeah. So it's like this network of subn networks and in the MLP there are also pointwise nonlinearities. Okay. And one more Yeah. So it's a this the question is uh in JNN's the aggregate function is learned or it's parameterized and it can be learned. And in transformers um I didn't tell you how we're going to learn these weights. Um in transformers that will be done via this thing called attention which we'll get to in a minute. And the token wise nonlinearity in an MLP is not is not learned. The point wise nonlinearity is not learned. typically but in a transformer it typically is learned it's a parameterized MLP and in a graphn net I think it would also be learned it's this update function which typically has learnable parameters okay okay okay and don't worry too much about the semantics here like it doesn't matter if you call something a graph node or transformer you should understand the concepts and how there's these particular building blocks that can be combined in different ways that achieve different effects and there's trade-offs and if you understand that deeply And you know the names are just some um something that is secondary to that. Okay. Okay. So that that was the first new idea was we're going to operate over tokens which are vector valued units instead of neurons which are scaler valued units. Okay. The next idea which is going to actually be technically new is going to be attention which is how do we take the linear combination exactly um between tokens. Okay. So here is a uh let's say I have a like a token net. What I could do is I could just learn the weights of the linear combination just like in an MLP I learn the weights of the linear combination. So free parameters I'll u draw in blue and this could just be a weight matrix which is going to be three numbers in this case because I have three tokens it be a 3x one weight matrix and one output right three inputs one output uh and w will be free parameters that are learnable via back prop that's one option you can do this that will work okay but transformers actually are coupled with this other idea called attention and in attention the weights that you use to do this linear combination Now, they're not free parameters, so I'm not going to color them in blue. I'm coloring them in red. And if you remember in some of the readings, red was our color for activations. It turns out the weights I used to combine the tokens with the linear combination are going to be coming from activations elsewhere in the network. So, a is going to not be free parameters. It's going to be a function of your data that you're processing. So, there's a few different ways you can do that. We'll go into the full details, but just think that there's going to be some function f that takes in your input data you're processing and determines this linear combination matrix A. Okay, so A is going to be set by some function which I'll describe of the data. It's not going to be free parameters and T out will be just a linear combination of TN according to A. Okay, so let's get some intuition for um what this attention matrix might be doing. This attention matrix A. Okay, so here's an image and let's say I want to uh process the query. How many animals are in this photo? So I told you the intuition is I should look at the three animals and then count them up. And that's exactly uh what what we'll do. So I will attend to remember tokens are representing patches of the image at least on the first layer of processing they're representing patches. So what are the patches I will attend to in this image to answer this question should be the any patch that has an animal and it's a little hard to see but there's a giraffe head in this in this one here. So this is zebra you know um impala and two giraffes. Now every token is a vector of numbers that are um descriptive of what is going on in you know there's some representation of of that part of the world. So at the first layer it will just be the concatenation or the flattened uh list of all the RGB values but later on it could be more abstract. And here I'm just indicating that there might be one element of the vector which is an uh indicator function. Does this patch contain an animal or not? Right? or maybe the head of an animal or not because each animal has one head. And then what I can do is my attention can be allocating one unit of attention to each of these tokens and zero units to any other token. And then if I take a linear combination with weights of one for each of those tokens and zero for all the other tokens, that will achieve the correct answer of outputting um a new token vector whose value is four in the dimension that counts animals. So I've just kind of hand constructed here a um a transformer one layer transformer that counts the numbers number of animals in the image by simply attending to animal heads and then taking a sum over all the things I attended to where the attribute vector of each thing I'm attending to the token vector is just a one if there's an animal head or a zero otherwise or in fact in this case it could be a one no matter what's in in the photo because the attention already only selected to look at the animal heads. Okay, here's another example. What is the color of the impala? So, what should I attend to here? Right, I should attend to these these tokens, these patches. And now I have another dimension of my token vector which maybe represents the average color within that patch. And if I take the average over those, I you know, I take a weighted sum over the things I'm attending to, I will output the average color of the impala. And that will be maybe a good ensembled response about the answer to this question. What color is the impala? Okay, so this is just the intuition but kind of hand constructing how these operations could actually ask answer queries of interest. Question [snorts] >> uh T out here is meant to be oh uh yeah I suppose that maybe I should use a capital letter but uh just one token output. It's like I'm just outputting one single token to answer my question in this in this example. Okay, so yeah, the more general form is I'll have an array of tokens represented by the matrix T where the tokens are in the rows of that array. Okay, so here is going to be the mathematical formulation of the most common kind of attention. It's called query key value attention. And remember the transformer is mapping from a set of tokens to a set of tokens. So T in to T out. And this will be one layer of the transformer, one attention layer. So one linear combination. So how is it going to work? So I will have a question and then I'm going to uh use the question to determine the attention. So the question is uh the way I determine the attention is like that function f that produces a. Okay. So here's here's what it looks like. So my input signal is a set of tokens. Okay. So it's actually just going to be thought of as an unordered set. Just here's bunch of different patches in the image and every token has this vector associated with it. And the question will also be represented as a token which has a uh a vector associated with it. And I'll have a special operation called query which will be um to uh emit some vector based on the contents of my uh questions um uh embedding vector. Okay. So the question the question is a token which is a vector and then I can transform that to emit some kind of query. So that will just be a linear transformation of that input vector. And each token in my signal that I'm processing will uh have a function called key which emits something that the query is meant to kind of try to match against to see if the query matches the question the the query matches the key. Okay. So tokens represented by a vector and they can emit either queries in order to say what should I attend to or keys to say what is uh you know what is my content that my query should match to and we will check whether a query matches a key via a dotproduct between the key vector and the attention and the query vector. Okay, so this that kind of horizontal line is the key vector and that vertical yellow line is the query vector and this is just meant to be the dotproduct like the matrix product of uh the one by uh D vector times the D by1 vector. Okay, so what will happen here? Well, my query is relevant to animal heads. What is the color of the impala's head? So my key will uh will match that query if I'm looking at an animal head. So the draft will be 0 2, but it'll match even better if I'm looking at the impala head because I'm specifying the impala. So that would be if I, you know, train this thing to be a reasonable system, then this would be a reasonable um set of queries and keys and the similarity between the query and key is what I will attend to. So I'll get this kind of score vector s over here on the left and this will just be the dotproduct between uh the questions query vector and each token in the signal and processing's key vector. Okay. Then I will also have one more operation called value which will be another transformation of my token vector into what I'm going to kind of report to the next layer of my of my network. This is kind of an analogy from databases where I can ask a question. Each you know bin in my big database can have a uh it can know what it contains and can say here's the the key here's the relevant information I contain and then when the query matches the key you open that that part of the database that you know that bin in the filing cabinet and you pull out the values and get some information back. Okay. So uh now the operation will be I take the similarity vector s and I take a linear combin that's going to be the weights of my linear combination but the linear combination will be applied over the value vectors for each token. Okay. So t out will be a weighted combination of the value vectors of each token. So those weights alpha uh a or a1 through a n over here will be determined by the s uh by the score and it'll be determined by the uh the similarity vector by taking in a softmax just normalizing that vector. It so sums to one. Okay. So I'm going to then get finally my a's which are the elements of my attention matrix which tells me how to you know how much um attention to apply to each of the tokens values. and then I'll just take the weighted sum the linear combination. You have a bunch of questions. So let me let me quickly finish this slide and then we'll go over it. And it takes a you have to like this is just a mechanism. This is the concrete mechanism that ends up working really well. So it takes a while to kind of get comfortable with it. But I just want to point out that the key query and value vectors are um just uh linear projections of the token vector. So we have one matrix that's learnable that transforms the token vector into a query. Another learnable matrix that transforms it into a key and another one that transforms it to into a value. So these are the learnable parameters. These projections are the learnable parameters of an attention layer. Okay. Yeah. A few questions. Let's go here. >> Um so is the tokenizer the same for so is it multimodal a multimodal function in that both text and image can be tokenized the same way? Uh yeah. So can text and uh images be tokenized the same way? So no, you'd have a tokenizer for text and a tokenizer for images? And this is after you've done that. Now I'm just kind of abstractly saying there is a token that represents that question and a token that represents each patch. And here's how you will um use that question to allocate attention to those patches and then process the image. >> Okay, question over here. Um I was wondering so for the query um image is for example taken in the day but the key images are taken at night at what point during the layers do we modify that? So we're pairing a image taken in the morning compared to image taken at night same object but how do we change that with respect to the color? >> Uh so so yeah the question is like yeah let's say the queries are coming from an image taken during the day and the key I'm processing an image taken at night. So the keys are taken uh from an image taken at night. Uh how do I bridge that gap? So this will be um learning will have to solve that for you. So you'll train on being able to you know query from daytime to ask questions about nighttime and the parameters will have to adjust in order to be invariant maybe to the time of day or appropriately answer that question. >> Do we choose a the a softmax that we use? >> U so all the learnable parameters of a transformer can contribute to this. In the attention layer, there's only three matrices that are learnable, which are the projection from the token vector to the query vector, the projection from the token vector to the key and the value. Uh question in the back over here. Yeah. >> Hi. Yeah. So for something like a segmentation model uh where the query basically does not change, how how does it how does a query? >> Yeah, great. So for what if the question doesn't change, I'm just trying to solve one task. I'm going to talk about self attention next which will address that that setting. Uh let's do one more over here. >> What's the meaning of the uh dot product between the key vector or the query vector you have here on illustration? Do they have any significance? >> Yeah, the dot productduct between the the key vector and the query vector is meant to say how um relevant is this key to this query. And so dotproduct is like measuring the similarity between those two vectors in some in some way. And um an appropriate learning system would arrive at projections W, K, V, and Q that make it so that when you ask a when the text is about an Impala's head, then the query vector will have values that are similar to uh the key vector values for images of of impala heads. Right. It's particularly interesting for the first one. It's value one. And that does that indicate a perfect match? But >> oh uh that looks like a typo. Sorry. Yeah. So it's 0.1 up here and I think I forgot to make it 0.1 down there. So that's just a typo. Yeah, good question. Okay, let's do just one more. >> Okay, so there seem to be a piping from the question. What color is the head in the vector? So what? So what is that mapping? How we get that? >> Yeah, that mapping this query function that maps from the um question uh vector the so the the token vector that represents a question is given by this equation up here which is just a linear uh projection of the token vector. So it's just a mat learnable matrix WQ. But it could be other functions. I'm just telling you that that's the standard one in transformers. But you know you can always change that. it could be an MLP. Okay, so let's move on. Uh now I I'll also tell you that this the problem set coming out next week. You're going to implement a bunch of transformers and all the variations. It'll implement GPT like you'll intimately know how transformers work. It's a little bit more of a practical problem set. But I want to now talk about the next idea which is self attention. So self attention is saying rather than having my queries come from some like external question like some text, my queries could come from the signal itself. So I could have it that every single token uh in the set of tokens I'm processing can emit queries to the other tokens. Okay? And that's called self attention. So that's like here's just an intuitive example. If this patch wants to get a better like estimate of what it is, maybe it should attend to other things that are similar and then kind of ensemble or average the results to now say I'm not sure if I'm an impala or I'm a gazelle or what I am. So I will kind of attend to other things that look like me in the image and then I will update my own representation uh by aggregating information from the other things that are similar. That's kind of an intuition for one way that this could um you know solve problems of interest. uh but in general it might be learning very complicated ways of processing information in the signal. Okay. Uh let me show you this video of the self attention applied to patches in these videos when you are looking at the self attention of a token that corresponds to a a place on this horse to every other token in the image. And for the dog, it will be a token on the dog and how much it attends to every how much self attention it applies to every other token in the image or in the video. So what you'll notice is that the horse token attends to the horse patches. So it's kind of solving the segmentation problem. It's like if I want to understand something about this part of the image, I should attend to other things that are related to it and I shouldn't cross object boundaries. This is kind of the natural segmentation of that scene. And that's what the attention function learns for this transformer which is doing visual recognition. Yeah. Question. >> So in the examples that you showing it's like the hash is able to intelligently figure out which parts of the image to >> but given some like arbitrary question or arbitrary task how does it choose of like all the tokens in the image to say like these are the ones I care about? >> Yeah. So how how does the attention me mechanism figure out what to actually attend to what its query vector should be what its value vector should be that's just machine learning that's just back propagation to minimize your objective is going to find the setting of all the weights the mechanism that will achieve good behavior and it turns out the mechanism that achieves good behavior often has an intuitive interpretation like I'm giving you but it doesn't have to to solve recognition maybe I don't have to have the patches on the U horse, attend to other patches on the horse. Maybe I could have attended to the background and then some inference about the context if it's on a field and so therefore it might be a horse. But it turns out that it comes up with the more intuitive strategy which is the horse attends to other horse parts and then decides what it is. Yeah, >> it's more of like similar question like this seems like an observation but it actually does it actually happen or is there a way to interpret or cause the model to this kind of >> behavior? Yeah, great question. This seems like an observation. Does it really happen? Can you enforce this behavior? This is more empirical science. This is saying we have an architecture and we're investigating what it discovered and and then I'm trying to provide intuitions for why it would work that way, why it discovered that solution. uh but it's not provable. It's not it's it's a property of the data and the statistics of the world in combination with the optimization and the transformer architecture that ended up here. And there's a lot of interesting empirical science on what do transformers learn? What internal representations do they have? What are the circuits? Like there's um this idea of interpretability research trying to understand what these things learn. But there's another lens which is just who cares what they learn. Let's understand ML theory and how gradient descent on objective functions with with you know high capacity networks will converge on good solutions but not care about the internal structure. So so you can look at it from either lens. Uh I think I need to move on but we'll come back and have more time for questions soon. Okay. So here is a fully connected uh layer uh with learnable parameters for how to take a weighted combination of the input token sequence to the output token sequence. And here is uh the idea of self attention which is that the weights of that linear combination are a function of the input sequence. The so the f that's going to determine our uh queries and and keys um or in particular our queries is going to be uh coming from the input token sequence TN. Okay. So how is it going to come from them? uh it's going to be uh exactly the same type of math that I showed you a few slides back, but here's how it looks for self attention. Okay, so I have my TN and every single token in my input sequence is going to emit a key, a value, and a query vector. Okay, it's going to emit those via WQ, which is a projection from its token vector into a query vector. W K, which is a projection from its token vector to its key vector. and the same for the value vector. Okay, so now I will get a set of queries, a set of keys and a set of values. I can stack them up into the mat into the query matrix which is for every row in that matrix, it will be the query for one of my input tokens. for every uh the key matrix and the value matrix and uh this is just saying that I can represent the query matrix as just the matrix product of uh it's just a matt mole it's just a matrix multiply of the token uh matrix times the um the learnable uh projection to quer two queries. Okay, so this is another nice thing about the design of transformers is everything just becomes these matrix multiplies in a very simple like notational form. So this is my queries and they're just tn * w q. Okay, so now I take all of these matrices and in order to get the weight and the linear combination for this unit of t out from this unit of tn. So remember the linear combination is over the values. the values are in uh this teal color. So I'm going to take a linear combination over the values and the weight that I'll assign to that linear combination is going to be the inner product the dotproduct between the key and the query for uh for this this token. Okay. So the amount of self attention that I apply to myself is going to be given by this gray box which is just this dot product. And if you kind of work out the linear algebra, you can realize that this will just be the like uh matrix multiply of the query times the the key matrix. Uh and then that will just be every query vector gets multiplied by every value vector. Sorry, every key vector and that results in the value and um the values will then be uh kind of stacked up into an n byn matrix. So I have n input tokens to n output tokens. as an n byn uh set of weights that determine that linear combination. Okay, so mathematically uh we can condense all of this into this simple equation. This is the famous attention equation which is going to be the query matrix times the key matrix transpose. Okay. So if I transpose I'm um going to be taking like the dotproduct between all the pairs of queries and keys and then I'll divide by the dimensionality of um the square root of the dimensionality of the uh the vectors of of of the so the keys queries and values are m dimensional vectors. They don't have to be the same. They don't have to be dimensional. Remember the tokens were dimensional but in general the queries keys and values could be of some other dimensionality. I'll divide by that dimensionality and then I'll take a soft max to ensure that I'm taking in like everything sums to one. So that has some nice normalization and numerical advantages. And then finally the output will just be the attention matrix times the input value uh times the value matrix of the input um set of tokens. Okay. So it's a lot of little nitty-gritty linear algebra to work out. Uh but it comes to a very simple um equation in the end. Yeah. >> Like is there a good intuitive reason for why we bother learning parameters or matrices for Q and K separately rather than learning like the values of the A matrix directly like at the end of the day T out is going to be like a matrix multiply which is a function of two learn matrices which is A. >> Yeah. >> With another learn matrix which is B. >> Right. So is there something about decomposing a into the product of K that leads to like I'm not asking for theoretical >> yeah no it's a it's it's a good question like why not learn a directly I think empirically um that well the basic statement is empirically the transformer recipe I I'll specify it just seems to work the best at so many different things um I'm I don't know about like direct comparisons between learning A versus using this like outer product of the queries and the keys that are also learnable projections. But you can you can kind of start to count how many learnable parameters there are and like what is so at the end of the day we have some parameterized mapping from t in to t out and you can kind of think uh if I learned a directly I would have to learn n squ parameters where n is the length the number of tokens in my sequence. If I learn WQW, K and WV, I'm also learning a lot of parameters, but it's not dependent on the sequence length. Now, it's dependent on the dimensionality of my token vectors. So, it's dependent on D as opposed to N. Now, transformers are typically applied in modern AI to extremely long sequences of tokens, maybe like millions, length million sequences of tokens. even like you know modern LLMs you can have paragraphs and paragraphs and you know whole books that you're processing so n is usually very large and d is much smaller so there's actually fewer learnable parameters that's just one perspective okay one more I just want to >> Yeah. So, okay. Okay, I'm not sure I've caught the first part of the question quite, but I think you're asking shouldn't we have like a different way of processing language and vision? Um, can you can you adapt your architecture to that? And the answer is yeah, that is of interest. But again, kind of the power of the transformer and the transformer paradigm is um kind of only put in domain knowledge into the to the first step plus a few other places like in positional encoding which we'll get to. you can put in domain knowledge and otherwise use a very generic computational framework which has the advantage of um just uh if you if you homogenize then you can get advantages of everything runs on the same commodity hardware the code bases are all the same the lessons are transferable between different modalities. So there's a lot of advantages to that but specialization to modality is of interest as well. It's just a kind of a trade-off, a back and forth. How much do you specialize versus how much do you make kind of homogeneous approaches? I'm not sure I quite answered the full question, but I think I need to move on to get through everything. We can talk after. Okay. So, uh yeah, as I said, the attention layer is at the end of the day just a linear combination. So, we can now think of like a family of different linear combinations of neurons that we've seen. So the first one was in the MLP the fully connected layer where every single um edge in the mapping from input vector to output vector is a learnable parameter. So we have n squed learnable parameters if the input is in RN and the output is in Rn. And we also have some bias terms that we can add nb bias terms. Uh in convolution we have a much lower rank matrix but remember we said that the convolution can be represented as a matrix. uh for a fixed dimensional input we can represent the convolution as a fixed dimensional matrix but the interesting thing is it has this like um toplet structure where the the diagonals all share the same value so the colors indicate the unique values in this matrix so there's far fewer learnable parameters there's only four learnable parameters if we include the bias as opposed to n squed learnable parameters for this toy problem where the convolutional kernel size is three so uh you know every three inputs in the in every three neurons in the input but mapped to one neuron in the output. Okay. And convolution has this nice property of translation equivariance. Con of trans x is trans of com x. Okay. And that comes because of this weight sharing. You can kind of see it like if I translate the input. I'm just the same values at a different location in that matrix. So what does the transformer attention matrix look like with this notation? So So what do you think? Can anybody uh it this is probably pretty tricky to work out just in your head, but what do you think it's going to look like? If I'm going to draw it on the next animation, so anyone want to guess like what is a transformer's matrix of unique values going to look like? Um okay. Yeah, let's go here. >> So it's not going to necessarily look sparse, but it is low. Should be low rank. >> So it will be low rank. Uh it's you said it's not going to look sparse. I think it does look sparse, but we'll see. We'll see. Yeah. Okay. Any others? Um it's going to be some low rank sparse matrix. It's a little hard to work it out, but so I also have to tell you how I'm how I'm notating things. So I mean, it's not like you had you were wrong. Um, so I'm going to notate things where I'm going to take the first three neurons and call that one token and the next three neurons another token. So I'm factorizing the input signal into these two tokens now. And then those those two tokens get to attend and interact with each other. uh but that just corresponds to using the same set of weights for each element of the token vector because a linear combination of you know rows of a matrix is like using the same weights for every element of the row when I'm taking that combination. So you can kind of work it out think of it for yourself but this is what it looks like. So transformers have these layers or linear layers of course the weights are coming uh from queries and values. So there's another mechanism on the side but at the end of the day it's just like this low rank sparse transformation. It has fewer linear learnable parameters which is um advantageous in some ways. And then the other interesting property which I'll describe in a minute is that uh transformers are invariant to or you can variant with permutations of the input but we'll come back to that just like graphn nets. Okay. So here's MLP here's like the vanilla transformer with self attention. uh and this is roughly the standard architecture we use in computer vision. Uh the architecture we use in language processing has one small difference which I'll come to in a minute. Um a few little details to add on top of this. Uh I think I won't talk about multi-headed self attention. Uh it's in the reading uh there's a section on it but the idea is that whether rather than just having one attention layer I can have k attention layers in parallel and then I can aggregate them and each attention layer can be attending to different things. So one can learn to attend to shapes and one can learn to attend to textures for example. Um okay so here is the complete uh vision transformer architecture. This is the standard way of processing uh kind of spatial signals. So images in particular but also audio and other things can be used with the same architecture. And there's only a few things that you haven't seen. So it's going to be uh a set of tokens u multi-headed self attention which is MSA. So that's just multiple runs of attention and then combining them all together and then pointwise uh nonlinearity which is just going to be an MLP. The blue are the learnable parameters. Everything else is not learnable. So the attent the queries and the keys and the values which are indicated by uh kind of this f well that's really the queries but there's also keys and values that's learnable and the parameters of the token wise MLP are learnable. Everything else is not. These pluses here are residual connections. So I think in the CNN lecture we talked about resonance. So we we'll just take an identity pass around all this processing and that um has some advantages. And then there's one other little layer called which I'm labeling token norm. It's often more commonly called in the literature layer norm. Uh but there's not really an obvious kind of layer structure here. Uh really this this operation is just taking the vector and normalizing it to have uh zero mean and unit variance. So I'm taking the elements of this vector and I'm just dividing by the variance and subtracting out the mean. Okay. Uh so that connects a little bit to what Jeremy was talking about with and what you've done on your problem sets or what you're working on your problem sets where it's good to normalize um activations and weight updates in your network for a lot of reasons. One reason that Jeremy alluded to is for um stability of optimization and taking the the you know the steepest descent direction. you need to um think about the norms and you might want to normalize your weight updates in in a particular norm and your problem set goes into that. Here we're not normalizing the weight updates. We're normalizing the activations but you can understand that normalizing activations will have a consequence on changing the size of the weight updates because if I back prop through normalizing the activations you uh you can see that the weight update will be a function of the scale of the activations. Okay. So there's a so layerorm has desirable optimization properties. Exactly what those are is basically open science and it's not quite clear um why lonorm is the right thing to do but it's what people do. Okay. So you'll implement transformers on your problem set but I I want to kind of quickly walk through uh a kind of pseudo code of it just to show you how simple these things are. They're so easy to implement. That's one of the reasons why people like them. So here is a transformer in the vision transformer style that is um taking uh processing a set of tokens um t. So we first tokenize the input that might be domain specific knowledge like break up your image into patches and then for each layer we're just going to run the same um operation. We might have different weights per layer but otherwise the same operation. We will uh take the uh matrix multiply of the layer norm of the tokens uh times like that this you know uh outer product of the key query and value matrices with the token matrix and we're layer norming it. then we get key query val uh value matrices and then we'll just take um the matrix multiply of q * krpose divided by the dimensionality which here I'm noting as d uh the dimensionality of the key query value vectors and then I'll add residual connections and take the linear combination another map mole so everything is just map moles and a few other simple operators and this maps wonderfully onto modern um compute that loves matrix multiplies okay So really simple and that that should work. Okay, so there's one more new idea I have to get to before um the end of the lecture. Well, there's a few more things to get to, but one more big new idea, which is positional encodings. Okay, it's not a new idea. Again, it's been seen in a lot of old architectures, but it was one of the like the key things that kind of made transformers stand out. So um uh the first thing to know is that transformers are uh permutation invariant or sorry permutation equivariant just like uh graphn nets. Okay. So if I permute the input sequence of tokens then you can kind of work out for yourself that if I permute it well it's like taking t2 into the place of t1 then the output will also um change the order. So the output representation of T2 will now be um in this vector as opposed to in the second vector. So permuting the input permutes the output. Okay. So transformers are essentially a set to set mapping. An unordered set um maps to an unord unordered set. The ordering of the tokens doesn't matter. Okay. So you can see this because uh pointwise tokise nonlinearity f it just applies to every token independently and identically. So of course if I change the order of the tokens it doesn't change anything. I'm just treating them all independently. And you can work out for yourself that attention is permutation and variant. Okay. So again attention is like every pair of tokens how much they attend to each other will just be determined based on the values in the token vectors not the order. Okay. So because transformers are just pointwise token wise nonlinearity and attention the whole thing is permutation equariant. So transformer permute the input is equal to permute the transformer of the input. Okay, so now positional codes. Well, remember if we want convolutional networks to not be translation equivariant, we add the we tell the filter where I am in the image and then it can make a different decision based on where I am. It's no longer translation equariant. We saw that a few times. So now you can do exactly the same thing with transformers. If I don't want it to be permutation equariant, which often times you actually don't, often times the order matters. you know, if I'm processing a sentence, the earlier sentences have like causal impact. The earlier words in the sentence are, you know, um causally determining the next words, but there's not quite the anti-causal direction. It it uh the statistics are different. It's not like a reversible sequence or permutation and variant statistical process. So anyway, I can concatenate each token with a value that tells me where it came from in the input signal. What position was it in the input sentence? what pos what location was it in the input image. Okay. And here's how you do that typically. Not not typically, but this is like the vanilla way of doing that. Uh there's a lot of more advanced ways of doing it. But if I want to um tell this patch here on the draft's head what position it's at, I will uh I could encode the XY location and cartisian coordinates of that of that patch. But I'll typically represent this on a 4A basis where I will um say what is the value of a sign function at that location and I'll do that for different signs and and cosiness or in the vertical and the horizontal direction. And this is just like a encoding of the position but in a in terms of um a different basis as opposed to being just like the cartisian grid. Okay. So these values tell me where I am in the image. Uh the book chapter goes into some kind of intuition about why Forier positional encoding is advantageous over other types. But uh this is also an open science question. This one works pretty well. Um okay and uh you can for whatever signal you have like there's a lot of domain expertise that can come into this part of the problem how you define the positional encodings because that's the part where you kind of uh tell the system what um what it means to be local uh for your domain you you give it the inductive bias of what locality actually represents. So for processing data on a globe I can do pal encoding that's like latitude and longitude but maybe on some kind of forier basis over like spherical harmonics over like sinosoids on the sphere for graphs one of the typical positional encodings is the um onto the kind of en basis of the of the graph lelosian. So we mentioned this a little bit in the GNN lecture but basically I can take a graph and I can compute something called the graph leloian and I can look at the the vectors of that it's this like thing that tells me kind of location in the graph like kind of canonical location in the graph and these the coordinates uh the the igen vectors for um some of these the vectors of this graph lelassian are are described by these colors on the nodes. And so uh the like first igen vector is this one. It's really smooth. It's like what you know where am I globally and then other igen vectors are like high frequency like a almost like a 48 basis. Um so I don't this is all domain knowledge. It's not stuff that you need to know intimately uh unless you're working on on that domain. Uh but this is just to say you can introduce a lot of domain knowledge into positional encodings. Okay. So those are the three pieces for the transformer. But there's one last thing which is a lot of you will have seen large language models and uh already heard about transformers in the context of language modeling. So I want to tell you how transformers map onto language models because there's kind of one extra piece that is important and it's called causal attention. Okay. So first I have to get we're going to come back to auto reggressive models and generative models of language and other signals a little later and one of the kinds will be an auto reggressive model but I'll tell you briefly what it is now because it's extremely simple and a lot of you already know this because all over the media this is how you know chat GPT works and so forth. Um you take a sequence of words and you simply try to predict what is the next word in that sequence. Okay, so once upon a time and then you do the same thing auto reggressively which means you just take your prediction and concat uh concatenate it or postpend the input sequence with your prediction and then keep going. Now predict the next word and the next word. Okay. And you can train such a model because you will train the predictions to match the data set of actual text that you observe from the training set. Okay. So we'll say once upon a time and you can watch, you know, Claude or Llama or whatever your favorite LLM. You can watch it write out things. It's doing exactly this. Okay, we'll talk more about those later. Um, and you don't have to do auto reggress regression in the, you know, times arrow order. You can do it in any order you want. Uh, but that's just a detail. Okay. So, as I said, you have training set, which is sequences and completions to the sequence. This is just text online for language models. And you are going then going to use supervised learning to try to like classify you know what is the next word in a vocabulary of possible words. And then at test time uh uh when you're going to sample new sentences you'll just say you know colorless green idea sleep it will predict what what based on my training data what might have come next and maybe furiously came next. Okay it's a quote from Nam Chsky. So okay um so that's how GPT works. GPT is a generative pre-trained transformer. So it's a transformer okay and it's an auto reggressive transformer. So here's my normal transformer that I'm drawing where self attention so the input sequence of tokens that represent the words or maybe subp parts of the words get to choose what to which of them to attend to update their representations. uh finally at the very end come up with a prediction for the next item in the sequence and every time I run this [snorts] I will get a prediction of the next item in the sequence and I'll shift the input over by one and repeat the process. Okay, so there's a little issue here, which is that if I want to train such a system, I want it to be the case that my prediction for the word furiously only depends on the previous items in the sequence. Now, with this architecture I'm showing here, the input has the word furiously, and it could just learn like an identity connection to say, oh, I'm predicting furiously, and my input already told me what the answer was. That'd be wrong. If I'm predicting the word ideas, I need to only be able to look at the previous items in the sequence. I can't look into the future if I want to be able to, you know, write a sentence in times order. So, what we do is we do what's called um masking, causal masking of our attention matrix. And that just means that every um output token can only attend to earlier tokens in the sequence. So, the order does matter. This is no longer permutation equariant. Now the order actually is mattering via the masking operation. Okay. And so now the attention matrix looks like a masked matrix and that just means some of the arrows are not allowed. They're just set to zero. So the arrows at the top here exactly match the masking at the bottom here. And I only allowed to learn or I'm only allowed to use these values. Meaning I'm only allowed to t attend to things previous in the sequence. And this allows me to make predictions are causal that only depend on information previous in the sequence. Okay, so uh this is what a multi-layered transformer looks like with causal masking. On the first layer, I um I'm trying to predict the fourth item in the sequence given the previous three. So I will um not observe the fourth item because otherwise I would be cheating and I it would be too easy. But then after the first layer then I can just use a a mask that looks like this. Every token attends to itself in all the previous tokens. And this will achieve that the receptive field of this output token that will predict the next word can only see every previous word. And the receptive field for this output token that I could use to predict the second to last word will only see everything previous to itself. And therefore I can just supervise this thing to uh kind of output a sequence of words and every word in that output sequence will only depend on the previous words. And this is an efficient way of training such a such a system. Okay, I'm going a little quickly for the sake of time, but there's more details on this uh in the book chapter. This lecture follows the chapter almost exactly because uh finally I had all the material ready for this this year. Um okay, so here's I'm sorry to say this is just probably the worst diagram in like all of science, but it's also the best paper in all of science. So it's like that, you know, they balance each other out. Attention is all you need. It's a super important paper because it's the one that defined the uh transformer architecture. Again, it's not new ideas. It's just a particular recipe that is uh novel in its details but works incredibly well. And a few new ideas here and there. Uh and so this paper is super important. Attention is all you need. And a lot of you will come across or will have seen this diagram. This is their diagram for what a transformer is. Um super confusing to me. I don't know why they call this like a feed forward layer, but what what is it? So this is a this is the token wise nonlinearity that that box in blue they call feed forward. So it's like just applying independently and identically um an MLP to every single token vector. Uh what is this thing here? This is that auto reggressive part that I was describing. So that has nothing to do with really transformers. That's more about auto reggressive modeling. So you can kind of you really they should have factored those two ideas separately but they put them together in the first paper. Okay. So that's just saying right what is uh shifted right okay shifted right is is this thing where I just shifted the input sequence to the left I guess in my diagram and um I don't know positional encoding that's meant to be like a sign suoid positional encoding then all of these things add a norm that's just a residual connection so just think of it like this and I think it'll be simpler and I I definitely prefer um this diagram diagram instead. But for language, I would just shift the input to the left and do causal attention. Okay, last slide is going to be just showing now how I could put together some language modeling and image modeling to do more complicated things. Okay, so here is a case where I will take my input which is a image. I'll tokenize it by mapping each of these patches into token vectors. I'll do self attention and some computer vision stuff here, but it's all generic processing of tokens now. And then I'll do this thing called cross attention. So now I'm going to try to be describing this image and text. The task is to take an image and turn it into text. Write a caption for the image. So I'll I'll take this as input and then I will auto reggressively start writing a sentence where every next uh step in my prediction problem will be uh capable of attending to the previous words in my sentence and additionally all of the representations of the im uh of the image tokens. And cross attention is just referring to when um you are having these tokens attend to these tokens which are not themselves. They're like a different set of tokens. Okay. So you can have all different types of attention masking strategies. And this one is popular for imageto text captioning. Uh we'll come back to um generative models and auto reggressive models a little bit later. Um and I'll end there for today.