The following content is provided by MIT Open Courseware under a creative common license. Additional information about our license and MIT Open Courseware in general is available at ocw.mmit.edu. Then uh and up on the web now are lots of sections including this conjugate gradient. So today is the end of the conjugate gradient discussion and it it's kind of a difficult uh algorithm. It's a it's it's beautiful and and slightly tricky but if I just see what the point is of conjugate gradients we don't have to check that the exact formulas that I listed here. So that's one step of conjugate gradients going from k minus one to k and we'll look at each uh each of the five uh steps in the cycle uh but without patiently checking all those formulas. We just sort of see how much work is involved. But let me begin where we were last time which was Arnoldi. So Arnoldi was a Graham Schmidt like algorithm not exactly Graham Schmidt that produced an orthogonal basis and that basis is the basis for the Krylooff subspace. So the each new vector in the Kry each new basis vector in the Kryov subspace is found by multiplying by another power of a but that that's a terrible basis. So that the basis that we get from these guys has to be improved orthogonalized and that's what Arnoldi does. And if we look to see what it does matrix-wise, it turns out to be exactly have that nice equation that we're creating a matrix Q with the orthogonal vectors and a matrix H that tells us how they were connected to the column to to the matrix A. Okay. So, uh that's the the u uh that that that's the central equation and the properties of h are important. Uh so we saw that so the key property was in in general uh we've got all it's full up in that upper corner just the way Graham Schmidt would be but in case A is a symmetric matrix then we we can check that H will be symmetric from this formula and the fact that it's symmetric means that those are zeros up there cuz that we know there are zero rows down here. We know there's only one diagonal below the main diagonal. And if it's symmetric, then there's only one diagonal above. And that's the great case that the the symmetric case uh when so I I'm going to take two seconds just to say here's the best way to find values. We haven't spoken one word about computing igen values but this is the this is the moment to say that word. If I have a symmetric matrix IGEN values are way way easier for symmetric matrices. Linear systems are also easier but igen values are order of magnitude easier for symmetric matrices. And here's a really good way to find the igen values of large matrices. I assume that you don't want all the igen values. I mean that is very uh unusual to need many many igen values of a big matrix. you're looking you're probably those high values are not really physically close good representations of the actual igen values of of the continuous problem. So we have continuous and discrete that are close for the low igen values because that's right that's where the the the error is smooth high values are not so reliable. So for the low igen values here's a good way to do them. do Arnoldi's al Arnoldi and it gets named also now after Lanchos because he had this value idea. Run that for a while. Say if you want 10 IGEN values maybe go up to J equal to 20. So 20 are nully steps quite reasonable. and then look at the 20x 20 submatrix of H. So you're you're not going to go to the end to H n going to stop at some point and you have this nice matrix. It'll be tronagonal symmetric tridagonal and that's the kind of matrix we know how to find the igen values of. So this is symmetric and trid diagonal and values of that of that class of matrices are are are very nice and they're very meaningful and they're very close to in many cases I won't try to give a theory here in many cases you get very good approximations the igen values of this submatrix are sometimes called ritz values vales and uh they are use the igen values of this submatrix and that those are often called ritz values and so the first 10 igen values of that 20x 20 matrix would be in many many problems very reason very fast very efficient uh approximations to the lowen values of the big matrix A that you start with. Okay. The reason is that igen value do you all recognize that Igen values that this is the operation when I bring Q inverse over here that I I I would call these matrices similar two matrices are similar if there's a a Q that connects them this way and similar matrices have the similar matrices have the same length lambdas the same values. So the full matrix Q if we went all the way to the end we could find its igen values. But the whole point of all this of this month is algorithms that you can stop part way and you still have something really good. Okay. So that's uh we're I think we can't do everything. So I won't try to do more with igen values but except to mention that someday you may want the igen values of a large matrix and uh uh I guess a r pack would be the arnoldi pack that would be the package to go to for uh for the arnoldi iteration and then to use for the igen values okay so that's A side point just since linear algebra is half of its linear systems and half of its igen value problems. I didn't think I could miss the chance to to to do that second half the value problem. Okay, now I'm going to tackle conjugate gradients to get the idea. Okay. So the idea well of course A is symmetric positive definite. If it's not you could try these formulas but you'd be uh taking a pretty big chance. If it is the these are just right. Okay. So what's the main point about here? Here's the rule that decides what X K will be. X K will be the vector in the Kryoff. Of course, X K is in this Kryoff space K. It's a it's a it's so it'll be uh we we'll we can create x k recursively and we should need just if we do it right should need just one multiplication by a at every step and then some um inner product. Okay. So now what do we know from this this vector? So, so this vector since I it it has this it starts with it has an x k that's in the kryoff subspace but now it's multiplied by a so that's up to the k plus first so this is and b is in the in the in k1 it's in all the kryov subspaces so this is in this is in and therefore rk is in this is in k k + one Right? This is in the next space up because there's a multiplication by a and therefore if we choose that to to determine it by this rule we learn that this vector I mean we already know from our ni that q k + one is orthogonal to this space. This is the new the new k + first vector that's in k k + one. So this is in just where this is to be found. So this this vector rk is found in the next kryop subspace. This one is in the next kryop subspace. They're both orthogonal to all the previous kryop subspaces. So they're one's a multiple of the other. So that will mean that automatically that the Rs have the same property that Arnold D created for the Q's. They're orthogonal. So the residuals are orthogonal. That that's so orthogonal residuals. Orthogonal residuals. Good. Uh I better say, by the way, when we do conjugate gradients, we don't also do Arnoldi. So Arnoldi is finding these Q's. We're leaving him behind for a while because we're going to go directly to the X's and Rs here. So I I I won't know the Q's, but the I know a lot about the Q. So it's natural to write this simple fact that each residual is a multiple of the new Q. And therefore it's orthogonal to all the other all the old ones. And now I want to this is the other property that determines uh the new x. So the new x should be what do I see here? I see a sort of delta x the the change in x the the the correction which is what I want to compute at step k that that's what I have to find. And I could look at the corrections at the old steps and notice there's an A in the middle. So the corrections to the X's are orthogonal in the in the A inner product or so and that's where the name conjugate comes from. So this is conjugate directions. Why do I say directions? And why do I say conjugate conjugate gradients even I could say? Why I I'll conjugate directions. I maybe shouldn't have erased that, but I'll I'll also say conjugate radians. Okay. So conjugate all I mean by conjugate is orthogonal in the natural inner product that goes with the problem and that's given by a. So the inner product given by the pro problem is the inner product of x and y is xrpose a y and that's a good inner product and and it's the one that comes with the problem and so natural to to to look at orthogonality in that sense and and that's what we have. So these are orthogonal in the usual sense because they have an A already built into them and these are orthogonal in the A inner product. Okay. So I wrote I wrote down two requirements on the new X. Well, actually, you might say I wrote down a whole lot of requirements because I'm I'm saying that this should hold for all the previous eyes and this should hold for all the previous eyes. And and you see indices are getting in here and you're you're I'm asking for your patience. What's the point that I want to make here? It's that it's this short recurrence point. this point that we had over here when h was just trid diagonal. So we only needed at the new step. The only things we had to find were uh the the uh say at the second step we just had to find that h and that h because this one was the same as that and then the next one we we well or may I may maybe didn't say that right. I guess when we Oh, let me start again. At the first step, I need to find two numbers. Now, because h is symmetric, that's already the same as that. So, at the next step, I need these two numbers. And then that number is already that. So, two numbers at every step and big zeros up here. That's the that's the key point when a is symmetric. So, the same will be true over here. we have two numbers and they're called alpha and beta. So they're a little different numbers because we're working with the x's now and not with the cubes. So you don't see any cubes written down for conjugate gradients. Okay. All right. Let me just look at the cycle of five steps you start with. So I have to give it a start. So I start with uh D0 as B and X0 as zero and I guess R0 which of course is B - A X0 if that's zero this it's it's also B. So those are the start. So I I'm ready to take a step. I know the the ones with subscript zero and I'm ready for the next step. I know the ones with subscript k minus one and I'm ready for this step. This cycle uh k. All right. So here's a number. So I'm I'm coming into the well let me say maybe how I should say it. I'm coming into that cycle with a new d. Now, what is a D? It's it's a search direction. It's the way I'm going to go. It's the direction in which this delta X is going to go. This delta X is going to be probably I'll see it here. Yeah, there is delta X is a multiple of D, right? If I do, if I put this on this side, that's delta X. The the the change in X is a multiple of D. So D is the direction in n dimensional space. that I'm looking uh for the correction and alpha is the number is how far I go along D for the best for the right delta x. So, so alpha will be determined by uh probably by that probably by that. Yeah. Yeah. It involves some it it involves an inner product. I'm picking off a component. Okay. So, I So, the first step is to find a number. The next step is to take that update. Delta X is the right multiple of the of the search direction that I'm coming in with. Then correcting R is easy. I'll come back to that. If I know the change in X, I know the change in R right away. So that's given me I'm now updated, but now I have to look ahead. What direction am I am I going to travel next? So the next steps are to find a number beta and then uh the search direction which isn't r it's r again with just a one one correction there. So that it's a beautiful set of formulas. Beautiful. And I could write uh you know because I know x's and rs I could write these formulas in there are different uh uh expressions for the same alpha and beta but this is a very satisfactory one. Okay have a look at that cycle just to see what how much work is involved how much work is involved in that cycle. Okay. Well, there's a multiplication by a. No surprise. It's that multiplication by a that takes us one to to the next kryov space takes us to the next uh update. So, I see a multiplication by a and also here, but it's the same multiplication. So, I see one multiplication by a. So, easy to list. So each cycle there's one multiplication a times the search direction and because a is a sparse matrix that's the the cost there is the number of nonzeros in the matrix okay then what else is what other computations do you have to do I see an inner product there and I'm going to use it again I guess and and here it is at the next step. So I guess I per cycle I have to do one inner product of R with itself and I have to do one of these inner products. So I see I see two inner products and of course these are vectors of length n. So that's 2 n multiplications, 2 n additions. Okay, this was a multiple of n depending how sparse a is. This is 2 n uh adds and 2 n multiplies for these two inner products. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I guess you could say take them take them there, right? Okay. And then what else do we have to do? Oh, we have these updates. So I have to multiply a vector by that scaler and add. So I have and and again here I multiply that vector by that scaler and subtract. Oh, and do I have to do it again here? Have I got three? Somehow I thought I might only have two. Uh yeah, two or let me say two or three vector updates. vector updates. People are much better than I am at uh spotting the right the right way to organize those calculations. But uh that's really a very small price to pay per cycle. And uh so if it converges quickly as it normally does uh this is going to be a good algorithm. Maybe I'll maybe having introduced the question of how quickly does it converge I should maybe say something about that. Uh so h what's the error after k steps? How is it related to the error at the start? So I have to first say what do I mean by this measure of error and then I have to say what's the what's um what's the I hope I see a factor less than one to the k power. Yeah. So I'm hoping some factor to the k power will be there and I'm sure hope it's less than one. Let me say what it is. I think so this is maybe not the very best estimate but it shows the main point is the square root of lambda max minus the square root of lambda min divided by the square root of that plus the square root of that and maybe there's a factor two somewhere here. So this is one estimate for the convergence factor and you see what it depends on. I could divide everything by by lambda min there. So that I could write that as the square root of the condition number but I'll divide by that minus one divided by the square root of the condition number plus one to the k power. So the condition number has a has a part in this uh error estimate and I won't derive that even in the notes I won't yeah and it's other people work out other estimates for the error it's a interesting problem and I do have to say that this norm is the is the natural inner product e k E K squared is the inner product of E K with itself but again with A in the middle. I I I suppose that uh a little part of the message here and on that middle board is that uh it's just natural to see the matrix A playing a part in the it just comes in naturally. conjugate gradient brings it in naturally. It it's these formulas are just created so that this so that this will work. Okay. So I I suppose I I'm thinking there's one word I haven't really justified and that's the word gradient. Why do we call it conjugate gradient? Here I erased a conjugate directions. I was quite happy with the directions or the D's the um because this is the direction in which we move from X. So conjugate directions would be just fine and that those words come into this part of numerical mathematics. But where do gradients come in? Okay, so let me say gradient of what? Well, what is Yeah. So first of all, the gradient of what is in these linear problems where ax= b those come from the gradients of the energy. So can I say E of X for the energy as 12 XRPOSE AX minus BRPOSE X. You might say where did that come from? We've normally we we've been talking about linear systems. Everything's been in terms of ax= b. And now suddenly I'm changing to a different part of mathematics. I'm looking at minimizing. So optimization the the part that's coming in April is minimizing energies minimizing functions. And what's the link? Well, if I minimize that the gradient of this is how shall I write grad e the gradient of e the list of the derivatives this is the this is the derivatives of e with respect to the x i and if we figure work that out well why don't why not pretend it's scalar for the moment so these are just numbers then this ordinary derivative of 12 ax^2 is ax and the derivative of bx is b and that rule continues into the vector case. So, so look what have we got here? We've computed we've introduced the the natural energy. So, this is the natural energy for the problem. And the reason it's natural is when we minimize it, set the derivatives to zero, we get the equation ax= b. So that would be zero at a minimum. This would equal zero at the min. So what I'm doing right now is pretty serious. On the other hand, I'll review I'll repeat it again in April when we do minimizations. But this is the this quadratic energy has a linear gradient and its minimum is exactly ax= b. The minimum point is ax= b. In other words, solving the linear equation and minimizing the energy are one and the same. one and the same. And I'm allowed to use the word min because a is positive definite. So the positive definitess of a is what means that this is really a minimum and not a maximum or a saddle point. Okay. So I was just I I wanted just to think about how do you minimize a function. I guess any sensible person given a function and looking for the minimum would figure out the gradient and move that way. Move well not up the gradient move down the gradient. So I I imagine this minimization problem. I imagine here I'm in X. This is the X, X1, X2, the the X's. Here's the E. E of X is some thing like that. Maybe its minimum is there. This is a graph of E of X. And I'm trying to find that point. And I make us first guess somewhere there. somewhere on that surface. Maybe I just so to help your eye, this is this is a hole. This is a like a bowl and maybe there's a point. So that's on the surface of the bowl. That's X0. Let's say I'm trying to get to the bottom of the bowl. And as I said, any sensible person would figure out, well, what's the steepest way down? The steepest way down is the direction of the gradient. So I could call this gradient G if I wanted. But and then I would go in the direction of minus G because I want to go down and not up. I mean, we're we're climbing uh I shouldn't say climbing. We're descending uh a mountain and trying to get to the or descending a valley. Sorry, we're descending into a valley and trying to get to the bottom. And I'm assuming that this valley is this nice shape given by uh just a second degree polomial. Of course, when we get to optimization, this will be the simplest problem, but not the only one. Here, it's our problem. Now, of course, so what happens if I move in the direction of the direction water would flow? If I if I tip a Vasa water on the ground, it's going to flow in the steepest direction. And that's would be the natural direction to go but it's not the best direction. Maybe the first step is but what let me so I want to I'm talking now about conjugate gradient seen as a minimization problem because that's where the word gradient is justified. This is the gradient and of course this is just minus the residual. So this is the direction of the residual. So that's the question should I just go in the direction of the residual all the time at every step and this is what the method of steepest descent will do. So let me so so let me make the contrast. Steepest descent is the first thing you would think of direction is R. That's the gradient direction or the negative gradient direction. Follow R until in that in that direction you've hit bottom. So you'll go down this right? Do you see what happens? You'll be going down one side and you'll hit bottom and then you'll come up again on a on a plane that's cutting through the surface. But you're not going to hit that first shot. You when you start here, see water would the the actual steepest direction, the gradient direction changes as the water flows down to the bottom. But here we're we've chosen a fixed direction. We're following it as long as we're going down. But then it'll start up again. So we stop there and find the gradient again there. Follow that down till it goes up again. Follow that down until it goes up again. And the trouble is convergence isn't great. The trouble is that we we end up even if we're if we're in 100 dimensional space, we end up uh sort of just our our our repeated gradients are not really in good new directions. We find ourselves doing a lot of work to make a little progress. And the so the reason is that these these Rs don't have the property that you're always looking for in computation. Orthogonality. Somehow orthogonality tells you that you're really getting something new if it's orthogonal to the all the old ones. Okay. Now, so this the direction R uh is is not great. The better one is to have some orthogonality. Take a direction D well here here's the point. This is the right direction. This is the direction conjugate gradients choose. This is where so it's a gradient but then it removes the component in the direction we just took. That's what that beta will be. That's what when we compute that beta. And I'm a little surprised that it isn't a minus sign. No, it's okay. Yeah. Uh it it it turns out uh that way. Let me just be sure that I wrote this formula down right. At least wrote it down as I have it here. Yep. Again, I'm not checking the formulas, but just describing the ideas. So the idea is that this formula gives us a new direction which has this property two that we're after. that the direction it's not actually orthogonal. It's a orthogonal to the other to the previous directions. Okay, I I'm going to draw one picture of what oops not on that of these directions and then that's the my best I can do with conjugate gradients. I I want to try to draw that this search for the bo for the for the bottom of the valley. So I'm going to draw that search by drawing the level sets of the function. I'm going to the yeah somehow the contours of my function are since my function is a since my function here is quadratic all the all the contours the level sets will be ellipses they'll all be sort of like similar ellipses and there is the one I want that's the bottom of the valley so this is the contour where energy three this is the contour energy two this is a contour energy one and there's the point where the energy is a minimum well it might be negative doesn't whatever but it's the smallest okay so what does can I compare steepest descent with conjugate gradients let me draw one more contour just so I have enough to make this point okay so steepest descent starts somewhere Okay. Starts there. Let's say oh that's my starting point. Steepest ascent goes if I draw it right. It'll go perpendicular right that it goes perpendicular to the level contour. You carry along until as long as the contours are going down. And then if I continue here, I'm climbing back up the valley. So I'll stop here. Let let's suppose that that happened to be tangent right there. Okay. Now that was the first step of steepest descent. Now I'm at this point. I look at this contour and well if I've drawn it reasonably well, I'm following maybe per perpend. Now again I'm perpendicular. Sepus descent says go perpendicular to the contour until you've got to the bottom there, then down, then up, then do you see this frustrating crawl across across the valley? It wouldn't happen if these contours were circles. If these contours if a was the identity matrix. If a was the identity matrix, these would be perfect circles and you'd go to the center right away. Well, that only says that ax= b is easy to solve when a is the identity matrix. So this is steepest descent and its rate of convergence is slow because its rate of con the the longer and thinner the valley the the worse it is here. Okay. What about conjugate gradients? Well, I'm just going to draw a magic I'm going to make it look like magic. I'm going to start the same place. I'll the first step I all I'll because I'm starting with zero. The best thing I can do is follow the gradients to there. And now, so that was the first step. And now what? Well, the next direction. So, these are search. These are the search directions. That's the search direction. D1, D2, D3, D4. Here's D1. And what does D2 look like? May I cheat and make and go straight to the center? That's a little bit of a cheat. I'll just I'll go near the center. The the the next direction is much more like that. and then it goes to the bottom which would be somewhere like there inside that level set and then the next direction would probably be very close. So th this is not 90° unless you're in the a inner product. So this is 90° angle in the A inner product because and what does the A inner product do in the A inner product in this in which level sets are circles or spheres or whatever in whatever DN mention we we want well I I'm not going to be I don't want to be held to everything here. If you see this picture then we've not only made headway with the conjugate gradient method which is a big deal for solving linear systems but also we've made headway with the conjugate gradient method for minimizing functions. And if the function wasn't quadratic and our equations weren't linear, the conjugate gradient idea would still be available. Nonlinear conjugate gradients would somehow follow this same idea of of a orthogonal uh search directions. So So these are not the gradients, they're the search directions really. Okay. is that that's sort of my speech about um about the conjugate gradient method without having checked all the formulas in the cycle. We know how much work is involved. We know what we get and we see a bit of the geometry. Okay, that's and we see it as a linear system solver and also as a energy minimizer and those are both the those are both important ways to think of conjugate radians. Okay, I'll just take a few final minutes to uh say a word about uh other what if our problem is not symmetric positive definite What if we have an unsymmetric problem or a symmetric but not positive definite problem? Well, in that case um these these denominators could be could be zero. They could I mean if if we don't know that a is positive definite that could be a zero it could be anything and and that method is broken. So uh I want to suggest a safer but more expensive method now for so this will be minres minimum residual. So the idea is minimize choose x k to minimize the norm of rk that's the residual. So minimize the norm of B minus A X K. Okay. So that's my choice of XK. And the question is how quickly can I do it? So this is minres, right? Okay. And uh and there are other related methods. So I'm there's a whole family of methods. What do I want to say about minres? Let me just find minres. Well, yeah, there I guess uh here for this I will I will use start with Arnold. So for this different algorithm which comes up with a different XK I'm going to and of course the X K is going to be in the Kryov space KK and I'm going to use this good basis this gives me the basis of of the great basis of Q's. So I turn my problem I convert the problem. I convert the this minimization. I I I look for X I look for X as a combination of the of the cubes. Right? Is that how you see X= QY? So instead of looking for the vector X, I'm looking for the vector Y, which tells me what combination of these columns, the Q's is X is. In other words, I'm working in the Q system, the Q basis. So I'm working with Y. So I would naturally write this as a minimum of B minus A Q YK. Same problem. same problem. I'm just deciding, okay, I'm going to find this X as a combination of the Q's because those Q's are orthogonal and and that will make this calculation a lot nicer. Okay, what's going to happen here? You know that I'm going to use the property of the Q's that AQ is qh. That was the key point that Arnoldi achieved. And the net result is going to be of course I have to do this at level K. So I'm chopping it off and I have to patiently and the notes do that patiently see okay what's happening when we chop it off chop off these matrices. We have to watch where the nonzeros appear. In the end, I get to a minimization problem for Y. So, we we get to a minimum problem minimum problem for the matrix H for for a matrix H that leads me to the to the Y. Okay. The the Y that I'm after. So, it's a minimum problem for for for for a piece. Sorry, I should really say H K some some piece of H like this piece. In fact, exactly that piece. So if I ask all right suppose I have a le squares problem. This is le squares because my norm is just the square the norm squared. Uh I'm just working with L2 norm. And here's my matrix. Then uh it's 3x2. So I'm looking for I'm looking at least squares problems in that in that uh uh matrices of that type and they're easy to solve. I won't the notes will give the algorithm that solves the le squares problem. I guess what I'm interested in here is just is it expensive or not. Well the le squares problem will not be expensive. It's only got one extra row compared to the number of columns. That's not bad. What's expensive is the fact that our H is not triagonal anymore. These are not zeros anymore. So the next problem I have to figure I have to compute all these hes. So the the hard work is back in Arnoldi. So the so it's arnoldi arnoldi leading to mid minres and the work is we have serious work already in our nulli we don't have short recurrences we've got all these ages okay enough because uh these rpack would be a a good code to uh call to do uh minres okay that that's my shot at the key Kryof algorithms of numerical linear algebra and you see that they're more they're more subtle than Jacobi. Jacobi and Gausidel were just straight simple iterations. these have uh uh recurrence that that produces orthogonality and that's that's you pay very little and you get so much. Okay, so that's uh Kryoff methods and that section of notes is up on the web and um of course at some point numerical comparisons of how to conjug how fast is conjugate gradient and and is it faster than direct elimination? You know what? Because that's a big choice you have to make. Suppose you do have a symmetric positive definite matrix. Do you do Gaus elimination with reordering minimum degree or do you make the completely different choice of iterative methods like conjugate gradients? And you that's a decision you have to make when you're when you're faced with a large matrix problem and only experiments can compare two such widely different uh directions to take. So uh I'm always I like to end up with a with a by emphasizing how that there's still a big question. do this or do uh minimum degree and uh only some experiments will show what's uh which is the better. Okay. So that's good for today and next time will be um direct solution using the FFT. Good. Thanks.