Okay, I'm going to start. Thanks everyone for coming to the seventh lecture. So in the in the lecture, this is the plan. Um I'm going to introduce what the deep learning optimization problem looks like which I think you all already know. Um I want to cover some classical approaches towards optimization. Um and these are things that often times people in deep learning know about them and sort of want them to work but uh in practice we don't use these things really to do deep learning optimization. Um so we want to kind of introduce them and how we think about them and think then think about maybe why we perhaps don't use them. and then towards the end of the lecture I'll talk a bit about making the training really scalable and making the optimization algorithm scale well as you scale the architecture of your neural network. Um and then at the end I just want to talk a little bit about because this is kind of like my like my research area also working on it with Philip. Um so I want to just tell you a little bit about some of the things that we're thinking about but you can be a little skeptical or um uh you know ask the difficult questions because it's that's that's what you should do. Um okay so this is a reminder that you know so far we've looked at this puzzle and I think you know we've looked at the first piece of the puzzle approximation and the third one generalization um so these were the questions of does there exist a neural network in my model family that fits the training data if it does exist can I find it and does it do well on unseen data But a a perspective people sort of have at the moment we could argue, you know, it may not be true, but just for the sake of argument, you know, people are kind of like, okay, approximation we've kind of solved that now because we just, you know, you just use a transformer for everything. Really big transformer. Generalization, we've kind of solved because you just get so much data that everything generalizes. like if you if you have enough if you have the whole universe of training data you'll never overfit. Um and something something well that they we could probably those are slightly too extreme positions but just for the sake of argument and for the sake of argument the thing that is we can improve upon is optimization. Uh, and this is like if this is the mindset you have if you're in a, you know, if you're like a deep learning startup and you just want to make the optimization as efficient as possible and then you you just like throw the big neural network at the problem and and collect lots of data, but okay, maybe a two car what's the word caricature of a take, but it's a anyway, this lecture we're just going to talk about the second question, optimization. Um, so I wanted to write it down in a kind of formal way where we have a a neural network which is a function f and it takes inputs and weights and it gives you an output and we have an error measure which I'll call L and you think of this is like cross entropy or square error and you think of yhat as your prediction and y as your target and it somehow just measures the difference between them in some uh and then we collect here training data. So here I'm thinking about like kind of pairs of of data with inputs and targets and and capital n is the number of data points in my data set. Um and then I'm going to write down you know an example of a kind of classic uh machine learning or deep learning loss function which is something like the average over the data set of like let me just call it li I to be the error on the data point and li would be uh it would be what that means it's shorthand for the loss between you know the output of the neural net on exam example I with weight w and you know it's the discrepancy between that and the the i target. Um so this is kind of what a a loss function often times looks like in machine learning. Um and you know you you pick f these days we pick f to be a really big transformer and we pick uh you know n we make it really really large. uh and then we just try to find the w that minimizes this this loss function. Um so there's two features I want to point out at this stage. One is that the loss function has a kind of compositional structure where we have an error measure um and a neural network and we sort of glue them together. So there there's there's two things there. The error measure and the neural network and and they're composed with each other. So that's like an interesting part of of the loss function. And you know the other is that we average over the over the training set. Um and this is a picture of what we're doing. So we we set up this loss function and you know we start at some weight setting that has a you know a large loss and then we try to like move the weights to the place with the small loss and we we think about going you know downhill on this and and we compute the gradients and and and we try to get closer and closer and eventually like stop at this point hopefully. Um and so that that's just saying that we iterate this this gradient descent operation. Um and oops let's see and and this is the learning rate or the step size which I just call EA and this is the gradient. Um okay so what makes this hard? In a sense it's not hard because you know we we do it all the time and we can train really big machine learning models and it doesn't seem to be you know we can do it but what are some of the things which uh which make this like challenging in a way like some of the examples are um there there are lots of weights it's like really highdimensional optimization um another thing is like the neural network may be very deep. It has lots of layers and and that can make for a while we couldn't train really really deep neural networks but you know with some advances now we can. Um what else is hard? There's lots of data. so usually um we do like stochastic gradients. we like compute gradients on a handful of data points and then on the next iteration we pick another handful of data points and and we so that sort of means that we just have noisy estimates of the full gradient across all the data points. Um but what for the purpose of this lecture I actually kind of want to ignore this problem and and like these two first problems are already kind of like if you just just think about those ones there's already a lot of interesting things to say and things to think about. So in in other words um for the sake of this lecture let's just like assume that we're in the full batch setting i.e. we can like evaluate the true gradient of the whole loss function on all the data at every step. Let's just assume that we can do that. okay. Um so towards the end of the lecture I want to um talk a little bit about some of the problems that we have when we do scaling when we like scale up scale up our neural network. So I I want you to think that like this is a neural network where I pass in an input here and I get the output. Um, and I'm either going to be interested in kind of scaling the width, like making the network wider, or potentially scaling the depth and making the network deeper. Um, and we kind of run into two kind of nuisances when we do this if you do it naively. Um, and the first one is actually a little bit explored in the in this homework. Um, but so this is a plot of training loss. uh and I'm I'm training networks with a with a range of learning rates on the x- axis and I'm the different curves are sort of increasing width. So so as I go down it's getting wider. Um and what you typically see is that if you make your neural network wider you see that the the the best loss you achieve kind of you see it kind of it you get a better loss as you make the network wider which is good. That's why people want to scale their network because they it improves the performance. Um but you sort of see that um on the other hand if you look at the the learning rate which which gets the best loss it sort of changes as I scale my as I scale my model the best learning rate changes. So that means like typically if you train on neural network you don't run this full sweep of learning rate you just pick a learning rate and then maybe you try to scale your model and you try to train run the training again and you find oh my training isn't working because uh just because I made my neural network bigger but and then then you have to reune the learning rate at the large scale um so this is just like a kind of nuisance that as we scale the whole lost kind of landscape as a function of step size is kind of drifting uh that's a nuisance And similarly if we scale depth and we make the network deeper. So it's the same the different curves here are as I go down it's increasing depth and we're plotting training loss against learning rate and something you can see if you do this naively you just find that like performance gets worse as I make my model deeper which is um that's like undesirable. Yeah, >> I'm confused about the optimal learning rate because it looks like the um the training loss kind of drifts but it retains the same shape. So the learning rate um the optimal learning rate and like finding that minist >> Oh yeah, let's just pick two points and just compare them. So let's say that we're we're at width 32. like the best loss is about here on the dark blue curve and that corresponds to like this learning rate which is if if if we're at a larger width 124 the best loss occurs here and it just corresponds to a different learning rate so it's the fact that the minima occur at like different points on the x- axis that's that's what I'm trying to point out yeah >> do we have any intuition of why the optimal learning rate changes as you scared a bit. >> Yeah, that's at the end of the towards the end of the lecture I'll try to like explain why. >> Oh, yeah. Sorry. >> So, I'm just curious like in practice people use deeper networks, but if you're just looking at this graph here, you not loses worse the deeper you go. So, how do you reconcile? [snorts] >> Yeah. So this is basically like pre let's say 2015 people the max depth people went to was like let's say 16 or something and then people figured out techniques that oh now you can train a network with thousands of layers. So I'm just saying if you do things very naively like if you don't know that much about deep learning this is like you would see this type of behavior and then as you learn more and more then you like know how to fix these problems. So I'll talk a little bit about how to fix some of these problems. Yes. Essentially the fix for depth is like use a residual architecture and um and set up the residual blocks in a good way and like you could use a residual architecture and set up the residual blocks back badly and you'd still see this kind of behavior or set up the the interaction between the optimization algorithm and the residual blocks. So like if you solve at least enough of the problems you can fix this behavior and if you solve all the problems then you can fix it in a kind of nearly really nice way where everything the optimal learning rate always transfers across scale and so on. And that's the same on the left where you can eliminate. >> Yeah. What the point on the left is that even with all the all the latest fixes prior to like 2021, it had it had that drift even but then if you know all the literature from 2021 until now, then you can fix it for sure. Um, so anyway, these are just some examples of some problems how things can go badly when we scale and like if you if you're trying to scale massive transformers, you don't even you may not even have the resources to tune all the hyperparameters of a really big model. So you may be like in this regime where you can only tune things at small scale and then try to transfer them. So that's like one of the applications of like fixing this type of problem. Um okay but that was just uh some that was just a kind of teaser for the end of the lecture. Now I want to just let's go back to basics and just how do we how should we think about designing optimization algorithms and solving optimization problems. Um so I want to look at a couple different types of methods. Um the first is first order methods which only use first derivatives. And so they're basically only use gradients which if you think about it is kind of what we do in deep learning. Um and I'm going to use this symbol G as a shortand for the derivative of the last with respect to its weights. So G G is always going to mean the gradient of the last with respect to the weights i.e. the thing that you get by doing back propagation. Um and then there's also second order methods which in addition to first derivatives they also use the second derivatives of the of the loss function. Um so that that they're called second order methods and um that this symbol h is going to be a shorthand for the second derivatives of the last with respect to the weights. So it's a big matrix of second derivatives. So if you you can think of the gradient as being one big vector has seen as like a matrix of second derivatives corresponding to all pairs of second derivatives. Um okay and the thing that I hope to uh kind of get at is to kind of explain the modeling assumptions that different approaches make. Um, and then also think about like kind of potential shortcomings of those modeling assumptions. Um, so hopefully so you should always ask if I present something to you, you should always say like well why don't we do this? Why don't we actually do this in practice? That should be the question that you have. Uh, okay. So all of these different methods I would argue start by tailor expanding the loss function. So different classical approaches to optimization take the tailor expansion as a starting point. And I'm writing I'm writing this tailor expansion like this. Um but because we introduced the shortand I can I can rewrite it like this. So the first order term is gradient inner product delta w and then the second order term is you know it's this like a hessian term. Um so the tailor expansion up to second order is like a quadratic form and then you know it's like a multivariate tailor expansion. Um so again just as this is the last evaluator that a kind of perturbed weight vector a weight vector plus a delta w and then we can just write out the tailaylor expansion. Um and I want to give this these two terms I want to give them a name and we'll call them the linearization of our loss function and then all the higher order things we'll sort of call like the nonlinear part. Um and again you know we're using the shorthand the gradient is this and the hessen matrix is this thing. Um and I just wanted to just visually give you like a picture. So the gradient we can think of as this big vector and the hessen we can think of as a big matrix and if there are d if if there are d parameters in the whole neural network if the the size of the weight space is like dimensions um the gradient is like d by one and the hessen is like d by d so it's it's a d by d matrix So our first method that we that I want to talk about is called Newton's method. So people already know is it like something that people have have heard about? Yeah. Well, okay, let's just quickly talk about it. So the the idea of Newton's method is we kind of drop or remember there were all those higher order terms in the T expansion. We just kind of forget about them. Let's just uh ignore them. Um and take the tailor expansion up to first order. And then we're going to think about picking our optimization step as as choosing a delta W. Like we think of W as our current weights. And we're going to pick a delta W to add to them. And the way we're going to do that is we're going to minimize this quadratic form with respect to the the weight perturbation delta W. Um, wait. Does anyone know how to how do I minimize that quadratic form? Can someone tell me how do I do it? >> Yeah, that's about it. >> Exactly. So we differentiate it with respect to delta w which gives me lambda over 2 * 2 h delta w and then we these cancel and then we set the derivatives to zero. That's like that thing that we all did once upon. Yeah, we Okay. And then we just solve for delta w by rearranging and we get like this thing and we could just call this Newton's method. So it's like uh and people describe this as like you get your gradient and then they talk about preconditioning it with like the inverse hessier but it basically means you take the hessen you invert it and then you multiply it with the gradient and we call this Newton's method for and it's an optimization algorithm that uses first and second order information. Um so I just rewrote I rewrote that here. So what are the problems like why don't we actually use Newton's method to train neural networks? What are the >> problem? >> Yeah. So what problem one is that like the hassen is D byD matrix and you know D may be billions in a in a you know a large neural network. So you can't even store such a large matrix and if you could you couldn't invert it and you just basically it's just too big. Um what's another problem with Newton's method is if you think about how we derived it is this is this are we sure that this procedure is giving us a minimum of the quadratic form do we know all we did is >> it's just the first yeah so what do you mean could it be a minimum or could it be something else it could be a maximum right it's just finding a critical point of the quadratic form um so it could you know if it's close to a max it could find a maximum. So it's not even a you know necessarily doing gradient descent it could be doing gradient asset. Um and there there are ways to fix this these type of things like there's something called cubic regularization which adds a cubic penalty to the quadratic form and um but people don't use that. Um and anytime we present a method, there's always like attempts to make it practical and like there's a literature on that method. Um but then in practice we just use Adam to train neural networks. Um okay. So then that was that's Newton method. Now we're going to look at something called Gaus Newton method which is a little bit different. Um and it starts with something called the Gaus Newton decomposition. So here uh we suppose that we have a composite objective function like it's the composition of two functions which is remember we actually have that in machine learning because we have an error and we have a neural net. So we're actually in this situation. that's what this is saying. Um so let's derive the gaus Newton decomposition. So we start with the gradient which is dl by dw. Because we have a composite we can do the chain rule. So we get dl by df df by dw. So that's just chain rule. Uh and now let's say we want to know about the hessen. This is the second derivative of the loss with respect to the weights. Well now we just need to differentiate the gradient again. But we recognize now that we have a product. So we can do like uh the product rule. Um okay. And let me just remember how to do the product rule. D. So this is this this is like the derivative of this with respect to W. and then one application of the chain rule. Um and then the there's this term which is just like this term and I haven't differentiated it and then the and then we have to do the second thing which is uh like I don't differentiate this one and I do differentiate this one. So I get dl by df d ^2 f by dw ^2. Okay. And so what I hope to have shown you is that if you just have a composition of two things, you can derive a formula for the second derivative and it splits up into two pieces because of the product rule. We just call that the gaus Newton decomposition. Um so I wrote it out. Uh so what this is saying is that the full hashen of a composite decomposes into these two pieces and we think of if we think of this as being the curvature it's like the second order information about the the whole objective function you can break it up into the second order information about the error with respect to the model and the second order information about the model with respect to the weights. So it's like decomposing curvature into one piece from the error and one piece from the model. That's called Gaus Newton decomposition. Um so then what do what do people do is they say let's pretend that our error measure is the squared error. And we know that for the squared error the second derivative with respect to the model is just basically one or some. Yeah. Okay. Um so then basically we can drop this term. we just say that that's why. Um, and then they say, let's just ignore the curvature of our model and let's just ignore this term. And that's like uh it's just an assumption that people make. They they say, hey, this I don't really know how to deal with this term, so let's just ignore it. Um and okay if so under those under those like steps h which is d^ 2 al by dw ^2 is just equal to somehow the product of df by dw and df by dw. Um so then if I want to do a newton method but using this form of the hessen um what does Newton's method look like? It's delta w is minus h inverse g which is now minus df by dw df by dw inverse g. Okay, if you go through this you you'll realize that all of these things are tenses and you need to be careful about all the indexing but but that's something that to just check. But essentially it's a and we we we call this thing the Gaus Newton method because it uses it started with the Gaus Newton decomposition. Um and it's just another way of deriving an algorithm which looks like some kind of iterative weight update. Um but what I and I I've just rewritten it here. So this is this thing that we're calling the Gaus Newton method. And remember these are the derivatives of the model with respect to the weight. So it's not the same thing as the regular gradient that you usually think about. It's a different gradient. Um okay. And this is just to remind you about the the kind of assumptions that the method made. Like one is just drop this term and the other one is like set this one to one. Um so what do people think of the problem? Like what's the problem? like why don't I actually do this? Um >> for deep learning you may have a low rank student approximation. >> Oh, so that could be a reason why why I would want to do it. Is that what what you're saying? >> No, no, no. Why you wouldn't want to? >> Oh, because you're saying if it's low rank, I can't invert it. >> Yeah, that could Yeah, I I need to think more about that, but you might be right. Um yeah, often times people will always just if they want to invert something, they'll add a little bit of identity matrix to it and then to kind of give it better conditioning and then they'll just invert that. But um I think that this yeah that's a great point. What basically what I wanted to say is it involves inverting a matrix like it involves forming an extra matrix and then inverting it and not only that it it also involves like computing these extra derivatives like not only do you have to compute the regular gradient which is this one you have to compute these extra derivatives um and people are not going to want to do that in practice unless they're really convinced that there's a really like big improvement to using this method. And basically no one's convinced nobody's convinced them of that. So they just don't use it. That's like the the kind of practical reason why people would not use this. Um but there's a lot of research trying to make this type of thing practical. Um okay. So I I'll just write like extra extra gradients that you've got to compute and then like inverting matrices. These are kind of things which count against it a little bit. Yeah, go ahead. I just don't get why you have to comput the f >> it is but because you comput do the gradient by back propagation you never explicitly form df by dw like think about how you actually calculate g you'll realize like because you start from the the end of the network and work backwards you never compute df by dw but it is implicitly there but you're not computing But if you did forward mode automatic differentiation, then I think you would get both of them. But but it's it's much more expensive to do forward mode automatic differentiation. Um yeah. Okay. So that was Gaus Newton method. This one is called steepest descent. So now we're in like square. I'm not sure whether you should think of Gaus Newton as being first order or second order because it Oh yeah. Can you give us an intuition for how much more expensive the inversion would be or the gradient would be because like when I hear like oh we're inverting a matrix I'm like well we're already training a neural network so would be >> yes I'm for Gaus Newton I'm not let's just talk about Newton so let's pretend it's the full hessen um I'm not an expert on all these I think isn't it cubic the cost of inverting a matrix it's basically equivalent to computing a singular value decomposition I just have an intuitive sense that you never want to do those. They're much more expensive than computing like a a forward pass or a backward pass. That's the passes like quadratic or the input >> uh in the well how so how do they scale with the dimension? That's that's the question. Um well they're somehow linear in the number of layers and then you need to ask what is the cost of of doing a forward on an individual layer and like and then you also have factors like this is a good thing to think about. I'm not going to give you the answer because I don't have it but the other factors that are involved are like GPUs are like great at doing matrix multiplication. They're basically designed to do forwards on layers and to do backwards on layers, but they're not designed to invert matrices or or do singular value decompositions. So it's these are things that if you just get a collab notebook and start playing around like very quickly you can get a sense of how these different algorithms compare against each other in terms of complexity. But these are the right yeah they're the right questions to ask or the right things to think about. I think sorry >> you mentioned that we need to comput the partial partial model explicitly and we're not doing that a backward pass is it because like for backward pass we're actually computing like the gradient for each module like like a sub all parameters but here you really need a big matrix like including the gradient Yeah. >> Yeah. Let me just give you an intuitive sense of like why we're definitely not computing those derivatives doing a regular backward pass. Would that maybe that would answer the question? But think like G is the derivative of the loss which is a single number with respect to all of the weights. Whereas the the output of the network it could be outputting a tensor and df by dw is for every component of that tensor is one derivative. It's like d the d the sorry it's the derivative of the first component of that tensor with respect to all the weights. It's the derivative of the second component of that tensor with all the weights with respect to all the weights. So it's like a it's just a bigger tensor than the gradient and and you really want to avoid explicitly forming that and back propagation allows you to do that because you only ever track derivatives with respect to the loss which is a single number. So yeah, but thinking yeah thinking through like it's just implementing actually implement back prop for yourself is like a really good exercise that forces you to it forces you to think about these things and because PyTorch and because the the packages we have are so automated you can actually like have a whole career without ever implementing backdrop or thinking about what gradients look like. Um but it's a really good exercise to do that I would just say. Um, okay. I think I'm doing okay on time. So, like, yeah, don't be afraid if you do have questions. Um, I Okay, so the next one is called steepest descent. And again, we get this tailor expansion. So, it's always always get this tailor expansion. And this time we're going to again we're just going to throw away the nonlinear part. And we're just going to replace it with lambda over two. So lambda is a number. It could be five. Um and then we we choose our favorite norm and we measure the norm of delta w and we square it. Um so steepest descent what I'm saying is a technique where you just you say the nonlinear part I don't even know what that nonlinear part is let me just replace it with something which I which I know very well um and actually a lot of a lot of optimization methods actually have that flavor of just like take the thing that I I don't even know how to deal with it and just replace it with something that I you know I like. Yeah. So, but what's the rationale behind this replacement? Like why you choose this specific replacement or something else? >> That's a great question. Um, let's we will try I'll try to answer it. But let me just first show you what the implications are of different choices and then we can try to think about how we would actually make this choice. Um, but yeah. Uh, okay. So the point is what what are some of people's favorite norms? I'm going to start like uklidian norm. Okay. Like some someone else >> so like that's if we have a matrix if we have a weight matrix norm. >> What's another one? >> Max. >> Max. Say infinity nor is Is that what you >> wait? Okay, one more. >> Huh? >> What? Say >> the LP norm. >> Yeah. Which like P= 2 is uklidious. >> Wait. Okay. One some of the Yeah. >> Tail divergence kind of different. >> Yeah. It's actually not a norm, but it's let's just add it. uh it doesn't satisfy all the properties. It's not symmetric or it's not some it's not something. So it's it's actually not a norm, but it's another that's a measure of distance, but it's technically not a norm. Um okay, so the point to illustrate is like there's a lot of norms and so there's a lot of steepest descent methods because there's a lot of norms and this is there's many more norms than what we talked about. So let's just start with L2 norm or uklidian norm. So I put now I and we're considering this a model because we threw away what our loss function actually is and we're just modeling the the nonlinear part. Um and just to remember just to remind you that the a ball of fixed uklidian norm is like a circle or a sphere like these are two balls of fixed uklidian norm. Um, and we're going to do our favorite our favorite thing of of minimizing the right hand side. How how do we how how do we minimize it? So I wait I uh how to someone someone tell me how do I minimize it? >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So that's the take the derivative set it to zero and it's g plus okay you need to like work out how to take a derivative of a squared ukidian norm but it's just lambda delta w is equal to zero and I rearrange it and I get delta w is minus one over lambda times the gradient and so then I I recognize this I say hey this is this is just like the most vanilla form of gradient descent with a with Oops. With a particular step size like a step size of one over lambda. So I make lambda I make the penalty larger by increasing lambda and my step size gets smaller. So it's like it's kind of interesting that there's some some connection between like regular old gradient descent and like a L2 geometry on your on your some optimization space. So let's do another example. Um, so this time we put the infinity norm. Uh, and the remember that the unit ball in the infinity norm is like not a really looking like a ball anymore. It's more of a kind of square. So the infinity norm is just measuring the maximum size of a vector across the coordinates. Um, I can just write that. Um and the absolute value. Uh okay. So has anyone done the homework already? Nobody. Okay. Does anyone know the answer? If I minimize the right hand side, what is it? Does anyone know? Yeah. So this is all this is on the homework. So if you just solve this, it's not quite as simple as just differentiating because of the um because a max is not really continuous in some sense. Um but it the the solution is like the L1 norm of the gradient divided by lambda times the sign of the gradient where the sign is like plus or minus one. It's plus one if the thing is positive and minus one if the thing is negative and you apply that across the coordinates of the vector. So it's like oh I set my my norm to infinity norm and like now I get like this like sign gradient descent algorithm. like interesting and there's a reading um that that we posted and it it's like a blog post that talks a little bit about this if you want and it has some like interactive visualizations. So if if you want to visualize some of these things um okay and I'm I still want to get that that question of like how would you how should you choose a norm in practice is the right question to ask but we we still haven't answered that question. I'm just showing showing you if you pick this norm you get this algorithm. If you pick this norm you get this other algorithm. The the question we should ask is how do we pick such a norm. Um okay but before that and I guess yeah um let's just look at how this how this looks for a general norm and we like even though it's a general norm we can still actually say something about it and what you can show and I think this is also on the homework is to show that it decompos the solution to this thing can be sort of transformed into this other thing. Um, and we can think of this as like we think of this as being the step size or the learning rate. Um, and we think of this as being the direction, say the step direction. And we can sort of separate the solution of the steepest descent problem into two pieces. One is computing the step size, the other is computing the direction. And like this this funny thing is called a dual norm. It's like every norm has a duel which we call it dual norm and it appears as in this. Anyway, this is on the homework. Um and this is something that you can show. So there's like a general formulation of the solutions of the problem. Yeah, go ahead. >> I see what you're doing. There's no guarantee when we plug in >> there's no guarantee that what the >> Yes, there is no guarantee. Yeah, there's no guarantee about this at all because I said take your loss function, throw away the nonlinear part, and just replace it with your favorite norm. So, that doesn't sound like the kind of thing that's going to give you a guarantee. It sounds like kind of random or uh but it's a it's a framework for thinking about deriving different optimization algorithms. for the framework to actually apply what you would want to do is you would want to yeah let's just talk about this because of the fact that we can >> how much we off >> yes the larger and larger lambda is somehow the better the model should be in a sense is that what you're saying because Yeah, you don't you never move too far. If you make lambda infinite, you never move anywhere. So, you're always within the linear region and then the model holds. But it's like you wouldn't know how big you need to make lambda to be for that to work. That's the problem. Exactly. So, let me just let's just think a little bit about how how we could really pick such a norm. So, remember that let's just go back to get the tailor expansion. So this is this is the tailor expansion assuming that the loss function is analytic which it's not always but let's assume it is then this tailor expansion really holds. But what if what if we could do the following thing? What if we could upper bound the tailor expansion with the linear piece and and we could produce a lambda and we could produce a norm such that this was really an upper bound. Um if we could produce such a lambda and then we could get the kind of guarantees that you're talking about. And actually on the homework you're going to do this although it's a bonus question so maybe you're not going to do it but if if you want to you can do it and for for the case of a linear model a linear predictor in the square loss um and then the hope of putting that on the homework is you would then think what if I don't have a linear predictor what if I have like a two-layer neural net how would I do it then what if I had like a five layer neural net how would I do it then and that's essentially what I I'm trying to do in my like research at the moment is like try to answer that question but yeah anyway so that was that's the end of classical methods for optimization um and now I want to think about on a purely curistic and purely intuitive level how to make the training really scalable um and then if there's time at the end which it seems like there might be um you can start trying to think about how to build a more formal theory around on this type of thing. Um, okay. Does anybody have more questions? >> So, do we update all the components of W at the same time? >> Yeah. >> Exactly. That's why the sign function appears because the sign of a vector is maps a vector to another vector where all the components have the same magnitude. >> Just repeat the questions for the >> Oh, sorry to repeat the question. It was a question about does the solution to steepest descent have the same magnitude update across all the different coordinates and the answer was yes. >> Sorry. Um Jake for the general statistics end because I use de compos into step size and step direction. >> And for the step direction if you look at the if you look at the dot product then the direction we're going to maximize exactly the gradient direction. I just don't know what's the information we have why like imposing the nor like imposing a constraint on the norm of your step direction going to help. Uh so if if if the constraint is the okay sorry the question the question was under a ukitian norm penalty the solution is to always point the step direction in the same direction as the gradient and that's kind of an intuitive thing but what seems less intuitive is if I put a different norm penalty the optimal direction may change and it may point in a different direction from the gradient and the question is like why why would that ever be a good thing to do? Yeah, why do I want to consider a form like this? Why do I want to impose a normal constraint on my step like step side? >> That's exactly the question. That's the right question. Why would I want to do that? Why would I want to impose a different norm other than the uklidian norm? So I'm trying to say that implicitly by by I'm trying to put it upon you that implicitly when you say the best direction is the gradient direction, I'm trying to say that you're thinking uklidia. So the question would why why would another norm be better which would tell you to go in a different direction? Well the the the rough intuition is like what if all the axes in my space are not equal with each other like like imagine you get a map of of the US and then you take the map and you squeeze it. So like you get like you know you get like the corner in Photoshop and you like squeeze the corners together so it becomes very and then you see like taking a step of one centimeter east west would correspond to moving like 10,000 m or 2,000 miles whereas taking one centime step north south might correspond to going 10 miles just because you like stretch this map in a weird way. And when you say that it's it's like it's natural that going in the same direction as the gradient um is the right thing to do, you're assuming that you have a very isotropic map of the United States where like taking steps of equal and what I'm trying to the idea is that you might not be so lucky that the loss function because of the in deep learning because of the architecture of the network and so on it may not have that property that different directions in the weight space are equal to each other may be very non-isotropic. space >> you're saying there's actually some like doing different ones somehow equivalent I'm scaling each coordinate I'm basically using a preconditional matrix to scale each coordinate at a different rate >> that's one example yes so like that you could you could take a norm I can say I'm going to build this new norm so like remember the uklidian norm is like sum over i w i^ 2 and I could say well I want bit build a new norm where I take positive constants AI and I just like scale the different coordinates differently. I could do that and I could derive a steepest descent algorithm under this new norm and it would correspond to like some reshaping of the gradient. But that's just one example. And another example is the infinity norm or the Fbinius norm or the and they're all ways of you measuring of saying that different coordinate directions or different directions more generally have different weightings. Um and maybe one more thing to say about that is like what yeah why should different waitings have diff what's another another intuition is like if I've used the linear piece like the first order term I need to know for for how how far that linear piece is valid maybe if I move too far in that direction the linear piece broke down and it may break down at a different rate um in different in going in different directions so The idea of building a norm is to capture like at what rate does the linear piece break down? If I like move in this direction versus this direction, it may not be the same. Okay. So now we're going to forget that for a little bit. Um and just thinking about scaling. So the question the intuitive question that I want to ask is how large should the weight updates be when I do gradient descent and I want to think about this kind of goldilock step size because if it's too big intuitively you're kind of going to kind of break your neural network and if it's too small you're not going to like be training very efficiently because your steps are too small. So you kind of want to find that nice middle. Um, and someone already kind of had this observation, but the observation is that a neural network is built out of matrices like it's it's not one big vector. The weight vector is like matrix one, matrix 2, matrix 3. Um, so can we can we think about that matrix structure? Um, and this is where I wanted to say perhaps we could try a matrix norm. And the one example was the finius norm. Um so the idea is Oh yeah I I forgot to say but when we when any whenever anyone talks about too big or too small um you should always ask in which norm. It's like analogous to like um if if just someone just says something's really big, you have no idea what they're talking about because you always need some kind of reference like a scale. You know, if you look at a map, there's the scale at the bottom which says like 5 centimeters corresponds to like one mile or something. So, if anyone ever says that something is big or small, you should always ask like what's the scale that you're measuring it on? And for tenses, the the the notion of scale is what's the norm. Um, so that's a good a good thing to think about. Um, so when we so in in particular when we say that we want the update to not be too big or too small, we want to choose a norm and say it should not be too big or too small in that norm. And then we're going to say a neural network is built out of weight matrices. Maybe we can try a matrix norm. Does anyone know any other matrix norms? The what? >> You can also take the largest single value that's also >> exactly the we call it the spectral norm where it has also some other names. Does anyone else know any otherwise does wait okay I in van I didn't know I think I pretty much knew just the finius norm until like like maybe three years ago. So spectral norm is like the the largest singular value. There's a bunch of other ones. One is called the nuclear norm. There's there's a general class of norms called the Shaten P norms. Um, and just wanting to point out there's actually a lot of ways to measure how big a matrix is, which kind of makes sense because it's like a mult, you know, it's it's got a lot of different coordinates. So there's presumably a lot of different ways to measure measure size of a matrix. Um, this is where I want to introduce. So, just to summarize, we want to ask like how big should our weight update be? And we've said, well, we kind of need to pick a norm in order for that question to be a meaningful question. and now I want to introduce you to like these this third this new perspective in thinking about a neural network. So remember that like you maybe when you first think about a neural network you think about kind of neurons and there's like nodes and they're connected by edges and then you like go a bit further and you learn a bit more and then you're like oh I recognize this is a weight matrix and you know if I have a layer with a single output then its weights are just a vector and you know and now I'd start to describe my neural network as like matrix multiplications and and I think of this as like the tensor perspective and then what I want to say is like you go even further and you realize that there's this kind of spectral perspective on on neural networks where every weight matrix has a sing has something called a singular value decomposition or an SVD which is like a generalized igen value decomposition like not every matrix has value decomposition but every matrix has a singular value decomposition Um, and we can think about like taking my my neural network and and decomposing each matrix into its SVD. I'm not saying like we should actually go ahead and do that to like train it in its spectral representation or something like that. I'm just saying that like mentally you can always do that. It always it always exists that decomposition. Um, and another I just wanted to introduce like a way that I think about stable training is I kind of imagine my spectral decomposition of all my weight matrices. And like one thing I think is that probably like the singular values should not change too drastically from step to step that would be bad. But if they change too little from step to step, that would be also bad because I would be training too slow. And like what this does stable, it's like another way to think about what stable training means is like maybe you don't want your spectral decomposition to like be going haywire when you're training and maybe you don't want it to just change a teeny tiny bit. Like something in the middle seems good. Um that's a thought. Um and then as as um somebody mentioned there's the spectral norm. So if I want to compute like let's say the spectral norm of this weight matrix, I compute its singular value decomposition and then I just take the largest singular value and that's like a way of computing the spectral norm and it's a way so that's another way of measuring the size of a matrix which you'll also come across in the homework. Um okay so I wanted to talk a little bit about the spectral norm like what what how do we think about this thing? Uh, and I drew this picture and the idea is like the spectral norm sort of tells you if I feed a vector into a matrix and I get something that comes out, it tells me like how big the thing that comes out can be given that I knew how big the thing that went in was. Um, so we can write that I'm going to write it. So I'll use this notation. The spectral norm of a matrix n is the max over input vectors with unit L2 norm of like the L2 norm of MV V. So does this make sense? It says I feed in a unit vector to the matrix and I get out a vector. How large can that vector possibly be? That's the spectral norm. And I wanted to I think that that's a nice idea because like when you train a neural network, you're putting vectors into matrices and matrices are coming out the other end. So that seems like actually something about this norm is like descriptive of what's actually happening during training. So maybe that's a good potentially that could be a good norm for us to think about when we measure the size of the matrices. That's the idea. Um and so there's a fact which I have not proved but the spectral norm is equivalent to the largest singular value of the weight matrix and okay but there's something arbitrary here and what I hope to point out is arbitrary is like why would we care about the L2 norm of the inputs that was an arbitrary decision and why would we care about the L2 norm of the outputs That also seems arbitrary and if we put like we can actually change this to be like an arbitrary let's say LP norm here and LQ norm there and and you can change this definition to involve any norm on the input space and any norm on the output space and then we would refer to the you know the thing that we get as like the let's say the Q to P norm on the matrix and this is called it's called inducing we call this inducing a norm on a matrix given a norm on the input space than the norm on the output space. Um, so we call this like an induced operator norm. Um, and this is seems kind of helpful because you know in my neural net maybe I don't care about the L2 norm of my activations or maybe I don't care about the L2 norm of the outputs of a layer. Maybe I care about some other norm. And that's where we come to the this thing that we're going to call the RMS to RMS operator norm. I'm not sure if anyone remembers um about the RMS norm. Do you does does anyone remember what the RMS norm is from my other lecture? The it's related to the T the LT line. >> Do you does anyone remember it was on like one of the two norm scale by the number of coordinates. >> Exactly. Yeah. So we define this RMS norm of a vector V to be the one over square root D if D is the dimension times the two norm of the vector. So it's just a rescale uklidian norm. But does anyone know about like um if you know much about transformers or or neural architectures that people use? We often make a big effort to normalize all of the activations of the layer in the RMS norm. And this is referred to either as RMS normalization or layer normalization or layer norm. It's like a standard thing that if you actually implement a transformer like I think at some point you'll do this you'll probably use layer norm. So it's like I want to make the argument that for a layer in a neural network a really natural norm to equip it with for an activation vector is the RMS norm not the uklidian norm. And another way to put this is you know what does it mean if the RMS norm of a vector is one like if if vrms is one it sort of implies that like each vi is around one. So if you normalize a vector to have unit RMS norm, you're sort of normalizing all the coordinates to be around one, which is kind of nice for neural networks. It sort of means that the the feature vectors or the activation vectors are all well behaved. Um so we go ahead and then we just induce the operator norm kind of like we described. So on a matrix M we define the RMS to RMS operator norm to be the max over vectors inputs such that the RMS norm of the input is one. So the average input size across the coordinates of the input is one. Um and then we measure the RMS norm of the output and we so this is inducing using an a a vector space with the RMS norm and then there's a matrix and then there's another vector space with the RMS norm. we induce the operator norm on the matrix um and that's what we call it the RMS to RMS induced operator norm and as an exercise like what you can show you can prove that this is equivalent to the spectral norm but with a dimensional factor um but it's just so it's it's just a rescaled spectral norm with a particular dimensional prefactor and this is also like on the second question of the homework >> not not like you just need to use this like you don't need to even understand necessarily you just need to be able to normalize something in that norm um so why like what is the payoff like why did we spend so long talking about different norms and how to define them well what I claim is that defining that particular norm is the thing that like solves the width scaling problem so once I once I know about that norm and I use it to normalize my training I can fix this problem. Um, so what what what's the claim? The claim is to remove drift in the optimal learning rate as I vary the width of my neural network. Um, I should do two things. I should initialize my weight matrix at layer L such that it's RMS to RMS operator norm. is around one and then I should update by a delta W L at layer L such that the RMS to RMS operating norm of my update is also around one. Intuitively that means it it sort of controls the fact that I normalize the input the initial matrix sorry because I normalize my initial matrix in this norm. If I pass in features that are coordinate wise one or on average one I can only get out features that are at most coordinate wise one. So that's why it's a good initialization. It like controls RMS norms as you move through the network. And then why is it good to normalize my updates like this? It's because it it ensures that the amount that the features change by from one step to the next, the amount we call it feature learning or the amount that the the activation vectors can change from step to step is controlled in precisely the same way. Um I'm Does anyone have questions about that? I feel like I'm just >> Yes. Sorry. >> Uh, this seems like a like you're really constraining the ability of the neural network to like be expressive by like controlling >> exactly what values the feature vector can take on. So how do you do this but not lose like the approximation capacity? >> That's a great question. So to repeat the question like it seems like constraining these properties would somehow damage the expressivity of the network and how do we stop that? Um well we're only con in what I just presented we're only controlling the property at initialization and then between consecutive steps but over many steps things can change much more so I think that that's probably why it doesn't harm the expressivity um sorry any more questions >> more doable Uh so in some sense it's an empirical observation and like actually the second homework problem on the homework is like playing with it empirically. Um but in another sense there's a lot of theoretical things to support it. The simplest of which is kind of actually just like the definition of this operator norm. Like if you just think really hard about this operator norm, it tells you that things kind of have to behave in a good way in a certain sense but only in terms of an upper bound. Like it says that the features at a particular layer cannot change more than by this amount and it's nice to know that but it doesn't tell you the features definitely will change by this amount like this is precisely how the internals of the behavior and there is also theory to talk a little bit about that but it usually makes infinite width limits so there's I have some references on the final slide and like there is it's like an active topic at the moment and there's a lot of experiments and there are a lot of theory but you know it's still not fully resolved kind of question. But what I was hoping for the purposes of the lecture is to get across that there's quite an intuitive idea of of just how big should things be and in what norm should I measure that and I'm trying to like make this like this claim which is sort of vague claim at the moment but if you're really careful about that then you can make the training much more stable. >> You don't provide intuition for why this claim is true. So I'm having trouble bridging the gap with the like why not changing the feature vector a lot actually eliminates the drift. >> Um one way to put it is that as I change the dimension of my layer which is what we're scaling when we're scaling width either the input dimension the output dimension or both. um this norm the RMS norm is a dimension it's sort of a in some sense it's a non-dimensional norm like my system is behaving well when the norm is one that would mean that all my activations are around one what's the alternative it's like the alternative is either I scale the dimension and the size of each activation either grows with dimension or shrinks with dimension that would be bad scaling and like if you if you ensured that uklidian norms were controlled and then you trace back what that means for individual coordinates, you would see that either like the you not sure which way around, but either the individual coordinates are growing or they're shrinking. The nice thing about this norm is it keeps the co the size of the individual coordinates actually invariant to the width or the amount that the coordinates are changing is actually also invariant to the width. So that's that's like the that's the consideration. >> Yeah. And the first condition, but for the second one, training the updates given that we're going to multiply them by learning rate anyway. >> Yeah. So the goal is that the learning rate should be independent of width. The optimal learning rate should be independent of width. So we're trying to package all the dimension dependence in the right way into the norm. So that then the learning rate after I normalize the updates in that norm the learning rate I don't need to change it with width anymore. So if you don't if you don't normalize the updates in a particular norm then the learning rate itself needs to account for the dimension dependence. It may be clearer because the second homework problem you implement like a normalized version of gradient descent and you compare like two for like one without an explicit normalization one with an explicit normalization and then you so it's something maybe. Okay, let's just finish the lecture and we can talk about this more. Uh, okay. The last Oh, yeah. The last one is depth scaling. Um, and I kind of wimped out a little bit. And also, it's kind of like an open research topic, so it's it's it's okay. Um, but remember the problem was um that if I scale the depth, the performance can get worse unless I'm kind of careful about things. And what I wanted to do is to think about uh this this expression. Maybe I should have erased that and asked you. But does does anyone know what this what Oh, wait. You can't see what I'm pointing at. Sorry. What this evaluates to? Does anyone recognize that? Yeah, it's e to the x. Um oops. And so what I want to make is an analogy where this is like a compound system. It's a big product of many many many things. But I scale the internals of that thing in a nice way such that even when I take the number of terms in the product to infinity um the thing doesn't blow up and it doesn't go to zero. So that's like I call that kind of well scale depth limit in but it's just like that's something that many of us know from just um math I guess uh okay and the crucial thing is that we take x we think of this as the input and we divide it by l which is the number of terms and then we're going to take a product of l things and it's really nice that because I divide x by l it it um you know this converges to e to the x. But you know if I if I put a different factor here, if I put l 2, I take the limit, I would get zero and if I put like square root of l, I take the limit, I would it would blow up. And so it's like really thinking about what factor you should put there so that if I take the if I take the depth i.e. the number of terms to infinity, it remains stable. Like that's the same sort of consideration you need to have if you want to train a residual network and you don't want the dynamics to either blow up or go to zero as you take the depth infinity. Um so just to write write like a little suggestion about that. So you think of a residual network as being a think of a single block in a residual network as being a function which takes X and gives back X plus like the block of X and the block could be like a little MLP or it could be an attention layer could be some other like neural layer what do I want to put in front of the blocks such that if I take if I have a infinite number of these blocks it's like a still a nice function probably I want to put like the divide by the number of blocks which I'll call out. So um so intuitively like you should think you can think of a residual network a bit like this is one block and then I can think about raising it to the power L but that really means composing it with itself L times and you really want to be very careful um about like the the block multiplier um and we can I'm happy to talk there is a little more to the story so I'm happy to talk more about it if anyone wants to talk about it. Um, and then I put this caveat here because it's like still it's not completely there's different papers saying different things. It's not completely the end of the story. >> Does this have to do with um as your depth increases your complexity increases um given a certain width as yeah essentially as your depth increases. So the question was does this have something to do with how the capacity or the complexity increases as depth increases? >> Yeah. As you're learn as you increase your depth your training loss uh scales up. >> Yeah. So what I'm saying is if what I'm trying trying to convey is like if you set up your residual block and you're not really careful about it, you can see performance gets worse as you make the depth larger. But I'm trying to say like here's a way to be more careful about it to try to stop that problem. And if you look at um if you look at like a transformer code base, which I think later in the class we actually do, you'll see that a standard transformer block um actually doesn't put a one over L multiplier. The standard thing is actually to put one over square root L. And the the argument is that the blocks are somehow incoherent and random with respect to each other at initialization. And if I add up lots of incoherent random things, it's a bit like doing a random walk. And a random walk moves a distance like square root number of number of time steps in the walk. So I should divide by square root that number of things. Um, so that's the the rationale for and there's a kind of like it's unclear whether that's the right thing to do or whether just to divide by L is the right thing to do. But it's it's like really a thing which is part of a transformer code bases like what block multiplier does your residual block have. Um I just let's if people have more questions I'm happy to stay a little at the end and talk about them but I think I should just get to the end of the lecture. Um, so the last thing I wanted to talk about is like something that I'm kind of it's like I'm working on at the moment. Um, so again, like you can be very skeptical and like uh feel free to not believe me. Um, uh, but the the way that we're thinking about scaling and and more generally optimization for neural networks is the idea of wanting to build a very modular theory. Um, So I want to like tell what does that even mean? And it's sort of like the problem with deep learning is that there's such a zoo of architectures that people want to consider that how can you build an optimization theory that covers all of them because someone can always produce a new architecture and you're like I have no idea how to deal with that. Um but what if we could bake the the the construction of the optimization theory into the process of building the architecture? So that whenever you build the architecture you also get an optimization theory like that would be kind of cool. Um so the idea is to like kind of build the theory with the neural network. Um and we we have this to to actually formalize that and think about that. We have this idea of a module and like PyTorch already has modules. So if you know a lot about PyTorch you can think about a PyTorch module. But a module just means something with weights and a weight space, inputs in an input space and outputs uh in an output space. Um, and notice that that's an abstraction which can handle an individual layer in a neural network or a full neural network. They're all members of this class of things. Um, so even a re even a relu you can think of it as having an empty weight space. So it's also a module but also a full transformer is also a module. Um and the idea is that we're going to write a library. Think about this is like writing your own deep learning package. Um and it's going to have a module class. And then we're going to write a library of of what we call atomic modules. And these are things like relu linear um con like convolution embedding. These are like the basic the basic layer types that are part of the library. And kind of as you may have seen on the homework potentially, you know, you better write the forward and backward functions for these things. You better write those by hand for like the basic things. You just got to do that. So the forward is like the function the thing expresses and the backward is like its derivatives basically. But what we say is we're also going to equip our module with something else which is a norm which is going to be a function from its uh weight space to the real numbers and we're going to say that actually we kind of know how to do that for the basic layers. um you know as we said for a linear layer like the good norm is this RMS to RMS operating norm actually doesn't have weights so it doesn't need a norm and you could imagine that maybe we could come up with a good way to equip the other layer types the basic layer types with norms and we do that like with pen and paper and by hand um and then then we're going to write these combination rules um so we're going to think about if we've got two modules from our library we can we're going to have a way of composing them to give us a new module. Um and so you may have thought about you know forward function it's sort of obvious how to compose them. It just means like compose the forward functions do function composition. Um uh the backward we're just going to do the chain rule like if we compose functions we know how to comput the derivative. It's like the chain rule. Uh and then like the question is how should we combine the norms? And I'm just going to leave this as a question but it's like something we've been thinking about. So it remember that module one has its own norm and module two has its own norm and then we need to find a way of combining them uh to give us a norm on the composite or the composed module. And it comes back to that question of how do we pick our norm? Do you remember we were talking about steepest descent? And the big question is like how do you pick a norm that's a good match for your loss function? And it seems horrendous for deep learning because you can have any architecture that someone can come to you with and how are you supposed to give them a norm so that they can do steepest descent. But what if there was an automatic way, you know, what if there was a way to assign norms to the li to the basic things in the library and then when people compose them, it automatically gives them a norm on the compos thing like it would kind of solve the problem in a way. Um, so that's what we're trying to do. Um and I'll just quickly tell you because someone asked is there you asked is there theory for um or is it all just kind of heruristics and that is and like it's a range of things like you notice that the first two references are about infinite width limits. So people love to like study how things behave as the network becomes infinitely big and to try to keep it stable in that in that limit. Um the third paper is like the paper that from my collaborators also with Phillet where we're not trying to do those limits. Um and then the fourth one is I think a really interesting paper as well. Um okay that's the end of the lecture but I can stick around if anyone has questions. Thank you.