Okay. So, today we're going to be talking about um error correcting codes. So, on Thursday, Professor Mitra told you about um Shannon's noisy coding theorem. And I don't know if he drew this picture or not. It's not in the notes. So um and it's a picture everybody draws when they talk about Shannon's noisy coding theorem. So you have some message message drawn from M which is some set of messages. And now you encode it. And now you have a noisy channel and you get C tilda or you get the received code word which maybe I should call it C tilda. And now you decode and you get something which I'll call M tilda Shannon if the noise at the rate which I want to A is log K over. Okay. What is the rate? It's K over N, right? K over N. So these messages are k bits and this code is n bits is less than the channel capacity. There exists a code such that as n goes to infinity and k / n remains the same the probability that m tilda equals m goes to one. So in the limit of long block lengths I don't know how much coding theory terminology um anchor used but n is called the block length. Then the error rate goes to zero. So that is the noisy channel coding therm. So did um professor mo put this diagram on the board? Okay. Oh well. And Shannon used random codes to prove his theorem. And these are totally impractical for large N. Because what you have is you have a list of code words which is exponential inn and you get a receive word and you want to find which of these code words it's closest to and we don't know any way of doing this that is substantially better than going through the entire list of code words computing the distance and um finding the shortest one and in fact you can show that this is uh NPP hard problem which means that there probably isn't such a way. So what you need is you need to find specific codes with practical decoding algorithms. today and Thursday I will tell you about two of these codes and um they will basically you know stand in for the whole class of linear codes. So, so Shannon found, you know, Shannon proved his theorem in 1948 and two years later, Hamming found the first um error correcting code having found actually found a whole class of Eric reckoning codes but the first part of the talk I'll just talk about the simplest one in this class um can encode four bits into seven bits and correct one error. So if you have I don't know a million bits that you want to send and their rate is their error rate is one in a 100 then um this is not going to work because you can break the million bits into blocks of seven of blocks of four and transmit each of them in seven bits. But chances are very high that in these million bits you will find one block of four which has two errors in it which means it will not be corrected. So what you really would like is you would like a way of encoding say a th00and bits into 1500 bits that correct 10 errors. And we will get to something like that with um read Solomon codes which we'll talk about on Thursday. But what is the Hammond code? So I'm going to give you a first a very simple description of the Hammond code and then a more complicated one. And a simple description. We're going to start with a vin diagram four bits. Well, with three regions and these regions are actually going to be correspond to specific bits of this code. Okay, now let me see if I can do this. Um I want to do this. So let's take the four bits to be bit A, bit B, bit C and bit D. So these are the message bits. And now what we're going to do is add three parody check bits. And these, you know, 4 + 3 is seven, which is why we're encoding four bits into seven bits. And these bits are going to give you the error correction ability. So let's say this is a + b. This is um a + b + d. This is b + c + d. And this is a + c plus d where the plus is exclusive r. So binary addition example let's take um one 011 to be the message. And now Okay. So, one 0 one one. Oh, I'm sorry. One 0 one one. Okay. So now we want to compute the parity check bits. So what we do is we put a bit in here so that the sum of the bits in this circle is even. So that would be zero because 1 + 1 is zero. And similarly this is zero because 1 plus 1 is zero. And this is one because 1 plus 1 + 1 is one. And we know to add a one to make it zero. Okay. So our code is 1 0 1 1 and now 0 0 1. Okay. Now let's send it through the channel and we will change one of the bits. Does anybody have a suggestion for which bit we want to change? Who wants to change the second bit? Okay, we'll do that. So it's 1 one 1 0 0 1. Okay. So what we do now is we compute uh let's call these A b C D E F G and this was A B C D E F G I believe. Yeah. So now we compute a + d + c + g. a + c + d + g. Um that is zero. So this circle is correct. Now we compute a plus e plus b + d. a + c + b + d. That's one. So this circle is incorrect. And B + C plus D plus F B plus C plus D plus F that B C D F that's also equal to one. So this circle is also incorrect. And so now we know the incorrect bit is not in this region but is in the intersection of this region and this region. And that means it is B. So the received um word is that incorrect bit is B. And now we change B. So we get one zero one one zero zero one right and well you might have noticed that the message was the first four bits. So this is the message. Okay. Okay. So now I'm going to tell you about general linear codes and then general Hamming codes. Uh linear code over a field f is a collection of length n strings enough. So if C1 C2 are in the code, I should probably call this a code C, then C1 plus C2 is in the code. And if C1 is in the code and alpha is in F, alpha * C1 is in the code. So any linear combination of code words is also a code word. And it's fairly easy to see that this holds for this um you know this Hamming code because if you add two if you have a set of bits that satisfies this. So the sum of these sum of these and sum of these is all zero. And you have another set of bits that satisfies this. Then when you take the sum of these sets of bits, the sum of things within the circle is the sum of the things from the first code word in this circle plus the sum of things and the second code word in this circle and 0 + 0 equals 0. So it's also a code. Okay, so we have this is a linear code. by linear algebra. Every code C has a generating matrix G such that um C is the row sums of G. So now I'm going to write down the Hamling code in a different way and actually you're not going to get quite the same. Well, I mean, I'm going to write down the Hamming code in a different way. And let's see. We have um 1 0 0 0. And now the first So this is the first bit. So now the first two bits of the parody check matrix are both one here. So 1 0 0 0 1 1 0. So when you put that when you put these bits in the vin diagram they will be um assuming I've done this right they will satisfy the parody checks and then there's 0 1 0 0 and that's just one 0 one one and 0 0 1 0 and this is going to be 1 0 1 and 0 0 0 1 1 because this fourth bit is the center region of the vend diagram and that means all three parody checks need to be one for the for them to satisfy that. sub g is equal to this and there are 16 code words in C in C and um what do I want to and they're the rose terms of G and 000000 is in C. And actually the all zeros vector is a is a code word of every linear code because we know that um if C1 is in C and alpha is an F then alpha C1 is in C and if alpha is zero then alpha C1 is the all zeros vector. So every linear code has the all zeros vector in it. Okay. Correct. Oh, okay. We need some more um we need some more definitions before I can continue. The Hamming weight of a vector And let me see if I can find what W of V is the number of non Wait, I I did this wrong. The having weight w of v of a vector v is a number of nonzeros v contains. Let v equ= 0 1 3 2 0 4 1. Say the Hamming weight is the number of nonzeros. It's 1 2 3 4 5 is equal to five. The hamming distance of D and W as a number of places where V and W differ. So let's pick an easier example. 013 and Okay. I I want to I want to use the same notation for Hamming distances in the notes and So this is d subh of vw and 1 2 is well how many places do they differ anybody? Two. So call this C1 and C2. So the hamming distance between C1 C2 is equal to 2. And it's easy to see that the Hamming weight of C1 minus C2 is equal to the Hamming distance between C1 and C2 because if two bits are the same then their difference is zero and if two bits are different then their difference is non zero. So here C1 minus C2 is equal to -1 0 1 has handling weight 2. So theorem a code can correct um let D of a code B minimum over C1 C2 in the code C1 not equal to C2 the Hamming distance between C1 and C2 so it's the smallest Hamming distance between two non-equal vectors Then the code can correct. T is equal to DH of C over two floor errors. What's the proof? Well, let's assume. Ah, I'm sorry. I wrote this formula down wrong. dus one over two errors. Suppose it cannot then there is uh well there's a received word uh received word C tilda such that two code words could have well the two code words could have resulted in B tilda. So I mean this is just saying that if you can correct every code word to its unique every if you can correct every word with errors to a unique code word assuming there are fewer than T errors then the code can correct T errors. So what they cannot correct here is there must be some word c tilda so that there are two code words which are in dist in that are in a hamming distance t of c tilda. So t is equal to c tilda or actually t is greater than or equal to the hamming distance between c tilda and c1 and t is greater than equal to the hamming distance between c tilda and C2. Then the distance between C1 and C2 must be less than or equal to the distance from C1 to C tilda plus the distance between C tilda and C2. And this is just because Hamming distance is a metric. Which means if the distance between C1 and C tilda is say T and distance between C tilda and C2 is T, then the distance between C1 and C2 is at most 2T. But this is equal to less than or equal 2 t by this these um inequalities. And that is less than or equal to I guess the Hamming distance for the code. But we know by the definition of a hamming distance from the code that it's the minimum distance between two code words. So this is a contradiction. I should say less than here because t was one less than the distance of code divided by two. Okay. for a linear code. Let D equal the minimum over all code words in the code of the Hamming distance or Hamming weight. Um what did we use for Hamming weight? Um W. Okay, so W of C and we have to specify that C is not equal to zero here. So the minimum weight of any nonzero code word then C can correct um D -1 / 2 errors proof. Well, we're going to use this theorem. Might as well call this a theorem, too. Proof. so the minimum over C1 C2 2 in C of the distance between the two code words is equal to the minimum um C and C the weight of C because well why because the weight of C1 minus C2 is equal to the Hamming distance between C1 and C2. So for a linear code C, you want C to be able to correct D minus one over two errors. So the generating G for Hammond code was G equal one 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 and 0 0 1 one one okay I want to claim you can define a Hamming code with block length 2 to the k minus on. I n = 2 to the k um 2 to the n minus k minus one. So here for this hamming code K which is the number of bits it encodes is four and the block length is 7 which is 2 7 - 4 that's 8 - 1 is 7. And how do we do that? Okay. Well, we're going to do the same thing as we did before. one one one um one one. So that you see is And then okay so we put the identity matrix here and now we're going to put all all binary strings length K length um s with at most two with at least two ones. So 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 So I guess there's six here then four 1 one one so this is 11 and this is 15. So here k= 11 n= 15 um k equals well there are two to the s strings of left s total and if we remove the ones with one one and the ones with zero ones you get 2 s - s - one and n has s more rows or s more columns than I mean so this identity matrix has an equal number of rows and columns. So we have s more columns than k. So that's k + s = 2 s -1. So this is the 1511 hamming code. Okay. And now we have to explain why does it correct. Why does it correct one error? need to show all row sums minimum weight three are all nonzero row sums have minimum weight three. So let's start start with easy case. All rows have minimum weight three or rather all rows have weight at least three. Why is that? Well, let's pick any row. Let's say this one. The um the identity matrix has one bit in it and the parity check bits have at least two bits in them. One bit parody check bits two bits. Okay. any sum of two rows. Well, let's um take two rows and look at their sum. There are two different um ones in the identity matrix part. So we need at least one one in the parody check bits. But we arranged these parody check bits so that they were all different. And when you take two non- different strings and you sum them mod two you don't get zero you get at least one. So here the addended matrix part has two bits on the parity check at least one bit. I should have said at least two bits there. And any sum of three rows or more, the um identity part has at least three bits. So, the last thing I want to do today is tell you how to correct errors in um linear codes because um >> I have a question. >> Yeah. Why is that k 23 - 5? >> Okay, so we're looking at all binary strings of length s with at least two ones. So how many binary strings of length s are there? There are two to the s binary strings of length s. And now we have to subtract out the ones that have one one or zero ones. There are s1's with one one because the one can be in any of the s positions and there's one string with zero ones which is the all zero strings. So the number of binary strings with at least two ones is 2 to the s minus s minus one. And then to and that's the number of rows in this matrix. To get the number of columns in this matrix, well, we just take the number of rows because the identity matrix has an equal number of rows and columns and add s and that's 2 to the s minus one. So this is a this is the class of Hamming codes and okay I should I should say something about them later but let me first tell you how to correct errors in linear codes. Okay. Oh, wait. I want to pull this down. Well, to work with a code need to encode a age. Identify positions with error. And once you've identified the positions with the errors, you can fix them and then decode. And we defined generator matrices. generator matrix for code G equals code is set of all row sums. to encode use C= M * G. So M is the message, C is the code code word and G is a generator matrix. So if m = 1 0 01, mg is the sum of the first row and the last row because this is this is the first one and the last one. So it's 1 0 0 1 0 0 1. So encoding is easy to decode. We need the parity check matrix. H is defined as well. We want GH equals zero and we want H to have maximum rank. So that GH H maximum rank with this condition. Okay. Um, let's leave this up and I will say something. for all codes, all linear codes, we can find a generator matrix G of the form one one one one. So this is the identity matrix and some matrix here S. So you see here here the second part is S and this first part is the identity. and by general linear algebra configurations. Proof proof is really Gaussian elimination. You take the code and you do Gaussian elimination on it and then you rearrange the order of the coordinates to get this identity. And you know, I'm not going to go into further details because they're not that important for this. And the um and they're not in the um notes either. And I want to claim that here h is equal to minus s i where you have a minus s here and an i of the right form. So, h is equal to -1 -1 0. I feel stupid putting these minus1's on because minus1 equals one in the um there's another row here. -1 -1 - one 1 because min -1 equals 1 in binary. So this really could be simplified to this but for non-binary codes you really need the minus s. And you can see that. Oh well, I will explain and G equals I S. And note this I is a different size identity matrix than this I. But anyway, G H is equal to um I S minus S I. And when you do matrix multiplication here, you get I * - S plus S * I equals I * - S + S * I equals zero. So G is um so GH is zero which was our condition for parody check matrix. And you can also see that H is a maximum rank matrix such as GH equals Z because um well that's linear algebra 2. Um H. Um I mean I'm going to say H gener um yeah H transpose generates the um perpendicular space space 2 G and the dimension of H transpose plus the dimension of G is equal to N, the dimension of the entire space. And this is true for any spaces over for any linear spaces even those over finite fields even though g intersect hrpose might be non-mpt. So um I mean you you guys are used to thinking of linear algebra over the reals and then you have a space s and a perpendicular space surp and s intersect sp is just zero. This isn't true here. Um let's see. look at the last row in G. It's perpendicular to itself. So the last row in G is also in H in the row space of H transpose because everything that's perpendicular to um all the guys in G is an H transpose and you can see that the last row is per all the other rows in G. So there's some linear combination of rows in H which gives you this and you can see that it's or some linear combination of columns in H that gives you that and you can see it's the sum of all three columns because you need one one one and the last three entries in the column and then the sum of the first three is is the sum of these four columns is 0001. So a space and its perpendicular space can intersect but that doesn't matter. So this is the parody check matrix. And now suppose we have uh linear code with G and H are the generators matrix and the um parody check matrix. End code we get mg error. We have mg + e. And the next step is compute the syndrome of C tilda. And that's c t k t k t k t k t k t k t k t k t k t kilda * h. This is mg + e * h is equal to mg h + eh which is just eh because remember g * h was zero and this is called syndrome. And it's called the syndrome because it's what you use to diagnosed the So syndrome depends only on the error and not on the encoded code word. not on the message. Okay. How do you go from S to E? Well, it's not easy. Depends on the code. There's no efficient algorithm for taking a syndrome for an arbitrary code and computing the error. You have to do something that is code dependent. And we're not going to um I mean there could be lots and lots of different ways going from the syndrome to the error depending on the code and some of them can be quite complicated some of them are easy for Hammond codes it's very easy code. Assume error has one bit our Hamming weight one. So one bit equal one and all the others are zero. 0 0 1 0 0. Let's make this the K bit. times the Hamming matrix is kith not Hamming matrix times the um parody check matrix. So the if you have a one if you have a vector with one and you multiply it by the matrix you just get the kith row of the matrix So because the Hamming code can only correct one bit errors, we only need to worry about the case where the error E has one bit in it and that case is easy to decode. So let's do an example. Because I think we have just enough. Well, we pro probably have more than enough time for an example, but we should do an example. End code 1 1 0. Oh gosh. One one zero in our seven bit Hammond code. So there's our seven bit hamming code up there. We sum the first three rows because one one we have the first three entries of our message are one. M= 111. So that's um well it's 1 one 1 0 um 0 0 add error and you get Let's say E equals 0 0 0 1 0. We get 1 1 1 1 0. So now we have mg plus e * h. So that's the first sum the first three rows of h and that's uh zeros. and then add the fifth row of h that's uh 0 1 0 equals 0 1 0. And this is a syndrome 0 1 0 is the sixth row of h. Oh, this I I think I said fifth when here, but I meant sixth. The sixth row of H. error in position six 0 0 0 1 0 and um this was C tilda. So C tilda plus E is equal to 1 1 1 0 0 0. And this first bit is the message. Okay. Now, there's one more piece of one more section in the notes about Hamming codes. I don't want to get to read Solomon codes this time because I want to do them all next time. And that's about perfect codes. Oh my. Oh, perfect code as one. All of whose syndromes correspond to an error of an error of T bits or fewer. If it's a T error correcting perfect code, all its syndromes correspond. So the binary the Hammond codes are perfect codes. So how many syndromes do they have? Well, they have um their syndromes are length espits. So there's 2 to the s syndromes and the code has 2 to the sus1 bits. So I want to say first the zero syndrome corresponds to no error and every other one of these syndromes corresponds to exactly one bit. So there's exactly as many syndromes as bits. And you can ask, are there any perfect other perfect codes? So to have a perfect code, you need um you need sum all the possible errors. So um let's say L equals 0 through T. And how many errors are there with how many ways are there of getting an error of exactly L bits? It's n choose L is equal to 2 to the something to the number of bits in the syndrome. So this is a condition that you need for perfect codes. and it's satisfied or this is a solution you need for binary perfect codes for Hammond codes and it's also satisfied if I'm remembering these numbers right n= 23 3 and t = 3. So there's exactly one solution other than the one you get for Hamming pots. And remarkably, maybe it's remarkably, this is something called the gole code. And I should have looked this up before um before coming to class, but I didn't get around to it. This was discovered by Gole um sometime after Hamming's um paper. But the construction had already been found by uh football, although you should call that soccer enthusiastic enthusiast who I think was finished and coming up with a betting system for soccer games, football games I should say. But um so this is actually a remarkable mathematical construction which is related to finite simple groups but um I don't have time to I mean we don't have the mathematics to go into that and I certainly don't have time to go into that but this is the one other binary very perfect code. There's also a code over Z sub3 called the turnary goalie code where um you have a three to the S here and um I guess uh and a three to the something on this one as well. Three to the L I think. But anyway, if you want to use perfect code. I mean, so at first, you know, after discovering the Hamming code, you would say, well, perfect codes are exactly what we want to use, but there aren't enough of them.