So last time just quickly recall we looked at a function on some interval into R. We looked at uh a partition P. So here we have the interval from A to B. Then we have a partition x0 x1 up to say xn. We looked at uh mi which was the soup on this little interval here from x i minus one to x i of f. We looked at little mi which was the in f here was bounded again uh and in on the same interval x i minus one 2x i and then we looked at the upper and the lower sum. So we looked at the uh upper and lower sum with respect to this partition. So this here was the sum of mi and then delta xi and the lower sum for this partition which was the sum of this small mi delta xi where the delta xi was the length of this these little intervals here like that. Right? And then it was reman integral. Then we looked at the the lower and the upper reman integral. So we looked at the upper and lower reman integral. This here was now the in of uh these upper integrals over all partition and the lower one that was the soup. of the lower sums over all partitions. And then we said that f is reman integral uh if if those two numbers are the same. If the upper one here which is always big or equal to the lower one if that is actually equal to the lower one the lower reman integral right and and if this is the case right so if this here is it's it's reman integral if and only if these two numbers are the same in that case we wrote for this common number we wrote just the uh we wrote it as as a reman integral So now there was this parallel to things we've done before. There was these algebraic rules for that we talked about at the very end. So what were there th those? Uh if you take a function that is reman integraable uh and you take c is a constant. Then uh then the product here is also reman integral and the integral of the product is just product function is just the product of c with the uh with the reman integral of f. Right? So that was one. two is that if you have a second function, so in addition to f, you also have a g and they're both reman integral. Then the then the sum here is also reman integral and the integral of the sum is is equal to uh from a to b is equal to the sum of the remman integral. Let's prove this one here. I won't prove the first one, but let's prove the second one. Right? So, this is true. Now to prove this, let me remind you about one of the one of the uh one of the lemas that we had last time that we was talking about that this was a useful lema to determine whether a function was remman integraable. So, so recall this from last time that uh you have the following lema that um f again is bounded. So f is if and only if uh for all for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a partition of this interval here such that the upper sum which is always bigger uh than the lower sum this one here minus the lower sum. So this number is always positive. But if for all epsilon you can make this difference here smaller than right you can find a partition so that you have that to prove that last time. So now let's go to the proof of this. So proof of true. So since so uh given given epsilon greater than zero since uh f here is reman integral then there exist a partition p1 um such that the upper sum minus the lower sum is less than epsilon / two. Right? This is because the function f was remand integraable. And likewise likewise likewise since G is remman integraable so there exist uh exist a second partition P2. So that uh for G you have the same thing for G and P2. Sorry this is G. this upper sum minus the lower sum for G with respect to this second partition. This here is less than epsilon / two right now. So now you let P here. So now let let P be the partition that has all the dividing points uh points of P1 together with all the dividing points uh of P2, right? So, so it has it has the partitions that are in either one of the two, right? Or both, right? And so now we know that so this is means that so so P here is a refinement of both P1 and P2 right so this means that actually when you're looking at this if you're looking at this upper sum minus this lower sum. Remember that if you go to a refinement then this hair goes down and this hair go up. So it means that this difference here will be less or equal to what it is for for P P1 and this was of course less than epsilon over two. That was how it was chosen. And similarly, if you're looking at the upper sum for G with respect to P, P here is a refinement of P2 also. Right? So this means that you have that this difference here is less or equal to the upper sum of G with respect to P2 minus this lower sum with respect to P2 and that's less than epsilon / two right but this means now that if you now take the so now if you take so now So now if you take the an interval here of uh this is from x i minus one to x i if you're looking at this sum here you had to be a little bit careful here right but if you're looking at the sum on this interval right the sum here is less are equal to the soup of what f is. This is you know this is on on on this interval here right on this interval this function here is less than the soup of f plus the soup of g on the same interval. Right? And it's of course bigger equal to what it is the in of f plus the in of g on that same Why do I say you had to be a little bit careful is that the in of the sum could be strictly larger than this and it could be strictly less than that. Right? But you certainly have this statement, right? But just thinking about if if f and g was the same up to a sign, right? If g was like minus f, right? Then the sum would be dead zero. But you know one of the function may be negative on this interval and the other one was positive right? So, so you see for the sum here could be dead zero but these two numbers one would be positive the other would be negative right but you certainly have this inequality right and so of course this implies that the on this interval the soup of the sum here is less than the soup of of of the the sum of the soups some of the soups on the same intervals and and likewise uh for the in right. So you have this thing here and you have that this thing here is clearly bigger or equal to the in of the same function. So which is the sum of the two on this interval here. And that is of course bigger than than than this sum here. Right? So, so this here this number here right you see this here is like m i for the function f right this is what this number is right and this here is like this number here is like capital m i for the function g right and this here this here is like little this here is like little m i for the function f and this number here is little m i for the function g. So what we have here is that's uh mi for f plus sorry let me let me write it uh let me write it over here. So what we have is that we have little mi for the function f plus little m i for the function g is less or equal to little m i for the sum which is of course less than soup of the same sum on the same interval. So this is this and that's less or equal to the soup of f on that interval plus this here of g right so you have that inequality but now you see that this means of course that the contribution so if you're looking at this upper sum for this This upper sum for the sum of these two functions with respect to P this here the contribution you get is for the upper you get this and for the lower you would get you get this here times the length of the interval right so this is so again so what you get from on that little interval the contribution you get is like m i f + g um times the length of the interval. This is this minus m i f + g times the length of the interval. This is the contribution that you get here from this interval from this little interval. Right? And because this number here is less than that then this here is less than uh m i f plus m i g time delta xi minus and then this thing here you see this the spread between these two here bounce the spread between those two. So this is less than m i f plus m i little m i g * delta xi right so right and now you're summing over everything right so this means that this thing here is so this and you and if you just split this here this sum here you can just split that into two parts the mi times uh delta X I minus little MI F * delta XI and then plus um capital M I G delta XI minus little M I G delta XI right so when you're summing these up you get uh U FP that's from this here. What when you're summing these up UM FP minus sorry L F P right when you're summing these up then you're getting U G P minus uh L f L uh G P right? And so what you get here is again when you're summing it up this here gives you when you sum this up then you get this. When you sum this hair up you get that. When you sum this up you get that. So summing everything up you get u f + g comma this partition minus l f plus g with respect to this partition is less or equal to u f with respect to this partition minus l f respect to the partition p plus uh u G P minus L G P right so you're getting that right and this thing here it was a refinement of the partition P1 so this spread here is less than what it was for P1 so this here is less than epsilon over two and likewise this here is a refinement of the partition P2 so the spread here is less than what it is for P2 two. So you're getting this and so this here is epsilon, right? And so this gives you the partition and so there's two syncs, right? You have to be careful with that, you know, for one function you get one partition. For the other function, you get another partition. So you're looking at the at the sub partition that has all of the dividing points of both of them. And the other things you had to be careful is about and that was embedded here it was uh but it was actually more clearly on one of the other board is that when you're looking at two functions and you're looking at a little interval and you're taking like the soup of the two of the sum then that's bounded by the sum of the soup but it's not like equal to the sum right you know and likewise for the in right yeah I mean, so the there's not uh but the reason there's not is that once you have this sort of general framework, you wouldn't really get back to the partition actually. So you know if it was I mean yeah I mean you know once you sort of have this solid foundations then you just write uh I mean you just write the integral fine yeah and and so so so just to just on that note right this dx this is right so it's it's so this here Um um this here is uh right this here is like uh is referring this is like a giant s right so it's referred to summation this here is of course a d and and and delta right is a Greek letter for d and so this here you should think about this here is referring to sort of some sort of limits of these uh delta xi. Okay. So, so that was uh let me just uh talk a little bit about uh the other two um uh rules. So one of the other one is one of the other ones is that if you take two functions f and g again. So you have so number three here was that if you have f and g they are both integral on this interval here and uh f here is lesser equal to g then it implies that the integral here is lesser or equal to the integral of g and that's I won't prove this. sort of in a way I mean maybe I'll just say words right that if you take a partition then of course you're looking at some x i minus one and x i some interval like this and so if you're looking at the function f and you're looking at the soup of the function f on this little interval well then obviously this soup here is less than the soup of of of just because you have this inequality everywhere, right? And so this means that the and likewise for the int and so you see that it's kind of this inequality you have to you know of course make it nice into a mathematical proof but this inequality will seem kind of obvious right? Uh let me instead try prove uh that if you split the interval up into pieces uh then you can just sum the pieces. So this is the following. So, so again in the notes which I haven't I forgot to post but I I will post I guess these are posted because these is from from these are things we didn't quite do yet last time. Uh and but but the proofs of all of these four here also the one in particular like the one this one here I didn't do now. Uh they are all the proofs are all in the notes. So number four here is that if you take a function and it's integraable on some interval like this, it's bounded always bounded and you're looking at the integral here of this function and C here is C is somewhere between so C is lying between A and B. Well then actually um and then actually let me just before write down this then the function here if you thinking about restricting the function to the smaller interval from a to c it's also integraable there and likewise uh if you restrict it to the integral from C to D to B then it's also integraable here. So it's integral integraable on both these sub intervals. And and you have that the integral here of f is dx is equal to the sum uh of the integrals like that. Okay. And so now why is this the case? So so this is just because if you take So let's see. So Right. So now let's try to prove then. right so if so I want to look at the um right. So, so let me first let me first prove that if it is integral here, it's also integraable on these two sub intervals, right? And then once you know uh through um in that proof, we will also see uh what that sum is equal to. So I again use this lema from before that all I do need is to for a given epsilon I need to find a partition. So uh so that the spread between the upper and the lower sum is um for each of these two is bounded by epsilon. So given epsilon uh we since f here is integraable on the integral from a to b. We know that there exist there exist a partition p such that the uh upper sum uh minus the lower sum is less than epsilon. Now I then I look at a refinement. So here I have A, here I have B and and here I have C. And then I have some partition but it's a partition may not have C as a dividing point. Right? So I'm looking at so let's let's uh let P star uh be the refinement that in addition to all the dividing points. uh of P also have C as a dividing point. Okay, so it has one more dividing point. I mean of course it may be that C was already there then you don't then then this partition is fine right and so now of course now the thing is that once you have that well first of all you have this is refinement so you still have so you may as well just think so so you have this inequality so you have that u of f comma p star is minus l of f p star is is also strictly less than epsilon, right? This because it's refinement of B. And so now you're looking at at the piece. So this thing here but this thing here this thing here is just equal to this here is simply equal to u uh f of p star intersected with a c plus u p u p star intersected with the interval from C to B. Right? By this here, when I'm taking the position partition and I intersected with the interval, I'm just thinking about the the part of the partition that is dividing this interval up. Right? So you have this and likewise this thing here is is the sum this one here is the sum of the partition the lower sum the sum of the two lower sums which is this A to C plus L f P star of uh of C to be like that. Okay. And so this of course means that so now you can split this up and you can divide right. So you have this is equal to this sum. This here is equal to that sum. So you can just rearrange it so that that the upper sum. So you have so this means that this whole thing here is equal to u f p star intersected with a comma c minus and then I take this one here next. So, uh, L F P star intersected with A C. And then I take plus this one here. And then I take the last one, which is this one here. And it's again it comes with a minus sign. So, minus L. F P star uh intersected with C V like that. Okay. And but each of these things here this here is is is non negative. This here is non negative. And you see the the sum of these two numbers is bounded by epsilon. just means that each of them must be at most epsilon, right? Yeah. >> Explain what you did to break up into >> Okay. So, so I have I have here the interval. Um I have here the interval from A to B. Um here I have C and the star partition is the one that has all of the dividing points of the original partition P and then also C. So the partition looks like this. Maybe this here would be the partition. And now I'm thinking about so the the sum here in the the sum from the star partition it would look like this and I'm summing over all I right but I can look at where I'm summing over just those interval up to here right I can look at where I'm just summing over this interval and then I can look at where I'm summing over those interval Right? And so that's what I mean. So this here is now where you're summing over all the I but but you can also just summing over the eyes that are lesser equal to C and the eyes that are you know in this range right okay so that's okay. So, so this here proves this here. So, what this prove is that if you take uh this function and is integraable on this interval and you now restrict it to either of those, they are also integraable. Right? That's what it actually proves. But it's easy to see that uh that it it also with a little bit maybe I'll leave this for you. Uh but it but that that through the proof we also get that this sum here will have to be equal to the sum of these two right but really what I technically speaking proved was just this part here. Okay. But again the it's the all of the details for this are in the in the notes. Okay. Um now the next thing I want to Okay. So yeah. So I I I I will um let's talk about one other uh one corner of this. So it's the corner really not of this fourth property but on the third property. So the third property was this wheel. So the third property was this property here over here. So I want to talk about a corate of this one. So now I have a function. I'm assuming both the function and the function that is the absolute value. So the function that's absolute value means that at each point instead of looking at f ofx I'm looking at the absolute value of f ofx. This is the function. So I'm assuming that both of these functions are reman integral on this integral from a to b. And then the claim is that the that the integral here of f is lesser equal dx sorry is lesser equal to the integral from a this is a very ex this is very simple inequality but extremely useful. So this is the claim right. So I'm already assuming that things are everything is remman integraable. So I don't need to to prove anything like that. I just need to establish this inequality. And so to do that I'm just looking at f. Well f is less or equal to the absolute value. If f is positive it's equal to the absolute value. If it's negative this here is non negative anyway. So so so this is clear. This is clearly for all x. But it's also clear that if I take minus f you see this is also less than this right but now taken together so those two things so now the first one so so let's say star here and double star here it's just star here plus properties three from from over there. This just give us that integral of f from a to b dx is less or equal to the integral of the absolute value. Right? This is from star and tree. But if we take double star here + three well then we have that uh right so this here so we have that the integral of minus f dx is less or equal to the integral like this right but this one here is you can just think about this here as minus1. This is like minus1 times this function, right? So minus one just comes out. That was like number one. So this here is like minus1 times the integral from a to b of f dx. But this is of course the same as minus the integral from a to b f dx. Right? So you see that so this here so this so the second here implies that minus the integral from a to b f dx is less or equal to this thing here right and so now you have this thing here and that thing here and so together it just means that the absolute value of this is bounded by this And so that's really this column. Okay. The next thing I want to talk about, so this is how to evaluate integrals, right? And so there you have this the fundamental theorem of countness. And so we give two versions of that. So how to evaluate uh integrals. And so this is the fundamental theorem of calc. Okay. And now what does the fundamental theorem of calculus? So let's skip version one. So version one, version one is that if you take um uh if you take a function uh f and f here is continuous uh and you're looking at the integral. you're looking at so you have a function I don't really think about it as two uh as two versions uh but but but uh the the version uh um but but but I divide it into two versions here so the function if f is continuous say on the interval from on this interval here and you define a function f ofx which is the integral from a to x of f of s ds. Right? You see for each fixed x in the interval here, well, if you're thinking about the function little f, the little f was continuous on the whole interval. So it's continuous on, right? So f here is continuous on the interval from a to x, right? So it's when you restrict it, it's still continuous. So this means that it's integraable, right? And so this here gives you a number, right? And so for each x, you can think about this number here. So this gives you a function capital f, right? And the claim is that that this function here. So the claim is that the function capital f defined this way is is differentiable. So capital f is differentiable and the derivative of this uh at uh at x um is is uh is little f of x. And maybe I'll just Yeah. So that's that's the claim. Okay, let's try to prove that. So let's look at let's try to prove so we want to prove so we want to prove that this function so so we want to prove to so want to show uh want to show that fprime exist right uh at say at x0 right if you want to prove that it exist then you need to look at the difference quotient so we need to look at this difference and we need to prove that this thing here has a limit as x go to x0 right so x0 is fixed and you want to prove that it has a limit Let's um so in order to estimate this let me just let me not uh divide first let me just look at what this difference here is right and then afterwards I'm going to divide by x - x0 so if I'm looking at this let's for the sake of arguments assume that x is bigger than x0 of course I need to also see when I'm approaching x0 from the other sides, right? But but but the argument for that is similar. So I just assume that x is bigger than x0. Well, this difference here, well the function, so this function here, the function here, so let me just write it over here so I have a little more space. So this difference here where the function this here is the integral from a to x f of s ds and this thing here is the integral from a to x0 f of s ds right but this first integral here I can use this fourth rule that I maybe don't have anymore. But it the fourth rule is saying that you can split it up a integral you can split it up. So here if you have a you have a then you have x0 and then you have x. If you want to integrate little f over this it's the same as integrating over this plus the integral over that. Right? So I do that. So this one here I break into two pieces. I integrate from a to x0 f of s ds and then I take the second piece which is from x0 to x and then minus the integral from a to x0 of f of s ds. Okay, but now you see that this one here cancel out with that, right? And so this difference is just the integral from x0 to x f of s ds. Okay. So so so what we have is we have that this difference here f of x - f of x0 We know that this difference here is equal to this integral here. Now let me use this to bound this thing here from above and bound it from below. You see this integral here, this function here. So this function here if you're looking at this integral here sorry for f of s ds well this function here is is smaller than the max right the function is continuous so max and soup is the same the max or soup whatever you want on that interval right so this thing here is less than than the integral of um if you will x0 to x of the soup of f on this interval here, right? But this is just a constant, right? And so this here is just uh this is just like the soup of the function on this little interval times, right? So this constant. So this just pops out and then it's just the integral of one on this. But that's just the length of the interval. So it's this here times the length of the interval. And the length of the interval is this. Right? So this thing here is less than that. Right? Likewise this function here on this little interval is bigger equal to the in. So this is bigger than right than if you were just integrating the in of the function on the same interval. But the in and is this is just a constant. This pops out. So this thing here is just the in of the function on this interval here times the length of the interval. Okay, like that. Okay, so now I can and remember that this here was equal to the difference, right? So now I can just record this. So what I have is now What I'm interested in is in the difference in capital f. So what I'm interested in is of course I really want to look at the difference quotient but I can do this in just a second. So I'm interested in the difference of the of the function at those two points. Right? I know that that difference is equal to that integral here and that integral is bounded from above by this and below by that. So I just write I can now just write that this difference here maybe I should write it so I have a little more space somehow f of x minus f of x0 the difference is bounded from above by this thing here the soup of f on this little interval time x - x0 and it's bounded from below by the in on that same interval Right? So now now we can go to the different function because we just divide by x - x0 on both sides. x is bigger than x0. So you have this in here. So you have this difference quotient here. And that's what we want to show has a limit. And now we have that this is less than soup of f on this little interval here and it's bigger equal to the in of f on that same little interval. Right? But you see that as x here but now you have now you have that as x go to x0 right so so now as x goes to x0 right the values and not just the value at x but actually in this whole interval here the values goes to the what the values is at x0 right so you see that this here this the right hand side here goes to f of x little f ofx0 and the left hand side go to little of f of x0 right so this means that this thing is squeezed between these two numbers that goes to the same number. So this difference quotient also goes so this difference quotient here goes to f of x0 right because it's squeeze between those two numbers that converge to the same number namely to f ofx little f of x0. So this here proves that it's but technically speaking I only did it where I'm assuming that x was bigger than x0 if you if you let so you also need to check when x is strictly less than x0 and it's converging to x0 from below but with trivial modification the same proof works so and and and that's done out in the notes so I to not go through that. Okay. Now let's talk about so this is a second version of the fundamental theorem of calculus right and so I mean again you know you wouldn't really eventually kind of think about it as probably as two different versions but but but there sort of slightly you know it's it's two two things about the same stuff but uh second version here. So I divided into these two versions. So the second version. So so again fundamental thermal calculus version two. And so this is the following that you take a function uh f that is def you know and is f is defined on some interval from a to b into r and f is differentiable. So this here exist it's differentiable at each point and uh and um uh f here this little f is reman integral and then the claim is that um that f of b minus capital f at a is the integral from a to b of uh of little f of x dx. Okay, so that's a claim, right? Um, all right. I wonder if I should just skip that. Uh I did that I did the proof uh for for this out in the notes also. So maybe I'll just skip that. Um and and then uh okay so now but let me look at an example where I'm applying it. and so I have uh I'm looking at so suppose I want to compute x² from 0 to 1 dx suppose I want to compute that and so in this case I could look at So if I sort of want to apply that version, I could think about suppose I'm looking at f ofx equal to uh x ^ 3 over three, right? Suppose I'm looking at this. Well, if I'm looking at this function, I know that capital f of x is equal to the derivative of this is just x², right? So this say and x squ is now of course it's continuous so it's integraable right so this means that uh by the second by the by this second version uh of the fundamental thermal calculus Then we have that uh that f of 1 minus f of zero is equal to the integral right of of the derivative because the derivative is integral. So 0 to 1 of of x² dx, right? But this here is now just evaluating this function here. So this here is/3 minus zero. So this original integral is a third, right? Okay. So, so the next thing um right so the next thing I want to talk about is uh uh improper integrals. Okay. So this here concludes this here was stuff I actually had from the previous lecture. That was why I skipped a couple of things. But but um um but yeah, but the details uh for for the things I skipped is in the notes and the things I skipped is very similar to things I went through here anyway. Okay. So now let me look at improper integrals. And there's a couple of versions of this. So we will look at two version of this. one is where the integral where the integral is. So we look at so improper integrals. So I'm going to look at two versions. So two versions. uh version one is where the integral is unbounded. The integral is unbounded and the second version is where the function is unbounded. Okay. Now in the first version then you take uh you uh looking at a function uh f and this function is uh integral. So f here is integral uh from a to b uh for all uh so so a here is fixed but it's integral for all uh b bigger than a so a is fixed so a here fixed and it's integral like that Okay. Then what we want to what we are interested in so again if you're thinking about the integral as a kind of think about the integral as the weighted area. So and weight just means that if the function is negative in a stretch then the area there will count with a minus sign. Right? So uh this here is so what we're interested in is we're interested in making sense of the area the weighted area below the graph where we go all the way out to infinity. Okay. And so this is you know does this make sense? So this is this is in this case the improper integral. It's improper because it's not a bounded integral. Right? And so yes, if yes if uh this limit here of um a to b if this limit here of f of x dx if this limit here is b goes to infinity exist then we say we say that the improper integral here from a to infinity of f ofx. We say that this here exists and is equal to this limit. Okay. So this is one version of the improper integrals and the other version is uh the other version of the improper integral is the following um um so the second version. So this is where f here is unbounded. In a minute I'll look at examples of both things. So the function is unbounded. So it's defined on but f here is supposed to be integral on say a to b right sorry a uh supposed to be integral from um it's supposed to be integral from c to b uh for all c bigger than so see See here C is bigger than some A and less than B. So think here about here you have A here you have B. So A and B in this case are fixed but the function is not bounded. It's not maybe even defined at A. Right? It's not really defined at a but it is but if you but it is integral on if you go anywhere strictly to the right of a then it is integral on this interval here. And so if if this limit so if this limit here as c goes to a the integral from c to b of fx dx if this limit here exists then we say that this improper integral from c to b sorry a to b of f ofx dx this is a improper integral because the function is not bounded on this whole interval. It's not even defined at at at a. If this here we say that this thing here is equal to this limit as c = to a of c b f ofx dx. Okay. And so you know you the improper integral actually often appear in things. Okay. So let me look at examples of this. So I will look at example of this and I will look so again there's these two versions where the integer is unbounded or the function is unbounded. Right? Of course there's all kind of variation of this. Right here I looked at where the function was unbounded to the left or you could do the same to the right. It could be this interval here. this interval in the in the uh the where the interval was unbounded you I'm talking I was the ex when I I explained what it means I did it as if the interval was unbounded to the right but of course you can also look at unbounded to the left or you could even look at where it was unbounded both to the right and to the left Okay, but let me look at some examples. Um and so the first example again the first two examples would be where the interval is uh unbounded. So the first example here is uh where the interval is unbounded and we're looking at uh the interval is 1 to infinity and we're looking at the function uh f ofx = 1 /x² right and I'm interested in. And the question is, does the improper integral this here of 1 /x^2 dx does this exist? That's a question, right? And so you we use the fundamental theorem of calculus to determine that. We observe that if you're looking at f ofx which is 1 /x then the derivative here is uh of this function here this is 1 /x² okay so this is what we observe so therefore it means that if you integrating from 1 to b of 1 /x^2 dx this thing here is the same as f of b minus f of one. Right? And so using this and we know what f is you have that this is minus uh minus sorry 1 over b and uh no sorry yeah it's minus one over b. This is what you get from this. And here you're getting one plus one like this, right? And so you see that this thing here as B goes to infinity this here converts to zero. So this converts to one. So indeed this improper yes is our answer and and what it is equal to. Why? because it converts to one, it's equal to one. Okay, so again, if you're thinking about it, it's sort of a little bit like what we did for series that you're summing infinitely many numbers. So here you're looking at something and you're looking at the area, but the area actually is finite even though it continue on forever. Um h so that's one version of it. Suppose that instead of 1 / x^2. So one over the property that the function 1 /x^2 has is that it go really quite fast to zero. As x go to infinity 1 /x^2 goes really pretty fast to zero. Suppose I look at a function that does go to zero. But if it doesn't go to zero, right? If the function doesn't go to zero, right? And if we were kind of let's say that it's was staying above a certain line well then the area below the graph would of course be larger than this thing and that would be infinite. So it's not going to converge right? So so it will have to kind of go to zero in some way. Um so example two I'm looking at another function still goes to zero again the interval is the same from one to infinity and the function is now this time it's one of x still goes to zero so maybe it has a chance let's let's see if you now take the integral from one to x of uh 1 to b sorry of uh of 1 /x dx x. Well, again, you use the fundamental therm of calculus. If you're looking at the function f of x = to log of x, the derivative of log is 1 /x. Right? So, this thing here by the fundamental theorem of calculus, this second version of fundamental the calculus is f of b minus f of one. And that is log of B minus log of 1. Log of 1 is zero. So this is just log of B. But as B goes to infinity, this here actually goes, it's not bounded. It tend to wander off to infinity. Right? So this improper integral here, this one here does not exist. Right? It actually it's like the area below this function here would actually be like infinite. Right? It does not go to zero fast enough. Okay? So that's examples of the where the interval is unbounded. Suppose that we look at examples where the instead of the interval is being unbounded the function is unbounded. So let's look at some example of that suppose you take so now suppose you take the interval from so the interval is bounded but the function is not bounded is sorry the function the interval is bounded but the function is unbounded so I'm looking at first f ofx X = 1 / of X as X go to zero square root of 0 X goes to to zero so this means that one over it goes to infinity so this function is not bounded but if I'm now looking at so I want to look at the improper integral where I'm taking this function the function is blowing up as I'm going close to zero right blowing up like that and I want to I want to see does this here does uh this improper integral here does this exist right that's a question uh and so in order to figure that out I use the fundamental theorem of calculus again so if I take the function if I take the function function uh f(x) = 2 * x and I now take the derivative of this then I get 1 / of x and so this means that um so this means that if you now look at Um so this means that if you're now looking at the integral here uh of um uh right this integral from a say to one of 1 / x a strictly positive dx X. This thing here is capital F of 1 minus capital F of A. And so capital F was was this function here. So this is two I two one that's one. So it's two minus uh 2 square of a. But now as a goes to zero this here converts to two. Right? So this improper integral exists. So yes, this one here exist and is equal to two. Okay, let's look at one uh one last example uh of this um And so this is another example where the function is so again you know uh in in in this sort of example the function was unbounded. It's blowing up. It's going to infinity but the area below the graph that's what we calculated is still actually finite. Right? But what if the function is blowing up faster than this? Right? So this is an example like this. that if you take uh this it's again the interval from 0 to one and the function is now now it's going to infinite faster as x goes to zero. So this is the function and so now we want to we again asking is does this does the improper integral so does this improper integral here exist and uh let's see if it exist or not. So we use the fundamental theorem of calculus again we observe that the function f ofx equal to log of x that the derivative of this function is just 1 /x. So this means that if we integrate from a a is now again strictly positive strictly positive. So if you're looking at this integral here, this here is because of the second version of fundamental theore calculus. We have that this here is f in one minus uh f and a. And this thing is now log of one that's zero minus log of a. Uh log of a is uh right. So log of a so it's like that. And now remember that log the log function here the log function looks like this right this is the log function. So you see that as as you go towards zero here this number here goes to minus infinity so this here goes to infinity right so it doesn't converge right so uh so the answer is no okay and so the very last thing uh I want to talk about is just I'll just give you a definition. So this is arc length. So uh suppose you take a curve in the plane. So suppose that I have a curve in the plane. So gamma of t this is a curve so it has in the plane so it means that it has two coordinates is called gamma of s I think that's what I did in the notes uh so this here is the curve and uh and I'm assuming that f and g are differentiable and the derivative here are continuous. So suppose I have such a curve and s here is running in an interval from a to b. Then the length of the curve is by definition the integral from a to b of square root of uh f prime of s squared plus g prime of s squar d s. So this is this is the length of the curve. Maybe I'll talk a little bit more about that next time. Okay. So, I'll stop here. So, and I'll post the the notes. Uh, any questions? Okay.