So, uh, in the rest of the class, let's talk a little bit, uh, about, um, interest rates, uh, and a little bit about bonds, uh, because that's very, important for and central for many will be will be definitely part of many classes and is generally central for uh for finance and for life in my opinion. So what is interest? Um well let's start with now and suppose we have $1 which we uh invested oh put it in the bank. So what happens in one year? Well you expect to get your dollar back with some interest. And what does it mean? So you get one plus something I know 5% nowadays and this r is called interest rate. So what happens if you reinvest it what what will you get the the whole thing? So in two years you would expect to get 1 + r * 1 plus r right? So 1 plus r 2. So in n years you will expect to get 1 plus r to to the power m right well let's let's make it small and small not to confuse ourselves. So uh now let's uh let's make life a little bit more complicated. What happens if you uh if you decide to take your money in half a year, right? You had one here. So what happens in h half a year? Well, you get half of the interest, right? So it will be 1 + r / 2 and in one year it will be 1 + r / 2 squared, right? Because re you reinvest it. So suppose you you keep it in the bank and in n years it will be 1 + r / 2 but twice n right because there are twice as many periods. Okay let's subdivide further let's make m periods. So in one in the first period you get one over 1 + r / m in one year it will be 1 + r / m ^ m and here you'll get 1 + r / m * n. All right. What if we take the limit? Let's if we are able to reinvest every second, every millisecond, what happens then? So we'll send this m to the infinity. So what is who knows what what is that? >> Well, it is E but R >> right has to be there and N this N will stay there right well yeah if we keep N here. So in fact interesting historical fact that's how E was discovered and defined. It was Berni in his seinal paper in uh 1683 where he described this computation and it was about interest rate uh about uh how interest is compounding. So maybe this was the first mathematical finance paper in in the history. Uh okay. Now let's change uh the uh game a little bit. Not a game change the question a little bit. So suppose we know that we will receive uh uh we will receive $1 in one year. uh how much should we pay for this right to receive a dollar in one year? How how much should should we pay now to receive a dollar in one year, right? So, and let's compute it. So, suppose we don't uh we don't know. Let's let's assume that now it is act x dollars and let's consider the the following strategy. Let's borrow $1. Uh let's borrow X this amount now and let's see what happens at the end. So at the end in one year I mean we'll receive $1 dollar for sure, right? And we'll have to repay our debt but with interest. So we'll have repay plus uh x * r uh uh sorry x * 1 + r right now what should this be? Can it be greater than zero this difference? Well, if it's greater than zero, why wouldn't we borrow? Why why wouldn't we buy a right to receive a billion dollars? Then we'll have a lot of profit. Can it be less than zero? Well, then we would be stupid to enter this contract because we'll lose money for sure. That's that's we know that this will happen in one year. So for no arbitrage and we we don't assume that anybody our counterpart is stupid. We don't think that we are stupid right? So it has to be zero. So and this x is equal to 1 + divided by 1 plus r and this is called discounting meaning that if we know that we'll receive certain amount in the future and we know the interest rates pre prevailing interest rates then we have to discount the the uh the future value to today using a discount factor and this is the discount factor assuming analyzed compounding. Right? If uh if we if we assume analyze compounding and uh receive n dollars in the future uh in the future n years, right? the value of n dollars in the future. It is the value of our n dollars which which we'll receive in the future n years but it has to be discounted by n years right so it it should be and here it is discounting right if we assume a continuous discounting something like this then it will be our price will be n * e to minus RN right this will be our discount factor assuming continuous compounding so and we already hitting the uh the problem or not a problem but we are already hitting a situation uh where uh some model is needed so which brings us to the world of financial interest is financial instruments, interest rate related financial in instruments. Uh and the simplest financial instrument is a zero coupon bond. That's exactly the right to receive certain amount of uh of notional or notional is quite often one or 100 in certain amount of time, right? And that's the value of our zero coupon bond. More common uh financial instruments are coupon bonds, right? Because most people would like to receive periodic interest for uh for giving for lending money, right? And that's effectively lending money. And uh this is typical b uh bonds. For example, if you buy government bonds, that's that's what will what will happen. You'll give the government your $100 and government will be repaying you coupons periodically usually semianually uh here in US in Europe it's quite often quarterly and the notional all your $100 at the end right so what what the pri a pri the price of such a coupon bond should be well we'll need to take all the cash flows and discount them. And if we assume a constant interest rate, we'll have to discount it with our constant discount factors. And that's how uh how much and this assumes well say annual coupons and annual rate. So that's will be your sequence with a notional at the end, right? the the whole big notional at the end. And can we sum this up? Well, sure. That's geometric geometric sequence, right? Everybody can sum up geometric sequence. And that's uh that's the value. That's what you get. Uh so u and that's the value of the bond. Now uh the bonds are traded on the markets uh there are prices of the bonds uh and if you start uh investing into uh into bonds and not in just in one bond you should be able to compare two bonds and comparing the price is not really convenient because bonds of different maturities even with the same interest would will have different prices, right? Because there will be different number of cash flows. Bonds of different coupons will have different prices. So what turns out uh to be more convenient measure to compare bonds and various fixed income securities is yield. And yield is such a constant interest rate which by this discounting gives you market price. You so you you buy something at the market price. You know the market price. So uh you know all the cash flows. So you back out one flat interest rate which will give you uh the price of uh of the bond. Right? That's called yield of the bond. Obviously there is uh onetoone relationship between price and yield. So for our zero coupon bond yield is pretty simple right you just invert this uh this formula and here this is here on the slide for coupon bonds yield computation is more complex because inverting this formula is uh more involved in in fact it has to be numerical right but that's uh that's how fields are computed. Um here I'll I give you an example of uh of a few uh of price yield relationship for a 10-year bond with different coupons. So what's important to know here is that the higher the coupon and that's natural the uh the uh the higher the the yield is right for the same bond of the same maturity. Uh but what is important to know is the yield and price are in inverse relationship. The higher yield the low lower the price right because it's all about discounting. It's in denominator. The higher the the price the lower the yield. Um so uh that's that's what it is. Uh and but real life is uh is more complicated than that in real world as if we wanted everything to be the same simple interest rate and all bonds have to be discounted the same. Uh real life is slightly different. So if you take market uh uh securities, market bonds and start baking up their yields, they uh they will not be constant uh particularly with maturity. And this is called the yield curve. And I gave you uh here I plotted a yield curve uh for uh 10-year uh term structure of 10-year yields, US government yields for a variety of times and I want to talk just a little bit about it because it's quite topical. So that's the the the thickest line is this. That's uh the yield curve uh for September 3rd. So two days uh two days ago right? Um so quite different and yields here in for a very short dated securities are quite higher than for longdated security. This this is still quite atypical. For example, in 92 around the same September time, yield curve looked like this. Uh considered to be more or less classical curve. And generally speaking, we expect upward sloping curves because generally speaking, people would like to receive more yield for longer term uh for longer term investments, right? And that's what uh was the case uh in uh this is what uh this is 21 uh this is uh 14 uh yeah nice looking curves. The only difference here is that now they they are ground if in 92 they were grounded at 3% and went all the way up to seven. Uh they those were grounded at zero and went only to two 3%. Right now interesting observation here is so where uh let's look at this inverted curves. A year ago it was inverted. Now it is inverted. It was inverted in 2007. Uh no, this is 20 2019 and this is 2007. So what do do you have anything in your mind? What's uh what's common between 20 21 and 2007? So >> the year before recession. >> Yes. Exactly. Well, 2007 the recession was the recession, right? 2021 there was a recession in 2020. Even this this this yield curve is before COVID. So nothing was and if you look at the shape of the yield curves and recession times uh well it is common analogy and there there are papers on that uh how predictive is inverted yield curve for the recessions. Generally it is uh assumed to be predictive. So here we go we have inverted heel curve. What does it tell us about the future? Well, that's all Fed's job to keep it uh to to keep it to make it a soft landing and and and for a recession not to happen. And we'll see maybe it will be or maybe not. But uh what what I want to emphasize that there is a lot of information in yield curves. uh one of the lectures in the future Andrew Gston he will be talking mostly about yield curves and yield curve constructions and the instruments around that so uh uh it's very uh important piece um of knowledge uh and uh yeah I I'll promise you when I come back later on to talk about black shs uh I'll I'll bring this slide back and we'll see what happens with with the yurf because what and I can guarantee you it will look different because the Fed is happening the Fed meeting is happening in September. Everybody expects uh uh the yields to be cut which immediately will bring the short end down. What happens with the long end? I wish I knew. Anyway, u that's about yield curves. Uh but uh another important thing to emphasize that no matter what uh bond prices are sensitive to uh to yields obviously right and they are sensitive to yields in nonlinear fashion. What does it mean? Well, it means that if you hold bonds on your hands and yields change and they do change, you will your your investment will change. So it's quite important to understand the sensitivity of your investment to uh to interest rates and yields. So uh and uh and what are sensitivities? Those are derivatives, right? So or uh in in finance and fixed income world they're called durations because they're usually uh scaled by price. So uh very important measures are duration of the bond which is derivative with respect with respect to yield u and there for each different bond and each different security they will be slightly different right uh and uh not only the first derivative is important the second derivative or convexity uh is also important so um yeah and that's what we'll be talking about uh in in a various classes. Uh we will be talking about more interesting uh interest rate objects in the future in particular forward rates and swaps, but I'll leave it to Stefan and and Andrew uh to to talk more about that. Uh that's probably all for today and any questions to to any of us? >> Have you done this? Have you done that game before? >> Uh not specifically this format. So we tried before it was more open-ended. I was thinking I so I think by fixing the dates you don't have to make the market timing decision. We already made it for you.