Okay. So, um so the topic of today is uh civ theory and the the large civ um which was the first place that I know of where proofs like the proof that proofs that we've been talking about appeared and it appeared in the context of of analytic number theory. Um, we'll talk about that and then if there's time I'll try to show you like a really very closely analogous thing in the context of real analysis. Um, and we'll compare it. Okay. Um, all right. So the setting of the large civ is that we have a function on the numbers from one up to n. So remember that that notation is the integers from one up to n and I have a function. Okay. And then I'm going to think about what happens when I reduce these integers mod p. So um uh so I'll have pi p of f that's a function from z mod p to c and the definition is like this pi pf of a is defined to be the sum over all the n= to a mod p of f of a. Okay. Um the setting of the large civ is I have I have one function f but then I consider this is sort of a projection of f and I consider pi p of f for many different ps and see what sort of the typical behavior and how the different the different ps are related to each other. Okay. Um okay. Now, as before, we've seen it's sometimes helpful to separate a function out into its constant part and its mean zero part. So, f0 would be so the take the average value. So, 1 / n= 1 to n. So, that's the average value. And then maybe still I still have a function on on numbers from one to n. Okay. And then the high part of f is f minus the constant part. So subn f high of f is zero. So this is the dangerous notation with the I'll make it a capital h. Okay. And you can do the same thing with the with the projections. So if I take the projection of f zero, it's 1 / p sub a and z by pi p f of a. It's a constant function and pi p of f pi is pi p of f minus pi p of f. Okay, a little tiny remark is I was sort of careful about where to put the parenthesis, but it doesn't actually matter. So, um, pi p of f high is the same thing as pi p of f high and pi p of f zero is the same thing as pi p of x. >> Sorry, could you just explain what the bracket means on the definition of zero again? this one here. >> Yeah. >> Um so f0 is a function of let's say m and inside the large bracket is a number which is like the the average value of f. >> Oh those are just parentheses here. >> Those are just parenthesis. >> Okay. Okay. So the the theme of the large civ is that if you take a almost arbitrary function here and you look at many different projections then the um uh the oscillating part of the high frequency part of the projections will on average be pretty small whereas the um the constant part um well it only depends on the constant part of f but it will be it could be typically bigger. Um okay so let me write a theorem which is makes that sense I might need just a little more notation to state our theorem. Okay. So let's say capital P M is the set of prime numbers P prime in the range M / 2 less than P less than. Okay. So here is the main theorem which was proven by Linu says that if you have a function n goes to c um and we have an m which goes up to square root of n. Then if I take um the the sum p and pm of pi p of fi l2 and that is bounded by n / m times the sum on n of f of n^2. Okay, so it takes a little bit of work to uh digest the statement of this theorem and like what kind of a bound this is giving us. So let's digest it together and and by doing we'll digest it by doing some applications and then after that we'll come back and we'll prove this theorem. Okay. So, so there are the character in our story is the primes of size about M and it's useful to know about how many there are. So, a background fact from analytic number theory is that the number of primes about M is around M over log M which very roughly I'm just going to say is about M. Uh, okay. So, there are about M terms in this sum and it sometimes is helpful to replace the sum by an average. Um so correlary is that the average P and PM of pi P of FI L2 is less than N / M^2 times the sum on M of FI N So as a first application of this, let's um prove an estimate about uh so so we so last time I gave the example of the square numbers. Square numbers have the interesting property that if you reduce them mod p for any p you get the quadratic residues and they're only p+ one over two of them. Um so let's think about a situation like that. Suppose you have a set and when you reduce it modulo P, you get significantly less than all P of the of the residue classes. What does that tell us about the set? So there is a corlary if a is a subset of 1 to n and pi p of a is significantly smaller than p. So I'm going to say it's less than.99 * p just some constant that's less than one. Um, and for all P would be interesting, but but I'm going to say for all the P in P n to the 1/2. So we only actually are going to use the primes of size about n^ the 1/2. Um, then the conclusion is that the size of a is bounded by around n to the 12. So this would be the this would be the case if a was the set of square numbers. A was the set of square numbers. would be basically half of P. This would be all the primes. So in particular all of those primes and this set of square numbers would have cardality n to the Okay. So let's make our function a characteristic function of a. All right. Um okay. So if I look at the sum uh a and z mod p of pi p f of a squared let's so let's say that p is in this pn to the 12 okay so how big would this be well if each of these entries if each of these guys were the same as each other then the size of this thing would be a / p and it would be squared and I'd be summing over p terms. Right? So if all these values pi pf of a they were all equal to each other they would each have size size of a over pum and then the sum would be like this. They could be unequal to each other and then by koshi schwarz argument they would this would be even bigger. Okay. And then simplifying this a little bit, it's it's around a^2 n to the minus a half because p is around n^ the half. Okay. Now what happens if we take the high part? Um well because pi p so the support of pi p of f that's contained in pi p of a um so the size of the support pi p of f is less than.99 * That's enough to say that this function is not super close to a constant function in L2. So that implies that um the sum and cp pi p of f high squared is around the sum without the high. So, so all of these L2 norms they're they're all big. Does that feel intuitive to people? Should we talk about that more? >> Yeah. Okay. So, let's call let's call it a lema. So, lema is that if I have a function G um CP to C, it's not really important that this is CP. It's just a finite set. Um and um uh and the support of G has size significantly less than P. Then the conclusion is that the high part of G L2 is around the same as GL2. Um okay. So, um, okay. So, G is G knot plus G high. And G knot and G high are always perpendicular to each other. so so the sum so gl 2 is around g2 is equal to g l2 2 plus g high l2. Um okay. um so okay if if GL L2 squared was much smaller than G L2 then clearly G high L2 squ would be bigger. So if G knot L2 2 um is less than half of G L2. We're done. Otherwise, we go the other way. Um and um so so um let's say S is the support of G complement and notice that S is at least some definite fraction of P and on S uh G high is equal to I guess negative g because they have to add up to to zero. G vanishes on on on s. Um so we get g high l2 is at least um the sum the sum in s of of g squ. But since g is constant um this is at least s over p times g l2 which is then at least uh so s over p is on the order of 1 and g l2 is on the order of gl2. So that's okay. Okay. So the high part of this projection has an L2 norm that's comparable to the L2 norm of the whole projection which is at least this big in terms of the size of A. But the L2 norm of the projection high pride of the projection shouldn't be too big by our theorem. So the theorem implies that the average over p^ 12 of this same thing is bounded above by n / m^2. My m is the square root of n. So this just cancels and then I get the sum of f of n^2. So this would be bounded above by the size of A. Okay. So to summarize this is bounded by this is bounded by this a^2 n^ the minus a half bounded by a a is bounded by n^ the 1 Any questions or comments about it? Okay. Okay. So, um, so I feel like it's, you know, it's interesting that it matches the examples of of the square numbers. So, it's sort of sharp in that context. Um uh but also it would be nice to discuss more and look at more examples to try to get a feel for sort of the numerology of the equations. And a helpful reference point for me is to look at a random set. So reference point be a random set. Okay. So here we're going to take a subset of the numbers from 1 to n and we include each number in a with probability 1/2. You could also as an exercise play with this probability but let's just talk about 1/2 and you know independently. Okay. So um so what would we expect pi p characteristic function at a what would we how would we expect this to behave? So this is the number of n uh from one up to n. So that n= a mod p and n is in capital a and each one of those candidates was chosen with probability a half. Okay. So, so the expected value over our choice of a so over the random choice of this set a of pi p1 a little a would be half of the number of guys here. So that's essentially um half of n over p. But um well you you wouldn't necessarily expect this number to be exactly n over 2p every time. If we choose randomly you'll see some ups and downs. Um and um uh um so the standard deviation of the number that gets picked here would be the square root of the size of this. We also would see that with high probability the size of the actual size of the projection minus the approximate size would be bounded by like the square root of the um of of this um and it typ typically would have size around this square root. Okay. So for example uh if if p is in capital p n to the 12 then the actual size of the projection minus its expected size would be around n to the Okay. So let's compare this with what our what our what our theorem says about an arbitrary set. Um so so what we concluded is for every P in here and for every A in C mod P we would have this. So if we took a random set um and then for every P and every A the difference between the actual size of the projection and its expected size would be a square root of the of the number of choices which would work out to n^ the 1/4. We're going to compare this to um what what our large civ tells us about an Any questions or comments about the reference setup? So corollary three. So a is any um a is any subset of numbers up to n. Then um if I take the average over primes of size around n to the half um and then I take the average over a z mod p. I take the actual size pi p 1 a and I subtract off the expected size. um a over a over p. So this is this is what so we have this many elements and we reduce them all mod p. I would expect on average that this number of them would be congruent to little a mod b. So then this is bounded by n to the one and this matches this Um, so so the proof is uh coropy down what corlary one tells us and it basically tells us this. So we're going to plug in corlary one where um p is pn um where where m is n to the 12. that will make this disappear. and cor so corlary one tells us that the average p and pn to the half sum a and z mod p of pi p1 a of a minus a over p^ 2 um is bounded by the l2 norm of f which would be the size of a Okay. Um, and that's smaller than n. Then if I want to replace this average, this sum by an average, then I'm going to divide by p, which has size around n^ the 1/2. So I replace the sum by the average. Then this is bounded by n^ the 1/2. And there's a square here. So I want to get rid of the square. I would use Koshy Schwarz. Get the average on P, average on A. Get rid of this. So that's the proof of the coral. Okay. Um so so the large civ is telling us that if you look at a residue class with a random P and a random A then it behaves a so you take an arbitrary set a worst case complicated any set at all but then you look at a random residue class with a random P and a random A then it behaves a lot like you had taken a random set. Um, okay. So, a cute application of this is if a is the set of primes and there's a fun question as a interesting question in number theory. How many primes are there in some arithmetic progression? Um, so that that's exactly this thing. A is the set of primes and this is telling us how many primes there are that are congruent to A modulo little B. Um and um and so the question is how evenly distributed are the primes among these different arithmetic progressions? And the conjecture would be that for every little p and every little a that's not zero, this is always true. Um, and this corlary actually makes some progress towards that. It says we don't know that it's true for all the little P's and all the little A's, but we know it's true for most of them. Now, it's a little bit silly to call that a correlary about about the primes because it uses nothing about the primes. It just uses the fact that the primes are a set of numbers. Um but um uh okay but but that line of reasoning is actually important in some of the some of the things we know about the questions how well are primes distributed modulo p okay okay so next class we'll come back to the question um how much do we know about uh about this function when a is the set of primes um and we'll do the the bombiier venogradov theorem which is not quite the state-of-the-art but for many many years was the state-of-the-art about about this question. Um and well yeah any it uses these ideas in a crucial way. Okay. So that was my survey of some applications of this large civ inequality and next we'll prove the large civ inequality itself. Oh, there's actually there was one other thing I wanted to say. So, okay. So, imagine that a was a set of size n /2. Then, um this thing here would have size about n over p which works out to about n^ the 1/2 and this thing has size about n to the one half and the error is about n to the one quarter. So this thing here is the pi pi p of f sub0. And so what what we're seeing here is that the um the pi p of f0 is much larger than pi p of f high at most of the points. So say in L2. So when we we take a set of size n /2 and we look at all these different projections, a typical projection looks almost constant. it's a constant function plus something that's much smaller. Um, so this process of taking a random function takes a set with with no structure and it produces something that's almost constant. And people sometimes use the word that the projections are getting uh smoother. And when we do the real analysis version a little bit later in class, we'll see that smoother is is exactly the the right word. Cool. Okay. Um yeah so I think that's a good way to summarize what the largest div is telling us it says if we take a set A which is a pretty decent fraction of the numbers from one to n and then when we look at all the projections of it most of those projections are almost constant and that's relevant for this question up here because um you know if we hypothesize that pi subp of a is has size smaller than.99 of p that's telling us the projection is really not very And that's only possible for small sets. So that's where we get that upper bound on the size of a. If a was bigger than that, then it would start to be the case that the projections of A would have pretty would would look pretty constant and it would then it would be impossible that the support would be that small. >> Yeah. >> What does P tell the capital P to the 12 mean? What does >> under the average >> this one >> oh sorry that's P in so capital P n to the half is the set of primes of size about n to the half and this is this prime is one of them yeah thanks for thanks okay so next um let's prove Linux theorem Um so the proof of Linux theorem is based on the forier transform. So we're going to take the fora transform of all of these characters and then we're going to see how the different fora transforms are related to each other. Um so first let me remind you how the for a transform works for uh functions on the integers and functions on z mod p. So f is going to be a think of it as a function on the integers which is supported in in this set one of tan and so if I take its fora transform what does that mean the for transform is going to be a function on r mod z and it's defined by f of c is the sum on n f of n eus 2 pi i c do n c that's the for transform And it has a forier inversion and it has a planter route. And they go like this. Forier inversion. It tells us that f of n is the integral from 0 to 1 f of c E2 pi i cn dx. And there's a planer. And it tells us that the sum on n of f of n^2 is the integral from 0 to 1 norm of fat x c^2 dx. Okay. So this is probably most familiar backwards from the way I've written it. If you started with a function on r modz z a periodic function you would take its forier series and if you sum the forier series you get the function. This is the same thing. We've just chosen to label the for a series by f and the uh function on the circle by fhat. Okay. And then we will also have a function on z mod p. So suppose I have a function z mod p goes to c. Then its fora transform will also be a function z mod p goes to c. And the definition is ghat of uh alpha. So I'll say that this variable is called a and this variable is called alpha. So ghat of alpha will be the sum a and z mod p g of a eus 2 pi i a alpha over p. And then we have fora inversion which tells us that g of a can be recovered as 1 / p sum alpha and z mod p ghat of alpha e to the 2 pi i a alpha over p and uh and planer that tells us that the sum on a norm of g of a^ 2 is 1 / p * the sum on alpha norm of g of alpha square. Okay, so that's how the for transforms works for each of these worlds. And now we're going to put it together. So if I start with a function on the integers, I reduce it mod p to get a function on z mod p. How does this for a transform relate to this for a transform? Okay. Okay. So, lama I'll call this lama dictionary. This is a dictionary between the integer world and the mod p world. And it says that if I take pi p of f hat of alpha that is fhat of alpha and vp. Okay the proof is just unwinding the definitions of what all these for transforms mean. So what does it mean pi pfhat of alpha? Pi PF hat of alpha that's the sum a and z mod pi pf of a e - 2i i a alpha over p okay now who is pi pf of a sum a and z mod p open parenthesis sum n= a mod p of f of n e - 2i i a alpha. All right. Now, if you look at this double sum, we're just summing over all the x. And now let's look at the thing that we're summing. So uh n= a mod p that tells us that e to the - 2i i n alpha / p is the same as e - 2 pi i a alpha p. Why? I have different ns that are congruent to a mod p. So I think of adding a multiple of p to this n. that multiple of P the P cancels with that P. So we're changing this by an integer and it doesn't change the value of of it. Okay, so this is just the sum over n f of n e to the - 2 pi i n alpha p. Cool. Um, another little remark, this is something we basically saw last time that if you take the high part of pi p of f and it's l2 norm squared. If you take the high part of it, what it means is that we removed the zero frequency. So I guess I'll also call this a lema, but it's very similar to things we've already proved. So pi pfi L2 squared is the sum on the nonzero alphas. Okay. Um, so, so now we have a way of writing. So, let's look at the theorem we want to prove. We're going to take a sum over different ps of the L2 norms of the high parts of pi p of f. These lemas give us a way of writing that and translating it into a sum that involves the for transform of f. Yeah, I guess one last remark is um so so pi p of f hat of alpha is fhat of alpha over p that's for any function f and so if I were to take pi p of f high hat of alpha that would be fi hat alpha Okay. So now let's let's write out the left hand side of Linux theorem using 4A using the 4A transform. Um, so the left hand side of our theorem, I'll just copy it. The sum p in primes of size m pi p of f high part l2 squ. So that's now some pinp on the nonzero alpha n cp um pi p of fi hat of alpha squared which is equal to some p of pm some alpha not equal to zero np of fi fi hat of alpha over p norm cool. Okay, so we're taking the 4A transform of the high part of f and evaluating it at a set of points norm squared and adding them all up. Uh let's visualize that set of points. So let's say qm is the set of uh alpha over p where p is a prime of size around m and alpha is strictly positive and less than or equal to p minus one. Okay, so um the size of qm is roughly m squ. So we mentioned before how many choices are there for this prime p? It's about m over log m which is roughly m. And then for each prime there are basically p choices of alpha which is also around m. They're roughly m squ of these um quotients. Um and an important fact about these quotients is that they're distributed quite evenly on the real line. So they're about m^ squ of them and the distance between any two of them is at least m^2. So here's a lema. Um, if alpha 1 over p1 and alpha 2 over p2 are in qm and they're not equal to each other, then the distance between them is at least 1 / m^2. Okay, proof. Um, we're just going to put it over a common denominator. Alpha 1 P1 Alpha 1 over P1 minus Alpha 2 over P2 is alpha 1 P2 minus alpha 2 P1 over P1 P2 by assumption there the difference is not zero um and so this numerator is not zero um and so this it's an integer so it has norm at least some say at least that big. Okay. Um I guess to be careful I should also say that if you know if P1 is different from P2 then these two are never equal to each other. So we never so the importance of making these primes is that um we never have the same number written as a fraction in two different ways here. So let's also make the remark that um uh if alpha 1 over p1 equals alpha 2 over p2 um in qm then it must be that alpha 1 equals alpha 2 and p1 equals p2. Okay. Um, cool. All right. So, I'm going to erase the dictionary lema and I'll make a picture of this set and of what we're what we're doing. Okay, here's a picture. So, here's the line from 0 to one. And on this line we have this set Q subm which is maybe not quite that evenly spaced but it's it's quite evenly spaced. So that's Q sub. Okay. And then we have we're interested in the uh our formula involves the the norm of squared of the 4A transform of f. Let me put that on this axis. Okay. So, um, so this will look however it looks. Okay. We'll talk about this a little bit more. All right. So what what we're taking in that sum is we're finding the actual values at these points and we're adding them up. And this sum might remind you a little bit of a remon sum that would help to give an approximation of this integral. And indeed we're going to compare this sum to this integral. Um, okay. Now, there is a way that the sum could be a lot bigger than the integral, which is a narrow peak like this. You know, if if the function is very big at this one point, but the peak is extremely narrow, then it wouldn't contribute much to the integral, but it's still there as part of our sum. So, it's important to know sort of how narrow a peak like this can be. And the heristic which is similar to heristic we've talked about before is that the function fi hat of c is roughly constant on intervals of length 1 / n because remember that f is supported on the numbers from 1 to n. Okay. So we'll make this precise in a moment. Uh so I'll draw in what it means that this peak here should have width at least 1 / n. Okay. And I'll also make a remark that um m is less than or equal to n^ the 12. That's one of the hypotheses in in Linux theorem. And so that guarantees that the spacing between consecutive points of QM is smaller than this one overn. So the picture is sort of right that you know this 1 / n is smaller than the distance between the different points of Q. Okay. So this is just a heristic but let's follow it for now and we'll see that it basically gives the inequality that we want and then we can come back and prove things rigorously. Okay. So the heristic tells us that um the sum c and qm fi hat of c^ squared um is bounded by n times the integral from 0 to 1 fat high x^2 y. So take a one term of this sum say from this point that one term is bounded by n times the integral on this um interval around here of of side with 1 / n which is a piece of this integral. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, the rest is just algebra. And it's a little bit um annoying to get all of the constants right in the algebra, all the exponents right. And in fact, I have already messed it up a little bit. So if we go back here, um the left hand side of the theorem is indeed this sum. I would just copied that correctly. Um and then for the sum, I did planer. But when you do planer mod p there's this factor of one over p that I forget frequently. So there's a one over p there. Now the one over p the p has size about m. This is around 1 / m * all right. So the left hand side of the theorem is actually around 1 / m * this sum over here. So that would be bounded by n / m * this integral and then we use plan again and this time there's no factor that I have trouble remembering. So that's n / m sum n f of n^2. Okay. So this is the lin theorem. Okay. Yeah, let me mention in this picture uh so we had this theme that if you you take one function and you reduce it mod p for many different ps most of them are almost constant. So why the constant frequency is special compared to all the other frequencies in this story? Okay. Um so um so let me shade in for one particular prime the frequencies alpha over p. So that would be frequencies alpha over p1 alpha and zp1. Let me do it for another prime. So, and the color blue, I'll draw alpha over P2. Alpha and Z mod P2. What would that look like? Well, crucially, it would still have zero, but all the other ones would be different. Okay. So now imagine doing this with all the different primes in our set of primes. P subm I would get a whole rainbow of different stuff. Zero would be in every color. But other than that each point is only one color. There are no other overlaps. Okay. Now fhat can be distributed anyway. We've assumed nothing about the function f except that it's supported from one to n. So we know nothing about its fora transform except for this heristic. So fhat could look like anything but um well most of the places that you put fhat. So okay so one thing we do know is let's say we know the sum of f the L2 norm of f. So we know the L2 norm of fhat. If you stick some mass of L2 norm of fhat over this point, it will contribute to this one prime but none of the others. But if you stick some mass over zero, it will contribute to everybody. So zero frequency is being counted very differently from any other frequency. Every other frequency only contributes to one prime, but the zero frequency contributes to all primes. Okay. So therefore, if you if I start with my function f, if it has a decent amount in the zero frequency, then all the different ps also will see a decent amount in the zero frequency. And then my function may have a bunch of other frequencies, but each one of them is only contributing to one prime. So kind of uh if I average over all the primes, those get damped down a lot compared to the zero frequency. So that's what's go that's a possible a possible intuition about what's going on in the large s. Okay. So the last thing to uh to round out our proof of the large s is we'll actually rigorously prove this heristic. Um any questions or comments before we do that? Well, it seems like we have more freedom to choose f here than in the like reality. We always just choose fing. >> Yeah. So the question is um do we do we choose f? So here f doesn't have to be the characteristic function of a set. We've often talked about f being the characteristic function of a set. What's up with that? Um uh we'll also do something at the end of class we'll mention something in the real setting where f doesn't have to be a characteristic function. Um so yeah so there so there are there are some theorems that become interesting where f is a is a characteristic function of kind of a sparse set and that sparity comes into play. Um and there are others where f could just be anything there. They're both they're all part of the theory. Okay. Um So this heristic, this locally constant heristic is similar to the one that's on the homework that you're thinking through that's due tonight. And by the way, there are office hours after the class for anybody who would like to talk about that or anything else. Um so yeah. Okay. So I'll also prove this in class. Um and um yeah. All right. So how does it work? I'm gonna choose a function CN. It's a function Z to C. So that CN of little N is one if N is an integer from 1 to N. And CN is also um smooth and rapidly decaying. Okay. Um so then when I take the fora transform of CN behaves like this so it's around n if the frequency c has size less than 1 / n and then it's rapidly decaying. So in pictures, so C is only well defined modulo one. And in this context, it's nice to draw the modulo one as going from negative a half to positive a half. Here's zero. So this axis has the norm of CN C. This is N. And this distance here is one N. That's what it looks like. Okay. And rapidly decaying could mean rigorously n* c * n. So once c is bigger than 1 / n, this thing starts to be bigger than one and kick in. And we could throw in that. >> Yeah. >> What does smoothness mean for a map from the integers? >> Yeah. What does smoothness mean? Um, >> right. Um you you could think of C as a map that's defined on the whole real line and it's smooth on the whole real line and then we happen to be evaluating it at the integers. Um okay. Now this is helpful because f is equal to f * cn. If so, if the support of f is contained in integers up to n. Um and then when we take the for transform we get that f hat is f hat convolved with cn hat. And so in particular um so fhat at a particular frequency of v is c is fhat convolved with cn c. Chat looks like that. And so the norm of fhat is bounded by the norm of fhat convolved with cn hat. And also the norm of fhat squared is bounded by the norm of fhat squared convolved with cn hat by koshi schwarz. So what actually one feature of this formula is that the integral of cn hat xc dx c is bounded by one. It has height one and it has width height n and width one n. >> Sorry. So head is the for transform of S in the sense of real function and or is the form in the sense of >> okay yeah there's a good question there's a good question okay so um all right so there's so I originally said is a function on the integers But in answer to the question, what does it mean to be smooth? I said we should also think of it as a function on the real line. So I'll call them SN integers that's our function on the integers and P n real line that's a function on the real and they each have a fora transform s on the integers hat of c is the sum over integers s n of n eus 2 pi i n c and s n if you think of it as a real valued function It has a 4A transform and XC that's defined to be the integral over the real line s of x e - 2 iix xc dx okay so the question was um when I write n hat which one of these two things do I mean okay so I mean this one but they're equal to each other so the summation theorem says that C and Z hat is equal to of C is equal to right is that right wait so these are closely related for a Yeah. So this guy is the sum uh Z and Z of C and R hat of C plus Z. Okay. Um, so we should make two pictures in yellow. I will draw C and R hat. Let's extend this. It looks basically the same. And then it gets really small and it stays really small. And what does so in blue I'll do at z hat. It looks really almost the same except this one is periodic. This 4A transform is defined on R modulo Z. So it's going to be periodic Z periodic. So then here at minus one, it's going to go up again. So there's going to be an identical copy. The blue one is Z periodic. Okay. Um so if you compare so then if you know if you look at this formula it is also it's taking this function and turning it into a z periodic function by periodizing it and since this function originally was extremely localized to between minus a half and a half. It almost looks like I took the yellow function and I just took copies of it and put them here. Um so the you know the the the copy over here can Yeah. Sorry. Okay. Anyway, so that's what that's what this one that's what this one looks like and what this one looks like. Okay. Um so to prove this estimate first you prove it for C and R and you can do that using rate for analysis over R and you use the smoothness and you integrate by parts many times and then to study the one over Z you use this formula and because this guy is decaying so rapidly the contribution from the so if C if if if this C is between minus a half and a half then the contribution coming from integer Z other than zero is incredibly small. Anyway, so so the bounds for this one you use to give bounds for this one. Okay, thanks for those questions everybody. That was helpful. Okay. So now we're going to do a slightly more rigorous version of this argument. So rigorous proof. So the left hand side we decided was around 1 / m times the sum over the frequencies in qm of f fi of c norm squ. That part was rigorous before. We didn't need to make it rigorous. But now we need to relate this sum to an integral and we use this fact here. This fact encodes the idea that this quantity is locally constant at the scale 1 / n. So this is bounded by 1 / m sum c and qm of the integral f^ 2 of um omega time cnhat of c minus omega. So this is just writing out the convolution as an integral. Now we can bring this sum inside. So this is 1 / m integral fi hat of omega^ 2 times the sum over c in qm cn hat of c minus omega omega. Okay. And this sum we can bound by n. Why? Because each each term in the sum has size at least around n. This term is a bump essentially a bump of height n and width 1 /n around c. And the distance between any two different is at least one overn. So those bumps don't overlap with each other. Now the bumps aren't quite compactly supported. They have the the tails that you can see in the picture, but the tails are incredibly tiny. And so if you just plug in the rapidly decaying bound, the tails don't contribute anything and you get this bound. Okay. Then if you take out this n, you have what we had before. n / m integral from 0 to 1 f^ 2 c uh n / m sum f of n squ and that's the proof of of linux Good stuff. So, we only have a little bit of time left, about five minutes. Um in e we could either if people have things you want to talk about we could just talk for five minutes or I could set up the next thing and try to try to give a feeling of how something in real real variable setting is analogous to this thing in a kind of number theoretic Okay. So, I I give a little try to give a little teaser preview foreshadowing of how the same idea occurs in real analysis. I want to keep this picture Okay. So the the um the thing that we proved is if you have a function on the integers from one to n then when you project it mod p most of the projections look almost constant. They look smoother than the original function. And there's a totally analogous phenomenon in R to the D. If you have a function on R to the D and you consider projections onto lower dimensional subspaces, then almost all of them look smoother than the original function. And like we mentioned on the first day, if you're in high enough dimension, if you take a a function and you project it onto a typical line, even if the initial function is only in L2 and is nowhere continuous, the on a typical line, the projection will be continuous and even C1 and even C2, right? So the projections are much smoother than the original function. Okay, so uh here is a setup for this that's kind of analogous to the large sip. we have a function on R to the D and then we'll have V contained in R to the D which is a subspace. Um and if if you have a function so so pi V of F is the projection of F onto this plane. So that's a function from V to C. Okay. So now I have a remark that if you have any function of this vector space V then it's for a transform is also defined on the vector space V. Okay. And there's a dictionary lama. How is the 4A transform of the projection related to the 4A transform of the original function? And it says that um pi v of f hat uh is just fhat restricted to v. So this is a function on the vector space v. It's for a transform is supposed to be a function on the vector space v. fhat is a function on r to the d. But this for transform is just fhat restricted to that to v. Okay. So now make a picture. Um uh so here is r to the d and inside of there there's a space v1 and there's another space uh v2. Whoops. And okay. And I let you imagine other ones. They're all subspaces. So they all go through zero. Although my picture was not perfect. And I want you to imagine this as 4A space. So we have a function f. F is just an L2. Uh say it's an L2 function on the unit ball. So its 4A transform could be anywhere here. Um and all we know about it is say say we know the L2 norm of f. So we know the L2 norm of fhat could be anywhere. If you happen to put some L2 norm of fhat near zero then that will be part of the for transform of pi v for all the different v's. But if you put some of the l2 mass of fhat over here that will contribute to pi v1 but it won't contribute to most of the other pi vs. Um so therefore uh when you take a random projection the part of the for transform at low frequencies is uh kind of more highly represented and the part at high frequencies is less highly represented. So a typical projection so initially the for transform could have been anywhere but then a typical projection will now have its fora transform concentrated at low frequencies which makes it look smooth. Okay. So here's a statement like that that we will prove next time by the analogous reasoning. theorem. If f is an L2 function on R to the D supported in the unit ball and if D is big enough um then for almost every so then um if I take the average over theta in the d minus one sphere of um pi theta of f. So this means I take f and I project it onto the line in the theta direction. The ck norm of that is bounded by the L2 norm of fition. Okay. And so the to so we'll prove that next time but to end I just wanted to have everyone look at the analogy between these two pictures. So in fora space when we project our function onto different um subspaces then that we have these different uh pieces of the fora transform that we're seeing and in for a space in the large civ when we take our function and we project it mod p for different p we have these different color pieces of the 4 a space that we're seeing and the different color pieces intersect at zero and they don't intersect anywhere or they don't intersect very much anywhere else. And that has the effect that when you take the projections, it emphasizes the zero frequency or the low frequency. And and that plays out slight in slightly different ways in the different settings, but but morally very similar. Okay, cool. So, let's stop there for today. I will hang out afterwards and office hour, make office hours talk. Um, and I will see you next week.