Today we're continuing our discussion on social insurance to remind you where we are >> on the second big section of the class on social insurance. Um and we did last lecture we sort of covered the principles of social insurance. How does social insurance basically work? How do we think about the fundamental social insurance trade-off between consumption smoothing and moral hazard? What we'll do for the next few lectures is apply those basic principles to a variety of different social insurance programs. Now, there's a tension with these lectures. These programs are somewhat complicated. They all have different rules about how they work and who's eligible and stuff like that. So, my goal is to tell you enough about the program so you can do the economics, but not more than you need to know. Uh, that means I walked the line between boring you and leaving you uninformed. I will try to walk that line appropriately. But please don't be afraid to ask questions, wait till I go through the details, but the end. If you're like, I still don't understand this program works, you don't have to wait, but like if there's questions along the way, let me know. Uh, and if I'm going to answer them later, I'll tell you. So, go ahead and ask when you have them. You don't have to wait. If I'm going to answer them later, I'll tell you, but just ask me question. It's not clear how the programs work. So today we're going to start with our nation's largest single social insurance program which is the social security program. The social security program is basically uh our program that provides people insurance against retirement um and uh disability and death of a spouse. Basically terrible things that you know things that are very financially consequential at the end of your life. So how does this work? Okay, how's the program work? Well, first of all, you pay a tax when you work. you pay the FICA tax. The FICA tax, you may have seen that line on your payub. That is the tax that goes to contribute towards social security. It's 12.4% split between you and your employer, 6.2% on each, and it's capped uh at a certain level. Right now, about $150,000 of earnings. So, on the first $150,000 of earnings, you and your employer each pay 6.2%. That goes into a trust fund, we'll discuss later, and that finances social security. [snorts] Now, who gets social security? Well, to get social security, basically you have to have paid into this system and paid this FICA tax for 40 quarters. I I say 40 quarters of 10 years because it can be 40 quarters spread across many years. They measure it quarterly. So, you have to have paid above some minimum amount in payroll tax over 40 different quarters. Then you qualify. Okay? If you qualify, you can get a benefit. And so what is that benefit? Well, that's where things get co get complicated. Okay, what you get as a benefit is you get what's called an annuity payment. An annuity is the opposite of life insurance. We all know what life insurance is. You pay money while you're alive and your kids get money when you die. Annuity is the opposite. You pay them a chunk of money up front and you get a check as long as you're alive, but it stops when you die. It's a way to ensure against the uncertainty of the length of your life. Since you don't know when you're going to die, savings is not a very good way to ensure. You'll either die with too much or too little. Imagine you don't have kids or don't care about your kids. Okay? Then by definition, when you save, you'll by def unless you know with certainty the day you're going to die. By definition, you save too much or too little. What annuity does is resolve that uncertainty by basically letting you buy up front a payment stream that lasts until the day you die. And that's what social security provides. That annuity is based on your 35 year highest your 35 years of highest earnings. So they take your earnings over all your life. Okay? and they take the 35 highest years and average your earnings. They take those 35 highest years. They put them in real terms and they average them and that gives you your averaged income monthly earnings. Your average income monthly earnings, think as your average monthly earnings over your working life. Now, it's not really over your whole working life. It's 35 years. Why 35 years? Well, there's a trade-off. On the one hand, if they average over your whole life, that means that quarter when you made like six bucks delivering newspapers. Well, you don't deliver newspapers anymore, but six bucks working on you mowing your neighbor's lawn or whatever is going to count your average. You don't want that. At the same time, if you make it too short, you can distort decisions. A great example of that would happen in Boston, which is the MBTA uh the MBTA um in uh uh forget the year uh 1980. The MBTA there was a huge crash. It turned out that the crash caused because the operator had fallen asleep at the wheel because he was working a 24-hour shift because retirement benefits were based on what he earned the last year he worked. So, he wanted to make as much money as he could the last year he worked. Uh likewise, if you go to Brazil, it turns out um traditionally that your pension benefits, what you get for your entire retirement were based on 100% of what you were 100% based on what you're in the last month before you retired. So everyone got promoted right before they were retired and got a big pension. Clearly that's too short. Clearly your whole career is too long. Is 35 years right? I don't know. But it's some compromise in between. Okay. So you get this average income monthly earnings. Okay. and that translates to the benefit you get. So look at figure 131. On the x- axis is your average in index monthly earnings. On the y- axis is your social security benefit. This is essentially a schedule that translates. It's not your social security benefit. It's what's called your primary insurance amount. Your aime translates to your PIA. Okay? Your primary insurance amount. Okay? By the way, you are not responsible for specific details like this. Okay? I will not I I will not ask you specifically what Amy and PIA are. Okay? I just want you to understand the basic concepts. Okay? What is your primary insurance amount? It's what your benefits are based on. And I'll come back later to what I mean by based on. And so it's a translation. So basically for the first $996 of AIME, you get 90 cents a dollar per dollar in benefits. Then for the next chunk you get 32 cents per dollar of earnings. And then for the last chunk you get 10 cents per dollar of earnings. So the bottom line is and the reason it cuts off because at some point you stop paying social security tax at $150,000 a year. So you stop paying social security tax. So that's why the benefits cut off at that point. So basically if you think about it the idea is that um we are everyone's eligible but the amount of benefits you get are a function of your earnings but it's what we call a progressive function. The poorer you are the more you get to keep. The richer you are the less you get to keep. But it doesn't mean rich people aren't in the program. Everyone's in the program. It just means that as you get richer the benefit get less generous per per dollar you earn. Okay. Another way to think about this is a common term we'll use when talking about social insurance programs, what we call the replacement rate. The replacement rate is to what extent does a social insurance program replace what you're earning. So in this case, since we're insuring you against retirement, to what extent do your social security benefits replace your pre-retirement earnings? And on average, that number is about 40%. On average, Social Security replaces about 40% of what you earned before you retired. But as you can see from this chart, that varies. If you're a low-inccome person, replace much more. In fact, if you're very low income, it replace 90%. For Bill Gates, it'll replace approximately zero. Okay, so basically that replacement varies based on how much you earn before you retired. Okay, now that's the benefit. How do you get the benefit? Well, as I said, you have to have to work for 40 quarters. Then you have to retire. And what does that mean? Okay. Well, first of all, it means you have to be at least age 62. That is what's called the early entitlement age. That is the earliest age which you can collect your social security. But the other key age is 67 which we call the full benefit age. 67 is key because if you retire at 67, you get your PIA. So this PIA I calculated, this is what you get if you retire at 67. But you can retire as early as 62 or as late as 70. Actually, retire whenever you want, but there's no gain from going past 70. And what they do is they adjust your benefit for the retirement age. Here's the basic principle. You get social security till you die. Imagine when you die is independent of when you retire. It's not, but imagine it is. Then the idea is if you retire earlier, you get more months of social security because you get it from the time you retire till you die. You retire later, you get fewer months. So what we have is we have what's called an actuarial adjustment. An actual adjustment, which basically says if you retire before 67, we're going to crank down your monthly benefits. because you're going to get them for more months, so you get less per month. And if you retire after 67, we're going to crank up your monthly benefits because you're going to get them for fewer months, so we give you more per month. So the idea is think of a system that pivots around 67. At 67, you get this PIA. If you retire early than 67 that every month you get less than your PIA. If you retire later than 67, every month you get more than your PIA. And that's basically the way it works. So the idea is um now let one one one other thing what does retire mean? Retire means earning below a certain amount. That amount today is um that amount today is about $19,000. Okay. So retire means not earning much. Okay. Um, so basically retirement is not earning much. So essentially you can keep working and make up to $19,000 and you're effectively retired as far as the system's concerned. If you earn more than $19,000, well, let me just stop there. So basically retirement means earning less than $19,000. Okay, so that's how the system works. If you've worked 40 quarters and you reach age 62, you're eligible for this system. The benefits you get depend at what age you retire, at what your past income was, and you have to earn less than $19,000 to qualify. Okay. Two other wrinkles. First of all, the benefits are indexed, which means that the benefits also go up with inflation. So once you're receiving benefits, your monthly benefit doesn't stay, let's say retire 67 to get your PIA. Let's say you're exactly this guy who earned 996 and your P your PA is 8.96. You get a check for 86 the first month, but the first 12 months, but then every year it goes up with inflation. So it's indexed. Okay. The second thing to know is that family members also get social security benefits. In particular, most importantly, your spouse is el a spouse is eligible for to make things really hard, the larger of their own social security benefit or half of yours. So, it's if you're married to someone who didn't earn much relative to you, they'll get half your social security benefit. If you're married to someone who earned a lot relative to you, they'll get their own social security benefit. Okay? But and lastly, there's a survivor benefit. When you die, your spouse gets the larger of their benefit of all or all of your benefit. Okay? So, basically, the idea is a married couple gets at least 150% of the higher earning spouse's benefit. When they die, it goes to 100% of this large large earning spouse's benefit. Okay, I'll stop there. Question about how this works. So basically I said social insurance is payments you get in adverse event. The adverse event here is retirement being unable to work. Then you get this payment which is this annuity based on your past income and the age you retired. And that's how it works. Now that's how sort of the benefits determined. But what's very interesting about social security and drives a lot of the policy debate is how it works over time. Because the point is when you retire, many of you will get jobs with say a 401k or a pension plan. These plans are what's called funded retirement plans. What is a funded retirement plan? That means that so MIT I have retirement plan where every month they take some money out of my salary, put it aside, it goes into an account, it grows, I get it when I retire. That's not how social security works. Social Security was set up because an entire generation had been devastated by the depression and lost all their savings. So they wanted to immediately bail out a generation that needed savings. They couldn't let them spend their lifetimes building up like you will. So they set up what's called an unfunded system. The way an unfunded system works is it's not real savings. It's transfers from workers to retirees in real time. Okay, let me explain um how this uh let me explain how this works. Okay, look at table 131. Table 131 is a simple version of what we call an overlapping generations model, a famous modeling tool used by economists. Imagine a society with the following conditions. Okay, there are society starts with 100 people in it. Everybody there's a two periods to the world. Everybody works the first period and retires the second period. Think of the two periods. There's working life and retirement. Okay? Every period a new generation's born that's 5% larger than the last and that due to productivity earns 5% more than the last. So it's a society where every year there's a new generation's coming along. They're 5% bigger than the previous generation. They're only 5% more. Then they get old and then new generation comes along. And the and so at any point in time you have two groups alive, the young and the old, the workers and the older. So let's map out what this means for how social security works in reality. So we start with sites just starting out with a with a hundred young workers who paid $20,000 per worker. And these are the pre- social security. These are the people before social security existed. Now we go to period two. In period 2, there are 105 young workers because population grows. They each earn 21,000. Why? Because of productivity growth. Remember wages go up 5% for every generation. So the number of workers has gone from 20 thou from 100 to 105. Earnings has gone from 20,000 to 21,000. Okay, clear on that. Now the young people from period one are now the old people in period two. That's the overlapping generations notion of it. Well, how many were there? Well, they were there were a hundred old there are 100 retirees because they were the hundred young workers the previous period. Well, each of those retirees gets $2,25. Why do they get that much? Because the tw because the 105 workers are each paying taxes on 21,000. Oh, last thing is assume the tax rate is 10%. I'm sorry, my bad. Assume there's a 10% tax rate. Okay, so the total taxes collected from those young workers in period one are 21,000 a worker. You get $2,100 per worker in taxes times 105 workers for $220,500 in total revenue. People see that you split that across a 100 old people each get 2205. Now we go and they paid no taxes. Now we go to period three. In period 3 there are now 110 young workers. I'm assuming the 5% I'm assuming the 5% out a little bit. Not making it precisely 5% you know rounding it. And they each earn250 because of productivity growth. So they each paid 2205 in taxes. That means total taxes collected are 242550. There's now 105 old workers because the young from period 2 are the old in period 3. They each get 2310 and they each paid 2100 in taxes. Same in period 4. Now in period five, something changes. In period 5, the government decides it's going to cancel social security right at the end of period five. So what does that mean? That means the young workers in period 5, they pay taxes. Uh the young workers period 5 don't pay anything. So at the end of period five, young workers pay nothing and therefore the old people in that period get nothing. Now let's look at what does that imply for the rate of return of this system. Well, first of all, for the first generation, they have an infinite rate of return. Why? They paid in nothing and they get benefits. the second through fourth, the second and third and the second and third generations, okay? They get a 10% rate of return. Now, stop and think about this for a second. This is pretty [\h__\h] weird. Okay, think about interest. We think of interest as coming from you put money in the bank, it gets used productively. There's a marginal product of capital. That marginal product of capital is returned to you as interest payments. There's no capital here. There's no savings. How are they getting a rate of return of 10%. How is that possible? Yeah. Increased productivity, increase increased population. It's just they are basically this is basically a Ponzi scheme. Now remember Ponzi schemes work. Ponzi actually lived in my town of Lexon in Massachusetts. Um how do Ponzi schemes work? Well, imagine the way Pon scheme would work is let's say I teach two classes, okay, in one day as I used to do when I was younger and stronger, okay? And let's say I go to the first class and I say, "Class, if you each give me a dollar, I will come back next class and give you $2." And they're like kiss asses. They're like, "Fine, I'll give them a dollar. What's going to cost me?" I then go to my afternoon class and say, "Class, if you each give me $3, then I'll come back next class and give you $5." They say, "Fine, I'll give you $3." I take the $3. I pocket one. I bring the other two and give it back to the first class. They're like, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy's for real." So, I say, "Here's an even better deal. If you guys give me $6, I'll pay you back $10 next class." They're like, "Great." They give me six. I pocket one, I bring the five, I pay back the second class. They're excited. And on it goes. Okay. This is what Bernie Maid off did successfully for decades. Okay. This is what the single largest social program of the US government relies on. Okay. What's the problem with Ponzi schemes? Why did Maid off Ponzi scheme fall apart? The problem is people stop. If the class finally says, you know what, we're not contributing anymore. It all falls apart because then I can't pay the other class. That's what happens to the last generation. The last generation gets totally screwed as all the people ended up holding the bag for Maid Off did. As my voice says, his name is Maid Off. Didn't people sort of see that coming? Um uh so basically the thing with an unfunded system is it works under two conditions. As long as the contributions are ever growing and as long as people always agree to play. Okay. Now the difference between the maid off scheme and social security I'm being kind of glib. Social Security has one big advantage compared to maid off which is what would happen politically if the US government announced they were ending social security. >> I think a number of policy makers would be literally killed >> they would they would all lose their jobs because the elderly be like no way we paid into the system we want our money. So unlike Ponzi there's the power of the entire US democracy behind the power of vote maximizing politicians behind this Ponzi scheme. There's a Ponzi scheme with real credibility behind it. Okay, so that's why it's different. But what this does say is the rate of return to this Ponzi scheme that we call social security is dictated by two things. The rate of population growth and the rate of productivity growth. Okay, those dictate what happens. Okay, now you might think this all sounds kind of fun and theoretical, but let's talk about Ida A. Fuller, one of my favorite examples of this class. Ida A Fuller was the very first beneficiary of Social Security. She was born in 1874 in Vermont, attended the same school that President Calvin Kulage did. She worked for three years once Social Security was established and paid a total of $24.75 in Social Security taxes. On November 4th, 1939, I love this. She dropped by a social security office in Rutland, Vermont. And she said, "It wasn't I was expecting anything, mind you, but I had been paying for something called Social Security. I wanted to ask the people in Rutland about it." She was the very first check processed by the Social Security Administration. She got a check for $22.54, almost the entire amount she'd paid in. IDMe FO lived to 100. Over the 35 years she collected, she lived she collected $23,000 in Social Security benefits. IDM followers generation one she paid $24. She collected $23,000. The problem is what about generation 4? Well, they haven't hit yet. But the existent generation 4 means the social security system carries around it with something by former my Nobel Prize winning former colleague Peter Diamond called a legacy debt which is essentially the social security system carries around a giant implicit debt. What is that debt? It's what we owe the a generation that's old. That if we wanted to end the system and not cause revolt, we'd have to pay off a whole generation of old people. And that debt is enormous. So the consequence of an unfunded system is we're always behind the eightball. If we don't keep it going, we have a huge debt. A funded system doesn't matter. If it's funed system, you put the money and just take the money out. An unfunded system that does matter. Okay? So you end up with a system with this giant legacy debt. Okay, we'll come back to this when we talk about social security reform at the end of the lecture. Okay, questions about that. Okay, keep let's keep being active here. I know this I I know this the details get a bit sloggy, but let's let's keep staying involved here. Okay, now while 131's an imaginary system, let's go to real social security system. Let's go to table 132. What table 13 do two does is calculate something called social security wealth. What is social security wealth? Social security wealth is the net present discounted value of your stream of social security payments minus taxes. What you do is you say take the take someone project how long they're going to live calculate all the benefits they'll get over the rest of their life and discount them back to today. Do the same with taxes and discount it back to today. The [clears throat] difference is your social security wealth. The net of what the system will pay out to you over your life minus what you'll pay in discount to today. What this table does is show the amount of social security wealth for people in three generations. The first generation, those who turned 65 in 1960. The middle generation, those turned 65 in 95. And my generation, those who turn 65 in 2030. Okay. What you see here, and then it shows that for three types, a low earner, an average earner, or a high earner. Couple things to note. First thing to note, all three columns, the numbers are getting smaller over time. Why? Because population growth and productivity growth are both falling. The rate of return to this scheme depends on how fast the population and the productivity growth grow. The less they grow, the less good a scheme it is. So basically the whole system is less beneficial because basically we are seeing a dramatic drop. Uh before 1973 population growth was 1.5% a year. Now it's less than 1% a year. Productivity growth was 2 and a half% a year. Now it's less than 1% a year. So we've seen a shrinking in the rate of return to this scheme. That's the first thing you note. The second thing you note is a fascinating inversion by income. In n for the first generation, the richer you are, the more wealth you had. For the last generation, the richer you are, the less wealth you have. Indeed, it's negative. The richest generation is a loser from this. Why? What happened? What changed? Why does well I'll give you a hint what change which is R R plus D you know population productivity growth change but why did that invert the income distribution effect why did it go from being yeah >> not quite that's piece of it but what else >> nothing now you guys are way too clever think way simpler basically this This is an investment that in for the first generation was a better investment than what they could have done with their money otherwise. For the last generation was a worse investment. That means the more you're invested the better you did at first and the worse you did at the end. In the first generation it was a good investment. It was better than investing in the stock market. Therefore the more you invested the better you did. Richer people are more invested. For the last generation it was a bad investment. Way worse in the stock market. Therefore, the more you invested, the worse you did. And that's why actually goes negative. The negative number means for high earners of social security today, they would be better off having their money out than in the system. Okay? Now, that's not the only redistribution. It's the only one shown here. Let's talk about other redistribution. Think about a single woman and a single man who has more social security wealth with the same earnings. Who has more social security wealth? Single woman and the same man with the same earning. Single woman, single man, same earnings. Who has more social security wealth? Yeah. >> Why? >> Women live longer. Women live about a five to seven years longer on average than men. Okay. Now, let's talk about a married couple. So, my wife and I versus someone who owns the exact same. My wife and I um uh versus someone else who's not married who were in the same as I did. Who's got more? Which family has more social security wealth? >> Yeah, >> you do. >> Because Because if if you die, your wife >> not just that, she gets 50% of my benefit. So just by virtue of being married, I get I get A-50% plus up for my family and my benefit. Okay. Now, here's a tricky one. Take two C take my couple where I've earned and my wife doesn't earn anything and another couple where um where basically uh the husband earns the same I do and the wife earns a decent amount but uh but less than the husband actually let's say the wife earns like less than a quarter of what the husband does. So take my family where my wife earn nothing and their family where the husband earns the same as me and the wife earned about a quarter of what the husband does. Which one has more social security wealth? Why? >> Well, you describe the benefit side which is we get the same benefits. We each get 50%. Remember you get the bigger of your own. >> Okay. So why why is it less wealth for why is it >> she paid no taxes. My wife paid no taxes but still gets 50% of my benefit. Whereas the wife of my colleague earns 25% of what he did. She paid a bunch of tax on that but still gets only 50% of his benefit. So working spouses are penalized by this system. Um and then uh and then finally one last interesting wrinkle is this table's a bit misleading because of an important reason which is rich people live much longer than poor people. So while it's still a bad deal for rich people relative to poor people today the numbers in reality are much closer they show in this table because rich people on average live a lot longer than poor people. So they get they get more benefit from the system. Okay. So basically there's a lot of redistribution going on within the system. So I just want to stop that's basically the one I describe about the system then I want to come back to the chapter 12 stuff but I think a question about how this works. Yeah. Uh it was not clear that was not clear in the founding but not explicitly. It was really about basically bailing out a generation whose retirement savings been wiped out by the great depression. Basically people are going to retire with no money and they bailed them out by having young people send the money. >> Yeah. >> Well that's a great that's a great point. So what happened over time was the tax rates gone up a lot. So the tax rates increased a lot. Another way to sort of fight the ponzies, fight the erosion of population, if you raise the tax rate to offset the slowing of productivity and population growth, then it evens it up. But then you have higher tax. Uh so that that did happen some but now it stopped because people want to raise taxes more. Okay. So that's basically the program. Now let's come back and apply chapter 12. What chapter 12 says is that the optimal size of a program like social security is about trading off its consumption smoothing benefits against its moral hazard costs. Well, what are the consumption smoothing benefits? Well, that's going to depend in return on self- insurance. And what's the primary form of self- insurance for retirement? Savings. So the big question is going to be to what extent does social security actually help you consume when you retired or does it just display savings you would have done anyway? Is it just you would have saved anyway and now social security is doing it for you? That becomes the central question is thinking about the consumption smoothing effect of social security. Okay, actually I skipped something. Let's go back for one second. I forgot the first question which is why do we need social security? Bad on me. Why do we need social security in the first place? Well, there's really sort of there's a technical answer and a real answer. Okay, the technical answer is we need social security because it's a critical market failure, which is a failure in the market for annuities. In principle, people should just save when they're alive. The minute they retire, they should annuitize. They say, "Look, I don't know how long I'm going to live, so I'll take all my wealth, put annuity. I'll take a side when I leave to my kids, but I'll take the rest. I'll neutize it. And that way I can take money to live. And annuities are a great deal. Why are annuities a great deal? Annuities are a great deal because essentially people live a long time benefit people who die soon. So essentially the idea is you can get a positive rate of return on annuity from the fact that you're pooling with a bunch of people and the longer you live the benefit the more benefit you get. But in fact no one ever annuitizes. So there's two possible reasons why. One reason is because the annuity market is a class has a class example of market failure because what's the adverse selection in the annuity market? What's source of adverse selection in the annuity market? >> Yeah. >> People who might not live longer are less likely to want to save. >> Yeah. So, so basically people who buy annuities going to be the ones who know they're going to live a long time. There's private information. There's an information asymmetry which is if you know you're going to live a long time, you want an annuity. If you know you're going to die soon, you don't. and therefore the market does the market doesn't work well. So that's the classic rationale for an annuity program. The real rationale is we just think people just don't know how to save for retirement. We just think people aren't going to save enough. They're not they don't that that they don't really know how to annuitize that it's just we just and it's really kind of a form of the Samaritans dilemma. Indeed, the very first one of the very first pension programs this just you know apocryphal story but probably true. Um the one of the very first pensionists in the country was at Harvard University and the story goes that um Harvard University didn't used to have a pension that what happened is all the widows of professors because professors were all men back then would come and say I'm starving you got to help me out because my husband didn't save enough. Eventually Harvard said well you know we got to make these professors save so the widows don't come and throw themselves on our doorstep and and say they need money. So really the origin of the pension system then was sort of a Samaritan's dilemma that they wanted to make sure people actually save for themselves rather than relying on Harvard at the end rather than lying at the end. Okay. Okay. So that's that was a side note. Why do we have social security? Now let's go back to the social security smooth consumption. Well there's empirically there's two ways to look at that because two sides of the same question. One is does it crowd out saving? The other is does it smooth consumption? Two different sides of the same coin, right? And both topics have been studied on the savings. There's actually an incredibly large empirical literature on how social security affects savings decisions. It's very interesting because if you follow this literature, it sort of traces the evolution of empirical work in economics. The first work in this area was time series studies where I said look over time as social security gets more generous people save less. Therefore, social security is crowding out savings. Well, the problem with that is a lot of stuff changing over time and they aren't really credible. The second was cross-sectional regression saying, "Hey, A has more social security events than B, does A save less than B?" Well, the problem with that is if A has more social security benefits than B, then A is different than B in ways that may affect their savings. We have the standard bias problem we talked about in chapter 3. And that's why the literature's moved on to very clever natural experiment a quasi experimental methods where for example they'll study countries where the two groups of workers one group see a big social security cut and one doesn't and they look over time what happens to their savings. So a typical difference in difference caused the experimental study of kind of what happens when there's two groups of workers, one sees a social security benefit cut, one doesn't. How does their savings change? And what these studies typically find is that every dollar of social security benefits crowds out about 40 cents of savings. Okay, that basically there is some savings crowd out but it's not complete. So that's one way of looking at this is asking a smooth consumption is does it crowd out saves? The answer is yes but not completely. Okay. Um now uh the other way to look at it is to say well do elders smooth consumption? Does social security let me back up does social security instead of ask does social security crowd out savings you can ask does social security help elders smooth their consumption? One way to look at that is to look at to what extent did the increase in social security grew dramatically in the 20th century because tax rates went up. To what extent does increase in social security lower poverty among the elderly? Now let's step back to a standard model where everyone's rational optimizers and they self-insure. Well, if you self-insure, then social security should just crowd out your savings and shouldn't affect whether you live in poverty or not. Your decisions live in poverty should be independent. Well, if you look at the data as shown in figure 132, you see an unbelievably strong time seers correlation in particular in the first half of the period between social security generosity and the elderly poverty rate. Indeed, at the start of the so-called war on poverty in the 1959, elderly had the highest poverty rates in society. Now, they have the lowest of any group. And at least in the time series, it's suggestive. Now once again I already told you time series studies are not to be trusted but I actually did a research project looking at sort of a quasi experiment across groups that got different social insurance social security benefits and our estimate suggests that 100% of this time series is actually causal that actually the entire drop in the elderly poverty over this time period can explain by the massive rise in social security. So which is once again consistent with the fact that it's playing an important consumption smoothing role. Not necessarily full consumption smoothing or there'd be no savings crowd out but there's certainly some consumption smoothing going on. Sort of a prior condition. If we found zero consumption smoothing and 100% savings crowd out we could be done. We don't care if there's moral hazard. There's no reason to have this program. But since we find that there's important consumption smoothing being done now we have to go to the second question which is well how big is the moral hazard? That's the other side of the trade-off. Well, what's the moral hazard for social security? Well, social security is a program that protects you against your income loss from retirement. So, what's the moral hazard we're worried about here? What's the behavioral response that we're worried about social security inducing? Yeah. >> No, that's that's a crowd out. That's the crowd out. What's the behavioral response? What are the Wh what's the thing that society wants more of that less gets done or the decision people aren't making optimally because social security exists? Yeah. >> Yeah. Retiring too early, right? Basically, if you think about it, social security is bribing you to retire, is paying you to retire. Okay? So, basically, it might cause you retire earlier. So the question there is does social security induce early retirement. Now in this case there's also a huge literature looking at this and the evidence is pretty clear. First of all we start with time series evidence. Here we look at figure 133. Figure 133 is not as compelling as 132 in that over the first half of the period once again what you see is a social security benefits go up. labor force participation or the opposite of retirement goes down. Elders work less benefits go up, but then then they seem to move together instead of the opposite way. So, it's not super compelling. More compelling is studies which look at data on people's retirement decisions. Remember that there's these key ages in Social Security, 62 and 67. 67, by the way, used to be 65. That used to be the normal retirement age. The retirement age used to be 65 the full benefit age now 67. So what people have done is they've taken data and graphically called the retirement hazard rate. What is a retirement hazard rate is the odds of retiring condition on working at the start of that year. So take a look at figure uh 134. This graphs with old data the retirement hazard rate in the US. So for example, what this says if you were working at age at starting if you're working at age 60, there is less than a 2% chance you retire over the next year. If working age 64, there's like a 2% chance you retire the next year. If you're at age 67, there's like a 2% chance you retire the next year. But at age 62, it jumps to an 8% chance. And at age 65, it jumps to an 11% chance. Now, unless there's some biological reason why people are innately programmed to retire at 62 and 65, it seems like this must be social security having an effect. Okay, these jumps that people happen to retire a lot more at the age where social security benefits kick in and what and what we what we call the full benefit age. Seems like that suggested social security is playing a role. Indeed, if you look around the world, um you see uh lots of examples like this. If you look at the hazard graph for France, in France, the normal retirement age and the early retirement age is age 60. It's just one age for both. Among people working approaching a 60th birthday, 60% of them retire over the next year. 60% in one year. Okay? Whereas it's very low all other years. It's got to be social security causing that. Okay? Indeed, these facts are so compelling that a co-author and I did an international study. We got a group of people together from 11 different countries and we said, "Look, we want in each country understand what are the incentives for retirement in your country and how does it affect people's retirement decisions?" So, let's go back to how social security works and let's ask how does social security affect your retirement decision? Well, it affects your retirement decision. Let's say you're age 62 and you're considering do I retire at 62 or retire or work one more year. There are four things that change if you work one more year. What are those four things and how they affect your retirement decision? Given the institutional features, you work one more year. Four things happen that matter for your retirement decision besides the fact you earn wages. Social Security impacts that decision four ways that you're 62. What are they? Yeah. >> Higher PIA. So the first way is if you work an extra year, your PIA goes up. That's going to make you want to work longer. What else happens at for for that year at age 62? That's one. What else? That's actually the hardest one. What else happens? What else happens uh at age um uh at age 62? Okay. Well, if you retire at 63 rather than 62, what happens to your lifetime amount of social security benefits? It changes for two reasons. What are the two reasons? Why if you work one more year, does your lifetime stream of social security benefits change? You guys are too shy. Just I'm not going to bite. Go ahead. Yeah. >> Well, for that year that you worked, let's flesh that out. If you work one more year, but you die at the same date, you get fewer years of social security benefits, you get one one fewer year. So fewer years, years of benefits fall. So that makes you work short. So that makes you want to work shorter because you're getting less benefits. But what else happens? What else happens? Yeah. >> Well, tax is the fourth one. If you work one more year, you're going to pay tax. Your tax go up and that's going to make you want to work shorter. But there's a fourth thing. If you work one more year, what else happens? Yeah. >> You'll be close to the full benefit age. So your benefits every month will go up. You get the actuarial adjustment. And that's going to make you want to work longer. So four things happen. Four things affect your decision. Four four ways that social security affects your decision to work that extra year. In addition to the fact you earn wages. Okay. You can take these four factors and for any individual calculate what we call the implicit tax that social security places on workings an extra year which is the delta in social security wealth relative to what you'd earn that year. And that delta in social security wealth is the net of these four things. >> Yeah. uh maybe that is that what you meant. There's two reasons PIA go up. What it's als it's also caused because you're right. I'm sorry. I probably misinterpreted what you said. You probably meant that one. The PIA what I what I thought you meant is it goes up because um the longer you work the higher your 35-y year average is because people's income's typically higher the more the later in the career. That may or may not have been what you meant. I won't quiz you on it but that's the other reason. So I shouldn't say PIF. It's really should be earnings up. Your average earnings in your 35 years goes up because that's why it's the hardest one to sus out. The average earnings in 35 years goes up because basically people earn more later in their life. Good, good catch. Thank you. Okay, so basically implicit social security taxes net these four things out. Does social security penalize or reward an extra year of work? So what we did is in each country we computed what is the implicit tax over the entire period of retirement decisions and correlated that with whether people work and we got the result we got is the incredible correlation in figure 135 one of the most cited figures I think I've ever done in my career which shows on the x- axis a measure just set it to work don't worry about the units it's a complicated it's basically a measure of the average implicit tax. It's sort of the sum of implicit taxes over a period. On the Y ais, wet share of elderly don't work. So look here, the [\h__\h] the United States and especially Japan have relatively low disincentive to work. Why is that? That's because these things largely balance out. We set it up so they do. We've set the actual adjustments. These things balance out. Now take the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, when you retire, your replacement rate is 90%. So you get 90% of what you got when you were working. Okay, that's not actually a problem. The problem in the Netherlands is that there is no actuarial adjustment. This piece goes away. So think about what that means. That means you work one more year. Let's sort of let's ignore the fact your earnings is higher. So, so it's just a complication. Okay, imagine you work one more year and your earnings is the same just to get rid of that factor. You work one more year, you earn your wage. What do you give up? 90% of your wage. So, you get to So, what do you net 10% of your wage by working? Think about the opportunity cost of working is you're giving up 90% of your wage from sitting at home. But it's worse than that because how do they pay for this generous social security system with a 40% tax rate on workers? Workers only. So if you put it all together by working in the Netherlands, you your implicit tax rate is 140%. You lose money by working. Guess what? No one works. Once you get to the early retirement age, everyone drops out. Now they drop out of the formal labor force. There's some informal labor. People working the black market and doing stuff under the table. But the bottom line is that's why there's all these old people sitting around cafes in Europe. Okay? Because basically there's no reason to work. You don't make any money. Essentially, whatever you make in wages, take away and lower social security benefits. So these nerdy things like actuarial adjustments turn out to be crucial for determining the entire size of the labor force in a country. Okay? this thing you sort of already forgot about and don't understand anyway. You got to understand because basically this is a key factor that drives whether people want to work or not. Okay. And this suggests that essentially uh there is a large moral hazard consequence of um of social security in terms of causing earlier retirement. But that that moral hazard consequence depends on how the program is designed. That different programs different amounts are disincentive depending on how they're designed. Okay. Yeah. >> Um there are lots of it's not it's not a it's a good question. There's lots of different systems of many types. Some countries have what's called partially funded systems where it's part of like a 401k and partly unfunded. Countries have different systems for different kinds of workers, government workers, private sector workers. There's a ton of variation out there and that's the variation we study in these systems try to understand how social security works. Good question. Other questions? Yeah. Great question. Why did the Netherlands do this? We actually wrote a whole book on that. We have a series of books on this topic. The first book was success. We did five more. And the uh what we concluded is that these countries believe in a an incorrect model of the labor market. It's what's called the model market. We often call the lump of labor view. The lump of labor view is that the number of people working is some fixed number of people. There's some fixed number of jobs. So if you get people out of those jobs, you make more jobs for other people. So the idea is we want young people to work. Let's get the old people. They wanted old people not to work. The problem is it's wrong. Why is it wrong? Because taxes impact behavior. So the fact there's this huge tax means there's fewer jobs to be had in the first place and fewer people who want them. So they actually shrunk the whole economy rather redistributing from young jobs from young to old. Question. Yeah. Uh that's a great question. So um social security income is taxed different ways in different countries. In the US is untaxed up to a certain level and then taxed beyond that level. The replacement I'd give you is the pre-tax replacement. Okay. For most Americans it's not taxed. So that's typically how we think about it. It's only tax for the higher income Americans. Good question. Other questions? Okay. So where does this leave us in terms of optimal social security? Well, it leaves us that social care benefits should certainly well below 100%. But definitely above 0%. Tight range. Okay. But more generally, 40% doesn't sound kind of nuts, right? The idea is you you want enough that people can live on because we know they can't fully smooth their consumption on their own. But you really don't want to cost too much retirement, you know? So range around 40 50 60% does not sound crazy. 90% sounds almost certainly wrong. Okay. And zero would almost certainly be wrong. And something in the middle sounds about right. And it's about where we are as a country. So it's not too bad. We'll do better next time being more precise. Okay. So that's sort of where it leaves us in tra. But this is once again why I love this topic. It's it's a full circle. Okay. We can actually get the costs and benefits. We don't have to measure both. We can put them together and think about is this program too big or too small? Okay. That's what's cool about how we about this social insurance tradeoff. Now any other questions about that? Yeah. >> Yeah. Japan um they just love their working. They just love to work there. Uh so they have a system which really you know rewards work or doesn't penalize it. Uh in a very serious way they have very strong adjustments and you know I don't remember what the replacement rate is but essentially the key thing that drives this is really actual adjustment. A lot of what it's the actual adjustment times how generous the system is. Once again, if the Netherlands had a 90% replacement rate but had an actual adjustment, it wouldn't be as bad. It's that they just they had this huge replace rate and they basically don't they take it away from you if you if you work but I I don't remember enough about the details of Japan wrote this book in 1996. So, I'm a little fuzzy on it. All right. Okay. Supposed to say, "Gee, John, you don't look old enough to have written a book in 1996." But anyway, um okay. Now, now we come to the last and most policy relevant part of the lecture which is the long run prospects for the social security system. The problem with social security system is the Ponzi scheme is quickly eroding. So if you look at figure 136, this shows the ratio of older people to working age Americans. And what you see is for until the turn of the century, we typically had sort of five working Americans for every older person. That was the base that supported the Ponzi scheme. It's rising to be only two working people for every older American. That really limits the Ponzi scheme. When only two people are paying in to support one old person, they have to pay a lot. Okay, here's a way to think about it. In the US today, in three states, are more than one in five people elderly? Okay, Florida, Vermont, I forget the third one. More than one in five people are elderly. In 20 years, in 43 states, will more than one in five people be elderly? Okay, we are aging very rapidly. It's largely because of the baby boom and because of falling fertility. So, what happens? We had a big we had a big big burst of bursts after World War II and those people are having fewer kids and the next gen fewer kids. So we're basically shrinking the rate at which we can grow the population and keep this Ponzi scheme going. Okay. What that means is over the next So what that means over the next 75 years the amount by which our promises we've made will exceed the taxes we collect is about $18 trillion. So the next 75 years $18 trillion. A promise we made beyond the tax we're going to collect. So um this is a big legacy debt. This is essentially a measure of the legacy debt. this the amount of money we have hanging around because of this unfunded system. So what do we do about it? Well, we took one stab at this with the in in the early 1980s with what was called the Greenspan Commission. You might know the name Alan Greenspan as secretary of the Fed for a long um chairman of the Fed for a long time. His first role in public policy was he actually ran this commission 1983 to try to save social security. At the time put this commission together, social security was about to run out of money. in about six months it was going to be unable to pay its bills. So what they did is they put together a system to try to save the program and the way they did it was basically two things. First of all they raised the retirement age that's one from 65 to 67. They kept 62 but took the full benefit age from 65 to 67. Now here's a kind of you can puzzle on this one at home. When you change the full benefit age that's simply a cut in benefits. Why is that? Well, if you keep 62, but tie the PIA to 67, that means there's more penalty for retiring earlier. It used to be you only got three years of penalty for retiring earlier. Now you get five years of penalty for retiring earlier. So any retirement age, you get less benefits. All it did, it's a basically a clever way to cut benefits was to basically raise the retirement age. Okay, that's what they did. But they also substantially increased the tax. Increasing the tax meant all of a sudden there was extra money. So they created a large social security trust fund, a fund into which the extra tax would be put to save up so that it could pay down the debt when this baby boom retired. The problem with that is they didn't put enough in. And the baby boom was not just a one one-off thing. As you can see from this graph, forever and ever more, we're going to have a very high ratio of elder to to working people. So, as a result, social security trust fund will run out in about 20 years is the best estimate. The dates fluctuate. Okay. I think it's now actually about like 17 years they're saying, but the point is what? >> Uh, no. Late hasn't pushed it further out. You think about >> Yeah, I think it's like the late 2030s now. Um, so it may be 15 years, whatever. The point is in the not too distant future we're going to run out of money. So what do we do about it? Okay. Well, what we do about it is we can either try to take small swings to incrementally fix the system or a big swing to fix it once and for all. So let's first talk about the small swings on the big swing. One small swing is we can just raise taxes. Indeed, if we raise the payroll tax today by 3%, we would solve the 75-year problem. If we raised it by 5%, we'd solve the problem forever. Okay? Build a big enough trust fund that would never ever ever run out. Okay? The problem is raising taxes is a very difficult thing to do politically, but that'd be sort of the most straightforward thing to do. You could alternatively not raise taxes as much but tax more of income. For instance, you could remove the cap on taxable earnings. Right now it's capped at $150,000. You could tax all earnings. Okay? You could tax more earnings. Alternatively, another way you could do it is by expanding the base of the Ponzi scheme. How do you do that? Well, you can cause people to have more kids. It turns out government policy is incredibly bad at causing people to have kids. China showed you can limit you could have a one child policy and cause people to have fewer kids by imposing massive fines if they don't but have more. But it turns out it's very hard through government incentives to get people to have more kids. What's another way to increase the base of the Ponzi scheme? How can we get more workers in America? ideally lowincome workers because low-income workers um ideally more low-inccome workers because the low-inccome workers will basically be ones who come and eventually don't drain the system too much. Yeah. >> Immigration. Immigration is a massive win for the social security system because you basically increase the base of the Ponzi scheme. Now, in 70 years when they retire, you got to pay them. But if they're low earnings, you don't have to pay them that much. Okay? So basically immigration is a great fix. Okay. And there's enormous fiscal benefits from that. Okay. So that's that's another increment you could do. You could raise the taxable wages. You could allow more people to come into the country. Okay. Um another thing you could do is you could continue to raise the retirement age. So um in 1950 men who were age 65 lived on average 13 more years. today live 19 more years. Okay. Yet we took 65 to 67. So men are living on average seven more years. Women as well. I think I forgot what the I don't have the number for women there. Seven more years. Yet we only raise the retirement age two years. We could raise it more. Now, as I said earlier, raising the full benefit age is simply a benefits cut. If we were 67 to 70, that would just mean at every age you get less money. The real game changer is this one which is should we make raise the age of which you retire early. This is a fascinating topic because let's go back to figure 134. You see the spike at age 62. Here's the strange thing. That spike should not exist because it turns out the implicit tax at age 62 is zero. We've actually got a system which is almost perfectly actually fair at age 62. That is the net benefit of working one more year is basically zero. I mean not not is basically your full social security benefit. Okay. So essentially or in other words there's no delta in your social security wealth from working that extra year because you get less benefits but we have the actual adjustment etc. So why do people retire at 62? Unless we know that we can't say whether we should change age 62. The problem is there are two views and they have opposite policy implications. One view is that it's liquidity constraints. The view is that people would like to retire earlier. they're wealth they c they are happy to optimize and retire earlier but they can't because they don't have liquidity and you cannot by law borrow against your social security benefits. So the idea is I'm happy if I get my social security benefits at 60 I'd be happy to retire at 60 and just live on those benefits longer but you're not letting me. So what I do is I pile up from the bottom and as soon as I can get them I quit. That implication, that explanation would suggest we should let people get social care benefits even earlier. We're in fact lowering welfare. There are people with a high marginal value of leisure who are not getting to retire because they can't access the liquidity. Okay, there's an alternative theory which is that people just don't understand how the system works and they don't understand that if they work past 62, they get bigger benefits. So, it's, you know, it's the Homer theory. It's like, woohoo, I'm 62, I'm retiring. In that case, they're making a mistake. If they understood this isn't they'd retire later, but they're making a mistake and retiring earlier. And in that case, they're pushing the spike from above. These are people in a in an ideal world retire later, but they're retire 62 because they don't understand what's the implication of that theory. We should raise the early time and age and protect people from themselves. So, we have two theories, both valid with diametrically opposite policy prescriptions. And we don't actually probably both are right for different groups. Okay, for some groups probably liquidity is a big issue for other groups probably you know misunderstanding is a big issue. So that's why the H62 policy is fascinating. It's also fascinating because this comes someone asked about different systems and heterogeneity jobs are so different. Okay, you know I mean I'm gonna be 62 in like three years. Like there's no reason I'm gonna have to retire in three years. But I was a coal miner be pretty shitty to be like a coal miner at 62. Okay. So another thing is you raise it for everyone. It's very different. There's a lot of hogenity of whether it's okay to be working at 62. Okay. So basically that's the other trick here with age 62. And so we don't really have a good answer here. But we do know that would be a game changer. If we raise 62 that could save a lot of money. Yeah. to provide more information. >> Great, great question. We have tried to provide more information. You actually get a mailing from the Social Security Administration which says if you're tired at this age, you'll get this. If you're at this age, you'll get that. I don't think it's really moved the needle, but I don't know. No one's really I don't really have a good study of of that information provision. Good question. Okay. So, that's something we do. We could change the retirement age. Okay. Um, a third thing we do is we can just cut benefits. A simple way to do that would be if you go back to figure 131, we could just lower the bend points. We say instead of getting 90 cents on the dollar, you get 80 cents on the dollar for the first branch. Instead of getting 32, you get 25 for the second branch. We just lower benefits. The problem with that is it's lowering benefits. Nobody likes that. The other thing you can do is you can try to hide the lowering the benefits by saying we should that basically we are over adjusting for inflation. You often hear this that the inflation rate is overstated. And remember we raise benefits by inflation. We should raise benefits by less than inflation over time. People argue well the elderly already have their house. Inflation's driven a lot by housing prices. They don't need such a big adjustment in their benefits every year. The important thing to know about that that may or may not be a valid thing to do but has important implications. This is what I something I learned. I never forget learning this from our my Nobel Prize winning colleague Peter Diamond who is the world's expert on social security. Think about two policies that save the same amount of money. One that cuts everybody's benefits equally and one that cuts the rate at which benefits grow. Which groups benefit and suffer from the second relative to the first? One cuts benefits equally for everyone. One cuts the rate at which they grow. Yeah. >> Uh imagine doing distribution neutrally possibly. What? What else? Income's one thing. What else? Yeah. >> People in the future are hurt more by the >> people who live longer. The longer you live, the more you're hurt. Well, it turns out while we have largely solid elderly poverty, there still remains large pockets of poverty in the oldest old. Basically, widows whose husband didn't doing very didn't do a very good job protecting them because men are not good. Okay, basically men don't take care of things. Okay, so basically um you have a situation where in fact relative to cutting everyone's benefits, the benefits you'd cut be the people who are actually the people the worst off in society. So that's sort of a clever way to hide the benefit cut. is actually not a very good way to cut benefits. Not an important point. You won't be tested on it, but just a great way to use base economic insights to think about economic policy. It's why I always love that example. Okay. Another thing you could do is you could say, look, let's make it a more progressive system. Let's cut benefits for the rich. For example, we can raise the tax on social security benefits. We don't tax them very much. We can tax them more. We can essentially, you know, cut it off. cut it off and say if you're rich you don't get social security. We could move we now so essentially we could move more and more away from a universal program towards a means tested program. It depends on what you what your resources now that would could save a lot of money and once again if we well we haven't talked about distribution yet if we talk about a typical utilitarian social welfare planner probably taking money from the rich given it to the poor is probably a good thing to do. Okay. But there's a there's a key criticism people levy against this, which is that the whole reason social security is so popular is that it's universal. People love social security. They're not so crazy about welfare programs through distribution to the poor. Once social security becomes a welfare program, it loses its popularity and and and might suffer. So that's sort of one argument people make against doing that. Okay. So those are sort of the what I call sort of modestized swings to reform the program. There's sort of two big swings you can take. One big swing you can take is recognize that the social security program is misinvested. The government is a trust fund. How does it invest that trust fund? It buys bonds. It buys government bonds. Okay? If you're an investment adviser and you said to your client, you're going to need money over the next 575 years. I'm going to put none of it in the stock market. and all of it in government bonds, you'd be fired and probably sued. That is not the bottom line rule investing is if you're investing for the long run, you should be more heavily invested in the stock market. Stock market over short run periods is more volatile, but over long run periods, the higher rate of return. So given how long the trust fund's supposed to around, we could be investing in riskier assets and that could actually and we have a much higher rate of return to risky assets, which means it could offset some of the deficit. Indeed, the estimate is that uh if we invested half the trust fund in the stock market, we could cover up to half of the projected deficit in the system. Yeah. >> On what? >> I will let my smirk summarize my feelings towards the entire issue of cryptocurrency. Um uh my feeling of Bitcoin is roughly my feelings on any form of gambling. It is purely without content and entertainment. Um so basically um we could invest the stock market but then what's the challenge there? What's the big criticism of that? What's the big criticism? Yeah. Yeah. Did you Oh no. Go ahead. >> Yeah. I mean basically the trick is do you want the government invest what happens when the government owns 20% of the stock market and they suddenly say we're not going to invest in companies that make tobacco. We're going to invest in companies that have non-union workers. We're not going to invest in companies that are woke. Okay, that's not good for American capitalism. To have the fundamental arbiter of American capitalism or stock market be driven by political considerations would be an unhappy outcome. Yeah. >> Are there examples of pension? >> There are pension funds, but it's a choice. You can choose whether to have your money in or not. Can't choose to have your money in social security. Okay. So, basically that's the challenge with that big swing, but it's certainly something to be considered. Okay. For example, you could say we're going to put the money in the stock market. we're going to have an like the Fed or some independent organization will decide what it gets invested in. So there aren't it's worth considering there. If you could set up an ironclad rule, there's no reason why it shouldn't be done. There should be a proper investment would have a mix of assets. The question is can you set up an ironclad enough rule that you can protect from political interference. Yeah. >> With what? >> Well, no, but this is just the risk profile of the government. They're still getting their benefits. My benefits are based on what I earned and stuff. This is just the government's fiscal risk. It's not no individuals invest in the stock market here. >> Yeah, but it's not his money. It's the government's money. He gets a benefit determined by this formula. This is what's called a defined benefit program. His benefit is defined. It's not based on where the money is. That unfunded system, it's a defined benefit system. So if the summer goes down, no individual suffers. But that relates to the second big swing, which is to say, why don't we just bag this unfunded system and move to a funded system? Let's get rid of this whole problem. Let's have people save on their own. Let's basically get rid of this Ponzi scheme and have people invest in like have everyone have a 401k instead of force them into social security. Get rid of this sort of we are forcing people to basically invest in a bad investment now. Why are we doing that? Why don't let them invest their money? Now we we still are worried people are making mistakes. So we'll make them have savings. We'll let them decide where it is like a 401k. Okay? and it'll be real savings that they know is there when they retire. Okay. Well, this approach has really uh three problems. The first problem is who's paying the legacy debt? If you suddenly say everybody's going to save for themselves, what about those old people? Who's paying for them? Who's paying the 172 trillion 17.2 trillion dollars we owe them? Okay. What's that? >> Yeah. Well, basically you could essentially tax people and set this up, but then what's the point? Uh, in fact, people say it's a great article which points out everybody says, "Well, we should privatize social security because instead of earning this Ponzi scheme rate of return, we'll earn the market rate of return. So, instead of earning a rate of return, which is the rate of population growth P plus the rate of productivity growth delta, which is less than the interest rate, if people invest in the market, they'd earn the interest rate. Wouldn't that be great?" Zarwood says if you take the amount of money people would owe and impose it on a tax it absolutely offsets this entire game and we'd be back turning P ro Delta because we'd earn R but we'd have to pay a tax on legacy debt and that would offset the entire game for moving to R. Okay, so the legacy debt's one problem. Okay, the second problem is that basically there' be much higher administrative costs. Remember one of the justifications for social security was you have a giant pool of people doing an activity you can spread the administrative cost wide the administrative costs of social security are in the order of 0.2 cents per dollar or 20 basis points for those of you who knows finance. Okay. Um in an example um the UK has a privatized system. They're partially privatized. The administrative costs are 1.2% a year. Now you might think well 1.2% 2% versus 2%. Those are small numbers. Remember, one more percent should be compared to the the R, which is maybe 4%. Here's another way to think about it. If your administrative fee is 1.2% versus 2% after 30 years, you have twothirds as much money. Okay? Because it really eats into that compounding. That's the wonder, the miracle of savings. Note, for all of you making a saving decision, look at fees. Don't be thrown off by fancy sounding funds. Fees are what drive everything. There's no in there's no investment advice in the long run who can do better than just finding a low fee fund. Okay. So basically um that is that's another problem. And then finally we have the last problem which I think is the most fundamental which comes to question the back which is do we want people investing their money given the risk they might take and they might suffer. In this case, if the mark goes down, you're about to retire, you are screwed because it's not a defined benefit plan. Your benefits based on what you saved. Mark goes down, you are screwed. Think about this. This is what to me is the death metal of this whole idea. We're saying we think people are too stupid to save for retirement, but smart enough to optimize their portfolio, right? We think they're too safe force them to save. They're smart enough to choose the right mix of stocks and months. I'm not smart enough to optimize my portfolio. Okay? And I and I know a lot about this topic. Okay, that was a really arrogant statement. [laughter] The bottom line is a lot harder to optimize your portfolio than decide how much to save. So the whole idea is kind of dumb if you think about it. And in fact, people have realized that nobody now would propose a privatization with full choice. They say there'd be some government constraints just like the government states invest the stock market. You'd have to have some mix of stocks and bonds etc. But the bottom line is privatization was very popular about 20 years ago. there was real legislative proposals. It's pretty much died as a topic. It's still sort of in project 2025 as as sort of Republican talking point, but no one really takes it that seriously anymore because they haven't overcome these problems of how do you pay the legacy debt and how much how much individual response, you know, responsibility want people to have. Okay, so that's where in social security reform, look, here's the bottom line. You remember global warming and I said the good example was the ozone layer. There's a hole in the ozone layer like oh my god, we got to fix this. Social Security reform is not going to happen till we're six months away from crisis. Okay, everybody's talking about it. I'm actually working with people who are trying to put together social security solveny reforms. That's great. Solveny plans, I love it. We should deal with it. It's crazy not to wait till the end, but that's just the nature of our political process. It's hard to imagine with 10 or 12 or 15 years to go, we're going to seriously raise taxes on people to solve this problem. Uh it's going to have to get closer to crisis before we do. All right. Uh stop there.