Um, so today we're going to be talking about Huffman codes which is a pretty elegant topic. So I just want to give you a reminder from last time. So what did we talk about last time was we talked about this notion of a first order source that defines a distribution on an alphabet of size K. So you think about the entries in the set A as being all the symbols that could arise. And then what we wanted was we wanted a way to compress the outputs of our first order channel. So we did last time was we had this crucial definition which was called a coding function. So we talked about a function which maps from length n sequences of the alphabet into some binary code of some varying length. So just the sequence of zeros and ones. And we want the crucial property that it can be decoded. So we want the property that for any two sequences that our channel could generate, as long as they're different, they map to different outputs. And last time what we talked about was we talked about Shannon's theorem that gave us both upper and lower bounds on how well we could do. So in particular, the main thing we proved was this upper bound that we defined this quantity called the binary entropy of the channel. And we showed that the expected length of our code is at most n times the per symbol entropy plus little o of n. So that was the context of what we did last time and today we're going to drastically improve upon this. So first of all you can wonder you know how small we can make this little o of n. But there's another point which is a little bit more subtle. See this scheme is not really so computationally efficient because if I think about what I have to do, I might in principle have to write down uh one you know code word for each possible output of my channel. So as the length of my channel becomes larger and larger now I have k to the n possible strings. So, I'm writing down this giant table of what are all the possible outputs? And that might be a very inefficient way to do these things because maybe I don't want to come up with my coding scheme by brute force by writing down everything that could possibly output from the channel and mapping it to, you know, what the coding function would send it to. So, we're going to do a lot better today with uh something called Huffman coding. In fact, let me tell you a bit of the history of Huffman coding. So Huffman coding was invented back in 1951 by Huffman and it was invented you know right here at MIT in fact not by a professor but by a grad student. So what happened here was that the grad student was taking a graduate seminar and as is often the case with these types of things you know students don't want to take final exams. I'm sure you guys don't. And so his uh professor uh Bob Fano, who's still here, uh he offered him the choice of whether he could write a term paper or do the final. So he chose, of course, writing a term paper. And the term paper had to be about improving something in the state-of-the-art in coding theory. Coding theory was a topic that was just developing around that time. uh he was pretty stuck and then uh he thought okay I better cut my losses and start studying for the final and then at the very last minute he came up with this amazing new algorithm which we teach in a lot of our undergraduate classes as you know a a neat example and a powerful example so that's what we'll be covering today is you know some of the work that went into Huffman's PhD thesis so uh as I mentioned we'll come back to the comparison to Shannon uh Shannon uh later on. But let me give you a crucial definition. So we're going to be interested in a stronger notion of an encoding. We'll define what's called a prefix code. Now in comparison to the coding function that took an entire sequence of symbols of length n and it outputs some binary string. A prefix code is just going to take one single symbol from our alphabet and it's going to output some binary string of variable length. But now we have a stronger condition on what we want out of this code. So we want it to satisfy the condition that for any two input symbols AI and AJ that are different, we want that five of AI is not a prefix of five of AJ. So this is a stronger condition than them merely being different in terms of their binary strings. We want that whatever AI is mapped to, we want that that binary string doesn't occur in the in the front in the beginning of what uh AJ is mapped to and vice versa. Of course, we want this to be true for all pairs of distinct symbols. So, in fact, what I claim is that there's a nice way to think about a prefix code as a binary tree. So, let's develop a way to think about binary codes. uh prefix free codes as uh sorry prefix free codes. Uh let's develop a way to visualize them as binary trees. So first let me give you an example of a prefix free code. So let's imagine and this will be our running example today as we see the algorithm under the hood of Huffman coding. So, let's imagine that we have symbols A, B, C, D, E, and F. And I'm going to map these to the code words 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 and one one one. So you can check that this is a prefix free code because you can check for each of the possible outputs for your encoding function. One zero doesn't appear at the start of any of these strings. And that's true for all of the other, you know, encodings for each of these symbols. And one of the ways that we can think about this is we can think about it as a binary tree in which each branch in the binary tree tells us whether the next symbol is either a zero or one. So in this case, let's arrange these into a binary tree where the leaves are going to represent what the actual symbols are. So when I have a symbol like D that my prefix free code is mapping to the string 01 then I get that just by tracing from my root to that leaf. I concatenate these symbols in order and I get 01. And let me do this for all of the different symbols in my prefix free code. And every time going left down the tree is going to correspond to concatenating with a zero. And every time going right with a one. So when I put this all together, I'll get a binary tree that looks like this. And you can check me on the details that you know indeed each symbol is mapped to the position in the binary tree where its associated word comes from just following the roottoleaf path. Right? And now what is the condition that this code is prefix free? Well, you know, if I had one leaf, if I had one symbol appear right here, right in the middle of this tree, I would have another symbol that's a descendant of it. And that would correspond to some a code that's not prefix free because in that case, the way that I would reach this symbol would be a prefix of how I reach this later symbol. So in fact what this constraint on prefix freess is another way to think about it is that when I arrange all of the symbols into this binary tree describing their encoding. I want the property that each position in the tree that describes the encoding of a symbol has no other descendants that are symbols beneath it. So that's an equivalent way to think about prefix free. So any questions about this key definition? Does this make sense? Yeah. All right. So now uh we can talk about what's the important thing about prefix free codes. So what I claim is that it actually makes decoding much much easier. So let's see why that is. See, when I talked about Shannon, I had to specify how the entire string of length n was mapped to a binary output. But now what I can do is I have a much simpler code that operates on a symbol by symbol basis. So all I'm going to do is I'm going to take my sequence of symbols and I'm just going to map them to 01 strings using my prefix free encoding and then I'm going to concatenate them all together. So let's do an example, right? What if I tell you I started off with a word and I ended up with this binary string. How would I figure out what was the sequence of symbols that I started off from? So, we're going to have to use the fact that it's prefix fe crucially, right? So, how can I go about figuring out what the first letter is? Any guesses for the first letter? F. Right? So in fact what I can do is I can see that you know if I chop off these first three symbols that's the encoding of f what's my next uh symbol a. So you can see what's tricky here is that because my output has variable length I don't know where the breaks are. Right? I smooshed everything together when I did this. But how did I know that the next break should be distance two? How did you guys figure that out? >> Yeah, youverse down the tree. >> That's right. That's right. And so if I traverse down the tree and hit a leaf, that's right. So we can continue this. We'll get the next letter is D. And last but not least, we'll get E. So it started off with the word fate. But now here's the crucial question. Why couldn't there be some other way hypothetically to break up the string into pieces in a different way that results in a totally different decoding of what my original string was? You see, when I started off with Shannon's encoding theorem, right, I was doing it on the entire string. And the property was that two different strings map to different outputs. Now I'm doing this on a symbol by symbol basis. Why am I guaranteed you know with my prefix free encoding that there's no other way to break this up that makes sense is really because of the prefix freess right so what if the break point had really happened at this yellow line so that I pulled out the first two symbols well if that really mapped to another symbol if there was a symbol whose associated code word was one one then the trouble is that my code word my encoding scheme would not be prefix free because that symbol would have an encoding that's a prefix of that of f. Right? So prefix freess is just the constraint that you can sequentially do decoding symbol by symbol in an unambiguous way. I always know where the breaks are even when I erase them. So does that make sense? All right. So prefix freess is an awesome property. um it's not obvious you know how it compares to what the fundamental limits were that we proved last time using Shannon right we also don't know what's the best way to you know what's the way to choose the prefix free code that minimizes the expected length so that'll be our goal today is we're going to be interested in the following very basic algorithmic problem we want to design a prefix free code that minimizes expected length. And just to be clear, what is our expected length here? It's just on a by symbol basis, right? We're thinking about outputs of our first order source that are just length one for simplicity. And what I want is I want that the sum over all of the symbols in my alphabet the probability that the symbol is chosen times LA a where LA is the length of the encoding of five of A. I want to minimize this quantity because intuitively now when I really care about the case where n is large and is not one. Well, my expected length is just going to be n times whatever I can achieve for a single symbol, right? And we know how encoding and decoding work. So our goal is just to solve this algorithmic problem and then we're going to compare it back with Shannon. So are there any questions? Make sense? All right. So, as I told you, you know, Huffman, uh, you know, in lie of taking a final exam at MIT, he designed a simple greedy algorithm for optimally solving this problem. And that's what we're going to do. We'll explain how the approach works through a running example. Okay? And our running example will be the same one that I wrote up there. Uh, you know, our running example, let me just write it here so that we have it. We'll consider the problem with symbols A, B, C, D, E, and F. And their associated probabilities because of course the optimal encoding depends crucially on these probabilities will be 0.4 0.05 0.18 0.07 07 0.20.10 and if I did this right they all sum up to one. So what we want to do is we want to understand what is the optimal prefix free encoding for this particular first order source and we'll see that you know in solving this problem we're going to come up with a general algorithm that works really for any channel. Okay. So now uh let's get started. So let's imagine let me tell you uh you know what our strategy is going to be. We're going to start off with some encoding which we remember we think about as a binary tree and we're going to pretend that this encoding is optimal and we're going to derive structural properties about this optimal encoding that will be enough to figure out what the encoding is. So that's our game plan. So I'm going to pretend that someone has given me already an optimal prefix free code. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to reverse engineer uh you know properties of this binary tree. Now just for simplicity I'm going to assume that there are no ties. What I mean by that is when I start off with all of these symbols, none of the symbols have exactly the same probability. It'll just be a bit more of a pain to talk about what the structural properties are when we allow ties, even though the same algorithm is essentially going to work as is. So I'll assume that none of these symbols have probabilities that are tied. And we're going to create new synthetic symbols along the way. And I'm going to assume that there are no ties even after we make those operations. So now let's state the first key lema that's going to get us started in terms of structural properties of this tree T. So what I claim is that the smallest probability symbol, so whichever symbol has the smallest probability in our first order source, has the property that it's at least tied for the longest encoding. So what I'm claiming is that whatever is the symbol with the smallest probability, in this case it's the symbol B right here, I claim that that symbol had better be in one of the deepest nodes in my binary tree that corresponds my prefix free code. Okay, so let's prove this fact and then we're going to prove a related fact about the symbol with the second smallest probability. So this thing is very easy to prove once uh you know what you're trying to prove. Does anyone have any intuition for how we could try and prove this lema? >> Why should it be true? Yeah, >> if like if it is not tied for the longest, then you could swap it with something with higher probability. >> That's right. That's right. So that's exactly how our proof is going to go because you can see the way that this proof is structured, it makes it a lot easier to, you know, have the algorithm fall out at the end because I'm not in one shot trying to tell you what the optimal tree is. I'm just trying to say if you gave me the optimal tree, I could find some interesting structural properties that constrain something about the tree that I'm looking for. So that's exactly right. Our proof is going to be, you know, if not, we're going to swap and contradict the optimality of T. So let's do a proof by contradiction following exactly that logic. So suppose that this lema is not true. Well, let's let you know B be the symbol with the lowest probability like in our example. And let's let C be the symbol which is tied for longest encoding. Now the crucial thing is that if we swap the encodings of blast and cruise. Well, first of all, that's still a valid prefix free code, right? Because the property of being a prefix free code doesn't actually depend on how the symbols are mapped to the binary strings. It's purely a property of the binary strings I've selected. When you think about graphically how we visualize the prefix free code, it just had this property that all of these nodes which were boxes that correspond the symbols being mapped to them. We needed the property that no box had another box as its descendant. And now if I interchange the contents of these boxes, if I swap blast and cruise, then it doesn't actually change this cominatorial condition of being prefix free. So this is a valid move. We're allowed to swap the encodings. And what we can do is if we swap these encodings, we can track how the expected length changes. So let's in particular compute how the expected length changes. So we have originally well our new uh you know new encoding is going to have the probability of the symbol B times the length of the encoding for symbol C plus the probability of the symbol C times the length of the encoding for B. That'll be some sort of contribution to the new expected length because you know every time I sample the symbol B, its encoding is what the encoding of C previously was. And every time I sample the symbol C, its length will be the length of the encoding of what B previously was. But now I have to subtract off what it was before. Right? So I'm going to get PB * the length of the encoding for B minus PC * the length of the encoding for C. So in particular when I have my formula for the expected length which is right here. Notice that for none of the other symbols am I changing their probability or the length of their encoding. The only changes are happening between blast and cruise. So when I look at the difference in the expected length of my old prefix free code and my new one, the change in the length is you know this quantity right here because all of the other things cancel out. So let's figure out you know what's going on here. [clears throat] So this is we can write this out in a more convenient way. This is just PB * delta minus PC * delta where delta is equal to the length of the encoding of C minus the length of the encoding of B. And we know by assumption, you know, because we're trying to prove something by contradiction that by assumption that uh C is the symbol with the longest encoding, right? So B is not tied for the same length of the encoding. So we know that the difference between these encoding lengths is at least one, right? So it's strictly positive. And we also know that PB is less than PC. Why is that true? Because of the way that I defined PB. PB was the symbol with the smallest probability and I assumed that there were no ties. So whatever PB is, PC is strictly larger than that. So if you look at these two quantities together, then what this means is that you actually have a change that's strictly negative. So I've actually decreased the expected length of my code. So that's the proof of the first key lema. It tells us this really nice structural property. And you can see that the proof is a very simple proof by contradiction where I just have to figure out that I want to use the swap and make the calculation of how much I've improved the length and argue that it really is an improvement. So are there any questions so far? Good. All right. So I claim that there's a companion lema that the same lema holds also for the symbol with the second smallest probability. So let me state what I mean exactly by a version of this lema that holds for the second smallest probability and then we'll prove it. The proof will build on our proof of lema one and then we'll be off to the races. So what I claim is that this lema holds for second smallest probability two. So let's formally state what this lema is. The second smallest symbol I claim is second smallest probability symbol because that's how we're measuring their contribution is tied for the longest encoding. Okay. And so the proof for this lema is going to very closely mirror the proof for lema one, but it's just going to build on it. So let's prove this fact. Actually, in my example, what is my second smallest probability? Let's double check. Okay, so it's D. So now what I'm claiming between lema one and lema 2 is that these two symbols both had better be tied for the longest encoding. So let's you know follow our lema. So let's let B be the symbol with the lowest probability. Let's let D be the symbol with the second lowest probability. And now what we know from lema one, what we already proved is that if we look in our optimal tree, we start off at the root, we follow some path, and then we reach our symbol uh B, which is the symbol with the smallest probability. And let's imagine that we call P the parent. So whoever comes before So this is not the image of a symbol because we have this prefix free constraint but it's still a node in our binary tree. There is some parent of wherever B gets mapped to. And now what I claim is that but P you know the way that I've drawn it I claim must have another child. I claim that there must be some node in my binary tree that's the sibling of P. So let's make sure we're on the same page. So why is this claim true? Why can I assert that P has another child? If it didn't, what would it contradict? Yeah. >> Would it not be a binary tree then? >> Well, it would still be a binary tree. So, we'll allow, you know, zero, one or two children. But there's something else that's really crucial. So, think back to my proof strategy. What am I trying to do? I'm trying to say that T is an optimal prefix free code. And then my first lema was a structural statement about some property that must be true of that optimal binary tree. Lema 2 is an even stronger structural property about that optimal binary tree. So what would happen if P really didn't have another child right here? >> Yeah. >> No longer be an optimal code. >> Yes. It would no longer be optimal. Why? because you have an empty space, >> right? But another way to think about it is that you know I know that there's no symbol that's mapped to P because it's prefix free. If P didn't have another child, I could just promote this node and delete everything underneath. Right? So in this case I would be strictly improving the expected length of my prefix free code because I'm not changing anything except for the length of the encoding of B which is decreasing by one. So what I claim is that P must have another child otherwise T is definitely not optimal. Does that make sense? Okay. So now I know that this child really must be there. And let's call this child C, which is just the sibling, right? And so what I claim now is that if I look in this tree and I have some path that goes to my other symbol, which is D, my second smallest probability. Well, what could I do if D was not tied for the second not tied for the longest encoding? You know, we know that B has the longest encoding. So, D better have, you know, an encoding length that's less than or equal to it. But what if it was strictly less than the length of the encoding of B? We know that there's another child C that has the same length encoding as B. So what should I do if you know D wasn't tied for the second longest encoding? I can do the same trick as before, right? I can swap. So what I claim is that now if uh D has a strictly shorter encoding. What I claim is that I can swap C and D, right? And improve the expected length. So this is the same proof as before, right? So this is a bit subtle, but it's a purely combinatorial proof. Are there any questions? So you know the way that this worked logically from lema one, we know that B is tied for the longest encoding. So nothing can have an encoding length that's strictly longer. We we argued that B has a parent P and that P had better have another child. And if P has another child, this would better be some other symbol in terms of the encoding. And if D were strictly off this line and the length of its coding were shorter than the length of the encoding of blast and cruise, what we could do is we could just swap D and C. And then the same type of computation that we did in the proof of lema one will show us that we've strictly improved. Why? Because the probability of D is strictly less than the probability of C. Okay, so these are our two key structural lemas. And now we're actually almost in good shape. So we're almost uh ready to talk about Huffman's algorithm. So let me do one more claim. The slash structural property is the thing that's going to make Huffman's greedy algorithm work. So I claim building off of lema one and lema two, we can say something even stronger. What I claim is that without loss of generality, these two symbols B and D, which are the smallest and second smallest probabilities respectively, I claim without loss generality they're siblings. in the tree. So why is this true? Well, from lema one and lema 2. What do we know? We can draw it out pictorially. We know that we start off from the root. We take some path to the parent P and then we reach our symbol D, right? And we know that P has some other child maybe it's C and then we know that there's a path that reaches the other symbol B which has the second smallest probability according to our channel and we know that all of these things are tied for the same length. So what could I do in this case is I could just swap the positions of blast and cruise. That doesn't change anything about the lengths of the encoding, but it has the property now that B and D are siblings of each other. Right? So the proof for all of these structural statements lema 1, lema 2 and this claim is really just if not swap. Lema one was if B isn't the longest then swap and you'll improve the length. Lema two was well we know where B is but if B is also not the same length then swap and improve the length and finally even knowing that they're tied for the same length of the encoding swap so that they're siblings. So this is the key structural property that we're going to use. Without wash generality, B and D are siblings. And now we can come back to our running example and we can build up what the optimal tree is and we'll be able to, you know, Huffman's algorithm is just going to fall out as a consequence. Okay, so let's do the same, you know, intuition on this, right? So we don't know what our optimal tree looks like. I'll just draw it as a big blob. Right? But we know from our claim that without loss of generality, B and D are siblings of each other. And so now here's the idea. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take these two symbols and I'm going to replace them with a new symbol. So I'm going to write down a new symbol alpha. And so here's the step in my Huffman coding algorithm. I'm going to replace these symbols B and D with a new symbol which I'm going to call alpha. And I'm going to have the property that my probability of this new symbol is going to be the sum of the probabilities of the symbols that I've merged. So that's the key idea. So, I'm going to set its probability to be equal to the sum of the two old probabilities. This way, when I get rid of these two symbols from my list and instead add my symbol alpha at the bottom, I'm still going to have a valid distribution because I've just merged those two probabilities. But now, what we're going to do, the main idea behind Huffman is we're going to solve the optimal problem on this smaller uh set of symbols, right? And then from the optimal binary tree for this new problem, we're going to derive what the optimal binary tree was for our original problem. So are there any questions about the strategy? Does this make sense? All right. So let's do that and let's see what Huffman would do. So the corresponding transformation on the tree. We started off with this tree T and now we're going to have this tree T prime. And what's going to happen is I've replaced the parent of B and D instead with this new symbol alpha that occurs in the same exact place in the tree. But then I've changed nothing else about the tree. So now we get to the key lema. What I claim is that this new tree t prime is also optimal for our new problem where our new alphabet is a prime. So we take our old alphabet A, we add in this new element alpha, we subtract off the two symbols B and D. And we've already talked about how we update the probabilities. So this is the key property that I pro you know I was assuming that someone gave me the optimal tree T for my original problem. Now I said something structurally about without loss generality where B and D have to occur in relation to each other. And now I've created a subpros on a smaller number of symbols. But I claim that just this new tree uh t prime that I get had actually be an optimal uh answer to the new problem that I've constructed. So does this make sense intuitively? Okay. So let's prove this lema. So just for notation, let's let L be the expected length of T. I'm going to let L prime be the expected length of T prime, this new tree that I've constructed. And let's prove this lema that T prime is optimal. So to make sure you guys are following. So does anyone have any intuition for how I can prove this lema that t prime is again optimal? There's basically only one proof we have today. >> Yeah. Um I was thinking you could like swap it, but I was a little bit concerned cuz if you like swap the probabilities together, maybe it gets big. Okay, so let's think about what we're trying to prove, right? We're trying to prove that T prime is an optimal prefix free code for this new sub problem I've constructed on a smaller alphabet, right? So uh what proof strategy do you think makes sense to prove that T prime is optimal? Greedy induction some other proof strategy proof by contradiction. Yeah. >> Okay, that's right. Um because in fact like the easiest way to prove this is what if t prime is not optimal then what I can do is I could hope to construct you know I could take whatever tree is optimal for this sub problem and then what would I want to do with that tree you know let's say that proof by contradiction is the right way to do this right so suppose not suppose there's is a better tree. Let's call this tree, I don't know, S. What should I do with my better tree? How am I trying to prove a proof by contradiction? So you can either answer the question or ask me a question about what we covered so far. So it's your choice, but someone's got to answer. >> Yeah, >> I presume you can show that S is actually just T prime. >> Uh S is actually T prime. That's true, but it's harder than I want. So some of these things you kind of have to have a little bit of intuition about which proof technique would be the easiest. So we already agreed it's proof by contradiction. But the question is what am I trying to contradict and how? Because that's how proof by contradiction works. So what can I do with S? Yeah. >> Can you backtrack to make another version of T. >> Yeah. Okay. So, let's think about S. I like that. So, S is some other blob, right? And it's better. Um, what are the symbols that occur in S? Well, A, C, E, F, and alpha. My new symbol. So, alpha appears somewhere, right? What should I do with alpha now? Well, maybe I can try and construct a better encoding for my original problem. Right? So that's the idea is that there's a proof by contradiction. So we suppose that there's a better tree s. Right? And this better tree is a better tree for this particular problem on this new alphabet A prime. And what I want to do is I want to use this S to construct a better answer to my original problem that contradicts the optimality of T. Right? So think about how the logic of this proof worked. Someone gave me an optimal tree T. I proved a structural property about you know where B and D occur. And now what I'm doing is I'm saying that I want that when I contract B and D the result I get is optimal for the corresponding subpro because if it weren't optimal for the corresponding sub problem then my original tree T could not have been optimal to begin with. Right? So this is the key point for the logic of the proof. Even though the proof is very simple, it takes a little bit to wrap your head around the logic. All right? So let's imagine that there's a better prefix code S and the associated tree and let's say that it has expected length which is LP prime. Okay, remember L prime was the expected length of T prime. So we're assuming for the purpose of contradiction that LP prime is strictly less than L prime that it does strictly better. So in this case what we can do is we can convert we can invert the operation that we just did right. So we can invert the operation which took us from the problem on the full alphabet A to the sub problem on alphabet A prime. We can replace the symbol alpha that was our new synthetic symbol by this gadget right here. Right? And so when we do that, let's track what the new expected length is. Right? So the new expected length is LP prime because I still pay the expected length you know until I um you know for this answer S right but now by replacing alpha with B and D every time I incur encounter either B or D I'm going to pay one extra unit of length. because previously I stopped at the symbol alpha and now I have to continue wherever alpha was that's not the end I have to go further down to either B or D that happens with probability PB plus PD respectively so this is my new expected length when I take my you know new better answer for this sub problem and replace it with inverting this operation that's my new expected length. But when I think about how this compares to my old expected length, see if I had the original tree prime here, right? Then I pay expected length L prime. And the way that I get from T prime to T was I do that same operation where I take alpha and replace it with B and D. So my old expected length was actually L prime plus PD uh sorry plus PB plus PD and this is just equal to L. So does everyone see how I got this? This is the crucial point in the proof. If you don't understand this, you don't understand Huffman coding. Okay. And so the crucial thing right here is that now I've come up with a better solution for my original problem. And this contradicts the optimality of T. Okay. So this is the proof and I'm not going to go on further until you convince me you understand the proof. Okay. So who can explain to me how this proof works in your own words? the one that's on the board or ask me a question. Those are your two options. I guess the third option is try and avoid eye contact, but that won't be as effective. >> Yeah, go for it. >> So, basically, we're trying to do it by contradiction by saying that there's a more optimal tree S. Yeah. And we're going to show that the expected um that when we like make S back into the same alphabet with T that S like finds that another shape is more optimal. >> Yeah. >> My prediction because our first assumption is >> that's right. So to do that we calculated the new expected length for S and then given that S is like more optimal than T prime um we can we know that that optimal length is less than L prime plus the like reverting L prime which is equal to T. >> Okay. Yeah. Very good. That was that was perfect. Uh let's stress test our understanding. You know I think the right way to understand proofs is to think about them like an engineer to look at each individual piece, right? So we proved a bunch of things today uh all you know getting to this key lema right um and uh you know one of the key things we had was this claim that without los generality in the optimal tree B and D the symbols with the smallest and second smallest probability are siblings. Where in the proof of this uh or in the setup of this lema 3 did I use this claim? >> Yeah, they have to be siblings in order for you to like remove B and D and >> that's exactly right because I used it even in the setup the definition. So how did I define T prime? T prime was what I got from taking an optimal tree T and then taking the symbols with the smallest and second smallest probability and replacing them with alpha. And in the tree, the only way that that can make sense is if they're actually siblings of each other. So I invoked this claim implicitly when I said that let T be an optimal tree without loss generality. The two symbols B and D are siblings of each other. And then this operation makes sense, this contraction operation where I replaced B and D with the new symbol alpha. And that was what allowed me to proceed with this proof, right? Because once I had that that operation made sense, the key point was exactly as you said that if this new uh tree t prime weren't optimal, then I could do better by inverting my operation, calculating the expected length, and that would contradict the optimality of t. Okay. So now are we all on the same page? We're good. Happy. Okay. All right. So, uh, this is, you know, when you're trying to learn things yourself, I think this is a good way to try and do it because you should stress test yourself. All right. So, but I claim that now we're basically done. So, we're going to have, you know, Huffman's main result because it'll just be a lot of pretty pictures. So, let's do the pretty pictures. And don't fear, I still have more questions for the audience as we do this. So let's just keep track of applying this lema again and again, right? What I know is that when I replace the symbols with the smallest and second smallest probabilities with a new symbol, I know that you know my finding the optimal solution to that problem will help me solve my original problem. So let's just track it through and figure out you know what happens to our original problem. So our original problem that we cared about was just you know we have A B C D E and F and they had associated probabilities 0.4 0.05 0.18 0.07 0.20 200.10. And then what I'm going to do in my next problem is I'm going to have symbols A, C, B 108, E, F, and alpha. And they're associated probabilities. Well, A stays the same. We haven't touched it. Ste C stays the same. E stays the same. F stays the same. and alpha is now 0.12 because I added up the probabilities of blast and cruise. What's my next step in this uh procedure? Can anyone help me out? What should I do? I'm trying to reduce my, you know, original problem down to smaller problems in such a way that I can back out what the optimal solution is. What should I do now? I've got this new problem here on this alphabet A prime. >> Yeah. >> Do a similar operation with F and alpha. >> F and alpha. That's right. So these become the two symbols with the smallest and second smallest probability. And I can replace them with a new symbol beta. So I get a C, E, and beta. And now their associated probabilities are Still point4 for AI haven't touched it. 0.18 0.2 and 0.22 and after this my symbols with the smallest probabilities are C and E. So I'm going to replace them with a new symbol gamma. So I have a gamma beta and they have associated probability 0.4 0.38 0.22 22. And last but not least, I take the two ones with the smallest probabilities right here and I replace them with the new symbol delta. So what's my optimal prefix code for this? If I gave you a problem with just an alphabet of size two and the two symbols had probability 04 and 6, you know, my goal is to try and take my original problem, which I didn't know the optimal solution for, and hopefully reduce it to a problem that's so simple that I can solve it. So, I'm done reducing it. I ran out of board space. Um, what's the optimal solution to this last problem at the very end of the chain? What's my optimal prefix free code? >> Can you say like just like gamma like one and then a 01? >> That's right. Perfect. Because you know remember what's going on these prefix free codes I can think about them as binary trees. There's only one binary tree I can do on these two things. So my optimal code is just this guy right here. I have the root and then my two symbols get encoded with either a zero or one. Doesn't matter which one is which. Right? And now for you know the question for the audience, right? Okay. My goal wasn't to get down to a trivial problem that I can solve. You know, if we give you on your exam three a question like this, you can't just replace it with your own favorite trivial question and solve it. Um I care about the solution to my original problem. So, how can I try and get the solution to my original problem? Maybe let's start simple. Uh, what's the optimal solution to this problem right here? Slightly harder. Uh, there's an alphabet of size three. We know what the optimal solution is on the associated sub problem. So, how can I get my next optimal solution? Trying to go the other direction or what would the optimal solution be? Yeah. >> Adding a branch off of delta. >> That's right. That's right. Because how do we get delta? It was merging gamma and beta. What we did was we invoked the claim that says that the optimal tree for this had better have the symbol with the smallest and second smallest probabilities be siblings. And now I can undo my operation where I merge them together into a new symbol delta. And what I'll get is I'll get this new binary tree. A stays where it is. It's still encoded as zero. But now we get a deeper binary tree where I replace delta with beta and gamma. So beta gets mapped to zero z uh one zero and gamma gets mapped to one one. Right? Okay. Just to make sure that we're really on the same page. What should I do next? What's my next uh optimal solution? What should I do? >> Yeah, split up. >> Split up gamma. Perfect. So now I think you guys see how this works, right? So my new solution right here would be a is over here. I still have beta where it was before. I split up gamma into c and e, right? And then I go backwards once more. Uh, I'm going to run out of space soon. So, this will be the last one that I'll do. Actually, maybe I'll do one more. That's fine. And my last one, which I'll need a bit of space to draw. Uh, okay. I guess I'll draw it over here. So my last one is this binary tree. So this is a valid prefix free encoding, right? Um what can I say about this tree T? It's optimal, right? Why is it optimal? I claim that this is an optimal solution to the original running example I gave you at the beginning of class. Why is this tree optimal? Because in each step, right, all we did was we reasoned about any tree that's optimal without loss generality had the property that B and D were siblings. And then for the new problem on my alphabet A prime without loss generality, it had the property that you know F and alpha were siblings. And for my new sub problem, it had the property that without loss of generality and so on. So in fact we argued in each step that without loss generality our optimal tree could take this form. Now there could be other ways of doing it because I could swap f and c together. But we argued that whatever we get out of this procedure had actually better be optimal. So this was you know huffman coding. Um in fact we're not done. There's one more crucial question that we want to ask and answer about it. But right now what we did was we gave you a simple greedy algorithm that finds the optimal prefix free code. It's not like Shannon where I say it's approximately optimal up to some additive terms. It is the optimal prefix free code. But there's one more crucial question which is you know how good is this code right? So when we talked about Shannon you know I have it conveniently up here. It's not just that you know we argue that there's a coding function and we constructed it. it's that we actually argued about how good it is. We bounded its performance and we saw that the binary entropy fell out from the end of that. Right? So our last step is to bound the performance of the Huffman code and show that it's very good. In fact, it'll really beat what we proved in Shannon last time. So that's the last part of today's lecture. So let me state one helper lema which um you're going to give an alternative proof for in recitation and talk about you know what are figures to illustrate this proof. This proof is called the craft inequality and once we have this craft inequality we'll be able to get a very nice bound on the performance of Huffman codes. So this is a purely cominatorial lama and it's called the craft inequality. So what I claim is that for any natural numbers L1 L2 all the way up to LK. So of course natural numbers just means uh non- negative integers. So any non- negative integers. I claim that there is a binary tree with leaves at depths given by these values. So at depths L1, L2 all the way up to LK. If and only if the following condition holds, the sum of i = 1 to k of 2 the minus l i is at most one. Okay, so this is a little bit of a mouthful. So what I'm asking you is some sort of packing constraint. Obviously, you can't have three leaves at depth 2 because it's a binary tree, right? And what this craft inequality tells you is it tells you a necessary and sufficient condition if you give me the sequence of depths whether or not there is a tree you know with leaves at those depths. So you know let's do a simple example just to make sure that uh we're on the same page. So let's start off with some depths of the leaves that satisfy the craft inequality. Let's say L1= 2, L2= 3, L3= 3. You can check when you add up the craft inequality that uh you know you're good, right? Actually, sorry, this should be uh depth one, two, two. Okay, depth one, two, two. Okay. And so what would be the associated tree here? Well, you know, here's one example of a binary tree that satisfies these conditions as promised by craft inequality. So I take this associated binary tree. It has one leaf of depth one because we're going down distance one from the root. It has uh one leaf of depth two and its third leaf is also of depth two. And you can check that you know a half plus a quarter plus a quarter is less than or equal to one. So this is an example which both satisfies this craft condition and has an associated binary tree. So this is just one illustration. But what if instead I take you know L3 and replace it by L3 is equal to uh let's see three and L4 is equal to three. This still satisfies the craft inequality. What would I do is I would just replace this part with a deeper binary tree with A3 here and A4 here. So the proof for the craft inequality essentially goes, you know, the way you'd expect it to is you just build up a binary tree. The key point is that, you know, if I had all of the same lengths, right? like I had L1 equals 1 and L2 equals 1 then it's just you know a regular binary tree and every time what's going on is that you know when I have larger depths it really corresponds to replacing the leaf with uh some deeper binary tree exactly as I did in this example. So you're going to prove this in recitation. So I'll just leave the proof as to be continued. You're going to work on both understanding the proof of this and drawing diagrams to illustrate the proof. But for us, we're going to take this for granted and we're going to prove our main theorem about Huffman codes, which is, you know, not just that there's an algorithm for building Huffman codes, but we're going to give a bound on their performance, and we're going to relate it back to what we proved on Thursday, uh, using Shannon. So, here's our last statement for today that we're going to prove, and we're going to build on this craft inequality. What I claim is that the Huffman code has expected length L which is between H and H + one. So this is an incredibly strong statement because I'm saying that you know the binary entropy really tightly controls what the expected length of our optimal prefix free code is. I'm not going to prove this part. This part in effect we already proved through Shannon but I'll argue about why we already proved that. Let's prove the other side that the Huffman code is good. Okay, so here's our idea. Let's let LA a be the length of the encoding for symbol A. And we're going to, you know, uh, very cleverly choose it to be the ceiling of log of PA. Okay. So what's going on here is that the depths of my leaves had better be, you know, natural numbers. They're non- negative integers. And you know, PA is the associated probability of the symbol A, right? So I take log of PA, I'm going to get a negative number. I multiply it by minus one, I'm going to get a positive number. And I'm just going to round up that number. And those are going to be my depths LA, right? And so the first thing I have to argue about is you know that these are valid depths for the leaves because that's where I want to put each of these symbols. So how do I argue that these are valid depths is I appeal to the craft inequality. So the craft inequality tells me I just have to check a particular inequality. So let's verify craft that the conditions of craft inequality hold. So I want that the sum over all symbols in my alphabet of 2 the minus la I want to show that this is at most one. Right? So let's write out what this thing is. Well, by definition, the way we've constructed LA, this is still the sum over all symbols in our alphabet of 2 to the minus ceiling of minus log PA. And I claim that this is upper bounded by the sum over all the symbols in our alphabet of 2 to the log PA. So what's going on here, right, is that remember inside I have a positive number because it's minus log PA. Log PA is negative. So when I'm rounding it up and then I'm multiplying by minus one, I'm making this associated number smaller. So I can make the number only bigger by removing the ceiling function. When I remove the ceiling function, the two minuses cancel and I get log PA. And now two to the log PA is very simple. It's just PA. So I get sum over all of the symbols in my alphabet of PA which is one. So this verifies the craft inequality because all of these lengths LA that I've conveniently part I have to do is I just have to analyze how good this particular uh you know construction is and then because the Huffman code is optimal it'll only ever be better than whatever I get for this particular code that follows by appealing to craft. So now let's calculate the performance of the code. So we know you know by lema 4 we know that there is a binary tree with these depths the depths that I've guessed and let's calculate its expected length. Right? So, I know that L, the expected length of my Huffman code, is only ever better than whatever expected length I'm going to get for this tree that I'm guessing from Craft. And this right here is the sum over all symbols in my alphabet of PA time LA, the length of the associated symbol. Well, I can replace this again. This is the sum over all symbols in my alphabet of PA times the ceiling of minus log PA. And now I claim that this is upper bounded just by adding one instead of taking the ceiling, right? Because at most I bump it up by one. So this is the sum over all symbols in my alphabet of PA time minus log PA + 1. But now I'm in good shape, right? Because this term should look familiar. This is the binary entropy and this term right here when I'm summing up all the PAS I get one. So in total the thing that I get as my upper bound is the binary entropy plus one. So that's the proof. The Huffman code is very very good because it's optimal and because there exists a good code by the craft inequality whose performance is H+ one. Now in the last couple minutes I want to take this way further and connect it back to Shannon. So you know we proved a bunch of things. We proved you know that we found an algorithm Huffman's uh coding algorithm for finding the optimal prefix free code. We analyzed its performance in terms of its expected length. But now what I want to argue about is you know how we can do much better than Shannon. Right? So we talked about you know how Shannon I think I still have it here. It gets a bound you know when you apply it to length n sequences instead of a single length you know single symbol it gets n * entropy plus some other term. So if I naively use my Huffman code, it'll sound like I'll get, you know, n times entropy plus n because I'm paying that plus one every time, right? But there's a trick where we can replace that. So that's the last thing I want to show you. And this is one of the really cool punchlines. So let's imagine you know and then the length end case will follow immediately from this. What if we want to encode outputs of length two okay? So what if our source outputs two symbols instead? Well, we can still think about them as a single symbol just on a larger alphabet, right? Because originally we had, you know, six symbols, but now we'll have 36 in our alphabet. Each of these pairs of characters is a new symbol in my alphabet. A AB acce has a larger value for K. What I can do is I can compute the entropy, right? So what's the entropy of this source? Well, you know, now it's minus the sum over all I, the sum over all J because I'm taking two symbols I and J. the probability that our first symbol is I, the probability that our second symbol is J times log of PI PJ. But now something amazing happens which is that I can just algebraically manipulate this statement. I'll get minus the sum over i the sum over j of p i pj log pi plus p i pj log pj. This is just using properties of the log. And now look at this term right here. I can sum up over j and then I can replace the pj with one because the pj sum to one. So I'll get the sum over i of pi log pi. And the same way here I can sum up over i because i doesn't appear inside the log. So I can replace this pi with one and get rid of the sum. So this entire thing is then equal to minus the sum over i of pi log pi minus the sum over j pj log pj. All this is is two times the entropy, right? It's two times the entropy because each of these terms is computing the entropy. So this is one of the amazing facts about entropy is that you know when you look at the entropy of the output at length two, it's just twice the entropy of the per symbol entropy that you started with H. Right? And now something amazing happens which is if I think about this theorem, right? And instead of encoding my output for my channel symbol by symbol, what if I encode it, you know, as a pair. So instead when I look at, you know, the output as being two symbols, you know, my new entropy is 2 h, right? So I'll have that my expected length is at most 2 h but still plus one. When I do it for an output that's size n, it'll be n * h, but still + one. that plus one is just a fixed thing that we add independently of how large our alphabet is. So this result that we had from Shannon where there was a you know bound and the suboptimality that's some little o of n that's like n over log n or root n it turns out that we can replace this with plus one. So this is an amazingly sharp thing that follows immediately from our proof of Huffman codes. So we improved upon two things here. First of all, we have a more explicit coding function because it follows just from this greedy algorithm. And second of all, we drastically improve this additive loss in our original bound. So, you know, Huffman is really um one of the crown jewels in coding theory. And it was proven really uh by a grad student, which is pretty amazing, who wanted to get out of taking a final exam. So, with that, I'll leave you as an invitation. If you also want to get out of your exam three, just prove something else that we're going to teach in lecture next semester and I will happily give you an A for the class. If not, come to office hours and we'll help you study. All right. Um, so we'll continue next time with Shannon's noisy coding theorem. That'll probably be the hardest lecture in the coding theory unit. Uh, but you know, come prepared, be awake, and ready to answer questions. See you then.