The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. >> Anyway, uh today uh we have a guest speaker who's the audio director for the Singapore Academy. That's where we are. And um and he's going to run through brainstorming uh as an exercise. Um but we're not actually planning out the game that you're going to be doing for your first assignment in this class. I think this is a you're doing other >> Yeah, these will just be just be practice. So basically the the groups there will be a group activity involved in this but the the things that that that you're working on don't have to be the same groups that you will eventually be using for your first assignment. The idea is just sort of to get used to the process of brainstorming and sort of a general rules of thumb uh and before I spoil the entire talk. >> Yeah that's okay. So uh yeah just my name is Apstein. A little bit of background on myself. Um I'm the audio director here. Uh I've been working in sound design uh officially for uh a number of years now, five some odd years. Uh unofficially uh way longer than that. Um uh doing TV TV and video game sound design. And then uh and then before that I I was a high school teacher. Um and so I think you know to the extent that um uh talking about kind of creative collaboration uh I have a fair amount of experience ranging even back to to when I was uh teaching high school for trying to uh encourage what what we might call organized uh ideiation. Um I guess first I'll I'll thank you guys for for reading uh reading the text. Um it is it is funny. it does have these kind of um I guess now a little antiquated 1950s sort of references and um you know some of his uh some of his uh scientific evidence for uh for for why brainstorming is good is is not particularly well supported. was like, "We got 95 ideas." And I was like, "Well, how many ideas did you get?" You know, doing it the other way doesn't, you know, he doesn't tell you, but hey, 95, that's a big number, you know. So, um, you know, a little a little bit of background about Alex Osborne. He was, um, he was an advertising, uh, executive. Um, and so you can kind of see where brainstorming and advertising is a is a creative industry, right? It's a design industry. And so getting multiple people in interdisciplinary kind of you know different skills working together um on a on a creative project it can be a challenge. Um and so you can see how brainstorming came out of the work he was doing in advertising. So um so just to get started I I would say you know you've read it so you have a sense but but kind of forget what you think you know brainstorming is. Um some of what you think it is will apply. um some of the most fundamental principles um to brainstorming maybe you don't you don't realize or you didn't realize until you did the reading and and that's a little bit of what I want to talk about. I think the the foundation for his brainstorming idea is actually really solid and it's something something that you know we should explore today. Um why why brainstorming for video game design um is an interesting question. Um but I sort of touched on that a little bit with relation to advertising, right? I mean, we're talking about a creative industry where you've got people with various skill sets, whether they're artists or sound designers or uh game designers explicitly or producers. Um, all of these people kind of existing in a collaborative environment together. They're bringing different things to the table. How do you get them to to kind of work together and and and be collaboratively creative? And so this is, you know, a first step in that process. And so this is this is why brainstorming is particularly useful um for game design. And then the other thing um the other thing that I I think is important to understand and we'll talk about it a bit more is is um the kind of social pressures um that are created in creative envir professional creative environments even non-professional actually I mean it it would exist in an educational environment too um you guys are all at MIT it's one of the most prestigious universities um you know in the world right and so you're probably no stranger to the idea of of kind of social pressure in uh in the process of ideiation, right? Um you sit there and you say if I say this idea, am I going to look like an idiot? Um and and usually the outcome from that is if I don't say anything, it's it's you know, maybe I don't get the gain of presenting a good idea, but I don't get the hit of making a bad idea. And so it's like, you know, self-preservation. It's like why take the risk uh if if it's not worth it. Um and so you know I think MIT is an interesting place to talk about brainstorming and and this kind of organized ideation because there is you know social and academic pressure here too. Uh pressure to be right, pressure to not say something that would seem wrong and that sort of pressure is is completely uh antithetical to the idea of a brainstorming session. Um and so that's that's kind of a a basis for why not only it's good for video games but why it's also good to talk about talk about here at MIT. So there are four uh basic principles of brainstorming. Um you know these were outlined by Alex Osborne. He he was an ad agent. Um and uh I guess it was you know early he says it was like 1938 when he first started using it. People started kind of talking about it since then. Um and and it kind of I like when he said it sort of spiraled out of control that people sort of ran away with it. They're like ah this is a great idea but then they were they were kind of practicing it wrong. Um and so uh you know in in applied imaginations which is where the text um you know you guys read. It's sort of him reflecting on this brainstorming idea and saying this is really how it how it should be uh how it should be exercised. Um the first principle is single-handedly the most important principle. Um and that's no criticism. Um, that's a that's kind of a blanket way of of saying it, but but really in a more uh in a more um broad sense, it's it's kind of saying uh you know, judgment needs to be excluded. Um, in some sense, it's kind of um kind of both positive and negative, but but especially you don't want to criticize each other's work. Um, you also don't want to spend time during a brainstorm session talking about how good an idea is, right? If if someone throws out an idea um and and someone's like, "Oh, this is the best idea. We don't even need to keep going anymore." Then it's like, "Oh, no. Wait, now we're not brainstorming anymore." Um and so really, you know, judgment is is is absolutely supposed to be excluded from the process. Um I think that uh this is the primary uh principle that goes against that social pressure, right? Because the social pressure of judgment, the people who are saying, whether you have an executive who's in charge of you, a boss who's saying whether or not the ideas are good or bad, or whether you have colleagues that are saying whether or not ideas are good or bad, that sort of social pressure that forces people to stay quiet and maybe hold on to good ideas or throw away good ideas. Um, you know, if everybody's on board with the lack of criticism, then you you kind of have more freedom to to kind of express yourself. Um, you know, just just kind of pulling back to the text a little bit, um, you know, there was this this great quote um from this vice president. I just I'll read to you guys again. Uh you know, he said, "It was hard to get through my head uh what you were trying to do with us. Uh my 15 years of conference after conference in my company have conditioned me against shooting while um almost all of us officers rate each other on the basis of judgment. Uh we are far more apt to look up to the other fellow if he makes no mistakes than if he suggests lots of ideas." That's something that may sound familiar to you. Um so I've always kept myself from spouting any suggestions which could be sneered at. uh I wish our people would feel free to shoot ideas the way we have been doing in these brainstorm sessions. And so really like um this this lack of criticism, this sort of creating a safe environment for ideiation um is is the most fundamental principle in this brainstorm. Um and it really goes right at those social pressures which which can stop you know creativity and really hamper creativity. Um any questions about that? That sort of makes sense, right? This principle of of no criticism. Cool. Um, principle number two, uh, freewheeling, as uh, Mr. Osborne likes to call it. The wilder idea the better. This is also hard, uh, to kind of get used to. Um, again, it was like the guy said in that quote, you know, you you resist the urge to throw out something that's absolutely crazy and absolutely wild for the fear of ridicule. Well, if we eliminate the fear of ridicule and we understand that we're just trying to get every idea that we can um then freewheeling is is absolutely encouraged and you need to kind of get past that um past that oh you know this is whatever we're known whatever like this um and I can you know I I put up Kadamari dysi up here because you know that that's the sort of idea that someone throws out at a at a at a meeting um and if there's criticism someone will be like that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. you can't just roll around picking up stuff for the king of the cosmos. That's insane. Um and and it probably, you know, it probably was a synthesis of a lot of different ideas that that kind of created that game, which we'll talk about later, but um really, you know, having these like kind of wild, crazy ideas. You may think it's over the edge, and it might be over the edge. Um, but it is it is way easier to make something feasible than it is to take something that's pretty um pretty normal and make it make it innovative and interesting, right? It's it's much easier to kind of go go in that backward direction. Um, and so really the wilder idea the idea you can come up with the the the stronger. Um, any questions about principle number two? Making sense on board? Cool. Uh, quantity. Um, this is really the the goal of of a brainstorming session. Come up with as many ideas as you can, right? Um, it it stands to reason that if you have lots of ideas, there's a greater likelihood that you'll have a useful one um than if say you have two. Your choices are limited. You didn't pick the better of the two, I suppose, but it might not be the best idea you have. Um, and so really this is, you know, this adds on to that wild idea. Throw everything out you can. you need to just get everything um out and everything on on on the page um in order to even be able to start judging it. And that's the important thing too that that needs to be um that needs to be clarified is that brainstorming is a first step in a creative process. It's not the whole process. It's not like, oh, we've got this creative problem that we need to solve. We'll have a brainstorming session, then we'll have it. Um, and actually that's that's something that hampers brainstorming a lot is that you have the brainstorming session, you come up with these great ideas and then everybody leaves and you never return to it or you never kind of reflect on which of these ideas is going to be best or you kind of just end up picking one. And so the judgment needs to happen as well. Um, but not now, you know, during the brainstorm session. It's just get everything out that you can. Um, it it really just it kind of stands for reason. And I I kind of made fun of Storm when he was like, you know, saying, well, in this inst in the government they had 95 ideas and we you know came up with eight good desires which you know how many did you come up with before but but it's true just the more you have the better you're going to do and then this one is related to that which is the idea of synthesis or building on ideas um which is that often times the best idea the best creative idea is not going to be something that's just kind of a unique idea that stands alone in this corpus of ideas that you've collected over the brainstorm it's going to be an idea that is a synthesis of of of one idea and another or someone suggests an idea and then that makes you think of something else that's related to it and you kind of build on that and and you can see in really positive good brainstorming sessions um there's momentum and one of the things that can really hurt that momentum is when people are starting to riff on an idea then someone's like oh but you know in other news you know we could do this and so it's really encouraged that you synthesize ideas if you have that other left field idea don't throw it away right jot it down so that you can bring it up later but don't don't kind of kill the momentum of the synthesis if that's happening. Um it's it's you know kind of really important that you start um it's the collaborative part of this creative uh ideiation. Um it's this combining of ideas that's going to create um good ideas. And that's that's just um I I think we can kind of take that as a given that if you collect a bunch of skilled, thoughtful, creative people together um combining their ideas is going to create something that's better than just the any one idea that one creative uh professional is going to have or at least just a different solution that might be more ideal given the problem. And so, you know, you can think of things like, you know, Lego's pretty awesome. Um, Star Wars is also pretty awesome, but you know, Lego Star Wars move is is also awesome. You know, similarly, um, you know, Marvel's dope. Um, Capcom's also pretty dope. Marvel versus Capcom is tremendously dope. So, um, you know, building on ideas can create obviously really interesting things and that's, you know, it's a good idea to kind of keep working on that in your brainstorm sessions, like what can you what can you put together? Um, so how is it organized? Um, you know, we've kind of talked about basic principles. Any questions about those four principles? Do they all make sense? Do they all seem to be grounded in the greatest? All right. Um, so the question becomes then, how do you organize um how do you organize your brainstorm? One of the points that Alex Osborne makes is that um it needs to have a casual spirit or a casual atmosphere. He refers to it as a picnic, which is another one of those I haven't been on a picnic in a really long time, but um but you know, it's like yes, we brought our lunches in and then we talked afterwards. It's like what we call those lunch meetings now. But um but he has a good point that if um if a large part of the brainstorming session is intended to combat um social pressures that stop you from being creative, that inhibit your creativity, then it would stand to reason that creating a casual spirit, a casual environment um for this process is important. Um, and so I have, you know, it's hard to most video game processes and most video game companies have a pretty casual spirit and environment because of the nature of the work in general. Um, so sometimes this might not be that hard, but um, you know, things to consider are like what is the makeup of your team, right? If there's, you know, if your president of the company does a really bad job of putting himself or herself on the same level as all the people, you might want to exclude that person from the brainstorming session because then everybody's going to feel the pressure of the president, you know, and we, you know, do we need to make an idea that makes that person happy. It's, you know, you have to think these things through in terms of what the environment is going to be for your brainstorming session and and who's involved. Um, so it it is an important point is an important step. um you know starting with a a bad or or a worthless idea uh encourages that freewheeling sense. Um you know a lot of times people will contribute ideas that feel safe. Again you want to come up with the most ideas that you can. Um so you know having someone with the courage or even bringing to the beginning of it a a crazy worthless bad freewheeling idea can help kind of encourage people to keep doing that. So, um, you know, either starting with someone who has a crazy idea or even bringing it to the brainstorm at the very beginning can be a really good thing as well. Um, this is kind of a key one. Don't uh don't interrupt anyone. Um, it it's really important in a brainstorming session to encourage um that every voice is heard. Um, you know, there's there's these kind of uh let me see if I can find that quote from that one guy. Um, yeah, here we go. Um, it's great. I was think up or think up or shut up. >> Oh, well, yeah, there's that one, too, which is a good one. Yeah, but um uh let me just It's talking about the spirit of a brainstorm session is important. Uh self- encouragement is needed almost as much as mutual encouragement. Uh a perfectionism complex will throttle effort and abort ideas. Uh he says, "One of the ablest members kept mom throughout one of our sessions. I button hold him, never heard that expression, afterward and begged him to spout whatever ideas might come to his mind in our next meeting." And this is this is where it gets good. this is the, you know, really able uh member of this ad team. He says, "All right, I'll try." Uh, but here's what happened. After our first meeting, I jotted down about 15 ideas with the thought that I would bring them to our next session. When I looked them over, I decided they were worthless, so I just tore up the list. Um, and you know, Alice kind of goes on to say, "It took a while to encourage this guy to understand that there's no such thing as a worthless idea. Um, that that it can either be expanded upon or revise." And that's kind of that synthesis thing, right? that that you know having a wild idea and and um you know getting back to this idea of the interruption. Nothing will stop a person from wanting to contribute if um more than than not being able to even have their voice be heard, right? Like they're trying to say something and then they just get cut out by somebody else who's like, "No, but this is better." Um you know, especially for a shy person or a person who's otherwise feeling like my ideas are worthless. Um they they won't be able to get it out because they've then been they've then been cut short. Um so this you know some of this responsibility falls on what we might call the leader which I'll talk about later of of the of the group. Um but really it it's kind of a collective responsibility that everybody kind of um make sure that as someone is expressing an idea that it's maintained. Adding to that you know keep the keep the description of your idea short. Um you know if people are sitting here and it's like you've now hijacked the 30 minute brainstorming session with your one idea that took five minutes to explain. um that that can also hamper it, right? Part of it is not only don't interrupt people, but also make sure that when you are contributing, you are allowing for other people to contribute as well. Um something that maybe is not considered as much. Um for the organization, designate a leader. I hate that term, but that's what he used in the book. Um I I tend to use the term clerk, which is kind of a quaker idea, which I I kind of grab on to. A clerk, you know, being more of a facilitator than an actual leader. Um you know, leader suggests, you know, boss. It's always not great for a for a, you know, everyone's even sort of brainstorming session. Um, and then of course the secretary or as he calls it an associate theater. Um, you know, this is someone who who writes stuff down. You know, there's some of that that good old fashioned hierarchy going on in this in this text, but um but you know, obviously we'll talk a little bit more about what the roles of these people are, but but having those those roles uh defined early is important. Um, and then this is this is something to talk about a bit explaining the process and the principal question at the start of the session. Um, you know, I don't know how how many of you had heard of these four principles of brainstorming explicitly prior to reading this text? Anybody? Oh, well, I know you heard from me. But, um, but yeah, the um, you know, the process is something that it needs to be clear otherwise people won't remember to do. And you'll see when we do the exercise, it's it's even hard sometimes to curb your criticism. You know, it's it's just when especially when you're comfortable with people and you may not mean it in a malicious way. You may not mean it in a way to kind of uh you know stop the brainstorming session, but you just be like, "Oh, that's nuts." You know, we're laughing and everybody's having a good time. And then you kind of like think back and like wait, you know, that was me passing judgment on an idea and possibly inhibiting the kind of the kind of ideation that we're trying to get across. So, um explaining the process at the beginning regardless of the group is really important and that is usually responsibility that falls on the leader or the secretary, whoever is organizing the session, right? They even suggest in the text have it posted have the four principles up so that everybody can kind of remind themselves through the process what these four principles are. Um but explaining the process is really important and this this is I can't even this is so important. Um having the principal question and the goal of the brainstorming session clear at the start um you know obviously it's it's this is encouraging freewheeling. It's encouraging free thought. that's encouraging this all kind of you know wide openen creativity and yet at the same time if you do that in an unbounded sort of way you might end up with things that that really in the end you don't have too many useful ideas you've got useful ideas for something else not for the actual creative problem that you have. So, I mean, you take it from an ad ad concept, you know, so you've got a vodka company that's like, "Oh, we need we need an advertisement for our, you know, awesome vodka or whatever." And so, you're like, "All right, well, we have a brainstorm session." Then a bunch of people come up with ideas. Now, you're selling dryers. Um, because it was wide open, right? And it's like, "Oh, we've got these great ad ideas for dryers, but they're just really, really not going to work." You know, bringing it back to a video game contest. um you know, you've got a contract with a producer to make a first-person shooter, and in your brainstorming session, you've designed um a cool cute platformer. Um neat, but that's not where the money's coming from, right? So, so bounding the brainstorm session is important, too. And and you'll kind of see that in the exercises that we do today, how it's important to to bound that. Um yes. Oh, and write down everything. Yeah, sorry, I forgot about that. This is an important uh important question. Uh important point um you know you this happens to all of us but you have this great idea and then you don't write it down and then you you go to bed and then the next day you're like oh I had this great idea great idea and you can't remember it right and so um writing down everything is absolutely essential. You'll never you know you'd be amazed the number of times that you know a week later you're like oh we could put these two ideas together um as long as you can remember what those ideas were. Um, and so what you think, you know, it's hard to not mentally pass judgment on things during the brainstorm session. And what you think might be great now may a week later not be as great and what you didn't think, you know, will be. And so making sure to have everything written down is really important. And and they even suggest, you know, having um two secretaries if you need if you've got a large group or lots of ideas and they're each writing every other one um can be helpful to make sure that you get everything right so that you get everything. So um next is the question of what sort of problems are suitable to a brainstorming session. Uh the great example that Alex Osborne gives is um setting up a brainstorm session on whether or not to get married um is not a particularly suitable question. I that was sort of an interesting uh interesting concept. He's like well to decide to get married you you apparently list the pros and cons. That's not exactly the process I went through before I got married. I was like well honey I'm going to have to write this down. Um but fair enough that that wasn't the suggestion that he came up with. And he has a good point, right? I mean it's the question of whether or not to get married is a judgment call. Um it is not a creative uh ideation process. And so that's not a particularly useful um kind of uh problem that's suitable to the brainstorming process. Um you know, you want you want a uh you want a problem that is going to be benefited by having a large uh a large selection, a large corpus of ideas. And so those are the kind of problems that are more more useful. And you know, you'll see when we do our example exercise what some of those might be. Um I also kind of put here that um you know having a clear definition of the aim is really essential. It's sort of what we talked about before. Um you need to make sure that everybody understands and everybody's on the same page. Otherwise you end up with stuff that um that might be useful for something else but not useful for what you're you're particularly trying to do. Um and so making that clear for everybody is really important. Um, keeping the problem as simple as possible, um, you know, is also really important. Trying to keep simple language, uh, for the problem. Uh, keep it, you know, keep it constrained in a way that that, um, is simple enough so that people can kind of work on it as opposed to just feeling limited by it. Um, if that makes any sense. You know, something is overly complicated and overly constrained. Um, then it becomes a well, how do I fit everything into this? You know, how do I match every single one of these things? If it's simpler, then it's a little bit easier to kind of work on and kind of be creative. So, keeping problems simple. Um, which isn't to say that complex problems couldn't be dealt with, but just divide this divide them into sub problems, right? Divide them into little little sections. So, there might be something like, you know, how could we deal with the UI? Um, you know, how could it look in this uh in this game, you know? So, rather than say, well, how are we going to design our first person shooter? You've got a brainstorming session about what the UI could look like for the first person shooter. you've got maybe a brainstorming session for um you know what the fiction for this first person shooter might be. You're dividing it into sub problems rather than having it be this gigantic you know model of of a thing. And you can see how that would be a problem, right? Because if you just brainstorm on what's our first person shooter going to be, you're going to get ideas about the UI. You're going to get ideas about the fiction. You're going to get ideas about what sort of guns you should use or what they should sound like. And it'll just be lots of interesting ideas but we get all over the place. uh and yeah uh problems should be clearly and simply articulated. I think that's what I sort of said by should be simple just you know make sure that they're articulated in the simple way. Sometimes you can have a simple problem that's not articulated particularly clearly. Um so it's just something um responsibilities of the leader clerk whatever um the first being uh to understand and explain the problem and the aim of the brainstorm session. I mean a lot of times people uh maybe will write a memo beforehand um you know as the facilitator of the of the thing as the person who perhaps wants to see the brainstorm be a success uh the most maybe um you know having a clear understanding of the problem and explaining that to the group is an important job for the leader um I use this term facilitating the session uh encouraging ideiation discouraging criticism you're kind of the watch guard for the process not necessarily um you can sometimes be a contributor and a watchdog for the process. But most importantly is that you are a watchdog for the process. Um it's you'll you'll see as we do it, it's just so easy to kind of slip into these conversational habits that are contrary to brainstorming uh brainstorming process and uh and so having someone who's constantly like making sure don't criticize encouraging people like oh I haven't heard from this person. Do you have any ideas? You know, even kind of pulling people out is important. Um and that comes to that ensuring that no voices are lost during the discussion, right? I mean we had that abbleist member who had 15 ideas that he wrote down and he's like they're worthless. Well, in some ways it's the part of the leader either during the session or after the session to try to encourage, you know, those able members to contribute. Um yeah, I mean it's some of the most crackpot ideas become the best ones. So you really want to make sure every voice is heard. Um and then encouraging the synthesis, encouraging people to kind of riff on other ideas. Um you know, trying to find ways for people to build on each other even offering synthesis towards a direction. So maybe you have a couple ideas you're like, "Oh, like you know, one and 10 are kind of similar, but like you know, are there any ways we can combine this?" And like, "Yeah, we could, you know, give him a helmet." Awesome. So on so forth. I don't know what what two things can combine to get a helmet, but can't get shot in the head. How about a helmet? All right. Um, so responsibilities for the secretary. most obviously record every and all ideas. It's like write it all down. You have to write it all down. This is so important. Um this one is often overlooked. Uh monitoring the schedule and the duration of the session. Um something I learned a long long long time ago is one of the worst things that can happen is meetings that run over or meetings that start late or meetings um you know that don't adhere to a schedule. no no better way to kind of uh you know lose your employees or lose your staff um than to to kind of bite into their time. Um and so you know making sure that it's constrained and that it meets the duration is really important. And so you know may seem simple but timing the thing. Um and then of course if applicable participating in the brainstorming you know like I said all voices um all voices should be heard and that you know oftentimes would mean that the secretary is a uh is a creative professional as well. Um And so make sure that you participate quickly. So we've got a few exercises now to get you acclimated to the idea of brainstorming. Um the first one is an actual individual brainstorm. So uh if you have paper, grab some paper. If anyone's lacking either writing equipment or paper, >> you could use a note card, too. It's really just something to write on other than the table. Not cards are totally fine. >> Um, I'll, as you guys are getting ready, I'll continue to talk. This is actually something that I didn't mention in the process, but what is actually very useful to the brainstorming process. I think doing warm-ups before your actual brainstorm is useful. Um, you know, people show up just for lunch, especially because one of those eating. Um, you know, people, you know, sometimes they're tired. People just might have other things on the brain. So, getting getting in the habit, getting warmed up to uh being creative, um, is important. I I tend to find it's a rare it's a rare kind of person who you just sort of give a blank piece of paper to and you're like, "Ah, make something. Go be creative." And they're like, they just like whip something out, right? You got you got to kind of get warmed up. Um, you know, visual artists sketch constantly and that that makes sense and I make film sketches. Um, I I just make dumb pieces of music that I'll maybe never use for anything, but maybe I will. Um, who knows? I make stupid sound effects in the shower. Um, I consider that warming up for work. Um, so, uh, you know, you have to kind of get warmed up. And so, this is just a really quick five minute, uh, five minute warm up. And the idea is, um, write anything that comes to your mind for this specific problem. And I'll show you a picture. brainstorm possible uses. It's not really brainstorm. It's more of just like a you individually come up with creative ideas uh creative uses uh for the following item and I'll give you five minutes starting now. All right. Hopefully was good for a warm up. Quick question and show and be honest. This is a safe mind. How many of you had an idea that you did not write down? How many of you self censored yourself with an idea? Yeah. You're like, "Oh, that's just dumb." See, it's really it's hard to get out of the habit of doing that. It's hard to get out of this kind of this habit of self- judgment. Um, and it's really important. Um, you know, that that dumb idea that you think was worthless might be a good one. Does anyone who raised their hand want to share what their censored idea was? just to exercise the demons, so to speak. >> No, nothing. >> All right. Who wants to share some ideas that they did write down? All right. Here we go. >> See, I have a lot. >> Yeah. Well, throw throw us a couple that are your favorite. >> See, lockpick, MacGyver, connecting circuits. >> There you go. >> Carrying cards, um, a knife, clothes hanger, chopsticks, a dowster, um, stir. See, connect batteries. Air of tires emote tool nose picker >> staple. A staple >> and a paper bra. I have a lot of things. >> Yeah. Good. No, that's awesome. >> All right. I got Let's see. Um fingernail cleaner, an eyelash straightener, basically a rail gun ammo, a balloon annihilator, and an official Tamagotchi TM resetter. >> Yeah. resets a lot of things. How about over the side? Yeah. >> Catch fish with it by turning into scratch messages with it. Use it as a key ring. Conduct electricity with it. Make it into jewelry. Um fix umbrellas and what have you with it, which I've done before. Money clip. Use it as a skewer for cooking. uh put it on top of a door and so when people open it falls on the ground you know somebody's been in your room >> oil accessory that's a good question >> uh I had a hair styling accessory projectile something you could mel down to for metal and porn out stuff. >> Uh that's something you could bend and put on chairs and people sit down and poke them. Um modern art. Um I thought of you could like try to get a bunch and fill a dorm room with it as a prank or something. Um toothpick hold stuff open for emergency surgery. >> Cool. I thought you could uh bend it into an interesting flat shape and then put it in ink and use it as a stamp. >> Very nice. Very cool. Um cool. Yeah. Go ahead. >> Uh game bits and tokens holder for dipping something into liquids. Um pie clips and keeping small boards together. >> Sure. >> Mini rock garden. Good >> heat generator. If you uh work hard in it by bending it and then bending it and then it gets hot. >> Very nice. >> As long as it doesn't break. >> I think of a souvenir as a totem for a lost robot. >> That's good. >> You say that again. >> Let's say like there's a robot made by human but it's lost in space. They have to remind it become like a secret thing. >> Yeah. My favorite use for a paperclip is cleaning the lint out of my uh iPhone ear jack, which drives me absolutely nuts. So, I'm running on reserve battery power and my slideshow has been suspended on in my office. There's a uh there's a air. So, um so yeah, how did we feel about that exercise? Got you loosened up a little bit. Got you thinking about some ideas. Got you feeling a little creative juices fine. We've got three more exercises that we're going to do. Um, so much brainstorming. This is the hardest work I've ever done to get my chicken. No. Um, yeah. So, we've got a few more exercise to get you guys kind of comfortable, get you guys, you know, relaxed with this kind of brainstorming process. The next one is going to be a group exercise. Um, I'm going to wait to describe it until I can get uh get my slideshow. Anybody else have any particularly choice paperclip ideas? Start one. >> A sign sine wave generator. >> Very good. wireframe doll. >> All right. >> Hold up. Stop looking at it like as a spear. >> Oh, yeah. Man versus Wild like catch fish with it or >> something to chew on. >> Launcher rubber band launcher >> letting air out tires. You heard of the guy who had an oversized red tape equip and ended up trading it for a house towards a house. >> Pretty cool. So, so hopefully that got you loosened up. I do want to just emphasize again for those of you who raised your hand and even those of you who did not raise your hand because you were censoring the truth because you're afraid try not to self censor. Um really it's important to brainstorming. I bet some >> Yeah, I know. Stop self-centering. I bet I bet those crappy ideas that you write down are actually really awesome. So um activity number two uh we're going to work as one large group. Um this is our con shell. Doesn't look like one, I know, but um you know the principle still applies. Um this is just to kind of get us in the habit in the shape of uh kind of speaking one at a time uh not interrupting each other. Um and in some senses building on each other's ideas too, right? There's something in the physical kind of passing of the ball after you've heard someone's idea that might encourage that sort of synthesis of ideas as you're going. Um I will be your fearless leader. Um all that means is I just kind of make sure you're not interrupting each other. Um uh and we're going to brainstorm solutions to uh a a design problem. Uh this one I think is actually a lot of fun. Um so I will show you the design problem. I will maybe throw out an idea and then I will toss the con shell to first person who wants it and then it doesn't have to come back to me. Just anyone who wants it throw up your hand and we'll kind of keep moving around. Please close the lids on your drinks. put put away put away your crystal stuff that you don't want to shatter. Um, so we will take approximately 15 minutes on this. We'll see how our momentum goes. Um, so you just finished updating Tetris for Xbox Live Arcade. Awesome. I don't know how you got the rights, but that's great. Um, Microsoft is demanding a set of achievements uh for integrating the game into their online service because unless you have achievements, it's not a real game. Um, so we are going to brainstorm possible player achievements uh for your new version of Tetris. You know what achievements are, right? Those little things that pop up on your Xbox every time you do anything. Um, so that is our idea for Tetris achievements. And I'll start. Uh, how about for actually getting four lines? You get a Tetris achievement must be next. >> Uh, you get an achievement for losing as quickly as possible, which I think would just be like Very good. >> Getting three lines with S piece. >> Uh drawing some sort of unique little picture with the Tetris blocks like uh you know something perhaps >> putting one of each block down. >> Uh lasting for a certain amount of time without them ever getting above a certain height. a certain amount of time without ever rotating a piece. >> Modern Tetris games have a system where you can rotate indefinitely when your piece is down. So, you rotate indefinitely for a minute or two or three minutes. >> Lasting a certain amount of time without ever clearing a line with a straight piece. Putting your piece down underneath another piece >> into a little hole. >> The teeth. >> There you go. Spelling USSR with your pieces. >> How's the bathroom? >> Um, making like a congeration of all the pieces into like the shape of a regular >> Very cool. Uh, basically only moving the pieces in B to the music that's playing >> spelling your say with your pieces. I don't know if it's possible, but doing it. >> Uh, high score and high score without clearing lines. >> Uh, managing to clear the entire board in a game that has already reached the top line but not quite. putting a piece down without actually uh looking at the piece at all. >> Most pieces per time. >> Sure. >> One day of continuous tetris marathon >> breaking the previous high. Only ever shifting pieces either right or the left the entire game. >> Ah, >> doing the marathon challenge but only listening to one piece of music the entire time. >> The same >> clearing a level by dropping pieces before they fall five spaces. >> All right. >> Rotating every single piece that you play. >> Oh, very good. uh never going above a certain line for a certain amount of time. >> All of the above but on different equity levels >> uh clearing three lines with a T. >> Starting up the game, >> clearing a kind of screen >> using the L block. Doesn't matter how. different color. So, you know, lines always >> rotating a piece 720° >> only matching pieces such that the new blocks that fall down are touching blocks of the same color. >> Clear two four block segments with two consecutive uh lines. Uh, clearing a level using only tetrises. >> Sorry, you can't talk anymore. >> Challenging somebody on your friends list to beat the score. >> Um, fighting against someone on friends list to lose faster. >> Having no holes in the block for Yeah. Uh, inviting a friend on one of your Xbox Live friends to play with you. >> Five consecutive line clears. >> Beating one of your friends on Xbox Live when you play with them. >> Losing to a friend on Xbox Live. >> Playing with a friend for one hour continuously one day. Beating a score set by the original creator of Tetris. >> Clearing a line somewhere above the first line. The first line only has one block filled in. >> I think it definitely is. >> Someone's going to have ideas. There's an idea. lose all the telem >> losing 100 times. >> Yeah. >> Playing on increasingly ridiculous difficulties with achievements for each four speeds. using the speed >> completing a Tetris challenge, which is presumably some kind of thing where you have to drop blocks in the right sequence in order to clear all the lines. Yeah. >> Clearing a thousand lines. >> Uh playing invisible mode. >> Uh playing for a certain amount of time while holding down the down key continuously. >> I don't know if you only rotating in one direction always. I don't know if someone said that or not. >> Getting 10 achievements in Tetris. >> Getting every achievement in >> the Tetris. >> Oh no. How can you get it? >> It's a paradox. It's impossible. >> Always having blocks on the far left and on the far right column. Cool. I think that that had some that had some decent momentum, but you know, I think like our mission was accomplished, right? Like we were really only giving one idea at a time because it was only the person who had the ball was talking. Um that, you know, probably with a little bit more speed and momentum, but it was nice. Like we did had a little building on ideas. You know, we're starting to get this kind of brainstorm. There was still some shyness, which is, you know, people have different personalities, but stop being shy. You're allowed to have your different personalities, but stop it. No. Um, so that's activity number two. Um, any questions about that process? How do you feel about it? Any thoughts on it before we go on to the next activity? >> All right, next activity. Actually, this might be this is our last activity. Sorry, I said, but there's only three. >> Um, okay. So, this one is a more formal uh a more formal uh brainstorm. And actually, I screwed up that last one. We didn't have a secretary. So all of those great Tetris ideas are now lost. I can't remember any. >> Oh yes. >> Do we not have that 1950s or something? >> Let me just get these waxers. So uh what we're going to do is we're going to separate the two design teams. Um so it'll just totally be by by location. We'll just kind of get half of you over here and half of you over there. Um, I want the team to designate one leader. That's gonna be the person who's responsible. Clerk for facilitating it. Oh, did I say clerk there? A leader and a secretary. It's supposed to be a clerk, leader, and a secretary. Um, so one person to write everything down, one person to obviously facilitate and and we're going to do a we're going to do a kind of a 20 or so minute uh brainstorm uh for a game pitch. Um, what do I mean by game pitch? It's kind of think of the uh think of the you're in an elevator with Miiamoto or you're in an elevator with you know Philip Han and uh you have this game idea that you need to pitch but you're only going to the 10th floor or so and so really you've got like 30 seconds a minute 2 minutes maybe um to kind of get the core information about this game app. Um so that can be something like a title maybe a tagline for it um any main features uh you might have for it. Um, of course it would be way too easy or way actually crazy for me to be like any game at all because there's lots of different types of games obviously. So it's going to be a game based on the following constraint. So what I'd like to do first before I give you the constraint is let's divide ourselves in half. We can kind of draw this like imaginary line diagonally dividing the two of you back there and and we'll just get we just get one half here. And once I give you the constraint, we'll actually find a separate room for for the other team for one of the teams. >> You're stuck on the little wire. >> That's an achievement right there. >> I always think that when I'm watching my like think like something happens, >> especially when someone you watch this movie. If someone has a piece of paper, they can down there, right? >> Yeah, just write out a piece of paper. So, um, so these are your teams. You guys will go into that room. You guys stay out here. Um, as soon as I give you the constraint, designate a designate a clerk/ leader, um, leader and a secretary, someone to write everything down because our groups are relatively small, right? We can have the leader and the uh the secretary involved in the brainstorming process. Please don't be afraid of contributing. But if you are designated as this leader, keep in mind your primary responsibility is facilitating the brainstorm. You want to make sure it runs smoothly. You want to make sure people are not criticizing ideas. You want to make sure that it's going okay. Any questions on this before I give you your constraints? Everything make sense? All good. Okay. Here are the constraints for the game. Uh it must have zombies. It must have a love. It must be massively multiplayer. Um so that those are the constraints for your game. that's what the publisher is going to give you money for. Um uh so you need to develop a pitch a pitch for this game idea. Um a title tagline what what have you. All right. So you guys we'll we'll take you in this room over here. You guys stay here. Designate a leader and a secretary and then start brainstorming. Secretary >> Oh, I love this. It's like I don't want to be the leader. I don't want to be the secretary. >> I said I'll do it. Oh secretary. Wait, he wanted to be the >> Oh, you're secretary. >> One of your secretary wants to use leader. So you get a leader then. >> Because you're interested in those game and you lost. >> Brings up the age question. >> If they're both vampires or they're both zombies, does it count as necessities manages to have >> encompass all of those except the massively multiplayer parties licensed title right there. Make it Nazi zombies. Two Nazi zombie. No, a forbidden love. A Nazi zombies in love with like an allied zombie >> and Jewish. >> Yes. >> And then it's So there's two factions. It could be Well, they're all people like online. One group there's like two factions. There's the ally group and the axis group. >> What if What if they're all Nazis? >> What What What if there's two factions? There's the zombies and the humans and they're drawn into war because there's a love there's a love story between a a zombie and a human and the leaders get pissed over this and so we're in war because of of like Rome and Julietesque zombie humans. >> What you're saying is we're having intelligent zombies. >> Yeah, intelligent zombies. >> Well, clearly they're semi-intm Hitler into this though just because it's Nazis. There must be a zombie Hitler. Who said this? >> Wait, what is your name? >> Bobby. >> What is your name? >> What is your name? Jason. >> Brian. On Jason's idea of is it necrophilia? I I think because there's a love story, the title could be necroilia question mark. >> Is it? >> Is it nec? >> Is it necroilia? >> Probably. Probably. >> Is it I like it as a love story, but is it a sex story? >> So, wait. How about this? >> Or maybe even zombie strippers that fall in love with. >> Have you seen Zombie Strippers? >> No. >> It's a terrible, wonderful, terrible movie. >> I'll watch it. >> You should not. Should >> um So the actually how about we have the zombies as the good guys? That way like the allies are trying to like make a weapon that will destroy like half the world and the zombies are like, "No, that will be bad. Let's make everyone else obvious so they agree with us." Well, >> what if what if >> what if you're just a zombie and everyone is trying to kill you, so you want to make everyone zombies so the world will be peaceful and happy. >> You want everyone to love you. >> Yeah, >> I like that a lot. >> And that's then even better. Love zombies. Like, who says they have to be undead? They can be infected by emotion. >> That's a tagline right there. >> Nudest zombies. What if what if like 95% of the world is zombie and so then the weird creatures that are like scary are the humans and they're like sentient they do weird things but the zombies all are happy and love each other. >> Maybe the humans have the love disease. >> They're trying to zombies like they're infecting zombies with love. >> So then each person would be I either start as a zombie or a human. They have to complete a bunch of little tasks before they can come, you know, and they like play challenges against each other. So be like zombie against zombie and one of them is infected, one of them isn't. >> So humans can infect zombies with blood that makes them not zombies. >> What if no zombies? What what if what if there's a dynamic what what if there's a dynamic between so there's there's two factions zombies and humans and every player is given a match and in this massive multiplayer world that one of their main objectives is to find their match who's in the opposing faction buried deep among hostile hordes of either humans or zombies find them and like live happily ever after together >> and become either zombies or humans together. >> Correct. >> But love zombies >> find a cure or just get bitten >> and become love zombies. >> Love zombies. Ask the question. Is there truly a difference between being in love and being undead? >> That's a great tagline. >> Maybe some task. >> What's even more blind? Having your eyes guided out by a zombie or being in love? >> So, so then we can draw it into not the actual Nazi zombie game. >> Maybe the Nazi zombies from the other point of view. So, they're just trying to have love and and the humans are trying to kill them. Um, >> wait. Are we having Nazis? >> We can. >> Some of the ideas can include Nazis and some of them can't and we can decide. >> Should we be getting to the point of judgment towards the end of the thing so we can finalize a pitch in a thing or whatever? Just just come up >> with just brainstorming. That's awesome. >> Yeah, it's just fun. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> How about um the player is a human fighting against the zombies and you have some kind of companion may or may not be a cube but that accompanies you on your journey to defeat the zombies. >> So companion cube I like better. >> Do plants love each other? >> That way that is a heart like that's like a love story between you and your cube. >> But can the can the cube become a zombie? >> Yes. >> I mean it could be a person like Left for Dead. like four people against all the zombies that they're always >> or witches. Maybe you're trying to get >> the love story is you and the witch consuming the thing and like >> what if so all players play zombies and most missions are stuff like you have to infect a city and just run around like binding people into the entire city that you've like conquered or turned into zombified. Your ultimate goal is that your girlfriend from back when you were human or your boyfriend from back when you were human is at some place and you want to infect all cities until you can get there and then infect her so that you guys can live happily ever after. >> A you could also >> also building on the idea of being zombies trying to infect cities. >> Oh god, >> you are zombies uh with Cupid's love arrows >> trying to infect the entire city with love at which point no no productivity is all gone in the city. zombie with love arrows infecting people. >> It could be set in the 1950s where everyone's like trying to be productive and not love each other. >> No, what if what if you build along the lines of, you know, having to infect the city, but you have to do that. One zombie can't infect an entire city, right? So, you have to like ally with other zombies, but they're like different factions of zombies. Kind of like two zombie mob families, right, that are trying to infect. They have two different, you know, varieties of this lovely in >> Oh, wait. Could there be like a drug trade? So like the like they have to infect people with like a certain drug. So it's like a drug war as well. And this the three swords good swords are cool. >> Zombie. >> What if >> what if when you have a zombie virus instead of wanting to eat people you are overcome with an urge to passionately make out with them. And if you make out with somebody then they turn into a love zombie too. And so there's no like decomposition going on so much as there is like hordes of people running through streets trying to passionately make out with each other. So wait >> being decaying and like decrepit. W zombies suddenly become very attractive. So you >> wait and they start like they start like taking care of their appearance and stuff. >> So when is limit is there I'm well after the zombies make out. >> What what's next? >> Well they get for Okay. So what if we just like make a like World of Warcraft type of MMO but every player player humans you have a zombie companion >> pet zombie? >> Yeah zombie peties >> no but they had >> the dead Pokemon. No, they had a pet as a pet. >> I think it's called >> Ph. It's like I think >> it's a movie called Phto. >> I've not seen it, but >> I've seen the trailer. >> So, what if you have to fight like with Pokemon zombies different powerups? >> Different kinds of zombies like uh like Left 4 Dead. There's, you know, the big fat ones that like vomit and you know, >> spitters. I hate spitters. But smokers. Smokers are the worst. >> Well, instead of pyro, you have blood potions. Man, he said smokers are the worst. That sounds like a dating s. I do I like the Pokemon idea. So, you can have um instead of like you're humans, but you just have to capture all the poke like different types of zombies and then you fight other people with their zombies and it's like match for zombie versus zombie. What if the love story is not for the player, but is in is in the story of the game in that the reason that you're waging war at the moment is because you're trying to steal a cure to zombieism because your fearless leader 20 ranks up, you're president of whatever's girlfriend has been zombified or his wife has been zombified. And so the whole game, you're all the means in a quest to to try to find this cure, but you don't realize you're trying to find a cure for it's not for like your use or your girlfriend's use or whatever of people you love. It's for your leaders. >> And what if she is actually the leader of the zombies and >> Oh crap. >> What if the zombies are aliens? >> Zombie aliens. >> The blood. What if the zombies are ninjas? >> Yes. >> You can learn a lot. >> Combine the Pokemon of zombie ID with like the Sims where you like have a zombie that's under your control and you're trying to like teach your zombie to love and like maybe you're a different avatar. like a human avatar and you go through quests where you like take your zombie places and teach your zombie things >> and not to bite people and >> yeah exactly like I don't I don't know train your zombie >> maybe have so with the whole thing with the ninja pir ninja zombies might not have pirate pirates as well pirate zombies maybe >> pirate versus ninja >> zombies >> zombie edition special edition >> in space wrapped in bacon >> yes >> time traveling zombies I would be a great game to make just like pirate zombies versus ninja zombies in space wrapped in bacon and just make that game great. >> So is it necia probably >> pirate edition the ninja. >> So maybe you should divide into little sub brainstorms for like a name tagline all that. Do we as a name do we have anyone more brainstorming? I think we should figure out like a mechanic that works. So far, we have a lot of ideas about like what the game world is. We have no idea like how you play the game. So, maybe more brainstorming on that then. >> Yeah. >> It's massive multiplayer. ones working such as typical WoW style RPG, typical passive player FPS, Pokemon style RPG, >> Pokemon seem like Pokemon FPS >> or as we were saying before like The Sims Online. >> The Sims Online was so good. >> Did you play as a Pokemon? >> Yeah, maybe play as a Pokemon, but it's a first person shooter. >> But more like, >> but you still have like an RPG first person shooter as Pokemon. Wait a >> zombie. >> Wait, you have to you have to fight you have battles with uh words like uh Monkey Island. >> I like that text based zombie love. >> Text based zombie love. >> And then his really really long tongue down your throat. >> Zombie make out. >> Son of a title. So, if it's massively multiplayer, what if you, you know, you randomly get paired with five other players who are playing this game and you all have some kind of task you have to complete and you're given these particular zombie Pokemon that you can use to complete this particular task. >> So, you working those with those five. >> Wait, we have zombie pokeballs. >> What? >> We have a title. >> So, uh, Necroilia with F E L. >> The first zombie sex game. Oh no. >> What if wait if it's going to be popular in Japan? You have to have tentful somewhere. >> What if you are a zombie and all the players are zombies and the NPCs are the humans and you like try to go on quests to make yourself more attractive and like learn human customs and you get points for like seducing humans. >> Yes. >> You have to make sure your your brain speed meter doesn't get too low though. >> So you have to eat them in seduce them in. And then if you like eat them with certain you >> eat the ones you don't want. >> You Yeah, >> that actually sounds like a fun vampire game. I'm going to put that out there. You're a vampire. You have to seduce a human female to bring back to drink. >> It's like prototype or or you have to seduce a human because you want to seduce a human, but at the same time you have to eat humans. So you have to hide the fact you're eating humans for the human decision. >> Oh, I see. So you have a human girlfriend and then like you eat other humans. >> Like while she's not looking like it's true. >> Have you been eating other girlfriends without me? Where's my stepdad? Uh, >> about that. >> Oh, that's who that guy was. I thought he was the delivery guy. >> Let's see. Zombies meets American Psycho. >> You've never seen American Psycho? Oh, >> Psycho. >> He goes around killing random people, but he has a girlfriend. I bet he's crazy. That's psycho, >> but better. So necroilia >> get infected with emotion. >> Necroilia infected with love. Brains >> love after. >> It's a perfect movie. It's a perfect game. >> All right, guys. I'm going to have you uh have you stop. We're going to read the other. >> Love After Life. >> I like it. I like it. >> That's really good. I think that was >> that was good. >> All right, guys. So, our publisher is going to give us so much. >> It may it may seem kind of kind of odd to have you guys do this brainstorming, then what I actually want to talk about is rather than the ideas that you came up with because I'm sure they're all really good. >> I know. So, sad. But what what really matters is the process, right? Because um the point of brainstorming is to withhold judgment. judging judging which of your ideas is best um shouldn't have even been happening at this stage. And so, you know, one one kind of question, you know, we'll come back to what went well, but um what what sort of uh stumbling blocks did you guys run into in this process as you were doing it? Did it did it all go perfectly or I highly doubt, but what sort of things >> I was going to say like we were trying to design this whole game. So, sometimes we say features and they would push games. Yeah. >> So it might have been like things you want. >> Yeah. Yeah. In some senses it may have been constrained in one area, right? Yeah. Sure. Zombies and a love story but but then it was like asking for a whole lot and so it could have been can we just brainstorm the title or can we just brainstorm this? Can we just brainstorm that? What about >> we very briefly got sidetracked on Pokemon? I think I think zombies for a second we got like it was like Pokemon only Pokemon first person shooter but that was like 25 seconds. >> Any other thoughts? I mean the whole recruit be like your help you had personally but if you had any challenges with like you know >> so I feel like if somebody says a really good idea and everyone's kind of stuck on that idea and you have to kind of get through that whole idea before any other ideas can come out. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's true. like what other kind of noise are there? >> Yeah. So like a few other ones. >> Sure. >> Kind of hard to like jump in my own ideas. >> Yeah, it's really hard to brainstorm. I mean you guys actually I mean both groups but I I stopped it with you guys and you guys had this interesting kind of momentum going and I was watching you trying to write it all down. It was it was way hard like because like ideas were coming in like as you were finishing the last idea. So it is you know if a group has really good momentum it's I I actually I really like the idea of having two people where each person's writing every other one. Of course the difficulty is then you kind of pull two people out of contributing right. So it's you know the organization of the actual group is is kind of important that works. >> Do you ever recommend using like a tape recorder like you're doing for this class? >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I mean that it's it certainly makes sense. One of the things that you know, one of the things that Osborne says, which I think is >> can't put a shape or cord down. Remember that. >> Yeah. Yeah. But he also says like it's the one of the most important things for the secretary scribe is to is to number things so that you know how many you have. I'm sort of like is that is that just to support your work? Like be like, look, you know, we came up with 110 ideas. That's amazing. You know, it's like how many doesn't seem to matter as much as the quality of the ideas. So, um I thought it was weird that you said that. But um yeah, I mean tape recording, video recording, any way of documenting the process I think is the most important problem. Um and and actually you know he does make a good point of saying you know one of the problems with brainstorming as it kind of evolved from when he first introduced it at this one place and when people started kind of running with it without thinking about the principles is they would brainstorm and then that was sort of it and it was like you really have to kind of look back at what you've come up with. Um it's really important to kind of reflect on what you've done as a second step. Um, you know, and so, uh, that's kind of important, too. How about the judgment thing? Was there I mean, people I I didn't notice a whole lot of like criticism, but like I don't think anybody was really good. I was like, oh, that's a terrible idea. But did you find it hard to not pass judgment on ideas as they were coming out, even your own? >> Yeah. I mean, I definitely let more than one like, I like that slip, you know, like, oh, that's >> generally that's okay. I mean like you know it's it's you know what you want to avoid is like the oh my god we've got to do this one you know like that's that will that will derail everything because then it's like you know just a loud the loud voice that proclaims that we're done because we got the idea will derail things but you know nothing encourages a person who's shy more than feeling like their idea actually was good or meritorious and so yeah you know that sort of stuff is fine u you know you want to avoid the stop the process >> I I think I did say at some point like We've got our title which is probably not. >> Yeah. I mean it's it's really it's just a hard thing to kind of train yourself from doing. >> Come on. Is it necroilia title? >> How many self-censorers still out there where a lot of people thought of ideas but then just didn't contribute? It's good if you didn't. It's great. I mean it's great if you if everybody felt like a cool that's that's really good. That's really good. So um so I would say that's one thing what that went well. What other things went well you guys? >> The tagline Yeah, specifically just coming up with tagline. >> Well, just in love life. Is it love after life? >> Love after life. >> That's cool. I mean, did you guys feel like you had momentum? It seemed to me watching that there was momentum building that it was >> I think you did a really good job of taking a lot of different ideas that we had and started synthesizing them into different things. Oh, that idea would work well if we did this. Oh, and then we could use like that name and that would fit there. >> Yeah. >> Who are the two leaders for the two groups? the clips. >> Did you did you guys feel like you had to do much facilitating >> really? So, the hard part is really just at the beginning where it's like how do we want to just approach this thing? And so, I guess we decided to start with the title or like it was either the titles or the main features and we were just like, all right, let's bunch of random titles, see >> forgot I was the lead. >> I didn't lead anything. you know, if if you don't have a whole lot of facilitating to do, it generally means that the group is running. Okay. Um, you know, I do think I do think you have a good point. A lot of the facilitators work comes at the beginning of the process or even before the process even began, making sure the constraints are clear and that you guys know what you're going to be working on. Um, okay. So, bringing this back, this is a game design class, right? I mean, I sort of touched on it early, but you know, how how do you guys see this um being a useful kind of mechanic or useful tool in you know what it's funny? I call it mechanic. Maybe you catch that paragraph in Alex where the guy was saying when my team feels like they're playing, it's a way more productive brainstorm than when not. And I thought that was really interesting, right? Because like there are elements of of giness to this. Um which I think is kind of interesting. Um, so you know, how do you guys think this could improve, you know, the general game design of the process? >> I feel like after you you have a game and you're testing it and there's like a major flaw that you know it's taking too long or or something like that and everyone sits down and brainstorm like okay this is exactly what our problem is fix it. >> Yeah. Yeah. Kind of overcoming roadblocks. Yeah. Sure. never to have come up with half the cool ideas that we came up with in the process and just me thinking alone never to come up with like Pokemon zombies. >> Well, this is good just in general make to think up a game because maybe it's like oh every single game has been decide people made games of all types. How am I going to make an unique game? It's brainstorm like hm those two things I've I've never seen that before. That could be interesting. Yeah, and that's a really good point actually. The synthesis thing is is actually I think something that's really important, right? Because um we do we tend to see a lot of recycle mechanics and what what becomes an interesting thing in a game often times is not that it's a completely new uh rule, right? It's the way that rule interacts with the other rules in the system. Um and and you know in some instances also how that rule is read and interpreted by the player or perhaps intended to be read and interpreted by the player. So um yeah, I think the synthesis is actually an interesting part of it where people can bring a lot of different ideas from a lot of different experiences with games um to kind of fuse these ideas together. Um just uh when it comes to coming up with ideas for games, nice thing about brainstorming is that it gets past the good idea that everyone happens to like. uh which is uh a problem that we sometimes have in the SP is people the people will find one idea they will never think past it that's because they were happy to find one that everybody >> yeah and so you guys are dividing into design teams and one of the things that I would encourage I don't know how it's set up schedule-wise but try to try to divide the brainstorming process from the judgment you know like I kind of said it's it's true like even even if you do the brainstorm it can help you get over. But a lot of times whatever had momentum during that brainstorm or whatever got the most yuck during that brainstorm, right, is going to be like the popular strong idea. And then when you come back to it with a little space, you might be like, "Oh, you know, like, yeah, that is a really good idea, but there was this other thing that got mentioned like a half an hour earlier that's really interesting. Maybe we could incorporate that somehow." And so kind of, you know, making the judgment happen in a in a separate phase can be really important. Um because it's true, creativity is like this, it's a little bit more organic. It's not necessarily a a strictly logical process, right? Um so applying logic later can be a good thing I think to the creative process. Cool. Any questions about brainstorming at all? You are incredibly enlightened by Alex Osbor on the forum actually people reading about using things like Google or Google Docs where things are automatically recorded because everyone's basically typing in their years. >> Yeah. I mean, I think it's interesting. I I don't have a whole lot of experience with Well, I should reframe. Um I I Well, I don't have a lot of experience with remote brainstorming, but I did have a um I did, you know, so one of the games I worked on this summer was this game called Yet One Word where um you were asked a lot of personal questions. And so, we had to think of personal questions. And at one, so we were like, well, if you have ideas, write it down in Google Doc. And at one point myself and two of the other designers were all in the Google doc at the same time. And you could actually see it that sort of brainstorming momentum happen. Someone would type something in and then like someone would type next like a that's so funny and then like write an idea that's related to that, right? And and you're kind of seeing it happen in this digital space. So I think it can we've gotten so accustomed to having these kind of um digital personalities, right? these digital personas in IMing and text messaging and all that other stuff that I I think we've gotten pretty adept at typing fast enough to get ideas out. But I think it could totally work. Um there's something to be said for like the momentum that gets generated in person. Um but yeah, I mean >> yeah I mean I was it's so funny. I was going to say like no that's a terrible idea you have to be around each other. I was like actually it worked. Um, I mean I think it all depends a little bit on personalities and people that are involved. Certainly for a prolonged brainstorm you one of the things Alex Osbourne says is like time box it if if you you know if you don't time box it's going to be a problem. I think for in person that's true. Um you know it's so easy to get onto a Google document now whenever you have an idea that actually having kind of a long phone brainstorm where anytime someone has an idea over a week or something like that write it down. um you know that's also useful too because then you know you separated the processes collecting and then but you still should do that sort of building on ideas. >> It's probably easier to do those synthesis when you're at least simultaneously on the line online or in the same room. >> Yep. Yeah. Yeah. And to see the ideas come out as they come out. >> Yeah. It's it's kind of it's a little uncommon to just read something and be like, "Oh, yeah. What about this when it first shows up?" When it first kind of comes into existence as you're trying to think of things that can spur ideas, you know, the other danger about doing it like, "Okay, this document is open for the next 24 hours. Everyone throw your ideas in." Is that then people start spending too long on any one idea thinking about what they're going to write down before they write it down and it's like, "No, that's not the point." >> Yeah. Yeah. Think of the paperclip experience and those of you that raised your hand for saying that you were self-censoring on your own. Like you didn't even have to I wasn't going to make you all hand in those paperclip ideas and you were self-censoring, right? So yeah, the same same sort of thing applies. Like you might you might censor yourself or spend a lot of time on ideas. So yeah, any other thoughts, questions? Cool. Well, I hope this was helpful. I hope it'll be helpful for your game design stuff. Um, email me if you do have any questions about this stuff. I mean, I can try to try to help out, but you know, other than that, good luck on your your game design for this class and for the rest of the cool. I do like that on the the keynote things. It says end of show. >> Uh let's see now. Uh we're going to play some card games, but before that, just a little bit of admin. Um on Monday you'll notice that uh we had two readings, one of which you've already done. So it doesn't matter. Um this is the other reading. It's a little bit dry. Tough it out. Caffeinate yourself reading it. Tough it out. It is worth it. It's translation. So uh let's see now. Um there there's at least one person um who hasn't form that we need to fill out. So just just come up here if at least four more time. >> Yeah, I'm not sure if we have enough to get through all of them, but most of them are pretty short. Uh uh a lot of them the delay is going to be set up which is why they couldn't first because uh uh that takes a lot of set up. That being said, um if you do get a chance to look at a rule and study the cards, um what like even though they've done a bunch of really really smart things on the cards just to make it easier for you to set up uh and you want to kind of paying attention to that, but the the the aim of the today is pretty much just variety. We have four fairly different kinds of games that use cards in a very different way. Uh and if you don't get a chance necessarily to play all of them, at least get a chance to look at other people playing with them and if you wanted to like check them out in the middle of the week or something just kick around the office but you know your time to come back here next week or something but uh that's basically it if we can just keep um uh if we can clear the tables we need them for the cards uh