The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> Start with a little bit of recap from uh actually two Fridays ago. Uh but just a reminder of things to keep in mind while you guys are testing. You know on on one hand most of you are as are pretty much the most expert players in your game at this point in time as you know compared to anybody else in the world. You know the game better than anybody else and the kinds of things that um I that that means you suck as a tester but that does you still have a a role to play as testers. Um you can be looking for the degenerate strategies. You can look and you can be looking for exploits. Sometimes it takes more imagination than a sleep depth MIT student is available has available to them to be able to see these exploits. But because you know the systems better than anyone else you're in a good position uh to to spot that I mean the kinds of things that you're looking for are obviously you know strategies where there like like a dominant strategy and I mentioned that uh uh the the last time we we were in this room. Um but also look for those um those strategies where like okay I have to those those decision points where I could do decision A or I could do the decision B. But if I if I change my strategy and nobody else has changes their strategy, I'm just screwed, you know, and and and that makes it really really hesitant for someone to to to say, "Well, strategy B could be really interesting. you know I could go for this kind of play but on the assumption that the only way how this is going to be beneficial is if everybody else also changes their strategy now you have a situation where uh where nobody wants to try that second option you know that's that's one way to think about parts you know it's like if you change your decision and and the only way that you can change your decision is at a cost to yourself you know and the and the benefits of changing that decision is going to be like higher higher than it's going to be lower than the risks that you're taking on then you know you've got a situation where it's very difficult to break out of one dominant strategy. So I mean if you got a situation where there are like three dominant strategies then none of them are dominant anymore. You know it's like you know that that that's great. You now have an option uh of different things that you can choose. Um so that's just one thing to keep in mind while you guys are looking at your game. You know, if you just end up if everyone just ends up adopting the same strategy and you're just hoping the chance of your, you know, the chance of drawing the right cards going to win your game, then you start to think, then you've got a game where the individual players decisions aren't quite that influential on the outcome. And uh um I still need to play your games to be able to see what you guys are going for, but on the most part, it looks like you guys are not going for a purely chance based game. you're looking for something where someone's decision actually matters. Um so so that's so that's that's one one reminder um from a game theory point of view and um the other one I never really got time to talk about games as a system of conflict and we don't have a huge amount of time because uh we have today's readings to go through um but um the I if you think about games as you know a games where multiple people are striving for some sort of goal and they're going to be winners and they're going to be losers and the idea of thinking of games as some kind of conflict makes sense. Um uh and you can think of them as you know are games competitive or games cooperative uh folks throw out some games that are known to be co-op cooperative >> perfect cooperative >> there are certain modes in certain different games that you know sort of flip it from from from compet from competent to cooperative >> for dead >> for dead is is designed for four people to play all going for the same goal >> of war of multiplayer. Yeah, >> diplomacy is interesting. Yeah, because like >> it's kind of a risk of cooperation. >> Pandemic uh pandemic is you against the the the board actually you against the game rules. Um and actually that that that leads into today's uh lecture a bit. So hang on to that idea of of pandmic. But um but there is one argument that all games are competitive. Even games like Left 4 Dead where you're playing against a computer or Pandemic where you're playing against the game rules. Um or >> Shadows or Camelot. >> Shadows of Camelot. I'm not playing >> those trader. Yeah, >> you're you're mostly playing against the game rules unless there's a trader. There's not always one in the game. >> But but you know that but but the the the basic idea is that even in a purely even a game that's generally assumed to be co-op, you're still playing against the world. So it's competitive against the world and just just not you're not comp competing against the other human people that that are playing it. If if you're competing against anyone is probably the deciding you know who set it up to to give you some challenge. So that's one way to think of all games are competitive. Obviously the games that are that people generally think of as competitive you know zero sum games like you know chess for instance there one winner there's one loser and there's a draw out and nobody wins uh or uh those those games people generally think of as competitive but then that's the other way to think about cooperation is that all games are also cooperative because if you don't agree on the rules if you know if you all decide not to play on the same rules then then you've got uh that you don't actually have game anymore. So, you all have to cooperate and say we have the same set we all we have the same set of rules and we're going to play according to to to them. That's not necessarily the same thing as saying that everyone knows all the rules. Um, you know, there are plenty of games, especially computer games where, you know, you're going into the game not knowing all the rules and you're going to try to figure out the rules of being what the system lets you. Um, role playing games where you're just sort of like, you know, I want to do this. I want to, you know, get drunk now. And how do I do that? And then the GM tells you the rules, you know, role against your your >> constitution. >> Constitution. Is it the constitution? >> Yeah, probably. But >> always good possibly. Um then uh uh and then and then and then you you get told the rules and then you you go and do it. Um live action role playing. I know there's a bunch of people here who who play that. You usually get a subset of all the rules that were written for the game. like you get the subset that pertains to you and you assume that everybody else has the subset that pertains pertains to them and that they're playing according to it. It's a strong order system and that and even in a game especially the kinds that have played in in in MIT which are fiercely competitive you know it's like you're literally there assassin games you literally want to lead someone into a dark alley and shoot them. uh because even then you have to assume that whatever rules that person you're leading down a dark alley in order to shoot them um whatever rules they got they're playing by those rules. They're not going to say you know it's like if hey if you shoot them man say that didn't work. You have to assume that actually didn't work because they have rules that tell them when it works and when it didn't work. Um so so that's so it's still cooperated even though it's is competitive play and uh uh some terminology now um the systemic cooperation which is you know is what I'm describing is the you are agreeing that the system works and you are agreeing how the system works. These are the ways how I'm going to interact with the system. when you're playing uh Golden Eye or Perfect Dark um on a split screen or Halo on split screen and you agree not to look at somebody else's screen. Um then you know then that's a system then that's systematic rule. You might also decide no it's on the screen I can't avoid seeing it. Therefore we can all look at each other's screen. That also systemic rule >> even though the goals are the same. Let's shoot each other. Um and and then there's player cooperation which is a little bit more like uh the games like pandemic and death or dead. So yeah, explicitly trying to help each other attain a shared goal. Um and that I'm just trying to sort of like differentiate the the the two because it's useful sometimes to sort of try to to figure out um the differences. There's a game um that I don't think who I'm making you play called the war on terror uh that we have in the uh in the lab. And one of the things about this game is that this game actually doesn't end. Um if you look at the rules, it seems like there are conditions for the game to end, but they're really really hard to reach. Um and and if you're interested in seeing how the game ends, you know, I I'll be happy to to pass you the board and you can try and figure it out or or play it. But of course, that's the point that they're trying to make, right? It's war and turn. It never really ends. You just keep going. Uh it perpet perpetuates your the audience yourself. And it's designed to be a cooperative uh to be a competitive game. Everybody tries to take down all the other states, the other nation states by either sponsoring terrorist activity or trying to put to defend themselves from terrorist activity, which means everybody's responsible for terrorism in the end. in the game. Um, and but but in the end, what they're hoping is that at some point of time, the players are going to cooperate because this game is not going to end. That that was the whole point of of of the game and and the entire group coming to that conclusion in a shared way, you know, is kind of what the game designers were trying to go for. Um, it's a funny game. Anybody who play Crunch is the same is done by the same folks, but it's uh a little a little bit more on the we have an opinion and we want you to hear it than you know this is a game that you actually want to try to play. Um it's funny it has a butter color with the word evil on it and you wear it at a specific time. So um so so that so that's some opinions about uh cooperation. That's there systemic cooperation where you're agreeing on the rules or you're agreeing that the system works. Um and there's player cooperation which means players are actually agreeing to work towards some sort of shadow goal. And there are games where it flips between cooperation and player cooperation player competition. It's like uh web um castle crashes. Who's played Castle Crashers? >> The game's awesome. It's a great game. It's Xbox Live arcade game. You run around. It's a sidescrolling game where you're a little knight with, you know, a sword. >> Oh, it's a sword. >> Well, no, it's it's an axe. Give me a fish. >> Some sort of legending device. Um, >> yeah, fish. >> A fish is awesome. >> And and and in general, you know, if you're playing with three other people with controllers right next to you on the couch, you're pretty much going for the same goal. There are there are you four and there are a whole bunch of baddies on screen and you just prime and kill it all. >> But then as soon as you beat the last one, the the game switches from defeat all the baddies to save the princess. And wait, wait a minute. That's one. >> No, no, you've already saved the princess. It goes from >> to get the princess. >> Yeah. Yeah, it's get it becomes get the princess. There's one princess that has four knights and it becomes a competitive game. of it's like everything that you're using against the the baddies becomes something that you use on your teammates. Um and and there are games that flip-flop between that diplomacy is a really fluid game with their friends. It's like you have to assume everybody's competitive in that game, but the only way to attain your goals is to cooperate occasionally. Um and and so and so you all that's player cooperation. No one's disagreeing on rules. So that's there systemic cooperation all the way through but then there's clear competition and cooperation back and forth. Um so you know uh so that's cooperation. Um finally uh think think a little bit about level playing field or what it means in your game to have a level playing field. Cuz you know in many of your games especially car games you're going to start with some sort of deal. you're going to start with some sort of hand or maybe a drawing in some sort of systematic way from a shuffle deck. That pretty much means that you know uh you're starting out with something that's effectively random, but then um it could be also influenced by your knowledge of the game, like skill of the game. Um and uh and you want to see how h at what point h how how do you want to balance it between someone's skill familiarity with the game against pure chance right you know um a level playing field means a lot means a different thing to a lot of different people uh some people's mean uh for some people it may mean no matter what skill level I am I have a chance at winning so you're sort of biasing it towards chance for some people it means Um a level playing field is no matter what hand I I get given there is a valid strategy or the goals then get set in a way that allows me to attain it. A lot of trick- taking games especially games with with bidding actually have auto automatic correcting system in in there is like you only bid a game that you think that you can win. Um, and the whole idea is the game is to push your opponent to bid on something which they couldn't uh which they couldn't actually get. So, you know, that's that's a double playing field, right? You actually have a crappy hand, but that's not chance so much as as the as the decisions that you're making. So um so the what I will advocate in this class um if there's still time in the testing and there's of course there's two more coming back to this so so so so is when you're trying to balance it out towards whatever your interpretation of a level playing field is going to be um try to pick uh decisions that sort of push you in the direction of meaningful the decisions things that players can make a decision and they can see the consequences. They can understand how those consequences play out in the game um and the outcome and the outcome of the overall game is going to be going to be a result of that. Um that is again not necessarily the only definition. So I want to be very very clear what I'm asking of you here is not necessarily the only definition of a well-designed game. Um, you're designing a game to be p played from ages 3 to 90. You know, you probably want a game where making a meaningful decision isn't going to bias the game to the point that the really experienced people or really smart people are going to end up winning this game because that's just not for the three of us. Um now in this part in this part particular class um try to bias it so that in that competitive sense you want everyone to feel like they have a chance of winning but I want you to bias your game towards the and whe and and whether you win or lose is going to be based on the outcome of these decisions. clearly understanding the outcome of position that you made in the game, not necessarily just what you would what what you were dealt or what you were shar um you can still use those things in a game, right? You know, sometimes it's, you know, the whole idea of, oh my god, I hope this red card, I hope this red card, you know, it's like, oh, but then but then you think things like probability, right? You know, it's like how much information are you giving to the player about what the probability that that's the right card going to be? Are you letting them look at the deck ahead of time? You know, are you giving them information about how many of those cards are in the deck, you know, so that they can actually make guesses on all right, we've played through half this deck and we haven't seen any of those cards yet, that means my the probability of that card showing up is now gone up. And that's now we come to the decision that you get to make. Do I do I draw? Do I you know do I hold that that so uh so try so that's my suggestion for this class I would love it to be able to see a little bit to to to see those kinds of uh those kind of things come out come come out this class um okay so that's uh that's all the things that have remaining there so now we can erase that after this class all right so uh now on actually Before we move on, anyone have any questions regarding that? No. Um, one point of administration. Um, who here needs to print on Gambit printers, right? Or who here has access to other printers that you guys are fairly confident about using for your assignment? >> You need >> No, I mean, would you say that you need a printer or you have access? You said both. >> All right. So, who needs to use camera printers? Uh, who absolutely needs to use candle printers? Okay, because we don't we don't actually have like a computer set up for anybody to to log in and actually all our Europs just started working. So, I would suggest not using any of the computers in this lab because lab work on it. Um, okay. So, if you've all got access to printers, that's awesome. Um, I know you sent an email about card stock. Uh that that card stock's actually out of stock. >> That's ironic. >> Yeah. I went to order it and I was like, "Oh shit." >> I'm going to take off with a long time, but I'm sure there's other card stock. >> Um >> isn't there like a Staples or somewhere? >> Tech has Staples. Stock Town has Staples. >> Copy Tech has I went to Copy Tech and they said they can print and cut your cards for you. >> Nice. >> Yeah. Yeah. They they they they have a pretty awesome uh card printer. They the their cutter is harsh harsh harsh. Um, >> what does that what does that mean? >> Well, first of all, really pointy at the corners, which is kind of cool if that's what you were going for, but I don't think >> Can they Can they roundy it or do we have to use >> I don't >> They can't. >> They They can't. I have a rounder. Uh, I have a corner punch that, you know, you have to do it four times for each card. So, >> we can we'll do it. You can do it. >> Yeah. just ask me and you can borrow it. You may want to do it on some test cards before doing it on all your questions to get a sense of how it works. It works better on card stock than it does on paper. Uh and I wouldn't suggest punching more than one card at a time. The the other thing is um if you're printing it on a um not like copy check where they obviously know what kind of paper goes best with their printers. you know, if you're printing it on something like a laser jet, uh, if you go to the paper manufacturers's website, they actually, a lot of them actually specifically say laser jet compatible. Um, and the problem isn't actually the weight of the card. It's not like the folding of the paper as it goes through the printer. It's whether the toner will bond to the paper, like does the paper get hot enough, you know, without catching fire. Um, does the paper get hot enough for the toner to actually bond? Um, and a lot of card stocks actually don't because they're so thick that the heat doesn't transfer well. And as a result of that, other prints, it looks great when it comes out and it starts flaking. Uh, so that's that's that's the problem that you can cast off. Sure, some card stocks just jam your printer, but majority of modern laser jets actually deal pretty well with that. It gets worse with it with paper. >> Uh, did you want us to print on card stock for Wednesday or was that for when it's due? >> When it's due. >> Okay. So when >> and in fact printing card stock for when it's due is not necessary. It is it is much appreciated. It was a great thing for you to do for yourself if you want to make copies for your friends or your team uh that you actually want to end up playing. Uh to be perfectly honest, if you say, you know, we our printer wasn't working and all we could do were these like regular weight papers, but it's all been cut in the right shape so that I can make so that we can just play the game. That's fine. We can still, you know, we're not going to take the weight of your paper into the cover. >> Weigh the deck first. >> G per card. It's in size. >> All right. If anyone played what was it? Modern uh high society books or something. >> Yes, >> those are awesome. >> They were like they were like they were like kids books, you know. >> All right, cool. Um if anyone does have issues printing, uh before you jump straight into the gamma print printer, talk talk to Jason or I. Uh you know, Jason is usually in a room right next to TV lounge, my room, which is down the corridor. Uh and we can and we might be able to help you with with that. But in general, if you got access to other printers, go right for it because going to run us like again not for Wednesday. For Wednesday, just have something testable so that uh can uh folks can print but before the date is due try to print something. Uh you don't want to leave it till last minute and you don't want to like suddenly realize that your paper doesn't work very well with the printer on the last minute. Okay. Right. So uh today's reading was Bartle and uh chapter 11 I think of the uh of breathway as well and um in general they have both them are asking the same question which is who are you designing your game for um on the assumption that it's not you're not designing the game for yourself and of course realistically if you're going to get a job making games that's the majority of the games that you're going to design are not games like uh games for something in the game for some other demographic. Um and um the bar paper is a little bit more influential in sort of uh helping people think about uh games because it kind of shifted the question from what's the age group, what's the demographic, you know, what do people out there who are already buying games going to want? Uh and he kind of flipped that into what sort of things are people looking for in the game. um he doesn't actually take it to the next step which is where well I think he wrote that in the 70s or the 80s I did anyone remember >> I think it was like 90 I think was 1990s >> right he talks about actually >> no ever that's right um but uh he but a lot of the the ideas come from the 70s actually because that's when he made the first mod. Uh Richard B. >> What exactly is a mud? They never actually described. I just said assumed everyone knew what a mud was. >> Mud stands for multi-user engine. Anyone want to describe that? >> It's like like an online text adventure thing where everyone's kind of like interacting with the same text base dungeon thing. Let's describe is imagine that wow was presented inactic fiction. >> Yeah. >> Okay. >> So that's I found that kind of annoying in the text. He just assumed everyone knew what mud was but never actually said this is what mud is. >> Yeah. Yeah. Because because the the the folks who are reading their article actually I believe he formatted that for a forum post for a mud community. So that's assumption. Um but yeah um apologies for that. Um actually if you're interested he does define it right at the bottom which is like right at the end of the article. here she talks about specifically this is what I I mean by somewhere in the footnote says there's like you know these text text adventures uh text style online games with multiple people interacting and uh and if you look at the rest of the website there's actually a bunch of stuff about how work but for the most part that was that was sort of online multiplayer gaming uh back when he started um he was he's he's credited for having built the first the first one and frankly not all that different from MMOGs that you get today. Uh, you know, the difference being that they were all text, but you still went out hunting uh uh monsters. They call them mobiles or mobs. And in fact, actually, there's still some of the terminology they're playing around. Um, they drop loot. You know, you will pick up this loot and show it off. And sometimes some games that you sell off the loot, some that most games that you exchange loot uh and then you would use your loot to go and kill other monsters and get better loot. Uh sometimes you do it with other people. Sometimes you attack other people. Uh sometimes you just hang around and chat and talk about things that are completely not in game like what if I have a bunch of some awesome Um and uh sometimes sometimes it will take multiple people to take down a to take a monster you know and it was just handled that you know how fast can you type kind of thing. Um you know attack monster attack monster attack and I think you can just hit repeat um and uh but uh the behaviors are also not all that different. And um how he describes it is a whole a a game kind will will kind of sight sight itself in a position where it is like ve variably appealing to various kinds of players. Uh and that's how he describes it. Where game studies has kind of gone to on since then is the realization that just because you're uh actually some people throw out the four types that he that he >> explorers and killers. Yeah. So you know it's like there are these four types of players and just like just because you're achiever in one game doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to be achie nothing. different people play different games or possibly even different times of the day in the same game for different reasons. Uh and uh and that's where we go back to earlier concepts that we brought up in this class like the different kind kinds of fun. What are people trying to get out of their game, right? Um so but he was you know um if you're looking at the context of any one mud you know and a little slice of what you saw of somebody's personality when they were logged in and all the things that they were doing and it and the kinds of things that they tended to keep doing every time you logged in. It was fairly easy to sort of stereotype them into somewhere along those lines. Even he acknowledges that nobody's really all the way on on one of these lines. grief griefers I I think are the words that I hear generally use for killers nowadays, but even then that's not quite the way that he's using it. He's actually using it as somebody who's generally still playing by the rules of game, you know, u you know, they're not they're out there to cause misery to other people, but they're not there to break the game. Um there's there is a class of people of reavers where they're deliberately trying to find ways to exploit the system to just make to make the game just kind of silly. Um but all the other dynamically it draws are very much there. It's like you get a whole bunch of socializers together, people who want to do nothing but chat and have a good time. Uh don't really care about game and it's going to be a whole bunch of people going right after them and saying these are great people to grief. uh you know because they are enjoying themselves so much. We could end that. Um Second Life, you guessed a lot of this because Second Life has that whole like uh um you know, you can do anything you want and socializing is one of the big things. Uh personalizing is one of those big things. But um so so so do keep in mind that you know um that the way that he's talking about it sounds like all of these different personalities are somewhat mutually exclusive when really the discussion has come has now come on to how do you sort of cater to all of these uh different to all of these different desires at any given time. I may be achiever today, I may be an explorer tomorrow. And he even talks about explorers thinking that achievers are beginner explorers, you know, because it's like once you've already beaten the game, what else is there left to do but explore what else the game can do, you know? So, so, so that's so he he himself acknowledges that there's some personality transfer that can happen. Uh, but it's kind of interesting how he talks about the feedback loops about of people, right? You know, it's like you get a whole bunch of um what was it? You get a whole bunch of achievers and you get a whole bunch of um >> socializing increases. >> Yeah, increases because the competition is now higher or something like that. But he also makes this weird assumption that there is a finite pool of people who can be playing the game which is actually true. Even in a, you know, a 10 to 20 million player game like World of Warcraft, you know, all those things have to be um like we don't have 20 million people logging on to one server, you know, they say I want eight eight heights of sheep or something, >> right? >> Eight sheep. >> Exactly. Exactly. And then like once you hit level 80, you can start uh doing these raids that are just really big down >> for lots of people. Uh like 25. It's currently 25 is the highest. They used to be like 40. Um but yeah, and you just kill bigger monsters and get lots of boot. Um, and then there's PvP, which you go, the main thing right now is like arenas, and you have a team of two or three or five, and you fight other players with your gear that you obtain by doing battlegrounds and and lots of arena. Uh, yeah, and it's that's basically WoW. >> They use um I can't remember. Are there roleplay servers? >> Yes, there are world roleplay servers. I have actually never visited one >> so I can't talk about that. >> So it's a lot of dancing. >> Dance is a you know typing in slash dance made your your your character dance and it was one of those things that really is popular among socialized type uh players all all over any episode. Um but it's not just AI mean slash dance means other things now. It it could it could be I'm bored, right? You know, it's like I have nothing to do right now. I have to wait for this stupid thing to respond. I guess it's it's more fun than just standing there. Um but the uh uh there is a group in in WoW and I I guess I would may maybe not a group there is there there are folks who play World of Warcraft um and they engage in this thing called theory craft which is how do we optimize uh the way how you build a character um and uh to the and the things that you equip a play a character for to be make that character really really good at doing one or two different things. Um, so if you're building up, you know, a character that's designed to heal, you know, what class should they be, what race should they be, what equipment should they be getting, you know, depending on what amount of time you are in in the game. Um, and uh, you know, they're they're going to try to like derive as much of math of of the kind of, you know, cause and effect in anything as we possibly can. Um, there's a client called the STS uh, which uh, which which is I can't remember if they actually exclam >> um it's actually kind of funny uh the elitist jerks forums had one guy who just happened to write a artic a forum post about dressing up in real life like you know like this is how you get like really nice Taylor clothes and these are things you'll be looking for because he worked at a men so uh fashion uh space. Um and it turned out that that community was really really really interested in learning more about that. Uh you know, which is actually not that weird, right? It's like you care about what armor you get in the game. If you care about what clothes you wear in real life, especially if it might have some impact on your real life, the job that you're looking for. Okay? You know, so um so I would actually put those more in the explorers part of thing, you know. Sure, they're looking for to optimize. They're looking to do the best, but they're not looking to be necessarily rewarded by the game system. They're using the game system to test their ideas against, you know, it's like, I'm looking for a better way to to suck up more damage, you know, because I'm a tank. I I'm I'm supposedly absorbing all the damage all all the other call it uh uh all the attentions of the of the of the characters being controlled by the computer. while the rest of my folks who put out a lot of damage, you know, can do their job. Um, but I'm not interested in what the system has deemed to be you have absolved tons of damage. Good job. I don't care what the system says. I care how the system operates so that I can optimize it through some sort of metric that I figured out and my friends have figured out and the community has figured out. So, I want to understand the system in the end. that's what it comes down to the the metric that they're using it is how do I optimize but for the most part uh people who engage in that kind of theory craft you know it's like oh no this this armor combined with those pants uh you know I now find proof or something uh you know those are those are well in the area of explor behavior seems very much let's find the best solution whereas achievers are very much folks like you know how do I get to level you know it's like um how do I get the coolest in World of Warcraft right hands. Um, you know, and every once in a while Blizzard, the company that makes it will release some of your stuff and the achievers are like, I got to get that. You know, it's like uh because the stakes are usually high and it takes a lot of effort and a lot of money to be able to get one of those things, but and to be able to get it gives you some recognizable status. You'll see someone with the limited edition some kind of uh amount and you only and you know that the only that they could have done that is to spend a heck of a lot of time in this game and play the game really well. You know, that's that's the kind of recognition they're looking for. So, that's kind of the difference between achievements and sports. Um so I actually want to try one little activity which is I got that I got the chart that um uh uh lays out the whole player versus you know player interacting and acting player and and the world um and he uses this to describe where your game could be at any given time. you know, if you're acting on players, then you know, you're the kind of person uh then then your game is kind of biased towards killers. Uh if you are in if you're more if you're designing your game to be more about interacting with other players, then you're sort of biasing it towards the socializers. Interacting with the world is more the achievers, you know. Oh, sorry. No, acting on on the world is more the achievers, you know. And given these quests, I've beaten all the quests and like 100 per the the quest told me that's achievements. And uh interacting with the world is more of the explorance. It's like you know um what else can I do with this world? You know, there are these goals that are set. That's great, but other than this world that I can do good stuff. I found the distinction between acting and interacting incredibly hard to get at. Like I didn't really understand what he was trying to say. It was it was easier. I think he he came across those two terms because they sounded cute. Uh you know acting interacting is like >> I mean how do you interact without acting? >> Well what does what does that mean? >> Yeah it's um >> and like the the really classic example they use like that acting on a player is like a killer >> trying to attack another player but like the other player fights back. There's an interaction there. Right. >> Sure. But the thing about it, >> what's he trying to say? >> Ah, so what so I believe what he means by that is that the killer is actually less interested in what the the player does back to them. I mean, in some sense, they are interacting because they're trying to see what sort of response they get, right? And it's like, I'm going to do something to this player. This player is either going to die or fight back or whine uh about the fact that I'm hating them so much. Um, but they're not looking for the competitive fit. They're they're not really interested in you and now that person going to turn around and attack me. >> I know. But the whole point is supposed to be that the killers are griefers. So they really care about how people respond to them. Like he he says later on that like one of the most annoying things you can do to a griefer is just ignore them, not rise to the debate, right? So interacting >> seems to be the crucial thing. So again, I feel like he's >> well, okay. So yeah, I I admit that the terms are, but uh well, I guess if I can jump how I kind of perceive it as like does the person care about how the other thing works in a sense, you know what I mean? So it's like it is it is the case that a griefer wants to get a certain reaction, but like beyond that, it doesn't matter, right? So in the same case with the game system, right? like I want it to do this thing. I want it to give me points, but why it did that or how the mechanic works is kind of irrelevant. I don't know. I mean, that's kind of how I understood it. >> Well, well, in particular, like with the the interacting when when somebody is like trying to player kill or something, it the the reaction is not necessarily the reaction they're looking for is to like piss somebody off, right? Um, and that reaction is not necessarily part of the game. So like the the the the it it is acting on them because you are taking like what the game allows you to do and using this against a person but you don't care about what they use in the game against you. You you more care about this like abstract idea. >> So I think the the interaction is not actually part of the game. So acting is specifically to do with game mechanics whereas interacting is to do with something which is so maybe acting is like something mechanical whereas interacting is something dynamics related or like well I I see it as like acting is um sort of like a a single direction with mechanics. So, for example, the mechanic there is is being able to like hit somebody in the head with your sword, right? >> Um whereas interacting would be the case where you're hitting each other on each other's heads with your sword, which is an entirely different thing and is more of like a competitive thing rather than the I just want to make you angry. >> Well, and I think the unidirectional perspective makes sense. Um you could think of it as going with the hitting on the head example, right? If I'm acting, then I care that information is flowing one way. I am dealing damage to you. If I'm interacting, I'm curious as to like how that is computed and what that means for me in return. >> Does that make sense? So like if I'm >> really bad terminology a bunch of other examples of things that you do to like maximize interacting versus acting and like the interacting examples are things like make make simple puzzles and then the acting ones are like make hard puzzles and like >> wait what what so so in the context of a mud a puzzle is often like a door right you know it's like you've got to solve this puzzle be able to get into a new area because that's really the only thing that like sometimes you get new loot. Um, and the idea behind that is if you're sort of if you're sort of either privileging it to getting people to uh talk with each other more and socialize with each other more or you're privileging it to getting people to look at the world more, see more of the world and and and and understand how how it works. Then in a sense you don't want to put too many barriers between you know the people who've been playing for a long time and people who just started playing the people who uh uh uh you know who are in one area of the world and people who are in another area of the world you kind of want quick flow. So in muds that's that that's one thing where the the definition of puzzle is very specific. It's like but I have to move this set of levers. This is another another point that I found was really strange because I would expect an explorer who is a supposed to be a world interacting person >> to really enjoy deep puzzles which reward them for knowing a lot about the world. >> Ah but the problem with puzzles in Merks is that they're usual they're usually single solution. >> That's the so there's less pleasure to be uh to be found in a very difficult puzzle because all that told you was you just solved this one thing. There is still puzzle that there is still some pleasure there. The interest that most that that explorers are way more compelled by kind of like that uh like the dynamics right is like understanding the interaction of how of mechanics especially if they behave in a way that might not have been originally designed that way you know it's like that's what they're looking for. They're not looking for what is the solution that was designed in the game. They're looking for how do I get this game to do something that it might not have been designed to do originally but will be cool once they figure it out. Um so so that I mean that that unfortunately you're absolutely right that one but that one suffers from the very specific terminology of what a puzzle is and as opposed to the sort of more general definition of what a puzzle is. Um, the reason why why at least for achievers, hard puzzles are very important because there's because if you make a puzzle that most people aren't going to be able to get, being able to get that puzzle gives you some bad status. Usually some sort of visible reward even. It's like you're now in a location that nobody else can get to or you're now you now have have a piece of equipment that that that no one else has. Whereas explorers, you know, they will probably have a advantage in solving difficult puzzles, but they're not necessarily the sort of thing that makes them want to interact well. You know, they lots of mechanics that sort of interact with each other in really really interesting ways, more likely to be interested to explore. Um, but you're right, acting and interacting crappy crappy terminology. Like >> I mean you're talking about how reefers are more like actors where they just they try to get people to interact with them or try to get people to get annoyed them. I've definitely seen actually it was last year we took game design but not not game inter uh 300 where we watched a video of briefers in uh Team Fortress 2 where there's a >> like there's a certain door that if they stand in a certain spot that it won't open. So this person started making everyone interact like, "Okay, we're going to play a game show. Do you want to leave? You have to answer correctly." >> Yeah. What is the capital of >> See, like that that I see that as more of like an explorer thing. Like you you found some some weird combination of the interaction and the mechanics that allows you to do something new, >> which is turn Team Fortress 2 into a game show. >> It was pretty funny. >> Can't fight. >> Grief Explorer is a combination of bubble types, right? if you're going to be a successful breeder. >> I mean, and and that's absolutely true, right? In all in order to be to if your personality is oriented one way, you may have to engage in some other behaviors in order to be able to in order to be able to maximize that that core behavior that you're looking for. So yeah, you know, people who are looking at exploits uh at at at try trying to understand how the world works so they can cause maximum damage and maximum grief to other people, you know, uh it's that's definitely one good way of doing it. But what I find is that as soon as they find it, they're not interested in finding more ways until that first way gets boring, you know, or or or gets fixed. So, Team Fortress, I know there's a lot of like teleporting you directly in front of turret and stuff like that. Teleporting your own teammates in front of turret. It's like that. >> I don't understand. >> You don't understand. What? >> It's grief. >> No, it's not actually fun. >> It's like I'm going to mess with you just for the hell of it. Um, I remember in Sims Online, an effective way to greet would be to organize a band of people and arrive in a property since there was a population limit. >> Mhm. >> Like 12 people or something on any given lot. If that lot was a business that required a lot of people to come through and then you just had 12 of your people show up and then like mill around and sell out profanities, you could tie the place and lock it up. No one else could go there, visit it, sometimes including other owners and stuff like that. It was very frustrating. >> Um, in fact, some of that behavior they got towards organized crime level actually. I mean, I would call it real crime. It was virtual. But um there there are actually good number of articles about the Sims online mafia because um that game had so much so much built in for actually for socializers um to be able to communicate, express yourself. I mean, if you played the original Sims, there's the whole range of different expressive things that you can do to sort of communicate how you're feeling and and uh and and to be able chatting with people. And um someone I think it might have been Max itself actually like charted out the web the web of influence of all the players and there was like one alpha player, you know, that was kind of in charge of everything. Uh and if and if she decided that nobody was going that that you know that this person was someone that she didn't want uh spending too much time with online because somehow pissed her off or or you know pissed one of her friends off or something and then she organized it like that very very effectively. Um it was called the second market. Uh and you get that in in you you'll get that similar behavior in second a lot. Um, but and it's kind of interesting to see how different worlds respond to that. Eve online, I think, is the world which is well actually one one thing I'd like to do is I like to throw different games up on that chart. Um, so um I am looking mostly at multiplayer games, specifically pre preferably online multiplayer games. Um, but and I don't know all all the games that are out there. So, I'd like people to like sort of call out games and tell me roughly where it should be put up. If you disagree, then by all means, put up your hand and suggest that it should be moved. >> Uh, Minecraft should go definitely towards like world interacting like explorer bit. >> You're far far. >> So, what is Minecraft? I've heard of it. I just don't know what exactly. >> Basically, go around mining things and creating objects and you can create like your own worlds. So it's kind of like I guess >> Eve is definitely a world interacting as well. >> Yeah. >> So about that same as Eve. >> Uh I would say Eve is also player interacting. >> Yeah. I mean I guess then I see it's in the middle then like you have to form corporations of bunches of people in order to do anything. >> That's true. You have to you have to be really good at social skills actually. Is that one of the games that's like most ruthless? >> Yeah, I interact with people and the world a lot. >> Like I think it's more strongly player interacting and world interacting than most games. >> You cannot you cannot ignore this in any particular >> but there's also like a huge amount of achievement and player versus player conflict and this kind of stuff, right? So clearly surely it shouldn't be that far down the interacting scale. I mean consider for instance Second Life instead which would be like way further down the interacting end of the spectrum online surely >> assuming that >> I'm not sure like PvP is the opposite. >> Yeah. No, I mean it's not >> I think it's definitely player interaction more than player action. >> Yeah, I believe something like having PvP tournaments I think would be definitely a lot of interaction. Yeah, I think that's that's like the distinction between griefing and like people fighting each other. >> Griefing can be interacting too. Like how he put it. I what I got from his article is that acting was like I go and kill someone and ha I killed them and that's it. Or I go through the world like I killed monster, I killed monster and you just have a goal and you want to get the goal instead of emerging from your goal. Um so I don't know. I definitely think there griefing can be hugely interactive. Like there could be a whole bunch of like if you in Eve if you infiltrate someone's company >> and you like steal$10. >> Exactly. Like that's hugely interactive griefing. >> But the briefing consider Team Fortress, right? Is Team Fortress player interacting because that means it's a socializer game. >> I I I personally do not think Team Fortress calls them a player interacting. Yes, but but um Left for Dead is >> uh >> definitely interaction. >> I would say probably more well it depends on what way you're doing. >> Horrible. >> So >> with Left for Dead, you can play you're interacting but then you're also like online you can go against other players who are actually the zombies against you. >> Right. So So let's talk about the basic mode where you don't have that. >> Yeah, that's about those modes separately. >> Yeah. Right. So the basic most common mode it's going to be four players playing cooperative cooperatively against the game world. >> Um >> that's just interacting world >> and there is a lot of interaction that goes on uh between players because you cannot basically survive unless you get keep each other's backs. So, I would say >> and there's and there's built-in Well, one second. And there's built-in functions to help other people. So, someone might get knocked off the ledge and be holding on. You have to pull it back up. Um, at the same time, >> at the same time, there's also an intelligent engine that sort of plans that level for you and places zombies strategically to maintain you in a state of nervousness. Um, and so it's different every single time you play. Uh, so those kind of balance out and probably place it somewhere in the middle. maybe a little bit more player bias than world bias because you really have to stick together. >> So, so it's weird because it almost like you want to have like a plane. >> It's in like Yeah. >> I think it' be Yeah. I think the big problem with this sort of graph is that you can't really necessarily separate games into one of these quadrants. >> games world and that is actually more interaction. It might be a little more useful to actually draw like areas within the graph to sort of like represent a game. I guess draw an area that encompasses like all the pieces the game sort of can be complicated with games that have very distinct modes, you know, like Halo co-op and Halo multiplayer and Halo Slayer very different. >> Uh but yeah, that will probably be a good refinement is just like create some sort of like scatter charts all over again >> because I could definitely see there being a game where there's a lot of acting on the world and interacting with players and if you're just separating you know these into distinct points that isn't possible with this graph >> right so that's another problem problem is the assumption that acting and interacting are like like mutually opposite at least for these two axes it almost seems like you know do people generally accept No, that one less than that interacting. >> If you just warp space and then you can have like different quadrants overlapping >> I think different values for like player world interacting and acting. They shouldn't necessarily be connected. >> I think Eve definitely world is very high and player is very high. World is very high. Player is very high. But as player is interacting and the world is active world, >> I mean because I mean you don't I mean you're exploring the world spatially a lot. Are you exploring the systems of the world or not or you really exploring the system by people? >> That's true. I mean the nice thing about um what you know things like uh EO 9 uh for folks who don't know EVA line is a space exploration game basically where uh where you start off as a captain correct me if I'm wrong or people >> pretty much a super sandbox game. >> Yeah. Well um but for the most part you're traveling in space that's that that you get out of your ship and like walk on foot. >> Have they added that? cuz I know they wanted to add an expansion where you could actually walk on planets. Last time I heard they hadn't. >> Last time I heard they had dust 66 or something like that. >> Yeah, which is a separate game. >> It's a separate game. So So no, you're traveling through space. You're not like landing anything. Uh but you're but the whole idea is that it's all built around this economy where you know you can do things like mining. Of course you and can cash. But the real power in in in in the game comes when players start to ally with each other. Form form armadas, form trade trade groups, you know, form areas that you can patrol and control uh uh and you know, areas where if you don't agree if you don't get along with the the people who are in control of the space, you will die once you fly there. And the only the only thing that's really making that happen are other players deciding that this social contract is is so it's pretty damn amazing. What uh some folks were talking about earlier was there was a big story about how um basically one person got into very very powerful position in one of these plants and decided to be back taking the majority of one uh of one plant's financial resources with that person. And remember, this is a this is a fairly modern people online game. All in game assets cannot be traded for real money. >> It's it's illegal. So that >> illegal like in game so you can get your account banned. >> But so what I so what happened was if I talking about the one that you're talking about, someone got to a really power place in like this banking clan and then took all of their assets and traded for real money. So got $10,000 by trading by selling it on One, >> one was a guy who infiltrated heck of a bunch of money. One was like a parent who was going through financial trouble and held like a fifth of the assets of some of like the major bank and cashed it in for like $6,000 to help pay off part of his house and like his kids medical bills and then posted a poly and quit the game. >> I thought you got banned from the game. >> He was banned from the game, but he he also quit the game. because there's no coffee. >> Yeah. He was like, "I'm sorry everybody, but uh this guy." >> I mean, the the amazing one was the guy who actually infiltrated the company and just like took it down as like a year years longer. >> He was their friend and all that. >> Yeah. Trying to get in and then managed to take down this gigantic in-game corporation. >> How many How many players are you online? Active players. >> No, I feel like active players are It sounds a lot moment. >> Yeah. No, I mean active we have active accounts. >> Are they are do they have like new players arriving regularly? >> They're the kind of game that's they've been like >> it's like a ridiculous learning curve. >> Yeah. It's like four months or something. It's insane. But it's uh but but the interesting thing about the particular case where someone infiltrated, took all their money and uh uh and and basically decimated uh this plan deliberately was that that person didn't actually give a compound for it. I believe it was like >> he was totally sell the most recent one I read about theoretically had the tens of thousands of US dollars of assets in the game and did not cash in any of it for real money because there is no authorized mechanism. And the article I read basically an end note was no one knows what you can do with it. He's technically rich but it's not there's no good legal mechanism of illegal gain allowed. I don't think he got banned at all because it's part of the game. is it's considered part of and and once and at least for the definition of Eve uh stories like that tends to have helped its reputation or anything as this is the this is this is the wild west in space you know and we're trying to encourage this kind of creative play >> and you know uh other than the real money transaction part where you get your content all that's part of the game so I'm not entirely sure it became really confident at griefing you know it was an incredibly smart practical >> see I I would not call that griefing Like it was not I mean it may have been done to like annoy the people who are running the company that he took down but like I see it as exploration like I am going to try and exploration and player interaction you know like >> I would say achieving because I mean a major corporation all by myself. Yeah, it might actually be do you put that in your resume like single-handedly? >> I think if you're >> we could get hired by a lawyer >> and you don't mind this company. >> So, okay. So, what I would actually like to end this um this with we've got about 15 minutes um the special time I would say how how many here we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 positive. Awesome. So, groups of four and uh what I'd like folks to do, am I doing this right? >> Yeah. Okay. And and um I'd like folks to come up with other axis. um you know not necessarily anything having to do with with with models. Just give me two things that you kind of feel are diametrically opposed but you know in describing a game or any series of games you could sort of like place games along some axis. Um, if you have time, we can talk about another two different terms, but you know, something to help describe to people, you know, okay, this game is kind of on the far extreme of one, this game is on the far extreme of the other. Um, the goal here is to come up with terms that are that will help you sort of identify what this who this game might be targeted towards, you know, what kind of player this game might be targeted. not necessarily using bottles terminology at all, you know, but borrow terminology as we have said is kind of weak. Uh so let's so let's throw out some some some other words, some other things. Use things that you use to describe games already, but you know if that fails because you haven't really thought about it that way. Come up with some new words, you know, >> real English words. Random versus strategy. Oh, >> original versus copy. >> Really? That's why it resonates, right? It makes it fairly sort of easy to sort of like discuss this, you know. I mean, I'd rather use the word trans, but randomly, you know, get the point across pretty clearly. >> Strategy or random versus deterministic, >> right? So I think that should be random deterministic and or reactive and deliberative. >> I like that. >> That's fancy. >> We use good words. >> Wait. So reactive and deliberative. and deliberate >> or random >> because you can definitely still have randomness and have strategy, >> right? >> But random deterministic. >> Yeah, then it'll be somewhere on the axis, right? >> So, >> well, I mean, the problem is you can have like incredible amounts of randomness, but if you're can just like figure out the probabilities, you can still have like an optimal strategy, right? >> But then that's rander. Deterministic is because you can't have a system that's so complex yet deterministic that there's no way you can predict what's going to happen next. >> Yeah. >> Robot is theoretically possible. But uh but yeah, this is this is >> player versus system agency. player versus Oh, so system player is a system and agency is kind of your it's distributed. >> It's a name of your of your tactics, right? >> Yes. >> You also had low learning curve versus high learning curve. >> Definitely not into that. >> Fast versus slow. So, >> so another learning another uh axis we had was um I guess if you call it the like freedom and like the predetermined like paths in the game, >> huh? >> Constraint. >> Yeah. Well, >> freedom versus constraint. Yeah, I can't remember the terms. Was it like glutus and py or something like that? >> Well, okay. So, one word that I use that I hear often to some describe games on rails. >> Um I mean 13 hours of Final Fantasy unreal. You get to do one thing, you get to push the X button for 60 hours. I would say a subset of what you're talking about, but it's a very broad one. It's one that people generally understand as embodying this sort of like freedom like you you get to dig around basically, right? You know, you get to play Grand Theft Auto totally not following the story line and you know As time goes on, it becomes a little bit less of that. You can you get to do less crazy things. But the whole idea is that that world has ramps everywhere so that you can drive cars and vehicles and anything. >> Okay. Anything else? >> Uh there's like realism versus abstraction. >> What something? So, so like the the difference between you know like Eve Online for example which is supposed to be very realistic simulating something whereas poker for example is just cards and numbers >> something on the on the freedom sand box versus preturn on rails there's a very interesting thing in uh at least I've seen it done in Balders game too there's a pre-triven point in the game where you are told you need x amount of money to be able to pay for the ship out of here and you're placed in a sort of sandbox environment and you are given It is not you're not told that you can have whatever ways you can think of to make that amount of money whichever amount of money you can leave that part of the game. >> So it's a predetermined sandbox section. >> No I mean yeah I mean if it's a you know a lot of adventure games a lot of role playing games are largely predetermined with areas of of freedom. Even in a game like Final Fantasy maybe not 13 but in in in other games in the in the series the story is largely predetermined but what you do in combat is very very fluid. uh you know and and that's kind of like the the dichotomy that those that square and in the past kind of decided that that was okay. This helps us cater to people who want some flexibility in how they're going to play by making the combat system fluid enough that they can do play they want as but also lets us cater to the people who really want that that long overarching epic narrative you know and we can only we can only create one we can branch into different because so that's >> there others I mean might be a figure there's only one way to do it whereas sol you you could have multiple solutions and >> you know solution that tells you the game is catered to it Can I tell you something about the constraints on the budget of the >> No, I would I mean I prefer games that are much more >> right because the the interesting thing about multiple solutions to single solutions and multiple solutions um it could be all design like I I could design in a game in fact if you play DSX uh or any of the sequels uh they specifically stated that they made this game with multiple solutions in mind and for DSX 2 they designed it so that um they thought this puzzle needs kind of three solutions and they actually will design the environment for it. So while the game kind of like touted it as you know you get to play with the system you get to you know figure out how all these things combine and come up with solutions at your own really that they tried to like design it so that you have three very clear options but they wanted people to realize that they had options and so you can have multiple solutions whereas like freedom sandboxing kind of implies not necessarily design like you know you got lot lots of little things that you can do and lots of different spaces that you can explor But u it's not like um you've got one obstacle and three different ways to solve it. You've got all kinds of different things that you could be doing. You could be like choosing not. So these are different axis. I just want to point out that these are different ways to different things. >> Um you can have in terms of rule changing games whether it's dynamic rules or static rules. >> Okay. So so uh I'll put dynamic static and Are the rules going to change in the game? Yeah, that's there are some games over here. The whole point is change versus >> the rules. >> We had this before and then PvP version. time scale of decisions. >> So short model. >> Yeah. Like Twitch games versus games >> contemplate decisions. >> Sort of like contemplative and reactive. >> How is that compared to reactive? Is that are you guys going for basically the same thing? Like reactive means things are coming at you and you have to respond really really quickly. Maybe not even about it. And deliberate is like like a turnbased game. as much time as you want to think about how long you want to make a decision. Doesn't necessarily mean that, you know, you can have a turnbased game that's very fastpaced, you know, uh because the the weight of any given decision is not going to be so huge. So pace, you know, I'm I'm just going to put pace up here because you know, slow and fast, you know, as one way of describing the game, uh uh reactive versus libertous a related way of starting game. I bet you could take like two of these and put them on axis and then you can but you know I guess every once in a while you find that game that you like both here and here at the same time which is fine. It's just not a way to talk about these things. Okay, these are really really useful terms uh better than is more >> a little bit more boxing. It's a little bit more restrictive than freedom is more like values that box on rails are more like back of the box. you know the future really you wouldn't