All right. Well, welcome to the first math lecture. Uh the topic today is linear algebra. And what I expect is that for most of you the topics will be very familiar. At least we'll be covering basic fundamentals of vector algebra. Then dealing with uh special matrices, matrices that are used in applications, igen vectors and igen value uh decompositions, singular value decompositions, and then uh finally uh the peron froinius theorem. And what's really neat about quantitative finance is that linear algebra can really be very useful in understanding different computations we want to do. So uh it makes our life easier. Well, let's just begin with a discussion of basic linear algebra concepts. Um I'll use a notation where often I'll have a bold vector notation for or bold letter for note noting a vector. Uh so this bold v is a vector in m dimensional space and it just consists of an ordered list of numbers and it we can think of it as a column vector typically sometimes we'll think of it as a row vector but uh special cases of vectors will be the vector of all zeros and the vector of all ones. Uh and we can think of a graphical representation of a vector um where we can think of it as perhaps just a single point in in this case two-dimensional space or with an origin. Here we might think of the vector representing the directed line segment from the origin to that point where this is v1 and this is v2. Um depending on our application uh both of these can be useful. Um and a basic example for us would be could be the closing prices on a given day for all stocks in the S&P 500 index. So we can think of P boldface being a vector of 500 values corresponding to the closing price of stocks that are in the S&P 500 index. Importantly uh the prices are positive. So that's where the R plus comes into play. And if we consider a portfolio holding shares of the S&P 500 stocks, we can represent that with a vector Q. And the value of such a portfolio at the end of the day is simply the sum of the quantities, the shares times the price per share. Now um with this uh and later on we'll see that um sort of Q dop the dot product of those two vectors gives us the value of the portfolio. Um what we're going to find useful um is to actually add to our 500 stocks the value of a cash holding in the u in the portfolio. So we can think of p 0 of t just being a fixed $1 and then q knot tells us how many dollars we hold. And so um our portfolio value uh will be given by this number. Um and we can think about rebalancing portfolios, computing portfolio and loss on a daily basis. And we can characterize rebalancing the portfolio as shifting from shares held at the end of day T um QJ of T+1 to be held through day T + one by adjusting the quantity for each stock by a delta J. And if we constrain the sum of the change in shares across the J stocks and cash and the PJ multiplying by the PJ of T, we can constrain this sum to be equal to zero. So this would correspond to a rebalancing of the portfolio. um and uh basically not taking any sort of distributions from from the account. Now uh with the net gain um let's see this terminology PNL uh it's in a sense a misnomer I think because it's really pro profit and loss uh but it's referred to as P&L portfolio net gain. We can just look at the change in value from day t to day t + one. And this will have this simple form for uh the change in portfolio value. Basically the shares that are held from the end of day t to t + one times the change in price from day t to day t+1. And uh so this is uh the portfolio uh net gain. And here we're talking about portfolio management maybe on a daily basis where at the end of the day we make a decision as to how to rebalance our portfolio and there's a net gain during that period. um one could adjust the period of rebalancing to be intraday on a regular or irregular basis and you know we'd have to have extra notation to do that. Um now with with uh vector uh concepts um if we multiply a vector V by a scalar C then we just multiply through each of the components of V by that scaler. And if we add two vectors, we simply comprise the sum of components uh element by element. And the dotproduct between two vectors is simply the sum of the product of the two. So this allows us to work with vector algebra associated with portfolios. If we have two portfolios uh we can consider um let's see we can think of a uh a QT and a in this notation a WT as two different portfolios. And with each of these portfolios, we can determine what the profit and loss is of each portfolio. So for Q, it's the value at the end of day minus the value at the beginning of the day. And similarly for portfolio W. And it's useful to include in the notation here this sort of BOD and EOD to represent beginning of day, end of day. And what's um relevant actually is that um the uh QT uh portfolio composition is while it's indexed uh by T um it's actually uh determined at the end of day t minus one. And so uh one needs to be careful in doing computations with portfolio value measurement that you're always using portfolios that are defined using only information up to a given time point. So if we're going to be rebalancing at the end of the day uh for investment the next day um we can't know what will happen on the next day. All right. Well with these portfolios that are just um simple vectors we can look at their difference. And so if we look at dt equal to qt minus wt. Okay, this defines another portfolio. We often constrain portfolios to be long only meaning the Q's and W's are positive or zero. Um but there's no reason why we can't allow component uh weights in uh portfolios to be negative and in this case it's negative shares and so one can have a long short portfolio that is given by D and we can calculate the profit and loss of that D portfolio by subtracting ing the profit and loss of the Q and W. Um, now let's see with uh short selling in markets. Um, let's see who in the class might offer a description of what it means to sell short a stock. So suppose that we have DT sub 2 is equal to say minus 200 What would that mean? Or, you know, can we actually realize a portfolio where we're short one of the stocks by 200 shares? I'm sure someone Okay. What's your name? >> Okay. Thank you, Alex. >> I believe it is someone else's stock. >> Yes. You basically sell first, buy back later, and you sell by you don't have the stock, so you uh borrow it from some seller. And uh brokerage accounts that have margin allow you to engage in this kind of uh transaction. And so the policy of the brokerage is is that if you want to sell short a stock, they need to locate some shares for you to borrow. And what's rather neat about that selling short is that your brokerage account gets credited with the sale of those shares. So your brokerage account will um have a positive cash flow due to the short selling. And with such a positive uh contribution to the uh brokerage account, you can actually invest long in more than say 100% of your wealth that's in the or of your bank account or brokerage account. So um so that's quite advantageous and allows for very uh interesting trading opportunities. All right. Well, an important special case of a long short portfolio is a zerocost portfolio. And this would be one where the sum of basically the values of the long and short positions balance each other perfectly. And so we have a portfolio DT in this case which where the D components are not all zero but the value the net value of the portfolio is in fact zero. And we can hope for the possibility of an arbitrage portfolio, which could be a portfolio that has zero cost but has a positive profit and loss over a period. And this kind of opportunity generally uh well it it's doesn't exist sort of inefficient markets but markets are never completely efficient and so it can be feasible to identify portfolios that may be close to an arbitrage portfolio. Um what in fact happens is that this profit and loss of a zerocost portfolio will be random and depending upon the market model that applies to the u market we're trading in. Um it may be that there are opportunities that uh yield a positive profit uh all the time in which case we would say that's an arbitrage opportunity. What we'll see later today is the question of under what conditions is there no arbitrage in a given market and uh how do we characterize prices of assets in a market with no arbitrage. And ultimately it turns out that uh option pricing theory that that was intro or mentioned last time of black shores and merin is all based upon arbitragefree markets and the implications of that and uh we'll see that uh in arbitragefree markets there does not exist any arbitrage portfolios and what will be neat as to understand why that's the case. All right. Um All right. So, we have random uh prices at the end of day t. Um and so the profit and loss is going to be random. uh I guess it's relevant to note that there are strategies of of statistical arbitrage and those are strategies where we have sort of portfolio specifications D star for which this random profit and loss is a distribution that tends to generate positive returns and so there's sort of a statistical likelihood of making money. Uh but it's often uh not sort of a pure arbitrage but what we might call a statistical All right. Well, let's uh review just some other concepts of vectors. We have the norm of a vector being the uh length of a vector. So if we have a vector V here and um the norm of V is basically the length of this vector. Um and if we consider what the dotproduct is between two vectors uh we have this cosine sort of formula for what the dotproduct is. It's actually the length of V times the length of W times the coine of the angle between the two. So if we have another vector W here then uh the dotproduct corresponds to that formula. And what's interesting about that formula is that it actually corresponds to um the dotproduct sort of corresponds to the length of the segment along W that is closest to V. And so um with this uh dotproduct notation we actually can talk about orthogonality between vectors in uh n dimen or md dimensional space and those can be very useful. um we'll actually see this sort of orthogonality applied when we talk about regression and le squares regression. So you may be familiar with some of these topics from that discussion. All right. Uh well with with vectors a really important topic is whether vectors are linearly independent of each other. And so if we have two vectors V and W they are linearly independent if the only linear combination of the two which gives us the zero vector is the linear combination with C1= C2 equals zero. So um linear independence is uh essentially the case that um we have a v and w that aren't uh aligned with each other in two dimensions um and uh at least vectors emanating from the origin having that property. And the utility of linear independence is that we can work with a vector space capital S here. And the definition of a vector space is that any vector can be rescaled by an arbitrary constant C and it's still in the space. And with any two vectors V and W in the space, their sum is in the space. Um with with a vector space what's very useful is a basis for the space which corresponds to linearly independent vectors V1 to VP such that the only linear combination giving the zero vector is the linear combination where all the coefficients are equal to zero. All right. Um well, let's just uh you know go through sort of all of matrix algebra pretty much. Um we can extend from vectors to matrices where we have m rows and n columns in a matrix a a rectangular matrix. And one very useful representation of a matrix is as a collection of column vectors that are stacked one after the other. And so um we can denote bold a sub one through bold a subn as the column vectors. And with uh matrix algebra um let's see well let's see we can multiply a matrix capital a by a constant and we end up multiplying each of the components elements of the table of a values by the same constant c um with a transpose operation. A transpose is simply to flip rows and columns. And so um if we have a subig j being the i row, j column element of a then a j i corresponds to the j row and i column. Now um if we think of the transpose of each of the column vectors in A um that's a row vector and uh our transpose of the matrix A can be thought of as stacked row vectors corresponding to the same uh vectors A1 through A N. Now, one of the reasons for thinking of a matrix as having a being a composition of different column vectors is that when we multiply a matrix A by a vector V, then this corresponds to the linear combination of the columns of A with coefficients. uh corresponding to v1 through vn. So we have a linear combination of a's columns and uh this representation of matrix vector multiplication turns out to be very very useful. Um perhaps less useful is that if we look at the uh matrix vector product, it's also a vector of dotproducts of A's rows with V. And so being comfortable with dotproducts is uh potentially useful. uh but for the moment thinking of linear combinations of columns of a um is uh is very useful. So um I guess you know if we think of the columns of A corresponding to potentially a basis of vectors then AV corresponds to another vector in uh the space spanned by those columns. All right. Now when we multiply two matrices together um we actually have a matrix A and a matrix B each with their respective columns vectors and we can basically expand the matrix B into B1 through BP and then do the matrix vector product for each term. uh this is equivalent actually to looking at element CI which are just these double sums. When I learned linear algebra decades ago, um I used these double sums which were not very intuitive to interpret. um although one with the simple algebra notation can prove everything but things are much easier to prove u with this other notation. Now what's important when we multiply two matrices together is that the matrices have to be conformal meaning we need to be able to multiply a times the column vectors of b. So the m byn matrix um of uh uh a has to be able to multiply the uh m byp matrix of uh of b. So um actually I think there's a or let's see yeah sorry n there are n columns in a and n rows in b and so the result is an m byp matrix. All right. uh well with um different matrix operations. You learn in linear algebra all of these rules, these laws associated with matrix uh algebra computations. Everything is pretty obvious except maybe when you transpose a product, you reverse the order of the product of transposes. And if you consider reversing the order of matrix multiplications, if one can sort of reverse the order, if A and B have the same number of rows and columns, it turns out that uh you the commutative law for multiplication doesn't apply to matrices. So you want to be careful with uh those distinctions. All right. So special matrices. Okay, there's the um when we have a symmetric matrix um then it's transpose equals itself. So the matrix has uh basically uh di well let's see the off diagonal entries are matched one by one with a j equaling a ji. Um the identity matrix is a matrix with ones along the diagonal. And it can be convenient to represent this as the matrix of columns where E subj is a simple matrix or a simple vector which is all zeros but then a single one where this is the J row and uh different computations um can be made easy with that sometimes. Now um there's a notation of using the J matrix to be the matrix of all ones. Um and the matrix J turns out to be a vector one times its transpose. Um and we have diagonal matrices where it's the matrix is all zeros except for the diagonal entries which may or may not be zero and are given by the list d1 through dn. All right. Okay. Well, now we can turn to some applications of uh that use matrices. And the first one we want to discuss is uh stochastic matrices. So these are matrices um which um we'll consider uh a stochastic matrix that square and the columns of a sum to one. So, so we'll have an a with a1 a2 up to a m or a n. And um basically the sum of a iig j i i equaling 1 to m is going to equal to one. So this uh this kind of matrix is associated uh with marov chains where we think of there being uh m possible states and we can think of um so we basically have m rows and m columns and we have this notation AIG or lowerase AI is equal to the probability that the state the next state equals I given the previous state equals J um is given by this AIG. So um so we have um let's see for each column J we have if the previous state at time t was j then there's a transition to a state at time t + one and this transition these transition probabilities ities uh in some cases can be assumed to be stable or stationary over t. Um and with a marov chain we can think of there basically being different states which are indexed from one two up to m. And we might think of these as being sort of nodes in a graph. And there's a probability of moving from one node to another for each time point. um these probabilities of transitions might be stationary in a stationary marov chain model. Well, if we have a vector pi, which is going to be uh basically pi of t equaling pi 1 of t, pi 2 of t down to pi m of t. So this uh m vector pi tells us at time t what's the likelihood of being in any of the states. Then um if we want to compute the probabilities of states at time t minus t + 1 then it turns out to be simply the matrix vector product of a * pi of t. So this uh formula gives us the model for how the probabilities of states occurring changes from time t to t + one. Now if we consider what is the probability vector at time t + 2. Well, we have the same matrix vector model where the stationary transition probabilities a are multiplied by the vector of probabilities at t + one. And we can substitute in what that product is, which is a pi. And so we basically get the square of the transition probability matrix times the pi vector at time t. Now what's interesting to ask with marov chains is if we start out with a pi zero vector at time zero and we have the model that the likelihood of different states evolves such that the sort of t- period transition uh probabilities uh from pi 0 to t is given by this formula. Then does this limit exist or not? And so um let me just ask um that question to the class. Anyone remember from stochastic processes perhaps or linear algebra whether that has a limit? Yes, >> if it exists, it's the stationary distribution. And so basically if if pi star is the stationary distribution is equal to a pi star. So that we're at a limiting distribution where there's no change in probabilities continuing sort of from t equal to infinity to infinity + one. Um then this would be the formula. Now uh are there circumstances where such a stationary distribution doesn't exist? Yes. Okay. And when is that? I see some solid nods. Yes. >> What is periodic? Yeah. So you could have cycles in the process and you know a simple case would be two states that just alternate even odd being one state or the other as an example. So we need to have um asyclic distributions or or the uh transition pro or the what the mark of chain needs to be as cyclic. Um and uh so uh and actually it's all these topics are quite interesting when you study them. Uh it turns out that you can prove that a uh uh a markoff chain is as cyclic if um all of its components of the A matrix if every single one is non zero. So that there's always a possibility of transitioning from one state to another. That's a bit too restrictive. But it turns out that if you consider a particular power of a that for some power not necessarily very big but there's at some point of looking at powers of a the a to that power is a matrix of all positive entries. So it's sort of interesting just how these mathematical uh features um can be shown. Now um let's see all right so if it does exist we have a stationary distribution um and uh that's that's nice. Um let's see let me just point out that I guess in the first problem set for the course that's been posted that's due a week from Friday. So this is a good healthy amount of time away I hope for everybody. Um we're asking you to look at some simple Markov chains and explore the stationary distribution of those cases. And uh um the Markov chain model is used for modeling whether uh say trades um at the buy or sell side uh um or whether trades successive trades in a stock will be at the buy side or sell side depending on what the previous trade was at. All right. Well, let's move on to another class of matrices that's of interest. And actually um actually before doing that I'm going to jump ahead just in terms of topics but um this formula for the stationary distribution is a formula that's very specific to igen values and IGEN vectors. And so if you think of the matrix A having Igen values and IGEN vectors, what's the igen value and what's the igen vector in this case? Does anybody? Yes. Kai value of one. the vectors would be all the five stars are satisfied. >> So, so this so this basically is a case where one of the igen values is one or sorry one of the igen values is one and this is satisfied. Um we'll see uh later that um basically the other igen values may be smaller than one and when you multiply the a matrix by itself to many many powers then it's only this one vector that doesn't get shrunk to zero in the limit. So all right well let's turn to positive matrices. Um positive matrices arise in economics where we think of there being say prices of goods under different sort of states of the market um or costs of goods under states of the market. And those are all uh positive. And we can think of this arising um in a single period market model where we have uh n assets indexed by i and um let's see we have uh two periods or sorry two a single period with a beginning and and t0 and t= capital t. And um if we think of what is the price of assets at time zero um we may know what those are at time zero and then what are the subsequent prices at the end of the single period um capital t and um those prices may or may or may not be uh known. And so let me just uh give an example here with two assets. And um so we're going to think of the two period model and we're going to have n equal to two. And for um we're going to consider um basically a bond B which um takes on values that will be B 0 um at t equals z and BT at time capital T. And we'll consider the case of a bond which basically pays interest at the interest rate RF. So this B 0 price of the bond at time zero grows to B sub capital T which is basically growing at a simple interest rate of RF and um let's see we can talk about RB the return of this just being BT minus B 0. So this is um the absolute return and we could also um define the percent return which would be um looking at r subb equal to the absolute return divided by the initial value. So this would be the percentage uh return and uh let's see if we subtract this here we end up getting that this is um b rf * t. So this turns out to be equal to simply RFT as the percent return. And let's see we can also talk about the simple rate of return which would be given by um well let's see actually maybe here I should write R subb um and here R subB instead of R subf because I want to define R subf to be equal to um the uh basically one over t the average rate of return. So it's equal to this * bt minus b 0 over b 0. And so this is simply in this uh case um is equal to that rb. Um and I guess I'll be using a notation of characterizing an interest rate as being a risk-free interest rate. if this bond is sort of guaranteed to have that final value. And so um in quantitative finance we often talk about risk-free rates and um the risk you know nothing in the world is risk-free but uh when governments can print money to pay off their liabilities then it essentially is sort of a risk-free rate. um and we worry less about it uh with countries with stronger economies. Now this is um the first um asset. Let's also consider a stock S which has at time zero a value of S0 and then at time t it's going to be random. And so we have s subt is going to equal different possible outcomes. And we'll consider a special case where it's stu and std where we have an underlying state being an up or a down market. So we have a random outcome for ST. We're not yet specifying what probabilities are associated with these different states. And so there are two states at time t. Omega equal to well maybe I'll just write u and omega equal to d for that and so um in thinking of a single market model with n assets not just two we are defining basically two assets I guess I'm using j for the assets instead of uh i but um we basically they have known asset prices at time zero and potentially random prices at time uh capital t. And so we can model this by associating different states at or scenarios at time capital T that are indexed W1 to WM. and uh we then can have uh different prices in that. So so here's the framework for this right now. Um and at least the framework with two assets and we can also uh characterize portfolios of the n= 2 assets. And we can define a pi vector being simply equal to a weight in the bond and a weight in the stock. units of the stock, units of the bond given by this vector. And so what we can then do is deal with modeling the outcomes of this portfolio. Um if we uh consider sort of v 0 the value of the portfolio at time z this would be just pi b * b 0 plus pi s * s0 and at time capital t Then our portfolio would have values pi bt plus pi s time s tu for the up case and pi bt plus pi s * std when w is equal to d when the state is down. So this value of the portfolio will be random depending upon the likelihood of these up and down states. Well, um, with this setup, it's useful at this point to introduce you to some cont concepts which is contingent claims and replicating portfolios. those portfolios. And so um suppose that we have a um a contingent claim C which has a value C 0 um is the value at T equal to zero and CT will be the value of this contingent claim depending upon on whether we have an up or a down. Actually, I'll reverse it. A down or an up market. The uh what we end up doing in uh these market models is being able to model the prices of contingent claims when we can replicate the contingent with a portfolio of the underlying assets. And so um you know so we can ask does there exist a portfolio of B and S such that pi B um V + pi S uh T U um equals C uh CT D and pi B V plus pi ST uh I've got these notations wrong equal CTU. So if this were the case then if so then uh we could have c 0 equaling pi b 0 plus pi s0. and we would replicate this contingent claim payoff at time capital T. Now, mathematically, can we solve for a portfolio coefficients that satisfy this contingent claim? Any thoughts? Well, let's see. If we look at CT versus CT U, and here's the origin. Um, if we had a portfolio that was just um the uh the bond, we might have BT T here and BT here. And here's the point corresponding to BTBT. And here's the vector corresponding to the portfolio. That's just the bond. And if we look at the stock, the portfolio, that's just a the stock. Um, we might have STD here. And then way up here, maybe S TU, the value of the stock when the market is up. And so this would be our ST vector in the two-dimensional space corresponding to down market state versus up market state. Now given this figure um if we think of just an arbitrary point in this space of contingent claims, can we construct a portfolio that matches that? Yes. >> Can you explain what >> Yes. Um Okay. The contingent claim is a payoff that is contingent upon the state of the market at that time. And it's either a down market or an up market over the one period. And the payoff if it's an up market is CTU. And the payoff if it's a down market is CTD. And in this space of contingent claims, we can draw vectors corresponding to the stock and the bond as these vectors. And so what's curious to think about is suppose we have a contingent claim that well let's see suppose we consider a call option uh contingent claim so C well let's see okay so so let's see the uh there would be a strike price of uh let's see a strike price of K to uh to buy the stock at time t. And in order for this to be of interest, we might have K being smaller than STU and greater than ST D. So we have a call option with strike price K to buy the stock and the contingent claim of the call would be zero if uh we have the down market and it would be STU minus K if it's the up market. So we could consider zero in the down market and um basically maybe this would be CT minus K here. So this vector here would correspond to the payoff of this call option. So under what circumstances can we take a linear combination of these two vectors and get this vector? >> Yes. >> Yeah. I mean basically we can solve for this here by substituting in for this zero and p minus k and then just solve it to get our two equations and two unknowns. So if this system of equations two equations and two unknowns has a solution then we can solve it. And what is interesting um is to uh consider sort of what are the space of all possible contingent claims. And let me uh let's see just turn to this uh note. This is on canvas. But this note that's been posted in canvas talks about a one period economy with two assets in section one. That's what I've just outlined on the chalkboard here. One can generalize that to a single period model with more than two assets. That's chapter section two. And then one can generalize to uh not generalize but one can consider visualizing the assets and portfolios in section three here. And so what I do in the last section here is looking at the vector of payoffs of the bond and the stock colored differently. Um, and so this is a bond that may pay off the same amount in the down versus the up market. And the stock pays off more in the up market than the down. And then one can consider collections of portfolios that sort of weight the bond and the stock so that the positive weights sum to one. And so these vectors correspond to the payoff vectors of those long portfolios. Um and if we consider well let's see looking at those long instead of representing vectors as pointed segments from the origin one could just represent them as points in the space and that representation is helpful when we want to consider a variety of other uh portfolios in the mix. And so here's a graph showing the uh value of the payoff. If we consider portfolios that can invest um up to 100% in each of the bond or the stock or both. And so um if we invest 100% in both we basically get the payoffs that are really high and um if we don't invest much uh close to zero in both then we get the zero vector. Um but this uh this graph sort of shows the contingent claims that are mapped or equivalent by replicating portfolios of these types. And so if we then allow for shorting, this sort of extends the contingent claims to allow for negative payoffs. um which uh are graphed here basically over the payoff in the down market versus the up. And what's of interest here, although it's not quite easy to see, but is um let's see, there are portfolios where the initial value of the portfolio um is zero. And so that would correspond to a long short portfolio that um is implemented with zero cost. So um and then um let's see. Okay, so this is sort of the payoff vector at t um and looking at the value where we uh sort of white out those portfolios that have zero cost. Um now what's useful here to see is that um with these kinds of portfolios we can replicate different contingent claims which correspond to different points in this space. If we were able to invest sort of more than 100% of our portfolio long or short, then we could actually realize any point in this space in some cases. And so any contingent claim could be solved for, you know, with this equation here. And that's rather neat, but it also is reasonable to consider if we make certain assumptions on the market such as as you buy more of an asset, you don't change the price of the asset. There's basically a fixed price is suitable regardless of how much. And there's no constraint on shortselling uh the asset that you can do that with uh liberty. So so there are um these kinds of properties that arise. Now um with the case of extending from the bond and the single stock to m sorry little n assets then everything generalizes and we end up having a positive price matrix um at time t corresponding to different payoffs of the individual assets at time capital t for different states omega 1 through omega m. And uh with this kind of setup um one can represent sort of the initial value of a portfolio Q being the sum of the Q weights times the initial prices in the A0 vector and then the payoff of the portfol folio at time capital T is given by the same weights QJ times the time capital T prices but we have different prices depending upon what state uh occurs and so um in this case we have um basically our matrix A * Q giving us the vector of state dependent values at time capital t. And so with this model um we can contemplate there being a an arbitrage portfolio where the initial value is not positive. I guess one could constrain this to be zero, but it's easier to just say less than or equal to zero. If this initial if we have a negative cost that means we get paid to implement this portfolio and it will be an arbitrage portfolio if the likelihood of a negative payoff is zero and there's some likelihood of a positive payoff. So this port such a portfolio would be risk-free in terms of downside risk. We never lose money. We either make money all the time or uh in at least one of the states. So this is an arbitrage portfolio. Now with this model there can be um conditions that ensure that there's there is no arbitrage in the market and um so so that's one issue to think about what conditions would ensure no arbitrage And another condition that's of interest is called market completeness which is are there portfolios that can realize any payoff vector. So in looking at the contingent claims payoff, can we sort of span this space fully with portfolios of the underlying assets in the in the market? And so if we can uh represent any contingent payoff as a portfolio then we say that the market is complete. And it turns out that the conditions of no arbitrage are a and market completeness are related to whether a pricing measure exists on scenarios. And so think about Qstar being a probability distribution over the underlying states. Omega 1 through Omega M. And um it turns out that if the initial price of the J asset is sort of the discounted expected terminal price of that J asset across the different states then this is QST star is called a pricing measure. measure. So, our initial prices equal a discount factor times the expected terminal uh time t values. Um if such a pricing measure exists then um there's no arbitrage and um let's see. Okay, so it's no arbitrage if all of the QJ stars are positive. So if this pricing measure gives positive weight to each of the underlying states, then there's no arbitrage and we say that the market is complete with no arbitrage if this pricing measure is unique. So it's uh it's an interesting set of uh properties that actually are quite um well useful to know about and these models actually underly uh uh option pricing theory and arbitrage uh relationships in quantitative finance. so um and in this single period model uh note that we have distributed there's this reference of this book by Albanese and Campoleetti uh where they go through proofs of these and they can get a bit technical but but the basic ideas I think are relatively um accessible. Now let's see moving on um to other applications of uh matrices um we can consider systems of linear equations and their solution where we basically have m equations in n unknowns. And so um the uh with these m equations um we have ax= b a b vector and um to solve such a system of equations. Well, one case where we can solve these is where our number of unknowns and number of equations are the same. And our coefficients matrix A in the system of equations has full rank. So a being square and a full rank has a determinant that's non zero and it's inverse matrix exists. And so we can actually just take our system of equations and multiply both sides by the inverse of a and get our answer. um when the number of equations is smaller than the number of unknowns then we have an undetermined system of equations. When m is greater than n is overdetermined and so forth. So these are different cases that you likely are familiar with from your study of linear algebra. Um all right uh the uh next topic in our remaining few minutes is uh let's see igen values and igen vectors. Um when we have square matrices A, uh we can consider the existence of an igen value lambda and a igen vector V such that the matrix A * V is equal to just the scalar lambda* V. So the matrix vector product just rescales V by the factor lambda. And one can solve for igen values and igen vectors by just reexpressing the igen value igen vector relationship as this system of equations. And so this system of equations will um correspond to uh let's see this system of equations will uh let's see can be solved um by saying that the determinant of a minus lambda i is equal to zero. And so um if lambda equals one of the roots of this polomial then um that lambda will be a uh an igen value and one can then for that fixed igen value uh solve for the igen vector v that satisfies that Um now uh there are properties with igen values and igen vectors that are very useful. Um you know one of which is that um the maximum value magnitude corresponds to the maximum length of av for vectors v that are of length one. Um and when we have uh a matrix A that has independent igen values or igen vectors then uh in this special case we can consider defining the matrix S to be the matrix whose columns are the different igen vectors. And if you look at this equation here, if we multiply the original matrix A by this S matrix, then each column of the product is the corresponding igen value times the corresponding igen vector. This this equation here is very straightforward from the notation above. And if we consider the inverse of this S matrix that exists if the igen vectors are linearly independent, then we can write A to be S lambda S inverse. And this representation of the matrix A also gives us the way of diagonalizing A by pre and post multiplying by S inverse and S respectively. And so with powers of a diagonalizable matrix A, they have a very nice form. We basically got cancellation of s and s inverse in the products of a times itself. And so powers of a simply are the same ve matrix s times lambda the diagonal matrix of igen values to the k power time s inverse. And so these are very uh useful in defining uh state equations and common filters. So um all right. So let me just uh I guess I'll finish there. Um there's um some interesting key theorems in the remainder of these notes. I think they're pretty readable. Um and I'll maybe point out these during our next lecture. Um but um there we are also um let's see I posted a uh an R studio program that computes uh portfolios of S&P 500 stocks and looks at the changing value over time. And so I hope people can sort of explore those programs and try to use those in the R Studio cloud.