So last time we talked about the sum troder theorem and today I want to do some digesting of what we learned. Um so on the one hand the the summary trout theorem was was um had a lot of impact both the theorem and the proof and the proof involved topology and that started a whole thing of using topology and combinotaurics and um Tom Wolf learned about it the for analyst Tom Wolf learned about it and he he brought the cell decompositions and those topological methods into fora analysis um and had a lot of impact and the theorem itself the statement is like sharp and the proof is fairly short and uh so it's really nice. Um but there are some questions that are closely related to the submar troder theorem that the proof doesn't actually tell us anything about um and so I wanted to um go through them today and and discuss why the proof doesn't tell us much about some of these related things and those those some of those things will be the main topics of the class going forward. Yeah. Okay, so I'm going to put in the board seam ready trotder theorem and proof are quite remarkable but they don't tell us uh anything about some questions that seem closely related. Okay, so number one doesn't tell us anything about projection theory in finite fields. Okay. Number two, it doesn't tell us anything about the structure of sharp examples. All right. So, we discussed a little bit last class. I mentioned the sharp examples for the sority trout theorem that we know and and it's an interesting question. If you have an example that is close to being sharp for the summary trer theorem can we say anything about its structure and it might be a little surprising but the proof of the sad trer theorem really gives no information about that and we'll talk about why okay number three so the sad tr theorem is the sharp theorem about projection theory for points sets of points in the uklidian plane in R2 finite sets in R2. Um, so you might hope that it would tell you something helpful about projection theory for sets of unit balls in R2. Um, but it says rather little about that. So it says rather little about the projection theory of unit balls in R2 um with some spacing conditions. So I'll put here with the housedorf spacer. This is also a little bit surprising. And um so Tom Wolf was really interested in analysis problems problems like this and he found the sired troder proof in the cominatorics literature which at that time were like two pretty different groups of mathematicians. um and he imported it and he tried to use it to answer questions like this and he did prove a bunch of interesting stuff but he was not able to answer this question. Um and so we'll talk about what the issue is why the why the summarated troder proof does not say all that much about this set. Okay, cool. and uh and then going forward this and this maybe this are going to be some of the main topics of our class. Oh yeah and so oh and Mimi also mentioned so you know one of the big developments that made me excited to teach the class is that there is now a sharp theorem about this proven by Orpin and Schmurkin and Ren and Wong. Um and actually it doesn't use any of the methods from the Seamaretti Troder proof. Um so anyway so we'll talk today sort of to explain why something different is needed and then we'll we'll meet the something different starting uh next class. Okay. All right. So, so why does the method that we saw Yeah. >> Um are there any other spaces like other than real space where kind of a similar uh memo to that kind of technical real splitting memo works like I know like it doesn't work for finite anything that's kind of similar enough to real. >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is the key ingredient in the in the proof we did of the summary troder theorem is this cell decomposition lema. You can cut the plane up into pieces in a way so that each line doesn't go through too many pieces. And the question was other than R2 are there some other spaces where something like this would work. Um okay so it works to at least to some extent in higher dimensions Rn. Um it uh it doesn't make any sense over FP which I was going to say in a second. Um and um it works with some modifications in CN um and um and yeah and those are all the spaces really I know where it works. Okay. Okay. So we we just sort of mentioned um so why why did these methods not work over FP? Well, we had this basic thing of like cutting a space into pieces where like the simplest thing would be like you take a line in the plane and it cuts it into two connected components, right? And um uh that just doesn't make sense in FP2. There's if you remove a line from FP2, there's no sense in which what's left over is organized into two components. Okay, so this one is not that surprising. Um, and these are a little more surprising and we I think we need to talk in some more depth to explain why we didn't learn anything about them. All right. So, let's first we'll talk about the structure of sharp examples for the ST theorem. And let me first remind you what the ST theorem says and what are the sharp examples. Uh, okay. So, the theorem was this. So I have a set X is a set of points in the plane and L is a set of lines in the plane and then we're going to count the incidences between them. Theorem says that the number of incidences between X and L is bounded by the number of points plus the number of lines plus a more complicated term. Okay. And I will just label these terms one and two and three. Okay, so a situation where where term one dominates is easy to imagine. We just need to put each point on a line. So I'll draw some lines and then each point I will put on one of these lines. Okay. So this type of example I would describe as not having any remarkable structure. Um so this is uh not rigid and there are many degrees of freedom. So there's no so I would say no special structure here. It's not rigid. Um there are many degrees of freedom. Each one of these points I can slide freely along this line. So I have at least x degrees of freedom. All right. Now, example, the situation where two dominates, the picture is a little bit different, but it's similar. Um, so to have L incences, I just need that each line goes through a point. So there's a few points. I put them anywhere. And then I'm going to draw my lines. And each line it will go through one of these points. So it just looks like Oops. looks like that. Sometimes called the stars example. Okay. And again, there's no special structure. It's not rigid. There are many degrees of freedom. I can rotate this line and so okay. And then example three when this term dominates those are harder to come by and they have more structure and they're more interesting. So the known examples are an integer grid integer grid or uh instead of the integers you could take a ring like a ring in a number field this time kind of grid or more generally you could take an R grid where R is the ring of integers. and a number fit. Okay. Um draw a little picture. All right. So this is the scenario where the the known examples have structure. Um we have structure in the known examples and we have very few degrees of freedom to determine these examples. >> Cool. Okay. Were there any questions or comments? >> Yeah. If you embed R2 into the real projective plane, there's like a duality that takes lines in the real projective plane to points and switches points with lines and it preserves intersections. >> And it seems to me like the first two classes of example are kind of dual when you do that. Is the third class of examples like self duel if you do that kind of uh switching lines and points? >> Yeah. Okay. That's a great question. Let me just repeat it for everybody. So there's a structure called point line duality. Um so it's probably nicest to explain it in the um uh in the projector space, but let me say it in a low brown way. In a low brow way. So if I have a line y, I can probably write it as y = mx + b. In other words, um, and let me do this is a little sound a little silly, but I'm going to write as mx minus b. Why not? Okay, so in other words, the line is 0 = mx - b minus y. Okay. So if I have a set of points it would be you know x1 y1 xn yn points. If I have a set of lines, they might be M1 B1 and then M um L B L if I have L lines. And um if I want to count incidences, I consider a different point, different line and I check this equation. And this equation is actually symmetric if you replace if you switch the role of MB and the role of XY. So I can turn my points into lines and turn my lines into points. So this is symmetric. If I take MB and switch it with XY. Okay. So as student pointed out if you take this example and then you apply point line duality you get this example. So this line here became that point these points became those lines and so on. So these two examples are dual to each other. All right. Now the question was if you take this example and you apply point line duality what do you get? Yeah. Um and um you actually do get something different. Um so so you can apply point line duality right all right so to to think about what would happen if we did this I won't do it in complete detail but but let's sort of take a first step um so when I do that each one of these lines will become a point and the uh the point will be labeled like m. So the the xcoordinate of our point will be the slope. So who were the slopes of these lines? Well, when we constructed them, the slopes were rational numbers with small denominators. So those will be the x coordinates. They'll be rational numbers with small denominators. And then for each x coordinate, the y-coordinates will be the different b values. So the different, you know, the places where it hits the y- axis. And you can compute that with a little work. um and you get a set which is not a grid actually. It's not an integer grid. So you know the set of rationals with small denominators that's not uh um I say it's not um integer multiples of one number. Uh so it is actually a genuinely different example when you switch the the points and the lines. Yeah. So that's great. Um and the other thing we mentioned last time is that we can apply projective transformations. Okay. Um so this list of examples is a little bit messy. There are a few of them but it's a little bit messy. And that perhaps has contributed to making it feel daunting to prove that all the examples look like one of these. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Great. Great question. Okay. So, um, so next I thought that we would go over a bit the proof of the sum theorem with an eye towards what does it tell us about the structure of sharp examples and unfortunately we'll see tells us very little but but it's good to see it. Okay, so the first step in the proof was a double counting argument and a double counting argument proved a weaker upper bound for the number of incidences which was this Um and that double counting argument has a corlary which is perhaps easier to say and the correlary is actually the only thing you really need to prove the summary troder theorem. The correlary says that if the number of lines is more than the number of points squared then the number of incidences is just bounded by the number of lines which is in other words it matches the case two over here. The picture looks like this where a typical line just goes through one of the points. Okay, cool. Um, so actually that's I didn't emphasize that last time, but that's a nice thing to say because this coralary is maybe easier to hold in our mind than the whatever the exponents are up there. Okay, so now the next idea was this uh cell decomposition idea. Um so let me draw an example for some ready troder and then I'll draw the cell decomposition and we'll talk about how it's helping us. Okay. So I'll have a set of points like that might it might be an integer grid and then I have some lines here. um lines at those slopes, lines at these slopes, okay? Etc. And then we will do a cell decomposition. Those are our cells. It's our cell wall. And here are our our cells. O subi. Okay. So let's say xi is x intersected with oi and li is the set of lines so that l intersect o y is not empty. And um what we what we can can do with the cell decomposition is that we we choose our cell decomposition fine enough. So the cell decomposition has a parameter s. Um there's a parameter s and in terms of this parameter um x i is like x over s^2. So there you can think of there being s squared cells and the points are distributed evenly among them and li is at most x over s and in sharp examples this would be an equality. Okay. Um, so what we do is we do the cell decomposition fine enough so that li is bigger than xi squared and then we use the correlate. Okay. So why does this not help us very much? Uh why does this not help very much to understand the structure? So what what we're going to what we've done here is we've cut our original we've cut our space into cells and we're going to look one cell at a time. In each cell we see a ton of lines and not that many points. And then by double counting we can deduce that in each cell we have this bound. Um so we use our corlary it says that the number of incidences between x i and li is at most around l. So within each cell uh a typical line is only hitting one point within the cell. So this divide and conquer argument, we're cutting space up into cells and then we're thinking about them one at a time. And doing that simplifies our life because we have some we've broken our problem into smaller problems and we just think about them one at a time. And we understand each smaller problem well enough to bound the total number of incidences. But um we are not paying attention to any possible sort of interaction between these cells. Um and the the structure is all about the interaction between the cells. Um so you know a given a given line in our story is actually uh appearing in many different cells. And so there's some relationship about between what's going on in this cell and what's going on in that cell. And in our proof, we're not trying to understand or exploit that relationship. We're just looking at the cells one at a time. Anyway, so the only structure that the proof gives us is that within each cell, you see some points and you each you see some lines and each line only goes through one point within the cell, which is not yet a rigid structure at all. And that's all that the proof gives us. Okay. Any questions or comments about that? Um so so I have been wondering about this question of uh of structure of sharp examples and I thought of a direction that you know that could that pe people were interested people could pursue as a project and I wanted to put it out there. So take 10 or 15 minutes to share like a project idea of um of some I don't know sort of smaller problems that would might build up towards understanding this. So here was my thought. Um okay so first of all the the this general incidence theorem implies a projection theorem. The projection theorem is more specialized and I think it might be easier to understand the sharp examples for the projection theorem. Um, okay. So, I called it a theorem last time. We could also call it a corlary. So, X is contained in R2 is a finite set. D is a set of directions. Um and then um s of xd is the maximum over all of the directions of the size of pi theta of x. And um the way I've stated the theorem before is that the number of directions is at most 1 + s^2 over the number of points. But algebraically it's equivalent to say the following thing. If the number of directions is at least two, then s is at least x to the 12 d to the 12. That's just algebra. The case where the number of directions is just one is not very interesting. If you're only projecting in one direction, it could easily happen that the projection has only one point. Okay. So this is a very special case of this. In this case, what are the lines? The set of lines are all of the lines that are in these directions and pass through at least one of these points. So that's a very particular way of choosing the lines and there are not as many sharp examples. So taking one of these grids and then um taking a a a set a set of directions that are rational numbers with small numerators and denominators. That's a sharp example for this. I think if you apply point line duality that it it's still a sharp example for summary trotder but I don't think it is a projection example anymore. Um so let's see. So being so being a projection example means that for every point all of the lines going through it have the same set of slopes. Those are the directions we're projecting. So if I applied point line duality that would mean that for every line um uh the set of xcoordinates where it intersects a point would be the same and and that's not true here. Maybe it's better. You may have check on your own. But so I so I claim if you if you apply point line duality, you don't anymore have an example with this projection structure. Also, if you apply a projective transformation, then you will ruin the fact that there were parallel lines here. Um so that the directions the direct you know after projective transformation lines that used to point in the same direction won't point in the same direction anymore. So that won't be a projective example either. So the class of known sharp examples is smaller which makes it a little more hopeful that we could understand it. It is actually just grids over number fields. Okay. Now once we set the problem up this way, you could imagine fixing the set D in advance and then just for that set of projections considering different sets X and seeing what happens. And so you get actually lots of different problems depending on what set of directions you fix. So let's write that down. All right. So for any set D, S subd of N be the minimum over any set of end points of um SXD which remember what that is. So it's the minimum over any set of points of the maximum over these different projections of pi theta of x. Okay. So yeah. So so in my opinion for any set d that you write down it's interesting to try to estimate this. So now we have lots and lots of questions and most of those questions have not been investigated all that much. Uh okay. Now in the in the sharp examples that we know about who is D in the known sharp examples the set D is uh rational numbers with small numerators and denominators. uh or um rational fractions in some other ring. So this is a ring of integers in a in a number field. And then I'll say this just more informally. A and b are small. So maybe the number field are things of the form a1 plus square of 2 a2 and a1 and a2 are small integers. Okay. So in all the known sharp examples these are the sets of directions and they have quite a lot of algebraic structure. And so we could ask the question if we fix a set of directions that does not have so much algebraic structure then can we get a better estimate? All right. Okay. Um so let's think about um you know we we begin with the simplest problem that we can. Um so let's take just a few directions, two directions, three directions, four directions. All right. So, um remark there is some um linear transformation symmetry in this problem. Right? So, if I start with the configuration of points and some directions, I can apply a linear change of variables to R2. I'll get a new configuration of points and I'll get some new directions, but it's it'll be the same problem just in new coordinates. Um so uh up to symmetry if you take just three directions um then you there there's only one choice up to symmetry. So the set of directions ah okay actually let me say something else. So okay so up to symmetry if there are three directions then there's only one choice. Um, okay. Let me make a comment about how to write down the directions. I actually already was using it without uh without explaining it properly. So, this is the list of slopes of the directions, right? Okay. Um, so so let's describe our our projections as pi t of x1 x2 is x1 + t * x2. Right? So for this this investigation, this t is more or less the slope of the projection. And that is a more convenient thing to talk about than the angle in radians. And and that was what we were writing up here. Okay. So um uh cool. So for example, pi 0 of x1 x2 would just be x1. And the other simplest projection would be just to take x2 and that doesn't quite fit into this notation. But um there's a convention that we'll call that pi infinity. Pi infinity of x1 x2 is just x and then all the you know all the other ones will be t will be a real number. Okay. So, so if d equals 3 um then without loss of generality d might be 0 1 and infinity. Okay. And um Um, all right. So, let me copy down what the samurai troder theorem says for comparison. says for any set D uh S subd of N is at least D to the 12 N to the 12 as long for as long as there are at least two points. Um so if D is 01 infinity or any set of three ele three slopes because it's all the same um this is sharp. Um for instance that you could take an n byn integer grid or n half by n the half integer grid. Okay. So there's nothing new for three directions. Let's go to four directions. Okay. By using our symmetry we can arrange that the first three directions are 0 1 and infinity. and there'll be a fourth direction t and t could be any real number. So we have one degree of freedom how we would choose four directions. So on and the one extreme we could choose t to be like a half or two and this so this would be rational with a small size and then the other extreme we could say that t t might be a transcendental number and somewhere in the middle we would have roo2 or like a big rational number like a thousand or something like that. Okay. Now in this case um uh the theorem is sharp that so the example that we have with four directions the the four directions would be these and in this case let's question what would happen so let me write a specific question so question if t so if E is 0 1 infinity and T where T is transcendental. Then is it true that SD of N is bounded by N to the 12. So it's at least N to the 1/2. If the theorem is sharp, it would be approximately n to the half. But if the theorem is not sharp and we can improve it, it might be bigger than this. My best guess is that it's bigger than this. And I played around a little bit with examples and I can show you the uh best example that I can find. Okay. Okay. So example let me say that P ks is the set of polomials in this transcendental number t. So a 0 + a1 t + a k minus1 t the k minus one. So they're degree k polomials and the a's are integers and they have size up to s. So let's say so that guy is going to kind of play the role like integers from one up to s um in in that that would have worked well if we had a rational slope. Okay. So now our set s is going to be pks times pks. K and s of course are parameters. So we can play with them and sort of see what's optimal. So the size of X is S to the 2K. The size of this thing is S to the K. We have K choices and S S choices for each of AI. Okay. Now what happens when we project X? Pi 0 of X projection onto the first coordinate is just PKS and pi infinity of X is projection onto the second coordinate that's just PKS. Those are quite small. Best we could hope for really. Now what is pi one of X? Pi one of X is I take an element of here and I add it to an element of here. So I'm going to add this set to itself. When I take two of these polomials and add them together, I get a new polomial and I just add the coefficients. So the new constant the old um the the constant coefficient was between 0 and s minus one and I add up two of those. The sum is between zero and 2s basically. So pi 1 of x is contained in p k comma 2s and it's pretty much equal to that. All right. Now what happens if I take pi t of x? Well pi t of x means I'm going to take x1 which is in here and I'm going to add it to t * x2. x2 lives in here. I'm going to multiply it by t and add it to x1. Right? All right. And this is it's this is the most important one. And these were designed to make this reasonably small. So what's going to happen? Um well t * x2 is going to be a polomial like this. But it will have degree k instead of k minus one. And then I will add it to x1 which is a polomial like this. when I put them together I'll get a polomial of degree K and the coefficients will be up to 2s. So this is contained in P k + 1 2s and this one is the largest of the four projections. It's a bit smaller than this but I doubt that it matters very much. So let's just think of it as being about this big. So s is the size of the biggest projection. This one is the biggest projection. And that is roughly um 2s to the k + one. All right. So let me digest it a little bit. It's 2 to the k + one. The plus one doesn't matter very much. and then s and then s to the k. S to the k is the square root of x. That's our sort of what we're shooting for. We're trying to get as as close as we can to the square root of x. It's 2 to the k um and there's x to the 12. And then there's an s here. And the s is the size of x to the 1 / 2 k. Okay, so I want to try to get as close to this as I can. So I want to minimize this thing. So now we're going to choose K to minimize it. K should also be an integer, but that's not a not a big issue. Cool. Okay. Well, if I want to minimize this product, at least roughly, the thing to do is to make this one equal to this one. So, let's set 2 the k to be equal to x^ the 1 / 2k. And now we'll solve for k. First, I raise both sides to the 2k power. So, I get 2 to the 2k^ 2 is x. Now, I'll take the logarithm of both sides. So 2 k^2 is the logarithm base 2 of x. And now I'll solve for k. And there's some constants that uh let's not worry about too much. So k is k is equal to some constant time the log of x to the 12. Okay. So now how big was this thing? It's uh either one of these things are equal to each other. And this one is maybe easier to understand. It's two to that. So our s uh subd of this set x is like um e to a constant log of x to the 12 x to the 12. All right. So asmtoically as the size of x goes to infinity this thing is smaller than x to the 0.51. But it's also you know this thing is bigger than any constant. It is going to infinity. So it's also not less less some x to the 1/2. Okay, so this was just one example. S subd of N. Um, so this tells us that S subd of N is less than E to a constant log of N to the 12 N to the 12. And this by definition is the minimum over all the possible sets X of size N. And this was just one of them. Um but I think it's plausible that this is the this is the one with smallest projections. Okay. So so plausibly that gives a sense of how thing for for four directions how do things change when you go from a the from a transcendental thing on the one side to a very nice rational slope on the other side. Okay, cool. And that I mean that's sort of the beginning of an investigation. Of course, we could have more directions. Um, so we have many questions. Yeah. So, four directions is already complicated enough to be interesting. Um, but wow, we could also have many directions and so we would have lots more questions. So, more questions. Um, so maybe D is 0, one, and infinity. And then a bunch more directions. So we have r directions and the you know the the sharp example these guys were rational numbers or rational numbers in some field and with small heights. Um the opposite of that would be um maybe t1 up to tr are algebraically independent over q. So they're each transcendental but even more than that there's no algebraic relation among all of them. This would be sort of the most transcendental situation. Um so then how does this behave? Um and then there's stuff in the middle. So maybe these guys could live in a field extension of Q which is like pretty complicated. And so potentially there could be an interaction between algebraic number theory where is a discipline that describes like who are the field extensions of Q. How do you think about them? Um with projection theory. Cool. So people coming into the class have different backgrounds. I'm not sure if there's anyone who does number theory and algebraic number theory. Um but um anyway, so so this is a possible project. In the weeks ahead, we'll be talking more about different different types of projects and everybody can pick out something that they want to work on for their final project for the class. Cool. Okay. Any other qu any questions or comments about about this? This is my my stab at having some warm-up questions to that that lead towards thinking about um the structure of sharp examples for summary trotder. >> From what you're saying, you expect that you can prove something stronger for this case where everything is algebraically independent. >> Yeah, if I had to guess, so I think the question is what do I guess is true? Um if I had to guess, I would guess that there are um there are sorry this should be s subd of n. There are much stronger lower bounds for this than the than this already trotder. If these are all trans this is a if there are no algebraic relations there. Yeah. So for you know for this setup you could make a class of examples that is kind of like this class but instead of having polomials in just one thing T there would be polinomials in T1 up to TR. Um, and I don't know if you could count the total degree or I'm not sure. Anyway, so there's some some example you could get your hands on and I think it's plausible that that's the sharp example and I think it's plausible the bounds are much stronger than the general summarity tryer bound and I would be really interested to or I could be wrong also but I would be really interested in in either case. Okay. So um let's circle back to our class outline. So the summarated trder proof uh doesn't tell us much about projection theory for finite fields. We'll talk more about that next class. It doesn't tell us much about the structure of sharp examples for the semirder theorem over the reals. We just talked about that. And it doesn't tell us very much about projection theory for unit balls. So let's talk about this one. This is perhaps the central topic in our class. And let's see what the problem is. Why um you know this complete elegant solution of the projection problem for points in R2 doesn't tell us very much about the projection problem for unit balls in R2. All right. So first um let's recall what is what is the projection problem for unit balls and what is house spacing. Uh all right. So set up. All right. Let me write. All right. So X is now a set of unit balls in the ball of radius R in R2. And D is a set of directions. So I'm going to think of it as a subset of the circle. Um and it their directions are 1 / r separated because otherwise they would be sort of equivalent from the point of view of projecting some unit balls in BR. All right. S of XD is the largest projection. All right. And this symbol is now doing double duty. and we're thinking of it as the length of the projection. Okay. So, so we, so we'd like to understand how these things behave. Um, but besides looking at this cardality of X and the cardality of D, we're also going to pay attention to their spacing. So, n subx of r is the maximum of x intersected with a ball of radius little r with any center. So it's the maximum over this center and n subd of row is the maximum of d intercept gamma where gamma is an arc of length row in the circle. So this describes how x and d are packed at smaller scales or how they're spaced. Um so hidorf spacing means that x is around r to the alpha for some pre parameter alpha and n subx of little r is bounded by little r to the alpha. That's how direct spacing for x. How's our spacing for the directions would be the number of directions is r to the beta and um nd of little r over big r is bounded by little r to the beta. Okay, so this informally says that the balls of x are not kind of packed too much into a smaller ball and the directions are not kind of packed too much into a smaller direction into a small band of directions. um you know these exact conditions it's not the only conditions one might be interested in. It's not the only spacing condition that might be interesting to think about, but it's one of the most popular ones. And it has it has sort of turned out that the most interesting math has come up by trying to understand these conditions. And they come up they come up naturally in some points of view even though they're also I will argue that other spacing conditions are helpful to consider sometimes. So that's housed door spacing. Um and um the analog of the summary trotder problem is going to be try to understand this if x and d have house door spacing. So question if x and d have house door spacing. Wow. Let me put up a conjecture which is even now a theorem. Um then d is less s^2 x + one. Okay. So this was an old conjecture and now it's a theorem proven by orin and merkin and red and wong. Um and it's totally analogous to the semi troder projection theorem for finite point sets. But the proof of the semi rider theorem doesn't help very much to prove this thing. Okay. So what goes wrong? Um okay. So um so let's try to use the cell decomposition method. So here's X Actually, let me back up a second. Um, so to see what goes wrong, it helps to remember how the cell decomposition method worked for the original semir Troder theorem, which we did go over, but let me go over it in the context of this projection theorem. And so you can see how it looks there, so that we'll be able to compare. Um, all right. I do realize that this is maybe the third time that we have outlined the proof of this ever troder theorem with the cell decompositions, but well really good pieces of math. It's okay to see a few times. All right. So sketch of ST proof um ST projection proof using um cell decompositions. Okay. So we have a set X of points. So here's X and then I cut it into cells and X I is X intersect OI. I'm going to do my cell decomposition and it has a parameter uh which I I called S before but I'm going to call it sigma now because we have this other letter S and uh it gets confusing. So the size of X I is like X over sigma squ. Okay. Um, now we're gonna draw all the so the set L our lines are going to be all the lines through X with a slope in D. And when we just look at this cell, we're still doing the projections in all the same directions. We have the same D. Um, okay. Yeah, let me write down our so D. So, DI is the same as D. Okay. And then, um, we have a a double counting observation. And the double counting observation says that if the number of directions is bigger than the number of points, maybe twice the number of points, um, then s should be at least around the number of points. And the reason for that is that if you have this many directions and a typical point for most of the directions you're projecting it cannot hit any other point. So in most directions when you project a point. So we have this point we have a handful of other points but then we're going to project this point in many directions. So there okay so we have let's say we have more than twice as many directions as points if I draw a lines in different in these different directions through my base point most of those lines won't hit any other point so when I look at this projection this will be the only point over here and so in this situation most of the time um the points don't land on top of each other when you do projections. And so this size of the projection is around the same as the size of the set. Okay. Um okay, great. So now L are all of the lines that go through X with slope in D. And each line only goes through a small fraction of the cells. So, so um so LI, so LI would be the lines that go through OI and for a typical cell li would be smaller than L over sigma. So now what we do is we cut up our picture into small enough cells that in each cell the number of directions is bigger than the number of points. So we choose sigma so that x over sigma squared is smaller than half of the number of directions. Um and so then we get that si is bigger than xi which is x over sigma squ. Um okay and from that we can compute um um so I say this so s * d is the number of lines and that's bigger than sigma times the number of lines through a typical cell which is like sigma time the number of directions times the size of a projection for a particular cell. So then in in each cell the number of lines is the number of directions times the size of a projection. Uh okay. And SI is bigger than XI. So that's bigger than sigma * D * um X over sigma^ 2. That's X * D / sigma. and sigma is dictated here. So if you plug in the value of sigma, you get that this is x to the 12 d to the three halves and you cancel the d's and and that's the lower bound. Okay. So algebra aside, what is happening is that we do this cell decomposition and we cut things up finely enough so that within this cell the number of directions is bigger than the number of points in this cell. Then we know that a typical line only goes through one point and then we count everything up and some ready troder falls out. What goes wrong when we try to do this for unit bus? All right. So if the set X has an alpha dimensional spacing condition, then you should visualize it as being something like a caner set. So I tried to draw that here. So now we can partition it. We do our cell decomposition. we have sigma squared cells. Sigma is a parameter. So x i is x intersected with oi. So here it is. And um well we'd like to think of this as a smaller version of our original problem. And our original problem was about unit balls in a bigger ball. So actually we need to know how big is this bigger ball. Let's call it a ball of radius little r. Now it won't necessarily happen. We don't know for sure that x i is organized into one ball like this. But that is the that could happen and it's the most important case. So let's just imagine that each of these xis lives in one ball like this. Okay. Now, we're going to think of this problem. In our original problem, we had a set of directions and we needed them to be one over r separated because two directions that are too close together, they look equivalent. And now that we have this smaller ball, our set of directions are not one over little r separated. So, here's the key point. set of directions is 1 / r separated but it is not one over little r separated. All right. So if we if you think of it in terms of the fibers of the projection map you would see some twos. So maybe that maybe this is one of our directions. And you see that the there there's a fiber that is a tube with a lot of points in it. And maybe there's another direction in our projection um that looks something like that. This is a different noticeably different direction if you're looking at the big ball and it has a different set of points in it. But if you're looking just within this cell, these two tubes or these two directions are indistinguishable. Okay. So, in order to study our original problem, in order to study what's going on within this cell, we can't really use all of these directions. We only have to we have to use the inequivalent ones. So d is um let's say d so let's say that theta 1 is equivalent to theta 2 if theta 1 minus theta 2 is less than 1 / r and then d is going to be d up to equivalence. This is not exactly an equivalence relation, but anyway, we we pick a subset of the directions so that there's only one of them in each one over R arc. Maybe it's better to say that. Let me see. So we choose di inside of D. So that um uh so that DI intersect an arc smaller than one for each arc gamma in the circle of length 1 / R. And now we have a smaller set of directions. Okay. So, double counting double counting still helps still uh uh works well. If it were to happen that DI was bigger than Xi, that's still true, just like before. But the key difference between the original problem and this version with um unit balls is that in the original problem when we looked at a smaller piece of it in the cell oi we had many fewer points but we still had the same number of directions. So if the cell was small enough the number of points in the cell would drop below the number of directions and then double counting would give a very good bound. But now when I go into a smaller cell, I have fewer points, but I also have fewer directions. And so it's not clear whether I'm making any progress. Um to check whether you're making progress, you have to write down carefully how these things are changing. Um and um I won't do the whole computation, but I will tell you what happens. So if x and d are housedorf and uh so x is r to the alpha so x is alpha dimensional and d is r to the beta d is beta dimensional then what you'll find is that x i is little r to the alpha so the radius little r would depend on how much we chop things up. If I take a finer cell decomposition, little r will get smaller. So it's essentially a free parameter that I can choose. Xi will be like little r to the alpha and d will be little r to the beta. So if alpha was bigger than beta initially, so I had many more points than directions, which is the interesting case. After I look at a smaller cell, alpha will still be bigger than beta. So I still have many more points than directions. Um so I won't ever get to a place where I can apply this double counting. Okay. Now having said that I think there are some situations where where this method would give something new and interesting. Uh so in particular when we did this computation it was predicated on having equalities here and if we had strong inequalities here then something more favorable would happen and we might get uh an interesting estimate. I don't think this has ever been written down carefully. So Tom Wolf tried really hard to understand this and I'm sure he thought through everything that I just presented but I guess the answers didn't turn out sufficiently sort of positive for him to write it up as a paper and I don't think anyone else has really systematically done it. So also it could be a good project to see how much does cell decomposition tell us. Okay. Now there is also an example that's worth mentioning um why being able to cut things into pieces um that doesn't necessarily let us I should say okay so so this was so okay so there's also an example that matches the story that I was just telling about how this proof would go um and the example goes back to the beginning of the class when we were noticing when we were doing projection theory in finite fields that it makes a difference whether you have a prime field or whether you have a field with sub fields and that is also true for um for this problem that's on the board here. It's different over the real numbers versus the complex numbers because the complex numbers have a nice sub field the real numbers. So let me end by mentioning that example. Are there actually are there any questions or comments before I before I do that last example? Okay. So end the class. I'll mention this example over the complex numbers. Okay. So in this setup, X is a set of unit balls in the ball of radius R in C2. Um so this ball you can think of C2 for the moment as being R4. So this ball has a volume which is like R 4th. Okay. Now we're going to consider some projections and I think a good way to write it is pi t of z1 z2 is z1 + t z2. So in this story z1 and z2 and t are all complex numbers. So these are complex projections and they're parameterized by a complex number t which maybe we can think of as being in the unit ball. So d is contained in the unit ball in the space of complex numbers and it's 1 / r separated. Okay. And then we can define sxd and nxr and nd row and housedorf. As usual, all those definitions translate in a straightforward way to the complex setting. Okay. And now the example basically is that the set X is basically R2 the real points and the set of directions are going to be the real directions. So X is a set of unit balls with centers in R2 and they're sitting in the ball of radius R. So the size of X would be like R 2 R 2 kind of real balls among R to the 4th complex balls. And our set of directions are going to be um is going to be contained in the real part of the ball and they're one over r separated. So our set of directions will have size r. Okay. So now if I take a real point z1 z1 and z2 are real and I take a real projection so t is real then that will be real. So the um all of the projections of all of the centers of the balls will be real. The balls are still complex so they stick out a little bit in the imaginary direction but not very much. So if I take uh so if t is in d and I take pi t of x, what does it look like? Here's the complex plane. Here's a ball of radius R and it will look like this. And this height will only be one because this will consist of lots of unit balls whose centers are real. So we can conclude that S of XD is around R. Okay, so this example badly violates this conjecture showing that the conjecture is not true over the complex numbers. Um, and this example so and you know we had some simpler things that we did know how to prove over the reals. Uh, we had double counting and we had the forier method. Those work over the complex numbers and this example is sharp for both of those things. Um and um in this example you do kind of have so so you could ask you know are there cell decompositions over the complex numbers? It's a slightly tricky question. Um you know the way we built cell decompositions did look special for the real numbers because we took a variety a real a real you know the zero set of a polinomial and cut it out and that decomposed space into pieces. And here we're working over the complex numbers. If you take the zero set of a complex polomial and cut it out, it does not divide space into pieces. If you take the zero set of a real polinomial and cut it out, it does divide space into pieces, but it doesn't necessarily interact well with complex projections. Um, but in spite of that, there is with work a decent cell decomposition theory over C. And the main thing is that it's easy to see that for this particular example, you could divide it into pieces in a nice way by hand and the pieces would have all the properties of the cell decomposition uh that that you would that you would have in R2. Okay. So that goes to show that even even though this theorem looks a lot like the semi troder theorem and we have a proof of the semi troder theorem, we're going to need to approach this theorem very differently. because the cell decomposition method applies equally well to this example which is a counter example too you know which is which does not match our theorem. Um so to make progress towards this we have to think about the issue of whether a seal field field has sub fields and things like that um and try to take advantage of that to improve the bounds over over something like this.