All right, I guess we'll get started. Um, let's see. I wanted to just uh finish up some discussion of topics from linear algebra that um we didn't get to the last math lecture. And um to begin with, I think we did cover this topic of igen values and igen vectors. Um these uh linear algebra concepts turn out to be very very useful in a number of different uh applications. But um when we have an igen value and igen vector uh pair then for a matrix A that has an igen vector V then the matrix vector product is simply a rescaling of that same vector. So matrix multiplication when we use igen or matrix vector multiplication when we use igen vectors is very simple. We're just rescaling the input. Um and in order to solve for igen values and igen vectors one can solve this equation where the two are equal. And when we solve this equation um we want the roots of the sort of determinant equation to equal zero. Um this means that um these are the igen values which make this matrix factor a minus i lambda uh non-invertible. So with a matrix if that matrix has a determinant that is in or has is if that matrix is invertible then uh the determinant of the matrix is non zero and the inverse is actually functions of different determinant co-actors. Um so in order for V to not be zero which would be the case if this matrix were invertible uh we must have the lambda satisfying this equation. And this system of equations um is a polomial in lambda or at least the determinant equaling zero corresponds to a polomial in lambda equaling zero. So these things can be solved very directly. Uh actually in R you can actually compute the roots of any polomial very easily. And then once we've solved for a root lambda then we can solve the equations for what the V vector is that satisfies that. Now let me put this in here. Um okay it turns out that um if we have independent igen vectors then we can linearly independent igen vectors. Um then we can comprise those as columns of a matrix S and the matrix A multiplied by this S matrix will simply be the matrix of multiples of the igen vector. So s lambda lambda is a diagonal matrix and the inverse matrix of s will exist so long as we have independent igen vectors. And so this equation here can be used to obtain a is s lambda s inverse. Alternatively s inverse a s is equal to lambda. So these igen vectors uh when comprising a matrix uh allow us to uh diagonalize a uh matrix A. Now um let's see all right so IGEN values vectors can come into play when we have equations for common filters. Um if our matrix A uh is transforming states at time t minus one into states at time t and this the dynamics of this process uh proceed regularly over time increments given by t. Then we simply have the teeth transition from state zero is given by the teeth power of a. Um and uh we can actually get explicit solutions then which end up giving us um let's see at least if our igen vectors v1 through vn are linearly independent then if we have an initial condition u not we can express that initial condition as a linear combination of the igen vector vectors and then we can represent the transition over t periods to have this form and it ends up just being a sum of multiples of the igen vectors uh with the coefficients being powers of the igen values. So in looking at this mathematically one can see that if the igen values lambda 1 to lambda n are smaller than one in magnitude then this sort of limiting state transition goes to a zero vector. If the one of the igen values is equal to one, then this term here won't change with each transition. And so we'll have a limiting value of the state that corresponds to a multiple of the first igen vector. And so um what's interesting to anticipate is that there will be different kinds of problems we work with where the igen values may actually uh be such that the largest igen value is equal to one and uh the other igen values are smaller than one in magnitude and so we can get nice uh analytic representations for the transition of the states. All right. Well, um, from linear algebra courses, you probably remember that if we have a symmetric real matrix, so if this matrix here is n byn and it's symmetric and it's real, uh, then all of the igen values of this matrix are real as well. And if we have two distinct igen values then the igen vectors corresponding to those two values are orthogonal to each other. So if we have a v1 equals lambda 1 v1 and a v2 is equal to lambda 2 v2 um then it turns out that v1 do v2 is equal to zero. Um and uh you know this is useful at least if we're with linear algebra we often want to uh represent multi-dimensional vectors in terms of some basis. And so um if we think of our matrix A equaling a vector A1 A2 up to A N. Um if the matrix A has full rank, then these columns of A are linearly independent. And we could use these column vectors as a basis for the n-dimensional space. So, so if the rank of a is equal to n, then um the collection of a j's j equaling one to n forms a basis. And if we have a matrix A that maybe is symmetric but has en values that are all distinct, then we actually could have so if A is symmetric and all the EEN values are distinct Then the collection of igen vectors VJ J equaling 1 to uh N. This would correspond to an orthogonal basis. And so when representing n vectors, it's convenient to represent them in a coordinate system that has sort of orthogonal axes in it. Um now what's interesting is that um when a is symmetric and real um the uh all the igen values are real. It turns out that there exists an orthogonal set of igen vectors in that general case. So um so that can be very useful. Um all right. Well uh a very important linear algebra result is the singular value decomposition. And let me just ask how many people here have covered singular value decompositions? Just about everybody. Okay. So who would like to explain to me uh what or explain to the class what a singular value decomposition is? So let me write this maybe as the singular value decomposition in my notation. So who would like to explain what this is? Anybody? >> Yes. expresses the matrix A as a sum of orthogonal run one matrices. >> So um U is such that U transpose U is equal to say the identity it has orthogonal columns. Um V is the same thing and D is a diagonal. And so um what's important is that any matrix can be expressed as the factor of a V transpose which is an orthogonal matrix that will sort of transform coordinate axes to new axes that are orthogonal in the same space. And then D is a diagonal down to D well I'll write D R where um the uh we basically are stretching and squeezing axes and then u is simply has columns that define a new basis or a new vector space and we're taking sums of those. So, so it's interesting to represent any matrix as this um operator which will sort of or do an orthogonal transformation of axes stretch and squeeze in that transformed space and then use those to uh multiply uh new coordinate vectors u. Now to um if if we take sort of any uh let's say here an M byN A and it's often the case that we have maybe m cases in a data set and n variables and so this corresponds to a data matrix for an analysis of some data. Um if we take a transpose a then this is a symmetric real matrix and so this actually um can be diagonalized to v d^2 vtranspose where I'm representing the igen values as they're the squared d values and the uh igen vectors as columns of v. And so one can sort of construct this do the igen value igen vector decomposition here and then we can take the matrix A premultiply by V and um or not premultiply post multiply by V and post multiply by D inverse and this will basically be our U matrix. Now all of this is a bit casual with my notation. Um the number of sort of nonzero diagonal entries here can be limited to the rank count of the matrix A. And so um you know that's the way it uh can play out. So we basically have nonzero values of aranspose a there will be are the rank nonzero values. um we can define the orthogonal orthonormal igen vectors corresponding to those and then if we want to sort of expand the orthonormal basis of the first rig vectors to be an n-dimensional uh basis um although they essentially aren't used um and uh so that gives us our uh singular decomposition. And it turns out that in dealing with um data in a matrix, um the singular value decomposition allows us to reduce dimensionality. Perhaps there's variation in the data values that is limited to a subspace of rank two or three. And so we can identify and specify that uh subspace easily with the singular value decompositions. All right. Um let's see. Okay. So in these notes I refer to a reduced SVD. Um what's rather interesting as a decomposition of the matrix A is that it's a sum of R terms where R is the rank of the matrix. And those R terms are the products of the column vectors of U times the column vector transpose of V respectively um with the singular value sigma 1 through sigma R. So it's um provides a nice way of uh thinking of a matrix. It's simply a sum of rank one terms. Okay. Um let's see these lecture notes on linear algebra finishes with the coron uh frobinius theorem and this theorem relates to matrices that are square with positive strictly positive elements. And so with such matrices the theorem states that there is an igen value a real value lambda kn that is bigger than any in magnitude than any other igen values and corresponding to this igen value lambda kn we can define an igen vector v which has elements that are all positive as well. And uh this lambda knot value the largest one is alone in terms of all other values are smaller in magnitude and this result turns out to be uh very useful um in working with positive matrices. The notes here go through the proof of that. Um I guess they're included here if we wanted to sort of get into technical proofs of uh linear algebra. Um and I don't want to do that. Uh let's see. I finished the these notes with just some mention of different news sources that you should consider uh exploring with uh in finance and uh with well there's Yahoo Finance which is where we can easily collect price data. Um but you should know that the Wall Street Journal is um there are you can get a free subscription with that through uh your Keraros password or ID rather. So so that's very useful and then there are a number of other sites that uh you may may find useful. Now um let's see when uh let's see in our very first lecture um let's see I indicated um how we could use our studio to collect data plot time series of different stocks or other assets. And in this lecture two, I distributed um this uh workspace which has uh our scripts um and output for looking at uh portfolios of stocks and considering sort of equal weighted portfolios with different uh components in the equal weights. And so with uh let's see if you go to uh the rcloud uh our studio cloud project. Um so with R Studio cloud um or maybe it's cloud R studio um one can um upload different u our programs in this uh in this project and so I don't has anyone in class yet used our our Studio Cloud for any of the examples. I I'd like some I'd like everyone to at least be capable of doing that and uh I'd like sort of proof that it actually works with students doing it. So um it would be great for some of you to uh to consider that. What's what's nice about this um environment is that I can give you an R program and it should run just by saying run. you don't have to install anything. And uh let's see with this output um let's see there's one program called script SP500 and there's a table of contents for this R script which says it loads libraries then collects stock prices and then saves the workspace. So the commands are all very simple in here. Um and uh and then let's see with the equal weighted portfolios script it actually loads libraries and loads the data set of stock prices that was just downloaded in the other program and it uh loads the data in. Then in processing the data um I uh let's see consider investing a portfolio by equally weighting uh allocations to different stocks in the S&P 500 index. And so if one does this, these simple R commands create the uh value of such a portfolio where in fact um as indicated here it's investing $1,000 at the beginning of uh 2019. And as an alternative to just equally waiting across the S&P 500 stocks, um I looked at the Amazon, Apple, uh Nvidia or no, Netflix and Google. These were actually they're really hot stocks about four or five years ago and uh basically look at equal waiting of all these. And so here's how uh the investment equal weighted at the beginning of the period resulted towards the end. So so there are some interesting features uh one can see if one happened to be good at identifying stocks to invest in. You can do much better than sort of the average S&P 500. um there can be greater risk by investing in a smaller number of stocks because you're not so diversified. And so you can see how the red uh the red uh graph of values sort of decreases rather dramatically at some points in in the time period. And if one looks at sort of what happened to the $250 invested in each of those uh four stocks, this is what happened over this uh whatever fiveyear period or almost fiveyear period. And this this raises some interesting issues for us, which is when considering portfolio construction, um maybe equally weighting allocations across some assets is a good thing to start with. But what happens over time? Well, in this case, um, Apple outgrew the other allocations substantially and so the degree of diversification in the portfolio is getting lower because we have a greater concentration in that one stock. So what we'd like to do perhaps is to balance rebalance the portfolio and um different approaches to rebalancing portfolios can be uh considered. Now, um, if we were to consider sort of rebalancing every day the investments in these four stocks, then would you think that's a really good way to rebalance to do it very very frequently? And why or why not? >> Yes. Well, if you do it too frequently, then like variances like in 2022 might like affect it, but it won't be very like good for the big picture. >> Yeah. I mean, it's uh if you rebalance too quickly, then you're taking funds away from winners and giving those to losers. And so you're sort of equalizing allocations in a way that doesn't benefit from short-term trends or strengths in different assets. So uh so that extreme is is uh probably not something you want to do. Um, one thing that's rather interesting is just how if you do not do any rebalancing then the portfolios become rather uh uh undiversified and so the risk level is actually probably increasing um over time here. So if you know one way of rebalancing portfolios is trying to maintain a certain risk level for the portfolio and uh such an objective would require periodic rebalancing. Okay. Um well let's move on then to the uh topic of probability theory. And so what I want to do in this note is to just give you a quick overview basically a review of uh probability concepts that you probably are very familiar with. Um and so uh with probability theory um it's customary to distinguish between discrete valued random variables and or and continuous ones. And so with discrete valued random variables, you know, those can be just events occurring or not like a default of a counterparty or um maybe the federal uh open market committee deciding on a Fed funds rate. Um the uh let's see in thinking of individual uh stocks and their dynamics uh intraday one can think of different orders for a stock to buy or sell coming in uh at random and wondering what side those would be on. Also perhaps the share size of uh the next market order. Um it you now the now it used to be that these were always discreet sort of outcomes like share size. It turns out you can actually now invest fractionally fractional shares in different stocks. So the markets become uh more uh rich in that way. Um but importantly we do want to distinguish between discrete outcomes that have probabilities uh with respective outcomes versus continuous random variables where we're thinking of uh values that could take on any value in some interval or range. And so in thinking about the values of assets, we can think of the value being in a in a continuous range. Also, timing of events is a uh an important um random variable that is continuous as well. So um one might consider what is the waiting time to the next market order for uh Apple stock. Um mixed variables uh can arise where we think of a stock having some value where it's generally a positive value but it could go bankrupt in which case um there would perhaps be some discrete probability of bankruptcy for a stock. Um now with probability models we use probability mass functions for discrete variables and probability densities for continuous and so we use calculus to calculate continuous probabilities in different intervals. Um and importantly uh the cumulative distribution function is a very important uh tool. So if we write fubx of let me write c is equal to probability that the random variable x is less than or equal to c as a function of c. Um this value is going to be no at no smaller than zero and no larger than one and it will be monotone increasing in C. um and distributions will be uniquely specified by specifying their uh cumulative distribution function. So these are uh very simple concepts. Um let's see there are expectations in moments. Um let's see one just uh I'll just call this an anecdote. Um if X is continuous random variable um and we define Y equal to F of X. So we consider the probability integral transform of the random variable X. What is the distribution of Y? Okay. >> Unable. >> Yeah, it's uniform zero. It's uniform on zero. So what's really neat is that sort of a monotone transform of the random variable X whatever X is so long as we know what the distribution is transforms that to a uniform. And so this is true regardless of what f is so long as f is continuous. And uh that property can be turn out to be very very useful. Um one issue could be oh suppose you have a random sample of data from some distribution or you think it's from some distribution. Is the sample consistent with that distribution or not? Well, if you did this probability integral transform, it should lead to a uniform distribution which may or may not be realized. So anyway, that's turns out to be quite quite uh useful. Now, uh we have expectations and moments of random variables. Um basically the mean of a random variable is the probability weighted outcome. We can generalize the mean to looking at which is the first moment to consider the probability weighted average of the kith power where k is an integer. And um the variance of random variables is a useful measure of uncertainty about the mean value. And uh there's a nice formula for the variance which is the squared distance from the mean in terms of the average squared minus the square of the average. So these are useful uh formulas that may come in be useful at certain times. Now um in terms of measuring uncertainty about outcomes instead of the variance taking the square root of the variance is useful because its scale is the same as the original units. Most people don't think in terms of squared units with any problem. Um, and so instead of dealing with the variance directly, we'll commonly take the square root of that to have the same units as our original variable x. Now, with the uh with skewess and curtosis, we're looking at measures of sort of the shape of the distribution. And with skewess, as you might anticipate, that detects a symmetry in a distribution. And so something that's nice to think about is um if we have a random variable X where um the expected value of X is equal to mu and the square root of the variance is sigma. Um if we take Z = X - mu over sigma. This is a standardization of the random variable. um the expected value of Z will equal zero and the variance of Z will equal one as will the square root of the variance and for the skewess which I use I guess it's a gamma gamma is equal to the expected value of Z cubed and the curtosis is equal to the expected value of Z to the 4th. So the skewess and curtosis parameters of a distribution can measure asymmetry at least if the cubed value has more weight on the positive end than the negative end. Um it'll be skewed to the right. And um with the kappa uh we're looking at Z to the 4th. So we're looking at basically how heavy are the tails and um the uh let's see for a Gaussian kappa is equal to three or normal 01 or any normal um and uh gamma is equal to zero. So anyway, so these other parameters are useful for characterizing distributions that are not Gaussian and non-gaussian terms of perhaps skewess or heavier tails. Um all right well let's uh just review Gaussian distributions. Um I hope this formula for the density of a Gaussian is very familiar to everyone here. Um we basically have the uh density function is uh equal to 1 / 2 pi sigma e minus a half x - mu over sigma^ 2. And so um the mean is mu, the variance is sigma squared and uh the density function is symmetrical with a maximum at the mean mu and the points of inflection are actually at plus and minus sigma. So if we think of just trying to draw a normal then the peak is at the mean and the point of inflection where the second derivative is zero. It goes from negative second derivative to a positive second derivative. that distance is is sigma symmetrically. Um so uh all right so let's take a look at the normal bell curve. Um 68% lies within one standard deviation. So this is you know the whatever you know AP statistics you learn these facts. Um if we go to two standard deviations from the mean that's 95% and three standard deviations is 99.7%. So um so these models are um normal models have have these sort of properties of how likely different variations are in standard deviation units. Um well in finance we'd like to exploit perhaps Gaussian distributions for modeling prices. Um and uh with a normal density curve it actually um applies to x values that can be arbitrarily large negative or positive. It's an unbounded distribution in terms of potential outcomes. And so one way of dealing with that with say prices um is to consider taking the log of prices and thinking of that being a normal distribution. And so that con construction corresponds to a lognormal uh distribution. And so if we have a random variable X that's normal and then we take the exponential of that normal then we say that the Y variable is logn normal with the parameters mu and sigma squar corresponding to the log scale. Now um what will be very interesting in subsequent lectures is when we talk about uh stochcastic processes that can be um applied in uh financial markets. There's an important stochcastic process called brownie in motion which um many of you probably have some familiarity with. And with a brownie in motion process, the increments of the process over time periods has a distribution that's normally distributed. And as the length of the increment of time increases both the mean and variance of the outcome changes. And so this Brownian motion process is a very very interesting process that is um intimately related to Gaussian distribution. So so we'll get we'll get there um in a few lectures. Now um one of the useful tools we have in probability theory is being able to derive uh the distributions of transformations of random variables. So with the log normal we have a normal distribution. We maybe take the exponential of that normal outcome and we'd like to be able to write down the density of that distribution and compute different features. Well, um we can think of say a random variable X being transformed to Y with a function G. And then we can consider the function h which is the inverse function of g. And as examples, if g is e to the x, then h is the log um function. And with change of variables, if we have the CDF of X, um, then the CDF of Y is equal to the CDF of X evaluated at the inverse of Y on the X scale. So this equation here is a simple sort of logical statement that's everyone here I think would agree is valid. And so if this function relating the distribution functions is true. If we take the derivative of the CDF function of Y, we get the density. And then we just have to apply the chain rule on the right hand side, the density of X evaluated at H of Y. But then we also need to have the chain rule for H in there. So with this formula um right it's all sort of familiar but if we have um f of um x is equal to the integral minus infinity to x of f ofx f of t dt rather then the derivative of f evaluated at x turns out to be equal to f of t evaluated at t = x. So the cumulative integral has a derivative equal to the argument of the integral. So this is easy and we can use this to get the density function for a logn normal distribution. And here's the density of the log normal distribution. It has the same form as the Gaussian density plugging in log y instead of e for x. But then we need to multiply that by the uh chain rule sort of derivative of uh h with respect to y which is 1 over y. Okay. Okay, so here's the logn normal distribution and as an example I chose a mean log value of 0.2 and a SD on the log scale of 0.4 four and as you work with different distributions um you may have uh let's see suggest or not suggestions but you may find it useful to consider specific parameter values here I'm thinking that if one has a um if we think of say x of zero equaling one and x of one being distributed as a log normal with mu equal to 2 and sigma equal to 04 then this uh logn normal distribution can correspond to sort of a one-year period where on the log scale we expect a mean change on the log scale to be 0.2 and with standard deviation of 04. So this would potentially be relevant for an asset and looking at its sort of percentage change on the log scale over one year with an annualized return of about 20% and annualized standard deviation of 0.4. Well, if we draw vertical lines in this space or sample space of the log normal, um, here I've just drawn symmetrical percentiles of 25th and 75th percentiles and then the fifth and 95th percentiles in red. And it's obvious that it's asymmetrical. And uh what's uh in what's useful actually with um different distributions is being able to calculate quantities of interest in finance. And so here's a nice example of uh a financial um computation uh where we consider a call option to buy an asset at some terminal time capital T and the strike price is going to be at price K. And so um if we think of X being the random variable of what the time t price is, then the payoff is going to be equal to X minus K the value minus the strike price if that's positive or it won't be worth anything. So um if we have at time t um let's say if we were to draw here as a function p subt or sorry x I guess and there's a strike price here then we would have the zero value up to k and then we'd have um x minus k be giving this option payoff. off. Now, you'll hear Vasili and Jake talk about the hockey stick payoff function of options. And so, this is what that comes from. Now what's interesting to know is this theorem here says that if we have a density function little f with cdf capital f for the outcome at time capital t. Then the expected value of this payoff is equal to this integral from the strike to infinity of 1 - f ofx. And the proof of this is done by considering a finite upper limit m capital m and then integrating by parts and getting a formula here. So it's an interesting result that if we know the terminal time t random price uh of a random of of an asset then a call option on that uh terminal value uh will have this expected value. So, um let's see. Those of you who actually have some advanced probability coursework may notice that um when you uh are looking at sort of um the expected value of a positive random variable, you can sometimes express that as an integral of the sort of complimementaryary probability of exceeding that value and so that's that sort of result ends up being applicable here in a very nice way. Um now with a normal with distribution for X we get this formula coming out for that call option and if we have a log normal we get this different distribu this different result. So knowing the distribution uh affects what the option price is. Um now in probability theory uh we make use of moment generating functions which I guess when I first learned of these I thought well nice tool but I don't really care at least you know it's a highly technical tool to use. However, um it turns out these are incredibly uh useful moment generating functions and the definition of the moment generating function is given by looking at just the expected value of e to the tx. And we can sort of expand this argument in a tailaylor series which is done on the first line there and take the expectation. Now something that we should be questioning perhaps is do moment generating functions always exist? And by that I mean do we get a finite valued function mx of t for all random variables. >> Okay. >> Hello Sorry. Sorry. >> That's right. No, no, that's fine. That's right. >> Sorry to my head and then I have to go. >> Yeah, that's the moment generating function doesn't have to exist. Um, and the moment generating function won't exist if this exponential function is has too much weight. So that integral is infinite. And an example where it is infinite is a Koshy distribution. And if you're a Koshy distribution doesn't have finite mean or variance. Um but what's interesting is that um this is called the moment generating function. There's a uh a characteristic function characteristic function that turns out to be equal to e to the tx where i here is the square root of -1. Um and if you uh know a little bit about complex numbers, this turns out to be equal to the cosine of tx plus i * the s of tx. And it turns out that these characteristic functions always exist and can be used almost the same way a moment generating function can be used when it exists. So the fact that it doesn't always exist shouldn't worry us because we can generalize to characteristic functions. But what's what's important is that um if we have two random variables that have identical moment generating functions, then those distributions are equal for the two random variables. So we have identical distributions if their moment generating functions are equal. And if we consider a sequence of random variables and the moment generating functions that can be thought of as a sequence converges to a function that's a moment generating function of some distribution. then we have that the sequence of random variables x's converges to that distribution as well. So, so these are nice properties that allow us to understand uh limits of random variables and what the distributions are of limits. Now with moment generating functions um the uh this slide here discusses um well it introduces you to the moment generating function for the normal distribution with mean mu and variance sigma squared and with the special case of mu equals zero and sigma equaling one. Let's see. For a normal 01, if we look at the expected value of e to the tx, okay, it's equal to the integral of e to the tx time e to the - one2 x^2 over 2 pi dx. So this is simply the formula for e to the t z I guess. Okay. Um well if we look at this exponential here we can write this as e to the - one2 um x minus uh let's see xus uh t / 2 squared That gives us x^2 minus oh no just x - t ^2 is this right? Let's see. Okay. I basically want to take 12 x^ or sorry plus TX and write this as min - one2 of uh X - T squared T ^2 over two. Is that right? All right. I want a plus right there. So, so this exponent of the exponential here can be rewritten as this exponent times that. So this so this is equal to um so this is equal to the integral from minus infinity to infinity 1 over 2 pi e - 12 x - t^2 and then plus t ^2 / 2 dx. And so this exponential factor with t^ squ um can be taken out and this integral here is simply going to equal one. So we are able to find the moment generating function for the standard normal very easily is equal to e to the half t ^2. Now if we think about transforming a random variable such as X with a linear function basically rescale X by sigma and add a mu then the moment generating function of that transformation of X to Y can be written out and it's equal to the exponential of T mu times the moment generating function of x evaluated at t sigma instead. So knowing what the x moment generating function is we basically get this function coming out for the u moment generating function of a normal. Now this uh moment generating function is in fact the moment the the expected value of a logn normal random variable. Um at least if we set t equal to one it's the expected value of a logn normal. And if we take t equal to two, it's equal to the square of a logn normal distribution. So we can use the moments generating function for the normal to calculate moments of a logn normal distribution and that'll be an exercise in the next homework. Um okay. All right. So linear transformations. Um basically linear transformations don't change uh the sort of skewess of distributions. Um and the curtosis um can uh well it might affect the curtosis. All right. Well, let's move on to considerations of more than one random variable and the concept of two random variables being independent. In probability theory, we say two random variables are independent if the joint probability of the random variables a set X lying in a set A and Y lying in a set B. if that joint probability of both occurring is equal to just the product of each occurring alone. And so we have for uh densities or probability mass functions we have this property of the joint density function factoring into the product of the marginal densities of each of the random variables. And it works for continuous or uh discrete distributions as well. So independence means that uh basically knowing one variable doesn't give us any insight on the value of the other variable. Now uh we can compute co-variances between two random variables and correlations. And so um with a co-variance uh with a co-variance between two random variables. Um this is a generalization of the variance for one variable. But this is the probability weighted average of x minus I'll write here mux time y - muy and the correlation statistic corresponds to dividing dividing this co-variance by the product of sigma x and sigma y the square root of the variances. And um it turns out that this is also can be written as sort of x - mux over sigma x times y - muy over sigma y. And so the standardization of the random variables to have mean zero and standard deviation one can be made and then the expected product of those standardized values is the correlation statistic or the correlation parameter. Um, importantly, zero correlation doesn't imply independence, but zero correlation uh does mean that there's uh that that the dependence um does suggest that there's no linear dependence uh between the two variables. Now when we consider generalizing from two random variables to many then we can think of working with random vectors and with say little n being the count of different random variables. Um we can have notation of mu.j for the means or expectations of each and sigma j corresponding to the co-variance between x i and xj for sigma j. And we can then represent sort of the expected vector of x values is equal to a mu vector. And we can represent the co-variances between elements in terms of an n byn matrix sigma. And so what's important to realize here is that if we have um an x vector and a mu vector. So x is equal to x1 down to xn and mu is equal to mu1 down to mu n. Then we define the co-variance matrix of X to be the expected value of sort of X minus the mu vector times X minus the mu vector transpose. And so this is an N by one this is a 1 by N transpose. And so we get an n byn matrix where we take expectations element by element in that array. So um so this is a nice way of representing the coariance matrix. And what's useful in particular is well if we think of X's maybe representing returns on different assets with means meu and the covariance matrix tells us how much variability there is in each of the xis but also the correlation structure across the n uh x's. Then um if we consider say a linear combination of the x's given by a vector a of constants then this linear combination of the x's can actually represent maybe a portfolio of holdings across different assets given by the x size. And what we'd like to be able to do is model the mean value of Y and its variance. The mean value is very simply the linear combination of the component means times the A coefficients. And when we go to calculate the variance of Y, if you go through each step here and each equation here is doing something slightly important. um you know we're basically substituting in a transpose x for y at the beginning and arpose mu for the expected value. Then we are able to pull out the constant vector a transpose in the front of the expectation and actually in the back of the expectation. So these coefficient vectors are constants and can be pulled out of the expectation computations. And then this middle term here is simply the coariance matrix of x. So we have that the variance of y is simply the sum double sum over all pairs of coefficients AI a j multiplied by the covariance terms between i and j. So this is the formula for the variance of y. um something that's let's see I'm not sure if we go into this in the next slide but um if the co-variance of x i and xj is equal to zero so if this is equal to zero for all i not equal to j then this variance expression simplifies a And um if say AI ji um is equal to a j is equal to 1 / n then um the uh sum of the ais is equal to one and the sum of the AI squares is equal to what? No, no. This this is not this this is not equal to one. It's going to be less than one. >> One over n, right? It's it's n * 1 / n. So it's sorry n * 1 / n^2. So the variance of sort of an equal weighted average of the x's will have variance that's 1 / n times the variance of each of the x's. So this is where sort of diversification can be useful in terms of reducing variability and uh in the very special case where we have say zero correlated assets um and uh I guess equal weighted variances of the ass of the x's um then we can reduce the uh variability by the factor n one or multiplying by the factor 1 / n. Okay. Um well this leads us to uh introducing you to principal components analysis. Um and with principal components analysis um let's see we consider sort of an mv variant vector x so we consider an x vector that's m by one which has an expected value equal to an alpha vector and a covariance matrix which is M by M equal to sigma matrix and this coariance matrix is a real matrix. that is symmetric. Therefore, it's going to have real values it's also going to have non- negative igen values because the coariance matrix is positive semidefinite. And so um so sigma is positive The definition of positive semidefinite is that for all a vectors um a transpose sigma a is greater than or equal to zero. And this is actually the variance of a transpose X. This product of the coarience matrix times the transpose of an A vector that. So, so the fact that the variance of the linear combination of the x's is strictly non- negative gives us this result here which means that the sigma matrix is positive semidefinite and uh we um let's see we can basically list the ien values to be lambda one through lambda to m those could be all different. Um some of them will be non zero so long as there's no uh so long as the coariance matrix is uh um sort of has some positive rank. And so with this framework where we have um the co-variance matrix sigma having values lambda i and corresponding igen vectors gamma subi. Um we can well we can normalize the igen vectors gamma i to be of unit length. So gamma transpose gamma i is equal to one and we can also define the gamas to be uh orthogonal to each other. Then uh principal components defines new variables by saying um we take our vector x we transpose it to x minus alpha. So we're looking at deviations from the mean values component by component and then we take each of those and we multiply them or look at the dotproduct of gamma i dox minus alpha and we call this um the coefficient of the E principal component variables. And these principal component variables are very neat because their average or mean value is equal to zero. But the covariance matrix between the PS is um it's time to finish the lecture here. Um the uh covariance matrix is the diagonal uh matrix lambda. So we basically have transformed our original X vector into new coordinates which have mean zero are uncorrelated with each other and have variability that decreases basically with I. If we rank the the principal components uh en vectors lambda one to be bigger than or basically to be ordered from lambda one to lambda m. So we have uh an orthogonal basis for our data in this case. And um let's see. I guess we'll finish there for today, but on Thursday we'll finish these notes up. And uh what you'll be able to see is how we can try to represent an x vector as a sum of terms. and maybe the sum of terms corresponds to using just a small number of the principal component variables. So when we have multi-dimensional vectors that have variability that is limited to a smaller number of dimensions, we can characterize those smaller number of dimensions nicely with principal components and obtain uh useful models. And these kinds of models underly multiffactor models often in doing uh uh modeling asset returns and financial markets. So we'll finish there for today and uh thank you.