A big week out of the economics part big news is the Nobel Prize. Uh very timely for this class because just a couple lectures ago we talked about Deron Smogloo. I called him out as the best fiddle economist in the world and the Nobel Prize validated that along with uh his collaborators, one of whom Simon Johnson at the Sloan School is also a good friend and a co-author of mine. So, it's really been a thrill to see them get this award. And let's remember why they got this award because it's so timely and they got this award because their work is timeless, but their work is particularly timely. Because if you remember what I talked about, I talked about how sort of if you will, the line between government success and government failure can be rather thin. And that basically what their work was so important in showing out in showing was and I had the box in the book about their study of countries succeeded or failed, which is one of the book probably maybe the most famous economics article of the last 25 years. The main reason that I won the Nobel is that basically institutions matter and societies that weaken their institutions, particularly democratic institutions, can move from a society that succeeds to one that fails. And they talk about comparisons like North and South Korea or right across the border, US, Mexico, or other examples of places that were very comparable until institutional differences took them off the rails and drove them in very different directions. Obviously understated in that is where America is right now and the importance of maintaining democratic institutions and the fragility of those democratic institutions uh and uh understanding that is so critical for how we think about this election and how we think about what happens after the election. and the role that we play as a society to make sure that it won't close our eyes to any erosion of the democratic institutions that could leave our kids and our grandkids with a failed state in the future. So, it's a really timely award. It's an incredible award. It's a profound award and I I really just think it's wonderful for MIT and for the world that they gave this award. So, I urge you to read up under Ron and Simon and James and their work. Read why nations fail. Be one of the more than million plus people to buy that book. It's an incredible book, incredibly successful book. and you know spend some time really reflecting on those issues because they're important for everyone all around the world. All right, so with that in mind, let's get much more mundane. Let's talk about some specific social insurance programs. Once again, we're in the social insurance part of the course. We set the stage with chapter 12, setting up the fundamental trade-off of social insurance. How much good subject smoothing does it do versus how much moral hazard does it cause? We talked about applying that in the context of social security. Now, we're going to turn to three other of the major social insurance programs in our society. Okay? And these programs, one of them I'll talk about is unemployment insurance. That is something a perfect example unemployment insurance matters is during COVID when we ended up with six times as many unemployment insurance recipients as we ever had because so many people lost their jobs. This we realize the importance of programs like this and I'll come back to what happened during co but I'm going to talk about each of these three programs. There's a lot of institutional detail to cover today. So once again, I'm going to try to go pretty pretty keep it pretty shallow. Ask me questions about the features of these programs that you feel like you need to know more about to understand them. So let's start by talking about unemployment insurance. Okay, unemployment insurance is the insurance we provide against layoffs. So UI is for layoffs. What does that mean? It's not for people who quit their job. It's not for people who get fired for cause. It's people who lose their job because not because their employer said they're are bad workers because the employer cannot afford to employ them anymore. Okay. Um uh so that is a very important uh feature of this. Uh moreover um it's a program that requires to receive the benefits that you're actively looking for new work. So you have to be laid off. You have to be searching. You have to be and you have to be searching for a new job. Searching for a new job. Okay. So that is the that that's that's another big requirement. Okay. Um so basically that's sort of who the program's for. Um it what it provides you is a weekly benefit. Okay? And that weekly benefit is a function of your earnings before you lost your job. So if you look at figure um 141, this shows a typical unemployment benefit schedule. This is the schedule for Michigan, but it's a typical unemployment schedule where basically what determines your benefit is your weekly wage in the highest quarter the past year. It's actually the highest quarter in the year that ends the quarter before this one. It's very technically, but basically the point is you have to have you have to show some attachment to the labor force. So, in if if in your most active quarter last year, you weren't earning at least $262, you don't get UI. If if you earn $26 a week in your most active quarter, they say you weren't really attached to labor force, so we're not going to give you UI. Once you're earning that much, you get a minimum benefit. That minimum benefit of about 150 something a week. Your benefit then rises at about 50% replacement. So, for every dollar or more of wage, you got 50 cent more benefit until you get a maximum benefit. here the maximum benefit uh in Michigan is $362 which you hit you know a little less than $700 in wages. Now one interesting feature about UI is that it unlike social security it is a state not a federal program. So we have 50 versions of these benefit schedules across the states. Okay, that is very exciting for empirical work because remember chapter 3, what we want is these quasi experimental changes. Well, when your program's national, there's not a lot of quasi experimental change that's not doesn't affect the whole country. Well, here you have states running experiments all the time for you. And so, it's become an incredibly active area of empirical research is suddenly effective UI because there's so much variation across states and over time. Overall, the average replacement rate for this program is about 44%. So, similar to social security, place about 44% of your wages, but obviously it varies depending on how high your wages. Okay, so that's the benefit you get um uh you get that benefit um if for a certain amount of time. Typically, in a standard economy where things are going well, it's 26 weeks. So, as long as you've worked enough, as long as you've been working for basically a year, you can get 26 weeks of unemployment insurance benefits. Okay? However, that number can vary a lot. For example, if you've been working for less than a year, in some states, they'll let you have UI benefits, but for a few less time. States have what they call trigger rules which are basically if the employee if the economic situation gets particularly bad in that state they will extend benefits beyond 26 weeks and then the federal government also issues emergency extensions when the whole national economy is in bad shape like during COVID during the great recession UI benefits actually went up to 99 weeks at the peak okay so they can be extended a lot when economic times are quite Okay. So you get this replacement rate which is a function of your wages. You get it for 26 weeks but it varies according economic conditions. Okay. Um uh importantly um you only get it if you claim it. So it turns out about three only about threearters of those who qualify for UI actually take it. Now why? It's free money. I mean if you're unemployed why not? And that's a fascinating issue we'll come back to over and over again when we talk about social insurance, which is what we call the takeup problem, which is that just because someone's entitled to something doesn't mean they take it. Well, why not? Well, there's basically two classes of two classes of reason, three classes of reasons why people don't take benefits to which they're entitled. The first is just information. they just don't know that they get these benefits. The second is hassle costs. You know, it's a pain. You got to maybe go wait in a line, you got to write a letter. It's said you got to produce documentation. It's a pain. And the third is stigma, which is maybe you sort of feel bad taking a government handout. Okay, some combination of these three reasons explains why take up is less than full. We don't really know what they are. We do know people people respond rationally to incentives. That is the higher is the benefit, the higher is the takeup. But that doesn't really rule out any of these because maybe with higher benefit sort of rules out the information angle. But both hassle and stigma. If it's a big benefit, you won't put up with a hassle and a lot of stigma. So the fact that take up rises with higher benefits kind of says information isn't the full story, but can't really differentiate between these two. So if you look at all workers who who separate from the jobs in America, only about a quarter get UI unemployment is something everybody who's not working gets. It's not true. By the time you take people who were laid off, who are actively searching and who decide to take it, only about 25% of those who are unemployed at a point in time are actually getting UI. Okay, so basically that's how the program works. Um, how is it paid for? It's paid for through a payroll tax. Your employer pays a payroll tax on your behalf. This payroll tax is small. It averages less than 1% of payroll. And it's partially experience rated. Partially experience rated. What does that mean? Well, what does experience rated mean? Experience rating, we mentioned this before, is a system where you pay back what you collect. So in a perfectly experience rated system, every dollar of benefits that your workers get, you pay in higher taxes. That is not how the system works. It's a partially experience rated system. And that firms do not pay back exactly what their workers get. And we'll come back later to how that actually works in practice. That's UI. Questions about that? About UI? Yeah. Go ahead. >> Um, great question. We'll come back to that. It really is designed for traditional workers on W2. Uh, so as the economy shifts towards more gig work, it's presenting a challenge which we saw during CO. We'll come back to that. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> Partially uh up to a limit. If you have enough layoffs at that point, they'll stop taxing you extra. So, it's basically there's a ceiling on what your tax rate can be. Okay? And I want the normative tone in your question I want to come back to, which is well, gee, it seems kind of mean to tax these firms and they're down. But let's come back to why you may or may not want to do that. We'll come back to that later. Okay. So, that's UI. The second program we're going to talk about is disability insurance or DI. DI is um defined as a program for individuals who have become disabled and are unable to return to work. Okay, individuals who become disabled and are unable to to return to work. So essentially what happens if you become disabled, you have to first not work for five months. There's a fivemon waiting period. Then having not worked for five months, you can apply for disability insurance. There's an adjudication about whether you actually are disabled and then you get a benefit. So let's talk about each of the pieces. First of all, what is the benefit? The benefit you get is you get your PIA but at whatever age you're adjudicated disabled. So remember your PIA, that's your full social security benefit. what you get if you're retired at 67, you get that at 30 or 35 or 40 whenever you're disabled. So, it's pretty good. It's not great because your 35 highest years are not that high yet, but basically, if you tell someone at 50 they get to retire in their full social security benefit, that's not a bad deal for many people. Okay? So, the benefits are fairly generous. Okay? That's what you uh that's what you get. Moreover, um once you are on DI after two years, you also get Medicare. you get universal health insurance coverage. So, it's a benefit plus health insurance coverage. How's it decided? Well, people apply for DI. People apply for DI and there's an adjudication done by a state board and they basically decide are you disabled. And the way the system works today is about onethird of people who apply are adjudicated as disabled. But if you're not treated as disabled, you can appeal to what's called administrative court. And you could have you could actually go technically go all the way to the Supreme Court. And after all the appeals are taken into account, about a half of the people who apply get it. About a third get it right away. Of the other two-thirds that don't get it, a bunch get it on appeal. So then they over time, roughly speaking, of those who apply, about half get it. Okay. Now, the trick is this adjudication is very difficult. It's very hard to tell someone's disabled because most disability are for things which are not like losing your losing your arm or becoming paralyzed. Therefore, things like chronic back pain or depression or things like that. Okay? They're very hard to determine. Moreover, the way DI works is it technically says you cannot go to work. You you get the if you cannot go back and do work substantially similar to what to what basically you cannot do work you're qualified for. So, if you're a high school dropout lumberjack and you uh your legs and you become disabled and you have to be in a wheelchair, clearly you're done. But if you're a software engineer, it's not entirely clear you are done because you're in a wheelchair. So, basically, the adjudicator has this difficult decision deciding whether you're disabled and whether disability means you can't do basically something that you're trained to do. Okay? And as a result of how difficult this is, they ran an experiment where they took a set of disability insurance adjudicators and gave them a set of files to evaluate. A year later, they randomly gave them the same set of files to evaluate and they changed their mind on almost a quarter of them. So, it's very hard to figure this out. I It's not that they're bad, it's their job, it's just hard. Okay? So, there's a lot of randomness in this process. Now, this program is a national program. In fact, it's part of the Social Security program. Social Security is technically called the OASDI, Old Age Security and Disability Insurance Program. So part of your payroll tax, your 6.2% payroll tax is going to pay for DI. DI is actually a rather large share. DI is about 14% of the entire social security program. It's about 140 billion a year. So it's a big program. It's national although the adjudication happens at the state level. Okay? So there's a little state variation, but mostly national. Okay, questions about that? Now, the third type of social insurance we'll cover is the nation's oldest social insurance program, workers compensation. Okay, workers compensation differs from DI and UI in an important way. This is DI and UI are government provided insurance that you fund through a payroll tax. Workers comp is mandated private insurance. This is insurance that covers you against getting injured on the job. So, it's insurance to cover you against getting injured on the job. The state specifies what you're going to get if you get injured. But it then says you have to go find insurance to cover that. It says look, if you get the certain injury, you have to get paid this much and you have to go find an insurer to buy that from. In some states, the state itself can be the insurer or one of the insurers, but generally people buy private insurance to cover this. So, it is a mandated employer provided insurance benefit. Okay, we're going to show later in chapter 18, effectively it's the same thing. Employers pay money, workers get a benefit, just how you're labeling it. Um, but it is different uh uh technically. Okay. And once again, it's imp it's partially experience rated. What you pay to your insur to your insurer depends partly on your own accident experience, but not fully. Essentially, the bigger your firm is, the more it's based on your own experience. The smaller your firm is, the less they based on your experience because accidents can be random. Okay. Workers comp has two components. There's a cash benefit which you get if you're out of work and a med and coverage for your medical expenses arising from being hurt. Okay. So, if you get hurt at work, it covers both your your it both pays you a weekly stipend and covers your medical benefits. The weekly stipend varies across states, but is generally pretty generous. The typical workers comp weekly stipend covers about 75% of lost wages and it's not taxed. So when you count taxes the replace the after tax replacement rate for workers comp is on the order of 90%. So it's pretty generous replacement for the wages that you lose. But it varies across state. Indeed the my favorite table of any paper ever published is what I call the gory table. Table 141. This how much you get for losing different body parts in different states. So, like for example, if you're working in Indiana and use your arm and your leg, you might want to try to drag yourself across the border to Illinois where you got three times as much. Now, you can't actually because it's based on where your employer is, but it makes a good joke. Okay, based there's a lot of variation. This table's kind of fun because you, oh, is losing your foot really worth $90,000, $150,000? But in some sense it's more cute than useful in that nine the vast majority of claims are actually what we call a temporary injury which is the last column which is what you get per week if you can't work. It's not some permanent damage. Mostly workers comp is not for permanent things. It's for temporary things that go wrong and you can't work for some period of time. But you even see that that varies a lot over how much you get over 10 weeks. Varies a lot. Once again Illinois uh you get twice much you get in Indiana if you're hurt for 10 weeks. Okay. Um, uh, workers comp is essentially no fault insurance. So, you're buying insurance from an insurer saying, "Look, it doesn't matter if you got hurt because your employer like tripped you as you're walking by." I guess not really, but like if you know there's a shitty ladder and it collapses, that's the same as your employer. It's a great ladder and you fall off. Either way, you get workers comp. It's no fault insurance. It arose actually because it's actually kind of interesting in the before the program arose in the early 20th century. If you got hurt at work, the only way to compensation was to sue your employer. So, it was an atfall system based on a lawsuit. The problem was, I guess, lawyers hadn't figured out working contingency yet. So, if you're poor, you couldn't afford a lawyer. There wasn't Morgan and Morgan or whatever. Okay? You couldn't afford a lawyer. So, basically, poor people had no recourse was one problem with system. The other problem with the system is um we have another term for lawyers in this class. Okay? They're called dead weight loss. Why are lawyers called dead weight loss? Well, all lawyers do is transfer money from party A to party B and take some out along the way. Okay, so basically the tort system has a huge dead weight loss associated with it and the view was rather than all this dead weight loss, why don't we just go ahead and give them a benefit. However, the benefit's no fault which eras rises moral hazard concerns we'll come back to. Okay, so that is how uh workers comp works. Yeah. >> If you're hurt on the job, basically the way it works is an adjudication, which is you go to a doctor and they say whether you can work or not. >> If a doctor says you're able to work, then you don't get workers comp. >> Yeah. So what that means is fully experienced rebated would mean if Gruber Co. pays out $10,000 in benefits to my hurt workers then I pay $10,000 back in tax. So basically it's just like they're just allowing me to sort of smooth my consumption my firm spending over time that for a large firm that's basically what they do. But for a small firm if Rubrico has two employees like it's pretty rare that one's going to get hurt and that's a pretty big shock if one gets lost. So there they'll say, well look, your tax rates a function partly of your experience are partly also of just an average experience in the state. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. They got everything. >> They have everything >> expands out to work to everybody part. >> All right. So other questions about how these work. So let's compare them with this overview. Let's look at table 142, which basically is a summary of how these programs compare. So essentially, what's the qualifying event? It's either unemployment or disability or on the job injury. How long does it last? 26 weeks for UI, although it can vary. Indefinitely for DI. Basically, once you're on DI, you never leave. Technically, you can leave. No one ever leaves once they're on DI. And then if workers comp it's indefinite until a doctor says you can go back to work. Okay. How hard is it to verify whether you're actually qualified? Well, to verify whether you lost your job is pretty darn easy. To verify whether you're looking for work is really hard. To verify whether you're disabled is pretty hard. To verify if you're hurt at work and can't work is really hard. Okay. much harder because it's much harder to decide if you can go back to work today or tomorrow versus if you can never go back to work. Okay. Um what do you get? You get an average replacement under UI about 45%. The average replacement under DI is about 60%. The average under workers comp is about 90%. And does it vary across states? Um workers comp and UI does DI really does it? Okay. So, we're going to come back to this table later in the lecture and talk about how what we've learned about these programs makes us think about the way they're set up. Now, one thing that's interesting is how do you think about the duration of social insurance benefits? So, if we go to figure 14 uh two, this figure shows this kind of cool colored figure shows the level and duration of unemployment insurance benefits around the world. So for instance, the blue line is the United States. You get about a 44% replacement rate and it ends after 6 months. It goes to zero. If you compare that to Austria, you get about a 55% replace rate that never runs out. As long as you're unemployed, you get the benefits. Belgium, it goes down but stays high. Other states, it lasts longer and then goes to zero. Well, how do you think about how does our chapter 12 help us think about the optimal duration of UI benefits? Okay. Well, let's start. So, let's think about the principle of chapter 12 about optimal social insurance determination and what forces should drive unemployment insurance benefits to be longer and what forces should drive them to be shorter or in other words under what conditions do you like a system like Austria where you get it forever under the condition like system US where it just cuts off after a short period of time? What are the what are the trade-offs in thinking about that? Yeah. >> Yeah. So, basically the cost obviously is the longer you let these benefits go, the less incentive there is to look for work. I mean, Austria, you know, if you don't love your job and you're sitting at home forever, 60% replacement rate, if they can't really verify how hard to looking for work, there's there so there's a huge moral hazard cost. That's a clear disadvantage to making the benefits last a long time. And that would say go US. We cut them off shorter. What is the counterargument for letting them last longer? Yeah. >> Well, one argument is maybe the job market really sucks. So that would say the problem is you're kicking people off before they can plausibly find a job. What else? Going back to chapter 12. Remember what drives consumption smoothing for social insurance programs? What drives that? What drives how much good subject smoothing you can do? How much self- insurance you replace? Let's think about how self- insurance works for unemployment. When you first lose your job, you're probably pretty well self-insured. You got some savings. You got a credit card you can borrow to the limit. Some friends will help you out. But the longer you're unemployed, the worse and worse your self- insurance is going to be, right? So in subsets the UI does more consumption smoothing the longer you're out of work which would say benefit should if anything rise over time. So the trade-off is on the one hand the longer they're over time the more moral hazard. On the other hand the longer they last the more consumption smoothing. Okay. And you have Stephen's point about the fact that if it's hard to find a new job you might want them to be longer. Okay. Um but then you have one last Yeah. >> No. >> No. From the start. But then there's one last factor which is that the fact that's another version of moral hazard which is the longer you make it the more people's skills deteriorate and the harder it is to find a new job. So another version of moral hazard not only keeping them from working you're making it harder to find a new job. So there's no the bottom line is the classic on the one hand on the other hand thing. There's no right answer, but it's a great in one graph in one example. It's a great way to understand the trade-offs of chapter 12. Okay, questions about that. Now, let's talk about benefits. So, that's duration. We're talking about duration anymore. Let's talk about benefits level. Let's function. Let's focus on the replacement rate as the key determinant of generosity of social insurance programs. And let's ask how do we think about the optimal replacement rate? Well, the way we think about the optimal replacement rate is the trade-offs against the consumption smoothing benefits against the moral hazard costs. And what's awesome about chapter 14 is we have a large literature on both. So, we can actually put them together. So, let's start. There's a much smaller literature on consumption smoothing benefits. The way that literature works is essentially asking literally if benefits get more generous, are people's consumption smoother? So I sort of did the first article on this with unemployment insurance where I asked if UI benefits are more generous are people's consumptions more smooth when they lose their job to the extent. So think of a regression of the change in your consumption when you lose your job on how generous benefits are. Think of that regression. So delta C equals alpha plus beta times benefit. Okay. If someone has 100% self- insurance, what should the coefficient beta be? Let's get some other folks involved. Come on, folks. Let's wake up. You got this. If if if someone is wondering self- insurance, what should the how should the benefit affect your change in consumption when you lose your job? >> Yeah. >> Zero. Because you're already self-insured. Your consumption is already going to be smooth. It shouldn't matter. If likewise, you have zero self- insurance. that coefficient should be one. So it says that the regression from that the coefficient from that regression tells you both how much good subjune the program is doing and how much crowded it's doing. And the answer of this regression is beta is around 0.3. That basically people are pretty well self-insured. Not fully self-insured. Beta is not zero, but reasonably well self-insured. And actually, I've then got I and others have then done a series of articles showing where the self-insurance comes from. It comes from people save more when UI is less generous and their spouses go to work more when UI is less generous. And as a result, there's a decent amount of self insurance. Okay. So there's some good subject smoothing, not a ton. Now the this sort of analysis um has been done for um uh for other programs as well. Um if you look at disability insurance, there's a really neat study from the Netherlands by my colleague David Otter. And what David Otter finds is that basically um uh that basically beta is much bigger. So this is so beta UI is smaller than beta DI that disability insurance does a lot more consumption smoothing and a lot less crowd out which is not surprising. Why? Why is it not surprising that there should be more consumption smoothing done by DI than there is by UI? >> Yeah. longer period. It's a more serious. It's you can't self- assure against losing your job the rest of your life. It's pretty hard to self-insure against. You can self assure being against being out of out of work for 10 weeks. So, it's not surprising. Now, the one we don't know is work beta workers comp. This has never really been estimated. Okay. My guess is it would kind of be in the middle here in the sense that on the one hand getting injured is probably less anticipatable than losing your job. Okay, so that says people are probably less well self-insured. On the other hand, it's not as permanent as being disabled. So people probably have at least some savings they could use to help themselves out. So we don't know where beta WC is, but it's probably in the middle there. Okay, this is a way to sort of put numbers on the intuition from last time, which is this fundamental trade-off between self insurance and consumption smoothing. Okay, questions about that? Now, there's a relatively small literature on that. Since economists are grumpy, there's a much larger literature on moral hazard. That's more fun to talk about. It's not that fun to talk about whether it's really fun to talk about people perniciously like not going to work because they're getting benefits. So there's a massive literature on the moral hazard effect of workers comp of of UI. Mass the moral hazard effect of all these programs. So I want to go through them one by one. The consent literature is pretty small. That's all I have to say. The moral hazard literature is very large. So I want to go through each program one by one. And the moral hazard literature is large because for example for UI you have all these wonderful state quasi experiments to study. So a lot of studies of the form of figure 143. Figure 143 is an example of how you set up a quasi experimental study of unemployment insurance. Let's describe what we have here. We have a state that used to have the blue replacement schedule and then changes it raises its benefits and adds the red replaces the upper segment with the red. So their new budget con their new state benefit schedule is the same up to 700 but then it's higher after 700. So they move from the all blue schedule to the blue plus red schedule. The way quasi experiment analysis works of that is they say okay look you've got two groups those who are in below 700 nothing changed for them those who are in above 800 something changed for them. So let's look and ask over time. Do you see a different behavior in those who earn above 800 versus those who are in below 700? The difference in difference. We discussed this in in we discussed in chapter 3. You go remind yourself look at the appendex of chapter 14 to remind yourself how this all works. But essentially we do a difference in difference. The difference of difference here is group we basically look at group H after minus H before is one difference minus L after minus L before. And let's talk what's going on here. You could just do this. You could say well look the benefit increase. Let's look at what happened to group H. Did their unemployment durations go up? What would be wrong with that? >> Yeah. Uh well, no, because you're doing it basically on their pre on their on their um group. >> But why do you need a control group? >> What other effect are you particularly worried about? Maybe they raised the benefits because it was a bad time. Maybe states raise benefits when there's a recession. So, of course, you're going to find higher benefits lead to longer people being unemployed more because I raised benefits during a recession. So the idea is that this think of HA minus HB as being the effect of UI the UI moral hazard plus the effect of economic conditions but that's where this group comes in which say well the economic conditions also have pig below 700. So here you have the fact of just econs. So by taking the difference in difference you end up with just the UI moral hazard effect and that's sort of the idea of this approach. Yeah. Question you look puzzled. >> Okay. So let's put this in English. You clearly know how to think about this framework. Let's put this in English. What's wrong with what what is How would you criticize what I just laid out here? I criticized just using this comparison. How would you criticize what I Go ahead. See if you can put in English. How would >> They're not the same people. But that's okay as long as they're different for random reasons. But why might they not be different for random reasons? >> No, it's one state. >> One state. Yeah. >> There comes different. Why does that matter? It's they're different before income beforehand. >> That's okay. That's okay. If these groups are different, that's okay. You know why? Because I'm comparing before to after. So it doesn't matter these guys serving these guys. So I'm looking at what happens over time within the group. So any fixed difference between groups is picked up by this by this. Okay. The fact that these guys serve in these guys doesn't matter because I'm looking at what happened over time within each group. >> Yeah. Exactly. The groups are different. That's not a problem. If the effect of the recession is different, that is a problem. What if recessions affect low-income workers differently than high-inccome workers? Okay. So, basically, I should have broke this down in piece. Let's say your first estimate was just I'm look at HB. Well, that's bad because the recession could have happened. Then you say, well, look at HA minus HB. Well, that's that's bad because because I'm sorry, you look at HB. You say, "Well, that's bad because people just are different." Ha minus B gets you this. Then you difference out from this. This by differencing, you get rid of any distinguishing differences in the group. But what you don't get rid of is the fact that economic conditions. What if this is Econ H and this is Econ L. What if the recession affects them differently? Then you're not getting UIMH. You're getting UI plus another term which is Econ H minus EL. What do we call that term? Bias. So the bias only goes away if econ equals econ L. Well, how would you figure that out? What would you do to solve that problem? Are you just stuck? No, you're not stuck. What do you do? Someone actually already gave the answer. >> Yeah. distributed. >> Well, no, we know they're not randomly distributed because they start with I mean people are born below 7 above 800 are not randomly distributed what has to be randomly distributed. What has to be random or what how would you actually I don't let's not just think step back and ask think about what I'm assuming here. I'm assuming that the effective economic conditions on these two groups in this state are the same. How might I test that? Yeah, >> I could look historically. I could ask the last time there's a recession, was econ and econ the same? So, I could literally try to control for this term. I could put this in the regression. That's one way I could do it. What else could I do? Once again, somebody already gave the answer and I a minute ago actually gave the answer. I snuck it in. Yeah. >> A different state. Look at the neighboring state where any recession probably hits them about the same. But so therefore this term should be the same in the neighboring state. So if you're you can test your assumption by doing the same regression for neighboring state you should get zero. If you get zero then your assumption is correct. If you don't then it's problematic. Typically we'll do in that situation say well let's let's difference out what happens the other state. That's called a difference to difference and difference estimator. Now that may not be good enough because the other state may be different for other reasons. So then there's other things you can do and this is given to birth to an entire range of specification check technologies we do in economics which we don't have time to get into. But this is the basic idea is the basic idea of quas experimental economics. It's it's a it's a game of whack-a-ole on identification. Essentially saying here's my here's my strategy. Now I've got to whack down all the potential problems with that strategy. Well, with a randomized control trial, you don't, right? There's no problem. You've randomized by definition. That's why randomized control trials are very much in favor because the problem with lackal is it's really hard to prove. All you can do is sort of disprove it a million ways. And our poor students back there, our Metton Valley, are writing papers where they're going to have to run 8,000 of these graphs and tests and show that because basically what happens in economic seminars is you go there, it's a bunch of people finding moles. What about that mole? What about that mole? You got to whack it, whack it, whack it, whack it. Okay, ultimately the believable the paper is how believable you could be at whacking those moles and how much people really believe you've gotten them. But that is I just to be clear while this course really advocates quasi experimental methods as a solution to understand a lot of empirical problems, it's not perfect. Okay, it's only perfect to the extent you can really feel confident you've whacked all the moles. Okay, questions about that. All right, now so what do we find? When we do that for UI, we find a reasonably large moral hazard effect. The consensus estimate, it's actually been revised in a recent important paper. Uh the consensus, actually, it's an interesting story, a little bit of a sad story about it for academia. The consensus estimate was that the elasticity of how long people stayed unemployed with respect to the benefit was about 0.8. that for every 10% benefits were higher, people stayed unemployed about 8% longer, which is a pretty big effect. There's been a recent article which suggests maybe too big an effect because it's noted something that's a frequent test for what we call publication bias. There's a bias that's quite frankly the fault of publishing companies, which is if a result is significant, it is more likely to get published than if it's not. And the way you test for publication bias is you look at the distribution of significant statistics. There's a massive spike at exactly the cutoff where it's significant that suggests maybe people waited till that point and then they published the article. There's a recent article which shows that's huge in this UI literature and suggests now that the right estimate is around 0.5 that there's been a lot of public that it's still the moral hazard is still real but maybe not as bad as we thought. It's a side note doesn't really matter for you guys. It's just interesting side note about you know the hazards of published research. The bottom line is moral hazards real here 0.5 to point8 that's a big range but that raised an interesting question. If higher unemployment insurance benefits cause you to stay out of work longer either 50% longer 80% longer whatever it is is that bad? In fact why are you not sure that's bad? Let's let's say it is true that higher unemployment insurance benefits cause you to stay out of work longer causally. What determines if that's actually efficient or inefficient? >> Yeah. >> Wouldn't that suggest that? >> Uh well, let's go to allowed to. Okay. It certainly certainly people are val certainly people are valuing leisure more than you know certainly they stay at a lower value of leisure to push your argument the way by allowed to you sort of have this view that people can't really take advantage of their preferences for leisure what would cause you not to be able to take advantage of preference for leisure the fact that you don't have money in the bank if everyone could borrow let's say everyone could freely borrow and let's say they truly needed a week off they just take the week off and borrowed to pay to borrow and pay it back working hard later in the future. You can't do that. And in particular, the concern is what if you need more time to find a good job. What if in fact the problem is that UI is too short? And with a short UI, people are rushed into jobs that not the best fit for them. We don't want the brain surgeon working at McDonald's. Okay? But it's going to take the brain surgeon a while to find a good job. and the brain surgeon can't borrow to pay their mortgage, they're going to rush into a bad job. It's hard to look for a job when you already have one. Once again, if the brain, this is a very important point and subtle point in heart. So, let's stay in it for a minute. Once again, we got the brain surgeon loses the job. We're going to ask, are we worried the brain surgeon is going to rush back and take an inappropriate job? The answer is no. As long as credit markets work appropriately. If credit markets work perfectly, the brain surgeon will not have to rush because the bra say, "Look, I'm going to be rich again. I'll just borrow against my future wealth and it'll take as long as it needs to find a good job." The problem is banks won't make that loan. And as a result, they face we call liquidity constraint. They cannot get the money they need to find the best job for them. Maybe so they need more time. So the fact that unemployment is giving you more time might be good. It might be help people max the jobs they want. Yeah. credit marks the but if it's not a certainty the credit market still function just charge a higher interest rate >> but the point is >> no the surge who ends up not getting a job will just default and the bank will lead it but that's why I'll have to charge a higher interest rate. So now we have this conundrum. Well, we know more unemployment insurance benefits cause guys stay unemployed longer. But how do we tell is that helping them? Is that good in the sense it's helping them find better jobs or bad in the sense just subsidizing them sit on the couch? Remember we talked last time about the distortion. Sitting on the couch is inefficient because if it's sitting on the couch you wouldn't have done otherwise but you're doing because of these benefits that's inefficient. So, how do we determine whether UI benefits are causing you to get better job or sit on the couch? What would you do? How could you test that? How would you test that? >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> Exactly. You don't have to gra once again you're answering in a more level detail we need but the bottom line is if it's helping you find a better job we should see you end up with a better wage. So the test here instead of a delta C regression like I was running where's my regression I was uh I don't know where that where yeah up there instead of regressing delta C do delta wage. What happens to your wage from your old job to your new job as UI gets more generous? If more generous UI is improving your search, you should see a positive coefficient there. If more generous UI is not improving your search, you should see zero. And the answer is you see zero. The bottom line is guys are sitting around. Okay. That basically there's no evidence it's actually helping them find better jobs. It's just subsidizing leisure. Yeah. >> That I'm sorry. You got to ladder and slower. Uh great great question. We are that's a great question. If you we'll come back later to childcare. If you think there's a market failure in the people underproviding child care that could be an argument for saying well gee maybe the fact their wages didn't go up in childare maybe we're mismeasuring it. You really want total mar this shouldn't be delta wage should be delta marginal product. Marginal product includes all the things you produce including childare. Right. That's technically right. So it's not a full it's not a perfect test. Okay. But clearly we think there's pretty significant moral hazard going on with UI. Okay. So that's the evidence for UI. Now we come to DI. Here's the problem with DI. You can do the same kind of study except it doesn't vary by state. So what are you going to do? Well, in that case, you turn to a different empirical strategy which is shown in figure 145, a regression discontinuity strategy. This is from um a study in I believe it was in uh the Netherlands again. What the Netherlands with the Netherlands? The Netherlands has a program where the benefits discreetly at age 45 get more generous. Exactly. At age 45, benefits get more generous. What the graph on the top shows, the graph on the top of figure 145 shows how claiming rates for disability insurance rates with age. Now, they go up. The older you are, the more likely you are to disabled. That's not a surprise. But there's a huge jump exactly at 45. And there's no reason for this discrete jump at 45 other than benefits change. So this isn't a difference indifference in a nutritional sense. This is literally it's sort of like time series in a way. It's just using a very sharp event. Okay. And saying that this sharp event is exactly consistent with there being an incentive effect of this. And then the bottom graph shows what happens to so let me explain how you interpret a graph like this. The x- axis is age. The y- axis is how much income people get from DI. Think of it as how often you claim DI. You know, the odds of claiming DI. Each dot is I think it's a month of birth. The average. So each dot is the average amount of income for DI for that month of birth in the Netherlands. So the dots are generally and then the lines that are in red are the estimated regression coefficients on either side of the vertical line. See there's generally a positive slope before and after the vertical line. That's just saying people are more likely to claim DI as they get older. But it's the jump in that slope at 45 that is really striking. And if you look at the bottom, you do the same graph but with whether people work and you see there's a corresponding jump down at age 45. So that is a regression discontinuity approach to showing that disability insurance has an effect on people's labor supply decisions. That is this is profound. This is saying people are act who could actually work are claiming DI. If DI was just people who truly had career-ending injuries and could never work again, this line should be flat. This shouldn't mean the the benefit level shouldn't matter. Okay? If you truly like couldn't work again, then you should just claim it when you can't work and not claim when you can. Clearly, this is not saying that. Clearly, some people claiming DI could work and are claiming DI instead. And that's why you get this relationship. There's a there's a lot of fun studies in DI like this. I've got a study in Canada where there was a difference a difference study where actually one province of Canada changed their benefit and others didn't. There's a really cool study another empirical approach that's really cool at catching on now is um to use the fact that while DI is a national program the people adjudicate whether you're disabled are humans and those humans have tendencies and it turns out you get randomly assigned to who adjudicates your case. So, let's say that Aette applies for disability. He gets randomly assigned to me and I'm a tough ass judge. I never approve anything. And Valerie applies for DI and she gets assigned to Paul who's a loose judge. He approves everything. Then we actually have since that assignment is random. We have an experiment. What happens to people like a Met who are unlikely to get DI versus people like Valerie who are likely to get it. And what you find is a similar thing. people are unlikely to get DI end up working a lot more than people are likely to get it. So all these approaches give a similar answer. The standard difference in difference, the regression discontinuity, the random assignment across adjudicators and they all say the elasticity. So this elastity of UI, the elasticity of labor supply with respect to DI benefits is around 0.3. So smaller, considerably smaller than what you get for unemployment insurance. that it's true higher benefits cause more use of disability but the effect is not as large which is once again not surprising. It's easy. Remember moral hazard is going to rise in in diffic moral hazard is going to rise in difficulty of observability or verifiability. The harder it is to verify something, the more moral hazard there's going to be. Well, it's hard to verify if you're looking for work. It's pretty easy to verif. It's easier to verify but not perfect if you're disabled. Okay, that's disability insurance. Finally, we come to workers comp. Workers comp. Once again, it's a state program. So, we have the same sort of approach. Indeed, we can even do a difference in difference and difference within a state. Figure 147 is from a famous study by Alan Krueger where the state of Minnesota changed its schedule but in multiple places. So you can actually compare say group E to group D and group C to group B to group A and then since they're very arbitrarily close to each other you can actually learn less about recessionary effects because you have a bunch of comparisons and the bottom line is he found so for example he the the what the numbers below are the elasticities you get at each segment I'm sorry the delta duration in each segment. So in other words, duration went up a lot for segments E, C, and A and barely up for segments B and D, which is consistent with this being a causal effect of workers comp. Here's what's striking about the workers comp literature. You get a huge elasticity. Krueger's paper implies an elasticity of 1.8. For every 10% benefits, workers comp benefits go up, you get 18% longer durations. The literature says it's found a smaller number but I'll say the consensus probably the consensus workers comp elasticity is around one higher than UI that basically people are very elastic in their decisions on how long they stay out of work with respect to the general asset workers comp benefits. Now workers comp has all sorts of other fun studies as well. In workers comp there's something called um the Monday effect. Let me explain the Monday effect. Workers comp roughly speaking 90% of workers comp two kinds of injuries. Lacerations I you get cut or sprains and or sprains like you get hurt you hurt your back you hurt your shoulder something like that. Roughly speaking that's sort of the two types of injuries for workers comp. Which type of injury do you think is most likely on Mondays relative to the other days of the week? What happens to the ratio of sprains and strains to lacerations on Monday versus the rest of the week? Why? Well, it's well easy to verify what Well, not injured in particular. What? >> At work because because on as long as you can drag yourself into work on Monday, you got hurt at softball. If you if you if you're spraying your ACL with softball, you can call in Monday, say, "I spray my saying softball." Say, "Great. We'll see you when you heal up." Or you can drive yourself to work on Monday and trip and say, "Oh my god, I spray my ACL at work." They say, "Okay, here's a thousand bucks a week." Okay. If you're lacerated, that's hard to do unless you want to go in and reopen it or something at work. Okay, so that is and once again, you see that Monday effect in great detail that basically the the ratio of sprains and strains to laceration is much higher on Monday. Sort of a clever test for moral hazard. The bottom line is moral hazard is real and it looks like pretty large for workers compensation. Okay, questions about that? Let's go back now. >> Yeah. >> Right. government. >> Yes, it's bad. Well, it's bad from the government's perspective because the government represents society and if you take it when you're not qualified, there's two costs. One is we have more tax revenue we got to collect and two is you're not producing goods that make society richer. So, the pie is smaller. Yeah. >> Uh we're not talking about ever selection here. There's no choice of insurance here. >> Great question. Great question. Which is this is sort of like what I talked about unemployment insurance. I said longer durations unemployment might be good because it help you find a better job. Longer durations out of work might be good because you come back healthier. And there's not great evidence on that. Um I'm suspecting we will find that even if there's effect it's small relative to the amount of extra time people stay out of work but it could be it could be there. It's a great point and a very parallel point. The great shows a great understanding of this parallel point that just because you find an effect there could be multiple interpretations. You got to take the extra step to do that interpretation. Okay. So let's go back. Now, here's what's cool is let's go back to table 142 and say how' the government do? Well, let's compare the next to last row of table 142 which shows the replacement rates for these three programs. What do we know? We know unemployment insurance has a modest consumption smoothing effect and a reasonably large moral hazard effect which suggests benefits shouldn't be too generous and they're not that generous. 44% replacement rate. Disability insurance has a small a smaller moral hazard effect and a larger consumption smoothing effect which says benefits should be more generous and they are. They're 60%. workers comp has an unknown but probably mixed subjecting benefit and a large moral hazard effect which says benefits should be if anything similar lower than UI they're actually bigger than the other two programs. So this tells us workers comp is too generous relative now man too generous relative to some ultimate if God came down and spoke to us but certainly too generous relative to the other two programs. It's hard to justify a world where there's a bigger moral hazard and likely not that much bigger consumption smoothing and the benefits so much larger. Okay, that is cool because we've actually used theory and empirical evidence to draw a policy conclusion. Now, the next step, of course, we get policy makers to listen. That's a harder thing. Okay, that's chapter nine stuff. But this is just AI love this point because this is really what make economics fun. It's like okay we got a theory we developed the theory now that theory suggests some key parameters we must know we've estimated those parameters and that gives us lessons for policy and that's why I find this chapter very exciting okay Stephen >> exactly no I mean I I yeah I haven't told you whether 44% is the right number but I so it's It's really it's a relative I still haven't told you exactly what numbers are, but it's sort of a relative conclusion. All right. Okay. Now, two other things to cover. Um, and I am going to have to uh we are we are having a little celebration for our Nobel Prize winner at at 4. So, I'm going to have to like whip out of here right when class is over. So, let me cover a couple things pretty quickly before I go. Um, the first thing is what about the role of firms and what about the role of imperfect experience rating? So understand what I mean by that. Look at figure 148. Figure 148 shows the tax rate that firms face in Vermont. Let me explain what this graph shows. On the x axis is basically a number which represents the extent to which a firm has taken advantage of the UI system. It's called the benefit ratio. It's the ratio of sort of the benefits that's been paid out to the payroll of the firm. You don't really need to understand it other than know the more you move to the right, the more the firm uses the UI system, the more layoffs it has. On the y- axis is the tax rate the firm pays. The black line would be perfect experience rating. That would be a system after some minimum to make the could make the program balanced. That's the slope of that would be such that every dollar a firm paid out in benefits they pay back in taxes relative to that line. You notice two things. First of all the red line's always below it. Okay? So it's imperfect experience rate in that way. Second of all there's flat parts. There's like these steps as opposed to being smooth. And third and most important there's a maximum rate. Someone asked you always pay ever and ever higher taxes. No, you don't. Once you hit that maximum rate, doesn't matter. You can lay off anybody you want. You're only paying the maximum rate. So, you're never going to pay more than 7.7% to payroll, no matter how many people you lay off. So, those are the three senses in which this is imperfect experience rating. So, the question is how do we feel about that? Well, let's come back to the normative implication that was raised before. If you think about what unemployment insurance tax does, it says, "Hey, what experience rating just says, "Hey, you firmish laid up a bunch of guys. I'm going to raise your taxes." That sounds kind of harsh, right? So, in that sense, you can understand the argument for imperfect experience rating. But what market failure does that argument rely on? What do you need for that argument to hold? Or how would you argue against that argument? Why would you say, "Well, firms that have let off a lot of people shouldn't be subsidized because they have another thing they can do." What else could they do? How could they avail themselves of self insurance in this situation just like people can in a perfect world? Yeah, Stephen. Well, they can't really save, but they could borrow. They go to the bank and say, "Look, I'm laying off a bunch of guys now, but I'm fundamentally a sound firm. give me money. And probably the bank may be more likely to do when the person goes because they have physical assets the bank can claim. So in a perfect credit market, this argument actually doesn't hold. In a perfect credit market, you shouldn't be subsidizing firms to lay people off because if they're a good risk, they can just borrow the money they need. If they're a bad risk, what are you doing? You're systematically subsidizing bad firms. So think about what what what imperfect experience rating is doing is two things. It's providing insurance to firms that are good bets that could come back but providing subsidies to firms that are bad bets and just shouldn't exist in the first place. Alex question. Yeah. So let me give you the perfect example. Let's talk about Canada. Okay. Let's talk about five men in a boat. The famous Canada story. In the Atlantic province of Canada, the economy basically has tanked. It was all natural resource economy. It's basically tanked. They have an unemployment insurance system. They're relying on fishing and fishing can't make any money anymore. They had an unemployment insurance system which had the following features. Um, you got a replacement rate of 60%. So, not outrageous, a little higher in the US, not outrageous, 6% replacement rate. But to get that, you had to work 10 weeks a year and then you got the place for the other 42 weeks. So, as long as you work 10 weeks a year, you got UI for for 42 weeks at 60%. Now, imagine you and four friends that are want to think about setting up a fishing business. Okay, this is a hard example. So, just listen, don't take notes. Just listen to this. You and four friends that want to set up a fishing business. Okay, the fishing boat can work 50 weeks a year. Let's leave the other two out for vacation. So, you can only take it out 50 weeks a year. So, each of you and your friends would take it for 10 of those weeks. Okay, let's say that with the fishing boat you catch $8,000 worth of fish for every 10 weeks or a total of 40,000 for the year. That is the amount you can produce. So each of you will work 10 weeks a year and you'll produce $40,000 of income. Now, what if you said to the authorities that after 10 weeks, each of you got laid off? How would that work? Well, the first person, they would go out fish. Okay. And oh, and I also say that your wages are $8,000 for every 10 weeks or $800 a week. I say that you earn $800 a week and you're laid off after 10 weeks. What does person A get? They get the $8,000 during the 10 weeks they work plus they get 50 40 week 42 weeks of 60% [snorts] of $800. So they get that's what they get for the rest of the year. Then person B works their 10 weeks and they say they were laid off. Then person C works then weeks laid off. When you put this together, you have you have created a firm that is earning $141,000 on a actual product of $40,000 and there is no experience rating in Canada. None. So you've just magically ripped off the government for $100,000. That's the problem. Imperfect experience rating or in this case no experience rating is it subsidizes firms. This firm should not exist. Okay, this firm as long as those workers have a something they can do elsewhere that earns more than $8,000 a year, this firm should not exist. But it does because the government subsidiz it. That is the cost of imperfect experience rating. The benefit is it over offsets credit market imperfections. The cost is that it subsidizes um inefficient firms. Yeah. So, so the biggest thing is basically it's essentially it's it's asymmetric information. So, in a world of perfect information, I could go to you Stephen Bank and I can say, "Hey, look, here's my firm. We we basically can show you that we'll be viable again in two years. Loan me." And the bank would. First of all, that information is cooked. They can't trust you can't trust them. Second of all, you may disagree on your interpretations of that data. See, with perfect information, it could be bargaining problems. So for those reasons, the credit market is not perfect. Both information imperfections and bargaining problems. The reason coast doesn't work. These kind of bargaining failures could apply here as well. Okay. But it's very important to come back to lecture one with perfect credit markets. There is no argument for imperfect experience rating. Okay. Remember the argument for imper in fact there's not really you know basically firms should just there's not really that much of argue for UI necessarily there's only for UI because workers switch firms but there's not an argument for imperfect experience rating with perfect credit markets okay now the last thing I want to cover in the last 10 minutes is what does this all mean for how we set up these programs we talked about what it means for the benefit level but these programs are more than the church bed they're benefit levels Okay, these programs have lots of aspects. So, for example, one thing that these programs differ in, could differ in is how well they're targeted. You could move from one uniform program to one that's different. So, for example, in Europe, the way disability insurance works is there's two levels of benefits. essentially they they they adjudicate how how disabled you are. And if you're like a no-brainer, you get a higher benefit than if they're not sure. They're trying to target it more. Okay? You can imagine a similar thing in unemployment insurance. Turns out there's really fundamentally two types of unemployed people. Those that are temporarily laid off and those that are truly permanently laid off. A temporary left is like my aunt in Minnesota who every summer her firm said, "We're going to shut the plant for three months and you're coming back in the fall. For her, there was relatively little consumption smoothing from UI. Indeed, I showed in my article I ran those regressions that for temporary layoffs that coefficient was like zero. For permanent layoffs where you're not sure when you're coming back, self asssurance doesn't work as well. And for permanence, that coefficient was bigger. So, you could target the generosity UI benefits to the type of layoff. The point is you can exploit our fundamental lesson from chapter 12 to try to find places where self insurance is poor and moral hazard is low to really target the most generous benefits rather just giving the same thing to everyone. Okay, so that's one kind of thing besides worrying about benefit generosity we can do. Another thing we could do is we could say wait a second could workers insure themselves imagine the following UI system. Okay. Basically, you were required instead of paying a UI tax to have a fund and you put money to that fund and when you lose your job, you draw down from that fund. Now, the government helps us out. If you lose your job before you've been working too long, they can help. They can top off your fund. If you stay unemployed too long, they can top off your fund, whatever. But the point is, why not make you absorb the risk? Why we want to do that? Well, essentially, it's like a Samaritan's dilemma problem. If you lose your job, we're going to helping you out. So, we're going to force you to self-insure by saving rather than taking some payroll tax and throwing to the government. We're going to force you to selfund. It's like privatized social security. But privatized social security had a bunch of problems like the fact we have this legacy debt. Those problems don't exist for privatized UI. There's no reason we couldn't do that. We could have a system where basically people save for themselves in their own accounts. And why would we want that? Because moral hazard goes away. If it's my own money, I don't suffer moral hazard. Okay. One way to see that is a really cool experiment they ran where they they ran experiment where instead of saying to people, you lost your job, you're eligible for up to 20 weeks of 500 bucks a week. We said, you lost your job, here's a check, a lumpsum check that approximates the typical amount of money you get from UI. People found new jobs right away. Okay. So basically we could think about moving towards actually fighting moral hazard but still providing insurance by basically forcing people to selfinsure. That's one direction we could go. So that's an interesting thing to think about. The reasoning to think about the reasoning to think about is that a questions raised earlier. We're moving into a world where traditional employment relationships are eroding. How do you think about unemployment for an Uber driver? When is an Uber driver unemployed? Is it when people don't want to go from place A to place B? then they're sort of unemployed right sort of it's hard to define unemployment for many gig worker specialties so UI doesn't really work and this was a fundamental problem we faced during COVID co hits what do you have you have a system which has two flaws first of all it's not generous enough and what I mean by that is in two senses first of all for some low-income workers UI wasn't enough to pay their bills if they were going to be unemployed for a long time. Second of all, the second was gener wasn't generous enough is the sense in which um so basically first of all let me think there two. So one is it wasn't big enough to pay the bills. What was the other thing I was thinking? I don't remember. Anyway, so it's not viewed as not generous enough, not big enough to pay people's bills. The second problem is that it's not designed for all these people lost their gig jobs. So we set up two temporary programs during COVID to try to address these problems. The first was we gave everyone in America in addition to their usual UI benefits. Oh, I know what the other reason generous was. I remember we didn't want people to go to work, wanted them to stay home. It wasn't moral hazard anymore. Indeed, this is a key insight. Okay, I'm diverting here to go back to nothing. We think about durations. UI should be more generous when the economy is bad. Why? Because moral hazard is smaller and consumption moving is bigger. Think about a good economy versus a bad economy. In a good economy, you can always find a new job. So, moral hazard could be bad because you're turning down opportunities and you have much better access to self- insurance because your friends have money to loan you, your spouse can work. In a bad economy, you can't find the jobs. There's no moral hazard if there's no job to get and your spouse can't self-insure you. So, what should happen is you should get more generous in bad e bad times, less generous in good times. with Kovu in extra piece. When I was a bad time, we didn't actually want people at work because it was contagious. So that reason we wanted a much more generous UI system. Now in a perfect world, you'd say, well, let's just raise the replacement rate. Let's say, well, instead of we think 44% is not enough in bad times, let's raise it to 80%, 90%, whatever. The pro what we did instead was say everyone who gets UI gets a flat 600 bucks as well. Why is that different? Well, that's different because 600 bucks means very different things different people. For someone very low income, many people in America replace rates well above 100%. Because 600 bucks plus UI benefit is well above what they're earning beforehand. That's never a good. It's never a good idea to provide. I mean, it's more, you know, basically you don't you're already smoother consumption and you're just adding extra moral hazard. Whereas some people who are rich, it wasn't enough to actually let them still pay their mortgage. So why didn't we just raise replacement rates? Well, this goes back to chapter nine. Because the administrative state in America is starved for resources because basically of opposition to government spending, many government agencies aren't up to doing what they should do. The UI computer systems, have any of you guys ever heard of a programming language called Cobalt that existed like when I was a kid? Okay. UI systems many states are still written in Cobalt. Okay, basically these systems have not been kept up and the state administrator said, "Look, you want us to get money people right away. It's going to take us like three years to fix our system so we can change replacement rates. Let's just send out a flat check." So this is a cost to society of not investing government resources. Okay. The other thing they did was they said, "Look, we will not require you to have had a traditional job. If you say you had a job and you lost it, we'll send you a check." Okay. My daughter is a creative writer. She writes online. She doesn't have she's a gig worker. She just said, "Look, this is what I was making before." She self asserted what she was making beforehand. She didn't lie. I'd be proud to say she self asserted what she was making beforehand. They said, "Great. We'll send you x% of that plus 600 buck a week." Other people did lie and this led to massive fraud in the UI system. Once again, we need a better system. We need to advance our systems to deal with this changing nature of work in the economy. All right. So, that is a lot to absorb.