So the first thing I I promised to do today was to do the last problem on the first problem set with you all. And so for context, this was like pretty difficult problem. Um and a lot of people didn't get it fully right or or made a mistake. And actually even the people who did get it right tended to write something that was pretty long and complicated. Um so so I spent a while thinking about it. I think I could have set up the problem with a little more direction. Um but anyway, but I will explain uh explain it to everybody and um and try to say sort of what were the issues and what like what's what's what do you need to know to do it cleanly. Okay. So the set the the the the background of this problem is that we had done a bunch of stuff in class about lines in the plane say in FQ2 and the problem was to try to do something similar for lines in FQ3 but it is a little more complicated. So let me first remind everybody what we did for lines in FQ2 and then we'll go up to three dimensions. Okay. So general setup. Okay. So first of all if we have a function on fqd then fnot will be the constant part. So fnot of x is 1 / q to the d some y and fq to the d of f of y. And then f subh f high will be the rest of it. So f is f not. Okay. Um so first we studied lines in fq2 and this is just going to be a recap of what we did in class. So we noticed um so let's say that l1 and l2 are are lines or characteristic function of lines. Um okay so there are two cases. If L1 and L2 are parallel um then you can easily see that their inner product is zero. Parallel means they don't intersect. So you get this. Okay. And you could also look at the high part and if you look at the high part it will be negative. The inner product will be negative. L1H L2 H will be negative. It's easy to compute but let me there's something I could say out loud. Um uh so one one would one always has that fg is f gn plus fi g high. You can see that from the fora representation of these things. So in this case l1 l the inner product of l1 and l2 is zero. Ln l1 kn and l2 kn are both positive. So their inner product is positive. So for this all to fit together this inner product should be negative. Okay. So that's what happens if they're parallel. Now at the time that felt parallel felt like sort of a special case. Two lines are usually not parallel. Once in a while they're parallel. So maybe the more important case is if they're not parallel. L1 and L2 are not parallel. Okay. So if they're not parallel then they intersect and therefore the sum L1 of X L2 of X is one. But if you take the high part L1H L2H you get zero. So the high parts are orthogonal. Okay. And we discussed a couple ways of seeing this. Um so one way to see it is based on the fora transform. So if you take L hat of C its norm is Q times characteristic function of L perp and so in particular the support of L1 hat intersected with the support of L2 hat is L1 perp intersected with L2 perp which is just the origin. if the lines are in different directions. So this is all under L1 and L2 are not parallel. L1 and L2 are not parallel. L1 hat and L2 hat also are not parallel and they intersect only at the origin. Okay. And then by looking at the high part we leave out the origin. So there's nothing left where they intersect and that gives us the orthogonal out. Okay. So once we had this we used it to prove a proposition that said if f is the sum over some set of lines of l then f high l2 squared is bounded by the sum over the lines of l high or not high l2 squared which then you could work out easily as bounded by the number of lines times Q. This is almost an equality. Okay. Um so this was really the key thing and this came from orthogonality. You can think of it as taking this sum and expanding it out. So this is the sum L1 and L2 in our set of lines of the sum L1H L2 H. And for each of these we plugged in that. Okay. So now let's go to three dimensions. See what's the same and what's different and and most importantly what should be the analog of this proposition. Okay, so lines in FQ3. Okay, so they could still be parallel or not parallel. So if L1 and L2 are parallel, um then everything is still true. They're parallel, then this is zero. And if we wanted to take the high part, it would be negative. Just the same as before. Okay. What if they're not parallel? Okay. If they're not parallel, there are still two possibilities. They could intersect each other or they could not intersect each other. So I guess there are sort of sub cases. If they intersect um then the sum on x l1 l2 would be one intersect at one point. Okay, that looks like before and we could take the high part um but the high part isn't zero. So this is an important thing that's different. So one one common mistake was not to do this computation carefully and just assume it should be zero like it was in two dimensions. But it's not um there's not that much difference between one and 1 - 1 over Q. So it's not clear that we're accomplishing a whole lot by focusing on the high part. Yeah. Um okay. Now we so to see this we could do this computation. It's elementary but it's a little bit tedious. Um but let me see if I could say something conceptual. Um so the the reason that this happened here is that the two high parts are independent of each other as functions. That's like a high a highbrow way of saying what's going on. um and um that's not true anymore. If you have two lines that intersect in three space, um they're not is not independent of each other. So if you know that you're in the first line, then you're much more likely to be in the second line than if you were just a random point. Okay, so you can I don't know if that's helpful, but you you could also just check that that's how it goes. Um, okay. They could also not intersect. If they don't intersect, then everything is the same as the parallel case actually. So the that's going to be zero and the sum of the high parts in a product the high parts will be negative. If you do it carefully, it's negative 1 over Q. Same thing would be true here. Okay. So, uh, another direction that this suggested to some people is that we ought to try to think how many pairs of lines intersect as opposed to the pairs of lines that don't intersect. And that is a totally reasonable way of thinking about this from the beginning. But it's not ob not obvious how to figure that out. Um it is possible for every pair of lines to intersect and there are there are two significant ways that that could happen. One way is you could take all the lines through the origin. You just pick a point and take all the lines through that point. Then every pair of lines will intersect at that point. Have like a porcupine shape. A second way that almost all the lines could intersect is to choose them all in a plane. So if you fix a plane and then you choose lines in the plane, a few of them might be parallel, but almost every pair of lines in the plane will intersect. Um anyway, so so people try to explore this a little bit, but it's not so clear how to uh put a bound how about how many how many pairs will intersect. Okay. So then another thought is that instead of instead of try focusing on this we should focus we should look at the for transform and just sort of see what the for transform tells us. So the for transform does have a nice description in any dimension like you did on the first part of the problem set and it it tells us something. Okay. So let's think about the forier transform for point of view. Okay. So if we take the 4A transform of our line and look at its absolute value, it will be Q times the characteristic function of L perp. But notice, so the L is still a line, but since we're in in three dimensions, L perp is two dimension. Okay. So then if we were to take look at the so if L1 and L2 are not parallel not parallel I if I look at the support of L1 hat intersected with the support of L2 hat well that's L1 perp intersected with L2 perp so I have a two plane and I'm intersecting it with a different two plane and that will make a line a line. Okay, so a third common mistake was to not do this so carefully and think that this intersection was just zero. And if the intersection was just zero, when you take the high part, you would get rid of the zero and that would show that L1 and L2 were orthogonal, which is not actually the L1 hat and L2 hat were orthogonal, which is not actually the case. Okay. Okay. Cool. All right. So, to prove some kind of a estimate about how these lines intersect, we're going to try to combine um this information and this information. So, if they're parallel, they actually are orthogonal, which is very good. If they're not parallel, um they're not fully orthogonal. But the forier transform of the intersection of for transforms is kind of small and special. We'll try to use that. Um so here's the analogous proposition and I think it would have been helpful if I had stated this in the problem set. Um okay. So here's how how it goes. So if L is a set of lines in three dimensions and F Q3 um um and F is the sum lines then um F L2 squared is bounded by so what we had before was something like orthogonality some L and L of F L or this is with the high part the high part L2 and that's not true anymore but it is true if we put an extra factor of Q. Okay. Um and so then that is around um the number of lines times each one of these is around Q and there's another factor of Q which is around there. So if you compare these this is like an orthogonality proposition. This is clearly much weaker than orthogonality because we have a big factor here. uh nevertheless it's stronger than nothing. Even though there's a big factor here, this proposition has some meaningful information in it. Okay. So, let me explain how to prove this proposition. Um and then we'll digest it and and say argue that that it does tell us something interesting even though it's a lot weaker in some sense than the two dimensional proposition. Okay. How do we prove this? All right. Um, so for parallel lines, we have a really good information. So let's first think about all the lines in a given direction and add those up. And then after that, we'll add up the different directions. So we'll label the directions by W. So W will be a one-dimensional subspace direction and then LW will be the lines in our set of lines that are parallel to W. Okay. And we can also make an FW. That's the sum over the lines in LW of L. So F itself is the sum over the different directions of FW. Okay, so the first thing that we will do is um prove some estimates about FW. Um and this part really is not that difficult and we're adding up functions with disjoint supports. So it's not that complicated what happens. Um, okay. So, FW L2 is the size of W sorry the size of uh LW * Q. Why is that? We're we're because the Okay. So proof uh so the sum f w^2 is the sum lw sum on x l of x squared. But these lines are parallel. They're disjoint from each other. So there's only at any given x only one of them is making an appearance. So this is some l sub x l of x squ. Okay. And then that's the right hand. Okay. And if you, it's not clear yet why we would want to look at the high frequency part, but if we did, it wouldn't change much. So FW high L2 is less than FWL2. And so the proof is that this is this is true for any function. We have have it over over there. Um for any function g2 is always g l2 2 plus g high l2 squ. So it's at least as big as g high2. Okay. So you can do it with the with furry transform. You you could also do it by hand. That's a it's call it an exercise. Okay. Now um the more tricky and interesting point is what happens when we add together the different W and when we do that the way their fora transforms behave will come into play. All right. So I guess that this is lema three but I'm going to put a star because this is the important lema. This is where the interesting stuff is happening. Okay. Important lema says that f L2 is bounded by Q + 1 times the sum on W of FWL2. Okay, here's the proof. Oh, and sorry. And now I need to put high everywhere. All right. So, f high l 2 is by planer. It's the sum on the nonzero c fhat of c squ. So remember that f knot is the zero frequency part of f. f high as all the other frequencies in F. And so this is planer. Oh, okay. And I guess because of the finite field normalization that I always have trouble remembering, there should be this. Okay. Now f is the sum of fw. This is 1 / q cubed times the sum in the nonzero c sum on w of fw hat of c^ squ. Now in two dimensions we could have done this and gotten to this point and then we would have been very happy because the different FW hats have different supports. They're supported on on different lines through the origin. So we would have orthogonality. So the way it would the way it would have worked in two dimensions is that for any particular C there is only one w which is non zero in this sum and so we could take this square in inside. Okay but that's not true anymore. So fw hat is supported on wp and in any in any uh in any given direction any given any given c there are many different two planes that contain that c. So let's write that down. So we're going to note that the support of FW hat is WRP and um so for any C um uh the um FW the the set of W so that f W of C is not zero is contained in the set of W. So the W is in C per yeah >> did the we we still need the high part right on the on the F hat. >> Yeah. So the question is I think the question is so on the left hand side I put the high part of F and the question is do we need the high part here? Is that the question? >> Zero. No. Um so we so we don't need that but but I should have said it uh clearer. So let's all remember that if you take the high part of f hat c what you get is fhat of c is non zero and zero if c is zero. So this is this is f fihat. Okay. So for any given frequency C, I only need to include the W's in CP. So actually I can write this and there aren't as many there. There's more than one of them, but there is a non-trivial bound on how many are terms are in this sum. So the number of W in C perp so this is a two plane we're talking about how many lines through the origin there are in this two plane that's Q + one so for so there are something like Q ^2 different W in total but for any given C we're only including Q of them in the sum here that's not as good as orthogonal ity, but it actually is helpful information. And the way we can exploit that information is by Koshy Schwarzing this. So I'm going to think of this as the sum of this thing times 1. Of course, I didn't change anything. And now I can apply Koshy Schwarz one over Q cubed sum over the nonzero C. Okay, the first term will be some W in C per FAT of W of C norm squared and the second half will be some W and C per of 1 2 okay and this is Q + one so we bring that out to the front. And after that, what we have left is a sum that just involves each FW one at a time. So it's Q + 1 1 over Q cubed sum on the nonzero C. Um actually I could put well I'll put the sum on W here. F WW hat C^ squ but I can switch the order of these sums. And now if I plan your back I have Q + one times the sum on W FW high L2. And that's the statement. Okay. Any questions or comments? In that case maybe I have a question for you. In this proof, what was the purpose of taking out the zero frequency? What did we gain by doing that? >> Yeah, >> the zero frequency equals 0 every W contains equals Z. So the bound would be Q. >> Good. Good. So the comment is that C equals 0 is special because and when C is zero every W per goes through zero. So um every every there so there are Q2 different W's and every one of them has a contribution at zero. So if we wanted to do Koshy Schwarz we would have Q ^ squ terms here. Um but at every other C we have only Q W per going through it and so we have to pay only Q over here. That's what's different about zero and not zero. Yeah. Good. Okay. Um so now the proof of the proposition over there is just assembling these lemas. So the proposition says that I I want to bound the L2 norm of f high. How do I do it? Uh, lamma 3 says the L2 norm of fi is bounded by q + one times the sum on w of those. And llamas one and lamas 2 tells me how big each one of these is. If you put that all together, you get you get proposition two. Okay. Okay. Um, great. Okay. So, now let me erase this a little bit and let's think about what what proposition two tells us about lines in free space. Um, so actually let's let's uh first review what proposition one tells us about lines in the plane. So f is a sum of lines. fnot is always the number of lines divided by q. And so f L2 squared is works out to be the number of lines squared. It's not hard to check. And proposition one, it tells us that fi L2 is bounded by the number of lines times Q. So if you put these together, you see that if the number of lines is much bigger than Q, then F is mostly constant. So then uh the L2 norm of f_subi is much smaller than the L2 norm of the constant part. The sum of lines looks almost constant with some small perturbations. Okay. What's the analog of that in three dimensions? Lines in FQ3. Okay. So in three dimensions fnot is the number of lines over q ^2 because each line occupies a 1 over q ^2 fraction of space. And so then you can compute the l2 norm of f^ 2. It's not difficult. It's number of lines squared over q. And on the other hand we know that fi l2 is at most the number of lines times q ^2. You can put these together. If the number of lines is large enough, then this is way bigger than this. If you do a little bit of algebra, you see that if the number of lines is much larger than Q cubed, then the high frequency part is much smaller than the constant part. So if you add up more than q cubed lines in three-dimensional space, you'll get something that's mostly constant with some small perturbations. Okay. Now these are both the correct thresholds for this behavior. Why? So in two dimensions suppose I add up less than Q lines. Say Q over2 lines. Well they only fill half of space. So there's no way that that thing is going to look constant. So this will certainly not be true with Q over two lines. All right. Now in three dimensions suppose I add up less than Q cubed lines maybe half of Q cubed lines. All right. Now this is a trickier wicket. It depends which lines I pick. If you were to pick half of Q cubed lines randomly and add them up it would be quite close to constant. But if you pick them cleverly you can make it not look like a constant. And here's how to do it. Um so example of 12 q cubed lines in fq cubed. Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm gonna pick one half Q aine two planes uh capital PJ and then um in each capital PJ I pick all the lines which is basically Q^2 lines. So two dimensional plane has about Q ^2 lines in it. Q2 + Q. Okay. So you put this all together. That's about half of Q cubed lines. Um now f which is the sum l and l is supported on the union of the pj and the size of the union of the pj is uh is clearly at most half of the space. So the size of the union of PJ is at most 12 Q the number of J times Q ^2 number of points per plane 12 Q cubed. So this thing is only supported on about half of space. There's no way that it's approximately constant. Cool. Okay. So in a certain sense this is the right threshold. Uh although you could also imagine asking some more refined questions. Okay, I guess looking back at the homework, I mentioned a few a few things that people tried that didn't work. And um I think the most common thing that people had a tricky time finding was that they should first group the lines in by their direction and have these FWS and then group the FWS together to make F. Yeah. Um so I think I could have done a better job giving direction to look in that look that way. Look in that direction. Uh but in hindsight, why was that a good idea? Um there's a saying that I like about trying to learn stuff or trying to figure stuff out that I learned from a Taichi teacher. Uh they said do do what's easy first. So if you are you're trying to for in math for example add up a whole lot of things and understand what the sum is like. If there are some pieces that you can add up and you know what those are like it's usually a good idea to do that first. Um and uh you know adding up parallel lines is fairly easy to understand and so it won't always help but sometimes it's helpful to do what's easy first actually same thing happens in Fubini when I teach analysis at various levels when is it a good idea to do Fubini to switch the order of integration or switch the order of summation you want to put the sum that you do first to be the easy one that's almost always the right way to organize Okay. So that was the recap of the homework. Okay. Um cool. So now the now we come to the the main the main topic of the day uh which is uh doing some some projection theory in uklidian space and thinking about how projections ma makes functions smoother. So if you take a function in R to the D and you project it onto something lower dimensional um well if you just pick one lower dimensional projection it might not be very nice but if you look at all the lower dimensional projections most of them will be smoother and we're going to investigate that phenomenon. And I hope you'll see that it's very parallel to the large civ theory from number three. All right, projections and smoothing. All right, so here's our setup. Uh so f is now a function on r to the d and v is going to be a subspace. Okay. And recall but by by the projection of f what I mean is the integral over var f of y + z d volume of z. So this is a map from functions on R to the D to functions on V. Um okay u and I'm going to mostly focus everything works for all the dimensions but for ease of notation whatever I'm going to mostly focus on projecting to onedimensional subspaces. So theta is a direction in the circle. Pi theta of f is going to mean pi it's abbreviation for pi span of theta of f or direction. look at the line in that direction. All right. So, here is a theorem that says that if you start with a function that's very little regularity, most of the projections are even smooth. So theorem says if f is an l2 function on r to the d and the support of f is in the unit ball then um if I integrate over the sphere and I take um the projection onto the line in the theta direction of f and I take it ck norm um then that is bounded by the L2 norm of f provided that the dimension is big enough. So I add the hypothesis to dimension uh what should it be? Dimension D minus one / 2 should be bigger than 12 + K. You can unwind that a little bit. It says D is bigger than something right. So for example D is seven then you can take K equals 2. So in seven dimensions, take just a L2 function. If you project it down to one dimension in a typical direction, you'll get something that's C2. Okay, I'm actually not sure to whom to attribute this theorem. So I'm I'm in the process of doing some historical research and maybe I'll know next class. All right. So this theorem is also based on the 4A transform and the way the 4A transform interact with projections. So now let's think about how that works. transform and projections. All right. So f is a function on r to the d. It has a 4 a transform. We've talked about it. Pi V of F is a function on V. It also has a 4A transform. I just remind you how it works. So V is a vector space and it basically works the same way as on on uklidian space. Um okay. So suppose I have a function G from B to C. Um then g hat will also be a function from v to c and ghat of c will be the integral over v of uh g of y e - 2i i y c d y but dy means with the volume form for my vector space v. So that's the for a transform. Yeah. >> Why do you add the two pi here normally include the general transform? Is that just a convention? >> Yeah. So the question is why is there a 2 pi here? There are a couple different conventions for the 4a transform. One of them has a 2 pi here. The other one has a 1 over 2 pi to the d in the front. Those are as far as I can tell equally good. And they both involve some slightly annoying factors of 2 pi. There's another convention where you write neither of those things. Um, that strictly speaking is not correct, but it's convenient and it usually is okay. Uh, okay. Uh, okay. Then we can do for a inversion where we recover g of y. Do for a inversion. That's the integral over v ghat x of c e to the 2 pi i y c d volume of x c. Okay, so that's how the for transform works on a subspace. Um and um and now what does projection do to the for a transform? There's an elegant formula llama call it a a dictionary lama translates between the um projection on the physical side and projection on the forier side and it's analogous to something that I called the dictionary lema when we were doing large s all right it says the following thing um if I have a function on r to the d then if I project it to v and take its fora transform it's just fhat of c for all c and v. All right, so let's process a second. So this is a function on v. It's for a transform is only defined on v. So this left hand side only makes sense if c is in v. But it's equal to fhat of c and fhat makes sense for c anywhere in rd. Okay, so here's the proof. Um yeah, let's just expand out what everything means. So the left hand side is the integral over v pi v of y eus 2 pi i c doy um d volume v of y. But what is the projection pi v of y? That's also an integral and it's an integral over v. So that's the integral over v integral over vp f of y + z d volume of z. So that was this thing e to the minus 2 pi i y c d volume of y. All right. So now notice that all together if you put this stuff together and that and that together we are integrating over r to the d. Um and so more precisely we can do sort of a change of variables here. We can say x is y + z and dx is dv volume v of y dv volume v of z. So this is f ofx. This stuff is just dx. Uh now who is this? Well, because z is in var and c is in v. Z do c is zero. So e to the minus 2i i y c is the same thing as e - 2 pi i y + z c. changed it by z which was zero which is e to the minus 2 pi iix x dx okay so I can rewrite everything in terms of x and it's just my integral fx e the minus 2i ix c dx all right so that's fhatic c and that's what we wanted to prove All right. Good. Okay. Okay. So let's see what how might we use this? What might this tell us? Um, so we're interested in this projection thing and the projection plays very nicely with the forier transform. And so any anything else that plays nicely with the for transform, we could sort of try to figure out how it interacts with projection. And one of the fundamental things that interacts nicely with the for transform is the L2 norm because we have planer. So we can write F L2 in terms of F hat. and fhat is closely related to pi v of fhat. And let's just see what happens. What does that tell us? Okay, so I'll call this um relating um f2 and pi v of f via the 4a transform. Okay. And I'm going to focus on pi theta of f because that will make this the easiest. All right. So f l2^2 is f l2. Write that out. It's the integral over r d f of c^ 2 d c. Okay. and the different um if I take pi theta of fhat that will correspond to fhat on different lines through the origin. So that suggests let's sort of separate this out in different directions by writing it in polar coordinates. So this is equal to the integral over the dus one sphere integral from 0 to infinity f of r theta^ 2 r dus1 dr r d theta. Okay. And um let me do this little trick to also include negative r so that once I fix theta I have a nice integral from minus infinity to infinity. All right. So this guy is related to pi theta of f by this lema. So this is 12 sus1 d theta. So I'm averaging over all the different directions. And what am I averaging? integrating from minus infinity to infinity pi theta f of r theta r the dus one dr r what is this inside thing inside here you know at first you might have thought you might get the l2 norm of pi theta of f^2 but that's so that would be the L2 of the F^2. This has this extra factor here which heavily weights large frequencies and gives a very low weight to small frequencies. Yeah, >> that's right. This thing is a soalevn norm. So what what naturally appears here is a soalev norm. And now let's pause and we'll review solev norms and the and some fact important facts about them. All right. Okay. So definition if I have a function G on a vector space um like a like a subspace of well a space with a with uklidian norm. >> Yeah. >> Um this is about the dictionary level. I'm wondering what class of functions that applies to because if f is like an L2 function so f hat is L2 function. How is its value on a measure zero subset like be meaningful? >> Yeah. Okay, great. So the the going back to the dictionary lema. Um the question was for which set class of functions does this actually make sense. And if you look at what I wrote on the board, it's a little suspicious. It just says that f is a function. And if f is just a function, actually none of the sides of this equation in general make sense. Um uh one thing that would that would be clearly sufficient is if f was a schwarz function. If f is a schwarz function um f had hat is awarz function. The projection is a schwarz function. It's it's for transformation. So that's all okay. Um if f is just l2 it's not immediately obvious how how all of these things would be defined. Um so let's think about this this way for now. Um and in in in it's fairly often the case that we can prove things about general L2 functions by first proving them for Schwarz functions and then proving um then using the fact that Schwarz functions are dense in L2. Okay. Um okay good okay okay so we were remembering what what is a sole fn norm so if I have a function on v then um g hs dot squared is the integral over v I'll take the norm of g hat of c^2 um and then I'll put here the norm of C to the 2s. This makes sense for any real number S. Um and um and it has something to do with the smoothness of of of G and in particular if S is a natural number then it has an interpretation in terms of L2 norms of derivatives. So um G H1 dot squared is the sum over different directions J of the J derivative of G L2 at least approximately maybe exactly um and then um higher values of S higher values of S correspond to taking more derivatives so I'll just put one more and you'll see the pattern h2 dot squared is around the sum over J1 and J2 of the second derivative in the J1 J2 directions of G L2 and so on. Okay. Um and if S is not an integer then there's not a direct interpretation of this form but it is still kind of measuring how smooth the function G is. Okay. There is also a regular. So this is the sole f norm with a dot. It's called the homogeneous soalef norm. And there's a version without the dot which is defined like this. Um gh hs 2 is the integral over v ghat of c ^ 2 uh 1 + the norm of c ^ 2 to the s d c which is roughly the same um as if you took out the biggest power. This would be 1 + c 2s and the one contributes gl 2^ 2 and the c to the 2s is this thing. So it contributes hs dot. Okay. Um cool. So there's a well-known um set of theorems called the soalev embedding theorems which imply that if g is in a soalev space for a big enough s then it is continuous and if even a bigger s then it's c1 and so on. Um so I will write a summary. So belove embedding. Um if s is bigger than 1/2 the dimension of v um then g l infinity is bounded by g in hs and um and if g is in hs then g is continuous. And if we add um if s is bigger than some k plus 1/2 the dimension of v um then the kith derivatives of g are bounded by the hs norm and if g is in hs then it's ck Okay. Um, any questions or comments about sov spaces? Okay. Um so now that we have recalled that if we look back here we will recognize what appears here as a solev norm of the projection. So the L2 norm squar of f is this integral and this thing here is the hs norm of pi theta of f. So this is 12 integral over the d minus one sphere pi theta of f h d -1 / 2 dot^ 2 d theta. Okay. Where did this come from and why does it have a dot? This r is the norm of my frequency c. So this is the norm of c to the 2 s. So s is d minus one over two. And it's homogeneous. We don't have this extra one. So there's a dot. Okay. Cool. Cool. Um okay so now you can pro probably have a good guess of how we would like to prove this theorem. The L2 norm controls an integral like this with the soelv norm. Sov embedding tells us that the soilv norm controls the ck norm. So that's the plan. Okay. But technically there is a small technical issue which has to do with the dot or the no dot. Dot and no dot homogeneous not homogeneous are both natural and important. Homogeneous one will occur naturally in some places. It naturally occurred here. On the other hand sov embedding is a theorem that requires uh that the non-homogeneous soil of space. So we need to do a little bit of work to to get between Um so now we can do proof of theorem. All right. So integral sdus1 pi theta f c k k d theta is bounded by integral sdus one pi thetaf f h dus1 / 2 without the dot squared d theta so this is so embedded okay and that hypothesis about d up there is just exactly the hypothesis that you need for this to be true when you plug in so embedding. All right, now let's open up the definition of this thing and we'll almost see the FL2 norm squared but not quite. So this is around integral of sdus one integral from minus infinity to infinity f of r theta^ 2 and we'll have 1 + r dus d r d theta. So we don't have a dot that requires us to put this extra one that we didn't have before. All right. So you have a sum of two pieces. In real analysis, we usually think about which of the two pieces is bigger. So if r is bigger than one, this piece dominates. And if r is smaller than one, that piece dominates. So it's the integral sus one integral r bigger than 1 f of r theta^ 2 r dus r d theta. Let's call that term number one. Plus the integral sdus one integral r smaller than one f of r theta^ 2 1 * 1 d r d. Let's call this piece two. Okay. So piece one is uh clearly smaller than what we had before which was f L2 squ. So piece one smaller than L2. Piece two. Okay. In piece two I think it's no longer really helpful to think of this as being related to polar coordinates. We're integrating over a sphere cross and interval and that's a finite volume. And so what I'd like to put here is just that it's bounded by the a constant which is the volume times the biggest possible size of this super. Okay. So how big is that? So fhat of c bounded by the integral f(x) e - 2i iix x c dx and the most common approach the easiest approach to this is use the triangle inequality so we have this now we have the l1 norm of f okay so we have two pieces one piece is controlled by the l2 norm of f the other piece is controlled by the l1 norm of f um I could have written the theorem that way But I wrote it a little bit differently. I thought it was cuter. Uh I've had the support of f is in the unit ball. If the support of f is in the unit ball, then we can control the L1 norm by the L2 norm. So since the support of F is in the unit ball integral of f ofx dx looks like that. It's bounded by the integral of f(x)^2 to the 12 times the integral over the unit ball of 1 to the 12. So that's bounded by f2. Okay. So using using the support I can bound both one and two by FL2 and um okay and that was that was what I had thought of as the proof of the theorem but now is a good moment to come back to the question that was asked earlier. What do you actually have to assume about f for all of this to make sense? Um okay. Um so let me add some fine print. I'll write what we actually proved. Um all right. So the fine print is for for the time being suppose that f is a schwarz function. We needed f is a Schwarz function to justify our formula about the 4A transform of the projection and in a few other places to make sure all these for a transforms make sense. If you assume that F is Schwarz, everything we wrote makes sense. Um and we get this estimate and and this is an inequality. And then it is now possible to do some extra work. If you have a function that's not Schwarz, just a function in L2, you could have a sequence of Schwarz functions that approximate it and um and for each one of those approximating functions, this bound would be true. And then with some work, you could show that the bound is also true for the limiting function f. Okay. So I'll put a remark um can remove the hypothesis. Okay. Um, so any questions or comments about the proof of this theorem? >> Is the condition that the support is in the unit essential to this? >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is, is the assumption that the support of F is in the unit ball essential? What would happen if we remove this assumption? >> Right. >> Yeah. So looking at the proof, we could um let me get another color. Looking at the proof, we could if we want to remove this assumption. And then we would need to add the L1 norm as well as the L2 norm um to deal with um uh due to my brilliant neighbor labeling scheme, term one is bounded by the L2 norm and term two is bounded by the L1 norm. Okay, I haven't thought about it carefully. You you could ask if we did this uh would it still be true? I suspect that's not true and the sort of natural example to look at is a function on a really big ball. I haven't I haven't thought it through carefully. So, it's good a good little good little project to figure out what happens. Okay. So the um big big picture takeaway of this theorem is we take a function in high dimensions which is not very regular and when we project it to low dimensions most of the projections are much more regular and um I was trying to think of places that this relates to or we might have seen something like this before. Um and one place where we see something like this is the central limit theorem in probability. Um, so let me remind us how that works. Okay. So suppose that XJ are random variables which are uniformly distributed in 01 and there are a lot of them one up to n. Okay. So in the central limit theorem we might think what happens if we add up all these random variables. Um so and we could look at the sum of the XJ. This will be the random variable. Actually let me put it not that important but going to put minus a half a half. The central limit theorem is a little bit nicer. Uh okay. So what happens when I add them up? and I add them up. The central limit theorem says that the sum of these random is approximately a Gaussian with mean zero and um standard deviation something like square root of n. And notice in particular that it's quite smooth. Okay. So um okay. So the probability the joint probability density function of these XJS XJ is f of x1 up to xn. It's the characteristic function of the cube. So this is a sort of typical this is an example of a function that's in L2 but is not continuous. Okay. Uh now what is what is the probability density function of this thing? Um well, we have a map. Um I guess the summation map goes from Rn to R and it just takes X1 up to Xn and it maps it to X1 plus F plus Xn. Add them up. It's a linear map. So the probability density function of um of the sum of the xjs is the push forward of fdx and this is a slightly different language but it is up to a small change of variables. It's the projection of f on the main diagonal. actually I can make we can make this look nicer if we normalize in the central limit theorem which is not a which is a fairly standard way of writing it. So let me write the central limit theorem this way. Okay. So now my function is that and let's say that theta is 1 / n11 which is in which is a unit vector. So this is just the projection I'll call it theta 1 in the theta 1 direction of f. Okay. So I take the characteristic function of the cube. If I project it in that direction, I get something that is almost a Gaussian. And that's the central limit there. And notice in particular that the that that that projection is quite smooth. So if I were to take the cube and I were just going to project it onto the x1 axis, well the other variables would be irrelevant and I would just get the characteristic function of an interval and it would not be any smoother than it was before. Still be discontinuous. And that's the same I could project it onto any of the axes. They're all the same. That would be uh characteristic function of an integral. But if I project it onto the main diagonal then I get the thing in the central limit theorem which is extremely smooth and you know the the the the more I increase the dimension the more it looks like a Gaussian and in particular the smoother it gets. Okay. Now in the central limit theorem it actually is not terribly important that all of these are exactly one. It's just important that they're roughly equal to each other. So as long as you take a direction which is doesn't emphasize any of the coordinate axes too much, you'll see something like the central limit theorem. So in all of those directions, the projection will look quite smooth and in fact it will look a lot like a Gaussian. Uh or where but if you were to project it in the bad directions and in a coordinate direction or combination of a couple coordinate directions, then you'll get something that's not so smooth. Okay, so that's an example of this theorem. And in this special example, we can say much more refined things about which directions are good and bad and exactly what happens. Um, but this theorem is a lot more general because you don't have to put in the characteristic function of a cube. You can put in quite a broad range of functions and qualitatively similar things happen. Yeah, >> dumb but like this theorem we proved earlier it's really saying like when you integrate you make it smoother like it's a projection is an integration. >> Yes. Yes. The comment is the comment is that when we project we project by integrating some of the variables and so the comment is when we integrate something we make it smoother. That's a really nice comment and it reminds us of something uh more familiar and fundamental just like if you had a function of one variable that was just in L2 say or L1 if you integrated it it would get smoother. If you integrated it a whole bunch of times, then you would get something smooth. Yeah. So, this is a little bit like this is this is a little bit like that. And I guess the smoothness does come from doing the integration. >> Um, in this situation, >> yeah, what's it? >> The bounds are interesting. So, like like how smooth it is is interesting. >> Yes, the bounds are interesting. Yes. Yeah. And I guess one of the differences here is, you know, this this function depends on many variables. We're going to integrate some of them but not others. Um, and so yeah, anyway, so it and then it depends which ones we integrate whether or not it gets smoother, but it turns out that usually it does. Yeah. But yeah, I think that I think that is a good way of looking at it. Yeah. Cool. Cool. Okay. So let me end by mentioning so as part of the class I'll try to mention different ways that that projection theory is related to various parts of math. Um and so this reminds me of something I heard about um which is about trying to generalize the central limit theorem. So what if the input was not um independent random variables but something somewhat more general? Would it still be true that when we take a projection like this, you would see a Gaussian? Um, and so there's a a big a big body of of work on that. Um, but what one interesting direction I heard about is initiated by Keith Ball and it's connection between probability theory and convex geometry. And the point of view is that maybe to some extent what's important about the cube is just that it's a convex set. So instead of the cube, take any convex set in R to the N. N is large. Okay. Now there's no distinguished like there's nothing special about the coordinate axis anymore. So so it's not the coordinate axis projections aren't necessarily the ones that are bad that this one isn't necessarily good. But the the question he raised is maybe you take any convex set and look at its projections onto one-dimensional spaces. Maybe most of them are almost Gaussian. Okay. And that's a recent topic of research and a significant amount like that is true. Um, uh, Keith Ball gave an ICM talk about it and I put some references in the homework if anybody is interested in reading about it. Cool. Um, okay. Well, let's let's stop there for today. uh to to the plan for Thursday is to come back to the large civ which is done which is from number theory and I'll try to tell you some some things what kind of applications in number theory does the large civ