Okay. Uh so hi everyone. I'm Pablo. I'm uh teaching Lar's lecture this week. I hope we are all here to learn about projection theory. And the plan for this week is to talk about Bugans projection theorem uh which is an extremely important theorem with applications uh in many areas of mathematics including some pretty striking recent ones and okay I think Larry has told you at least a bit about it and well uh we won't be able to do a full proof because it would take way too long but what I'm going to do is explain um okay so you've seen the analog of this theorem in the final field setting and I'm going to state it uh to so as our starting point and then the plan is to go through the steps in the strategy in the final field setting and see what goes wrong and what are the ideas that one uses to overcome what goes wrong. Okay. So recall uh how this theorem looks like in the finite field setting and by finite field I mean prime prime finite field prime order because otherwise it's not true. Okay. And the statement was hopefully something like this. um given t between 0 and two and s between 0 and one t I want it to be neither zero nor two because there wouldn't be anything to say s has to be positive could be one uh there exists some epsilon that depends on these two parameters and is positive with the following properties. If X is in FP squared and has size P to the S. So sort of S dimension an S S dimensional set in some sense. And D is a set of directions. Let's say a subset of FP and it has size P to the T. So sort of dimension T. uh then so I use the notation pi theta of x uh to be the projection and we can write the projection in this way I guess just x1 plus theta x2 so from fp² to fp then um we can find uh sorry I missed messed up the parameters already So the size of x is between p to the zero and p^2 and t is between zero and two. So this should be t this should be s. Okay. Uh then there is a large pro large between quotes projection. Uh then the maximum over theta in d of the size of the projection of x is at least p to the t / 2 plus epsilon. So we gain an epsilon over t / two and t p to the t over two is sort of the obvious lower bound and I'm going to come back to this obvious lower bound uh in a minute. In fact uh there is a stronger version. I think you proved this in detail and uh you discussed the stronger version. So let me state the stronger version because well first of all it's important in itself for applications of the final field result. But I would say it's even more important in the uklidian case. Not only we can find so at this size we can find the direction so that the projection is large the projection of the whole set but moreover we can find the direction so that if we project any dense subset of x the projection is still large. So if we take the maximum over now the minimum so we look at the worst possible subset which is dense. So we take the minimum over subsets of X which are dense in the sense that they have relative density uh P to the minus epsilon and then we look at the projection of Y. So we try to make the projection of a dens set of X as small as possible but we can't even if we have this additional robustness of going looking at all subsets of Y we still have a gain over T /2. Okay. So this is Bans protection theorem in the finite field setting and you have proved at least this version and I think discussed this version. If anything I say is not correct or if I say something that you are not familiar with or you don't understand anything please just ask. Okay. So now we want to uh Okay. So before moving to the uklidian case uh let me make this remark on the trivial bound. So the trivial bound is p to the t /2 without the just without the epsilon for this. So this theorem is not true if uh p is p square. If we replace P by P square or anything which is not a prime because if you look at FP square for example then FP sitting there and um if we take F to be XP and D to be FP sitting in FP squared we don't escape FP because FP is a sub uh so this is not true but without the epsilon is true in any field and the argument is trivial so uh okay so one should never use the word trivial but I will use it in this case. So everything is trivial once you've understood it and nothing is trivial before you've understood it but uh I will still use the word trivial here. Um so if D has at least two elements so same setting as above so if D has more than one element so let's allow P to the S where S is positive just two elements then the maximum over theta in B of the projection of X is at least the size of X to the 1/2. So if the size of x is p to the u t would be at least p to the t /2 and again we will see that this doesn't use the fact that p is prime. So it's much more general. Okay. And and this is trivial because just take two elements. Okay. Again trivial. I will explain it and then once you've understood it you will see that you will agree that it's trivial. Um okay so know that. So just take two elements. So D has at least two elements by so let's just take two elements theta and theta prime in D and then uh so the observation that makes this trivial is that uh if you map X to the projection in direction theta comma the projection in direction theta prime. So this is small x an element of xp squ. Uh this is injective. So we can recover a vector from two projections by linear algebra. So this means that the image of X under this map has size at least the domain because if you have an injective M map the image has the size of the domain. Okay. So this implies that the size of x is at least the size of the projection in direction theta of x times the size uh of the projection in direction of theta prime. So at least one of these two has to be at least square root of x square root of the size of x. Okay. Uh so this is the proof of the trivial bound and I hope you will agree that it's very easy and it uses literally nothing. Well uh it uses that this map is injected but this is a very general fact in particular this is true on any finite field it doesn't have to be prime but for this we need it to be prime okay so now we want to uh have a uklidian version of this statement and we will see that okay so maybe let's discuss the uklidian setting so I will start with the setting uh which is the way in which nucleidian setting has appeared in this course before but then I will rescale things uh to a setting that I like better but let's start uh with the following so we have a parameter r which is the scale or maybe one / r is the scale and then we have our set x is contained in the ball of radius r let's say center at the origin or really any any ball of radius r it doesn't make any And let's suppose that X is a union of unit balls and D let's say in 01 maybe one two would be slightly more natural but it doesn't really matter much is a one / r separated set. Okay, so G is a finite set of directions. They are separated by the scale one / R and X is a unit of unit balls MBR. So we measure X by le measure. We measure it by cardinality and use bars in both cases. I think this is the convention you've been using in this course and well we would like the following well we would like that right. So uh except that now x is not in fp square but in br and d is no longer in fp but in 01. So pi theta is still the same. So pi theta of x1 x2 is x1 plus theta x2. We could look at orthogonal projections but up to a parameterization uh is this is actually easier to work with. It's not important. Okay. So we can ask does the same happen? So just all the bars mean different things now. So when we project X we are looking at the measure measure one dimensional measure of the image and so on. So do we have any hope of proving the same theorem in this generality? So does anyone want to guess could this theorem be true in this setting? It's not true because the and the balls are closely packed into kind of a kind of a ball radius root r. Okay, great. That's a great example. But that great example and I will come back to this still satisfies the trivial bound. So can the trivial bound happen in this setting as written? Because yeah, yeah, if you have everything is is packed into a smaller ball, if you project, you still have an interval of size the square root. So you're right, that fails. I'm going to come back to your example. That fails, but this still holds. Can the trivial bound be true in this setting without assuming anything else? There are only two directions. Okay. Uh yeah, two directions. Maybe it's asking too much. Let's say there are Okay. What is P to the T and what is P to the S? It would be row to the T and row to the S. Uh not not row R. R to the T, R to the S. Let's say there are R to the S directions. Let's make it a little bit more. Yeah. With two directions. Uh maybe. Okay, let's say there are r to the s directions which are 1 / r separated. Can the trivial bound hold? Okay, what is an example of a set that has one very small projection? So what is a set in the plane that has one very small projection? >> All of the balls in a line. >> A line. Okay, it cannot literally be a line because it's a union of balls. But we put the balls in a in a long segment. So uh so an example that should make us kind of scared is a 1* r rectangle. So packed with balls in this way as someone suggested. Then if we project literally down we get something of of size one which is much much much less than square root of r. But if we perturve the vertical projection by r to the s the projection will have size r to the s and if s is less than 12 it will be less than square root of r. So, so instead of projecting in this direction, if we project in a nearby direction, uh this is still bad. So, so if this is x and okay, so I think actually I chose a bad so this projection cannot be written in this way. Oh yes, it can be written in this way. Just theta is zero. It can be very well written in this way. Uh okay. So and if theta is let's say uh minus r to the s r to the s then the projection of x will have size of the order of r to the s and well s could be positive but less than 1/2. So this this is very bad. Okay. Uh so we don't want okay this is not theta this is d so this is very bad so we don't want d to look like an interval or to be very concentrated in an interval or something like this so we want to avoid such such a situation okay so this is bad it makes even the trivial estimate hopeless so maybe we'll come back to this if there is time maybe not but maybe as an exercise for to uh not exercise for marks or anything but you can think at not now now pay attention but you can think later what goes wrong with this argument because in R2 it's still true that two projections even if the angles are very close determine the the original vector so why why so how is this compatible so you can think about this and then you will understand many of their well not many one of one of the important reasons why things are much more complicated in this ukidian warp. Okay. So now suppose that uh we avoid this in some way. Uh can we have a hope of having the theorem and the answer as you said is still no. So this is one example we should be worried about. Uh here is another example we should be worried about where x is essentially let's say a ball of radius square root of r. It can be really any radius between zero and one but just two. Okay. So x should be a union of this joint unit ball. So we just pack in a very dense way unit balls in a bowl of radius r to the 12. So the volume of X the area of X is roughly R. But if we project it in any direction. Okay. So we have to get rid of bad sets like this. But let's get rid of bad sets like this in the strongest possible way. Let's suppose that G is everything. So here we can so we are we are focusing on what can go wrong with X. So let D be absolutely everything. Well, here every projection is going to be a segment of length roughly r to the 1/2. So if you look at the projection of x, this has size roughly square root of the size of x and this is for every theta. So in fact if you avoid this in a suitable way we recover the trivial bound but it is no longer trivial. Uh maybe we'll come back to this on Thursday depending on how we are doing with time. So the trivial bound is no longer trivial even in the best case. But if we want to go beyond the trivial bound uh we also need to assume something about x. So we need to avoid this and we need to avoid this. And you see that in both cases uh what's going on? So the geometric picture is different but in both cases D is an interval X is a ball. So we want to avoid X D looking like an interval or X looking like a box. And if we do that in a suitable way then we can indeed get a similar statement. So let me actually state it. Okay, let me say that Bugan didn't state it in this way but okay this follows from what he proved. Okay. Um suppose that same same setting as before. So, so we are still assuming this would have been faster to just write everything down again. But okay, but we need to have some assumptions uh to avoid these web examples. So uh okay, so first of all we need some quantifier. So given zero t uh so t is strictly between zero and two and s larger than zero there exist now two parameters so I could do with one parameter so you see that even here I'm using epsilon for two different things for the growth and for the robustness in passing to subsets here I'm going to use two different letters because they denote different thinks so there exist epsilon and ita both depending on s and t and both positive such that the following holds okay so suppose that we have x union of unit balls in the r uh 1 / r separated set of directions uh okay and then we need to assume something because otherwise it's not true so we need to assume that x and d are not very concentrated in small balls or small intervals. So this is what we are going to assume. If we intercept x with any ball of radius r we see only a small piece of x and the smaller the r the smaller the piece and the range of this little r is between one and big r because x is a unit of unit balls and it's a subset of the r ball. Okay so this should be less or equal than what? Well, on the one hand, we want to compare this to the natural scale, which is R. So, this tells us how much smaller the reference scale is compared to the global scale. And let's put the T here, which is motivated by the fact that okay uh okay, so X has area R to the T and D has cardinality R to the S. Okay, so this T matches this T and then I have the size of X. So this is saying if R is much smaller than big R. So if if R is big R, we have all of X. So we can we cannot get any gain because X is contained in the ball of radius R. But if we are intersecting X with a smaller ball, we have a big decay sort of power decay with respect to so only a very small part of X can be in a small ball compared to the whole of X. Okay. And it turns out that it's very important for applications to have some leeway here. And this leeway is given by this parameter EA. So this leeway says that actually we don't need to assume anything if R is very close little R is very close to big R because if R is very close to big R this will still be bigger than one and then we have a trivial trivial inequality. So this is saying the global scales don't matter. Okay and a very similar story with D. If we intersect D okay balls here are intervals but I'm going to still the notation for balls this is at most again we have our ley r to the epsilon and then row is between zero and one so here the right thing to write is row to the s times okay so the size of x is actually r to the t but still I want to write it in this way so it's clear that when we intersect with the ball we are seeing only a small piece of X and same thing here. Okay, so these are the conditions that we impose to avoid these bad control examples and you could say that they are overkill and we are avoiding not only this but okay put it in a different way there is a whole universe between this and this and yeah this is true and in fact these conditions can be weakened maybe I will make some remark about this but anyway so these are the assumptions then there exist one direction and once there is one direction there are many ctions are such that we have the same uh conclusion. So if we look at the infyom over all dense subsets and dense means with respect to this so this parameter it so it is like a tolerance parameter it gives us some leeway at different places to play with. So y sorry yeah y is a dense subset of x with this leeway r to the minus epsilon then we project this subset and we get the gain. So the trivial now is no longer trivial but sort of natural lower bound is t over two and we beat it by epsilon. >> Yes. Does Y also have to be a union of univolves? >> Uh, that's a very good question. >> I don't think so. But yeah, just in case. Yes. Just in case I'm too tired. Yes. Yeah. Let's say yes. Let's say yes. Yeah. So, we're going to restate this in a different language soon. Uh, where we will get rid of balls. Yeah, let's say y is also unit balls. Okay, so you see that there are lots of parameters. It's kind of a technical statement. The assumption looks a bit strange if you have never seen this before, but nevertheless is again an extremely important theorem with an unbelievably range of applications and we keep discovering applications and something which is also important to remark is that all the applications really use the statement as a black box. they don't okay it's sometimes people also get inspired by the proof but it's not a situation where the proof gets used really the statement gets used so it's a very very powerful statement and I guess in the rest of the course with Larry you will see some some of the ways in which it is very powerful okay so how does one prove this and by the way I'm going to sort of as I say sketch the proof skipping pretty much all details but the proof I'm going to sketch is not Bans proof It's it's a uh yeah maybe a new proof that I'm writing together with Hong Wang that takes ideas from different places. U so it's is not Bhan's original proof. Okay. So um the general scheme will follow the steps that you've seen in the final field setting but there are very significant challenges. So what I'm going to do is go over each of the steps and explain what the challenges are and what can one do to fix them and then you will have to trust me that indeed they they can be fixed. So I won't go into the details. So before doing so, so uh you saw that if we want to go from finite field to uklidian settings, uh sometimes you have to add more assumptions otherwise things fail because of some easy examples. But this is not always the case. So there are some some statements in the finite setting that extend pretty in a pretty straightforward way to this uklidian setting. So um so in order to do this uh I'm going to sort of change the language a little bit and uh maybe rescale this. So instead of looking at union of unions of unit balls in the R ball, I'm going to look at so basically I need to rescale the set down by one over R. So X is going to live in the unit ball and then it will be a union of one over R balls and of course you have to rescale if you rescale you have to rescale everywhere else in the statement. But instead of looking at the volume of uh the set X, I'm going to use the delta covering number. And for the directions, instead of assuming that they are disjoint, I'm also going to use the delta covering number. So I bring both. So basically X and D, I want to use the same language and same scale to make things more homogeneous. So let me spend a couple of minutes uh talking about the data covering number. Suppose that X is a subset of really any metric space but let's say RD then uh okay so this is I guess definition or notation XAR delta so bar with your subscript delta is the smallest number of delta balls needed to cover could be infinite but we only so in all this business we are only looking at bounded sets in which case this is finite. So everything we are going to see is going to be a finite number. Okay. So this is a basically uh our measuring resolution is delta. We cannot distinguish anything that happens under scale delta. So this is a natural way of measuring the size of the set. Okay. So, some just just a definition but some observations. Well, uh the first one I think I should never use the words the word trivial but I hope I'm justify justifying saying that this is trivial. If x is to make it really trivial two delta separated then the delta covering number is just the cardality because for each point in the set we need a different ball. Okay. So this will be the case for d. D is delta separated but delta separated to delta separated doesn't make a big difference. So if the set is delta separated is morally just the cardinality. Okay. If X is a union of delta balls then the delta covering number is well you use the balls to cover the set and okay you need to normalize to pass between measure and counting how many balls there are. So I think this should be delta to the minus D. So this is the ambient dimension where x lives times the le measure of x. Did I get this right? And it's not actually equal. It's comparable. >> Yes. >> Or does x have to be a disjoint union of delta balls? >> Yeah, that's a very good question. No. uh is easier to believe if it if it is a disjoint union of delta balls and it is also true if it's a non- disjoint unit of delta balls and the reason is that if you have a non- disjoint unit of delta balls you can cover it by finitely overlapping okay if the if you have a disjoint unit of delta balls I hope this is clear because the best way to cover it by using those those balls if you have a finitely overlapping collection of delta balls then well you just cover by the finally overlapping family and you lose and any any union of balls you can cover by a finite overlapping. So I guess you need some covering theorem to make it precise. Anyway, it's true and we are not going to use it. But you can convince yourself that it's true. Again, easier to believe if the balls are disjoint, but also true. If balls are disjoint is equal if the PS are not disjoint, there is a wiggle. In fact, the wiggle I guess that maybe depends on the ambient dimension D. Okay. So I'm just making these remarks to say that to to sort of explain how this relates to our previous setting because now from now on we are going to measure everything by the delta covering number and the point I want to make is that this recovers the volume and the cardality when the sets are delta separated or unit of delta balls. Okay. So another way of thinking about the delta covering number is as a box counting number. So let d delta uh be the covering of our d by delta cubes. So so this is delta k plus z delta maybe let's make it half open so that this is a partition to the d where k is in z to the d. So I'm I'm just doing like a diadic covering. Delta doesn't have to be diatic, but I'm So this is this is a how do you say the tiling of RD by cubes of size delta. I make them half open so they are disjoint but it's not really important. Okay. So uh the delta covering number is up to a multibility constant the number of cubes in the delta that are hit by the set. So the cardinality of the cubes in the delta which intersect the set. So this is why this is called box counting number as well. Okay, why is this true is because if you cover by cubes in an efficient way, so if you know how many cubes you're hitting, well, you can cover each cube by a a finite number of balls of radius delta. Again, this wiggle may depend on D. So D is a fixed parameter. It will be one or two for Bansuction theorem. So I consider it as a constant. So you can cover each each of these cubes by a finite number of delta balls and vice versa. If you have a delta ball, you can cover it by a finite number of cubes. So that's that's the proof proof by picture. Okay. And one nice consequence of this is that this allows us to snap any set to a grid and then this allows us to apply uc non- ucleian uh integer results discrete results. So let's define so what is x supperscript bracket delta is the set that is obtained by snapping points to the grid. So if uh x intersects this this cube then this point will be an ex in x delta. In this way I I snap it to the latis. Okay. Formally this is all the case such that the cube delta k plus 0 delta to the d intersects x. Okay. So anytime there we see something here we look at this point. Okay. And then uh because of this the delta covering number is roughly up to a multiplicative constant the same as the cardinality. This is now a finite set and it's a finite set in a latis. So it's just the not just not just a latis it's just the integer latis scaled down by delta but it's just the integer latis. Okay. And by using this uh one can extend many results that are true um in ZD to delta covering numbers. So using this in particular the following three things which are three very important tools in the proof of the finite field case of bans projection theorem and also in the uklidian case uh the rua triangle inequality the punic rou are inequalities and the valuic theorem. They all hold for delta covering numbers by putting bar delt. So when you see bar you put delta. Okay. And you lose multiligative constants because of this. So where you have equality you no longer have equality. But this is very harmless. Okay. For example, I'm going to state the RA triangle inequality as a model and then you can imagine how the other two behave. Um, so we have okay so we have three sets in the same RD. Let's say bounded to make sure that the delta governing number is finite. Then let's see if I get this right. If not, you just let me know. Okay. in in the original. So in the discrete triangular inequality here we have inequality here we have inequality up to a constant. So this is the only thing we have to change. Okay. Did I get this right? Is this the correct statement? Okay. So this is an example. Just put delta delta delta delta and take equality by equality up to a constant. And how do you prove this? Well, you you snap it to the grid. You have to be a very like a little bit careful because you can snap A to the grid. You can snap B to the grid and then you can take A minus B for the snapped versions and that's not going to be exactly the same as snapping A minus B to the grid. So there is something that doesn't exactly commute but it almost commutes. So almost commutes. So I'm not going to another exercise is for you to convince yourself that this is true. So okay. So you see that for the projection theorem we really need to impose assumptions if we wanted to hold in the nuclean setting. But this is not always true. Here we have three very important tools and they basically work in the same way. Okay. So now we can start going over the steps in the proof of the theorem in the final field setting and seeing what the obstacles are and what one can do to overcome the obstacles if one wants to follow the same scheme of proof in the uklidian setting. Any questions so far? Okay. So in the finite field setting what was the first step in the proof? It was to prove expansion using a polomial for just one set. So let's recall what uh this was. So if we have a and fp okay I guess let's state the quantifiers first. So given s 01 there exists an epsilon such that the following holds uh if we have a subset of our of our prime field so here it has to be a prime field this already fails if it's not the prime field and well I'm going to come back to this point several times okay and suppose that it has size p to the s then uh There exist a polomial actually uh there exist a polomial which is fixed for all s for all epsilon and for all a and it can be x1 x2 x3 - x4 x5 x6 so that polinomial works but it doesn't really matter which polinomial it is so let's call it q okay and if we apply q to a we get expansion Okay. So I think what you did with Larry gave the following polinomial. I think it was clear from what you did with Larry that really doesn't matter which polinomial it is as long as you have some polomial because at the later stage one is going to apply pura to bring down the polomial to the simplest possible polomial. Uh so that was a later step at this step any polomial works. Okay so this one works but it's not too important which one it is. Okay how how did you prove this? So we can see to what extent things go wrong in the in the uklidian setting and to what extent we can recycle some of the ideas. So idea of proof if I claim that you saw something with Larry and you didn't please let me know. Uh he told me and showed me notes but I could still be wrong about something. Okay. What was the idea of proof behind this? Uh so one looks at maybe let's call it x a minus a over a minus a and here uh we skip zero we don't want to divide by zero and then there are two possibilities either x is everything and then one can conclude in some way I'm not this is not I'm not going to recall how to do it and the other possibible ility is that X is not everything. And if it's not everything, there exists some uh little X in X such that X + one is not in X because it's not everything and then one can also conclude. So in both case this one has to work. I'm not saying it's trivial, but this was the structure of the proof. And this extremely innocent step is what distinguishes FP from FP square. If we were working in FP square, we would not be able to do this because FP square has a subgroup which is FP. So you cannot escape FP by adding one. So this extremely innocent adding plus one uh distinguishes okay so distinguishes FP and FP square let's say okay so we want to do something similar and so let's say uh we have an A. Well, first of all, it's very likely that we will need to assume something about A. In fact, we need to assume something about A in the UK setting because if A is a is a segment, it does like any polinomial check, it doesn't grow. So, if X is 1 1 + R 1 1 + delta to the 1 - t something like this, just just a small small segment. If you add it to itself, multiply by itself, you get slightly longer segments. There is no real growth is exactly the same issue uh as we had when we were projecting uh an X which was too concentrated in a large ball. Okay, but now we sort of know how to get rid of that. We need to assume that A is not too concentrated inside any segment. Okay, but even assuming that we do that, uh we see that we have lots of problems if we try to do something like this. What are the problems? So can you tell me some problems? Why? So some challenges in trying to do something like this. If now a is a subset of let's say 01 or one two let's say 01 it doesn't matter. So what things you should be worried about? Yes. >> Uh x could be unbounded. >> X could be unbounded. Yes. So a so in the final field we need to avoid zero in the denominator but in the ukidian case we don't only need to assume zero. We should be very worried about small denominators not just zero but small denominators because this is going to blow up and yeah this is certainly an issue. Are there any other issues one should worry about? What does it mean to equal FP? >> That's right. Well, I mean, okay. Yeah, that's Yeah, what does it mean to equal FP is not clear. And I would say what is even much less clear is what does it mean to add one because I don't know R is certainly not I mean R is invariant and they're adding one and it's not I mean this doesn't live in 01 anymore. If we force it to live in 01 by intersecting with 01, there could still be something. I mean, if we add one, we could still land here. So adding one doesn't seem like a good idea. And from a conceptual point of view, there is something that is even more worrying, which is here it is crucial that FP doesn't have any sub additive subgroup. So it's a simple group. It doesn't have any non-trivial subgroups because if it had a subgroup, this wouldn't be true. Now does R have any subfields or subgroups or sub rings? Well, first of all, it does have subgroups, additive subgroups. It does of any dimension. Okay, so of course it does. All of our rational numbers, number fields, but okay, number fields are countable. So we are interested in larger things, but it does have subgroups of intermediate size. It does not have sub rings of intermediate size. But this is a difficult theorem and in fact it's a consequence of bhans protection theorem. So we cannot really use it. So here we are escaping because x is not a sub ring. But it's not so clear if there is a subring type structure here in R. Okay. All of these things should make it very scary and a normal person would give up at this stage. uh but there is a paper by Larry Guth and uh George Zal my colleague at UBC and Netscats where they managed to extend this idea to the uklidian setting not to prove transportation theorem to prove some different related theorem. So let me tell you what they did to overcome these obstacles. uh but first of all uh I should define something that I should have defined before. So we have these non-conentration conditions. So we call this non-conentration conditions because it tells us that X and D are not concentrated in both. So non-conentration conditions. So looking at this uh we are going to write a definition which is inspired by this so that we don't have to repeat these sort of conditions every time. By the way, even in in in the final field setting, uh what Bangatan Tower did was also not this. So this this idea came later. Uh so it's originated from GV which is after Bangkawo proved something like this. So Bangas did something much much more complicated. Okay. Um definition the subset of the unit ball in RD. We just want to fix some region of space. So why not fix the unit ball uh is a and okay let delta be uh between zero and one not zero and maybe also not one. Uh so we say that this is a delta. Okay. And then we have a parameter t which is between zero and d. And then we have a constant which is positive. Let's say at least one. Okay. So we say that x is a delta s c d. So this d tells us the ambient dimension. And I will probably forget to write it down or it will be clear from context. Set if the following holds if we interet x. So note I'm not assuming X is a union of all. I'm not assuming X is delta separated. I'm not assuming anything and I'm not assuming anything because I'm using to use the delta covering number to measure things. So this is nothing about the delta covering number. You don't need to assume anything as long as you remember to write the bar delta. Okay. So uh if I intersect X with a ball and measure it by the delta covering number, this is at most C. So C is the tolerance the leeway that I have times R to the S. So S measures the degree of concentration of non concentration the degree of non concentration. So the larger the S, so R is going to be between zero and one or between delta and one. So the larger S, the smaller this is and the stronger this condition becomes times the size of X. So again this says that a ball cannot contain too much of x and this is for every well but for every center and for every radius between delta and one. Yes s >> sorry. Yes. Well it could be s or t but one has to fix one. Yeah. S. Thank you. Okay. So I hope you agree that in the statement of regress projection theorem this is the condition we have on X and on D. On X we had a T and on G we had an S. But this is the condition that we had and so we can bring them both under the same umbrella using the delta covering number. Okay. This is saying X is not too concentrated inside small balls and the strength of the concentration is given by S and there is a tolerance given by C. C could depend on delta. So C is anything in particular it could depend on delta and in the statement of BAN projection theorem. So in ban projection theorem this in fact is going to be delta to the minus EA. So you have a leeway that increases as a power with delta very small power but nevertheless a power. Okay. Uh so now we can state uh something I don't know uh lema. So it is the analog of the first step in the proof. So it's the analog of this Given an s between zero and one there exists an epsilon and all these epsilons can be taken to depend continue they depend continuously on s. So this is important in the so okay uh well I started saying the sentence I'm going to finish. So in the final setting one does this and then what is the next step? one iterates this and then one keeps growing. In order to know that you keep growing, you need to know that this epsilon remains bounded away from zero as long as the exponent remains bounded away from one. Okay, so the same is going to be true here although as we will see next time I think next time uh it's much more much much more complicated to iterate in this case but okay let's focus on this uh for today. Okay, given S there is an epsilon such that the following holds. Suppose A is in 01. The delta covering number is delta to the minus s and a is a delta s delta to the epsilon minus epsilon set. So it's is very nonconentrated because s matches the size. But on the other hand there is quite a bit of leeway in this delta to the minus epsilon. Then oh okay so there exist a polomial Q it could be the same Q. So that that Q if you want any polomial so really it doesn't matter because you can always apply polic but let's say that polinomial but any polinomial will do then we have we have growth I'm just putting delta governing number everywhere and we get growth so we get minus delta minus s which was the size of a but We get a delta to the minus epsilon grow over that. Okay. So it looks very very similar uh to that to what to this except that we need to add this non concentration assumption. We certainly need to add something because otherwise if a is just an interval is not true. It's not clear between interval and this what happens but okay with this assumption it is true. Okay. So how can one prove that? Uh so we want to use this strategy but we saw that there are many problems. So I'm not going to do the whole proof, but I'm going to tell you how to solve okay two of the problems or to some degree I will tell you how to solve two of the problems. Okay, one is really cheating but okay so I guess what I'm going to tell you is that cheating doesn't always work but it does work in this case in this particular case. I should finish at 225. Is that right? Okay. Plenty of time. Okay. So, idea of proof. I'm not going to prove it but okay. So uh with in the final field setting this works here we have the problem that uh the denominators can be very small and then this could be huge. So well we are going to do two things at twice to try to at least uh reduce the issue. So we're going to define b in the following way. It is essentially a over a a minus a over a minus a. Okay. So we pick some gamma and the gamma in the proof has to be picked carefully so that things work out and I'm going to go into the proof but you we have to pretend that there is a gamma so that will work. Okay. So first of all I restrict the denominators to being larger than delta 2 the gamma. So in this way well I got rid of the worst possible case where the expansion is too much. But even then this could escape the interval 01 and I don't want to escape the interval 01. So I intersect it with the interval 01. So this B is going to play the role of X. And by doing this I'm avoiding again I'm avoiding two related but not exactly the same issues. One is that this could escape our sort of reference interval and the other is that the denominators could be too small. They can still be quite small because so gamma is not zero. So this can still be small but so there is a trade-off. If we allow too small denominator things blow up too much but we still have to allow small denominators otherwise we are missing too much of a minus a over a minus a. So this gamma is gives us the tradeoff. Okay so that's one thing we do uh but the most important thing to understand is what do we do instead of this? So really adding one doesn't really make sense in this setting. So what do we do? And here comes a very easy but absolutely critical lema. So in the same way that the method in FP doesn't work in FP squared what works in R. Okay, this is a remark I should have made earlier but uh I don't think we have the statement anymore. Yeah, we don't have the statement of bug prediction theorem anymore. But bug prediction theorem is not true over C because over C you could you could take X to be essentially R squared living in C square and you could take D to be a piece of R living in C and because R is a subring of C you don't escape. So there is no growth. So it's exactly the same reason why it doesn't work in FP square because FP square has an intermediate algebraic structure. C has an intermediate algebraic structure which is R and because of this it doesn't work and here we use that FP doesn't have an intermediate algebraic structure. So actually this lema is very crucial in the sense that it is what distinguishes R from C or for many or okay from many other things but in particular from C. Okay. So there are many ways in which R is different from C and we will see that it is the order structure uh what distinguishes R from C in the lema in the proof of dilemma. Actually dilemma can be proved in many ways and some of them do not use the order structure but in my proof I will use the order structure. Okay. So here is the lema. Uh suppose that B eventually we are going to apply to this B that's why I call it B. But a priority is any B it's contained in 01 and suppose that zero is in B zero is in this B because A1 could be equal to A2 okay and then uh letro be the largest gap in B. Okay, what is the largest gap? So a gap is a is a connected component of the complement. So we are in R. So connected components are segments. So the complement is a union of segments. Well could be points. I mean B could be dense but let's imagine B is closed. I think it doesn't have to be closed. Maybe let's say closed. It's not really important. Okay. If it's closed and the complement is a finite or contraable union of open intervals. Each of them has a length and we take the supreum maybe okay everything is going to be fi like finiteary because in our application but let's say the largest in the sense of the supreum of the length of the gaps in B so is it clear what this is we just look at the complimentary intervals and we look at the largest one then there exist B in B such that either The distance from B / 2 to B is at least row over four or the distance from B + 1 / two to B is at least row over 4. Okay. So proof, let B prime be B / 2 union B + 1 / two. And this means what you expect it to mean. So you take little B in B divided by two and you do that for every little B in B. And then you take little B plus one over two for every little B in B. So I hope it's clear what this is. Okay. So this is contained in 01 as well because B is contained in 01. So this is contained in 0 1/2. This is contained in one half one. So we have zero, we have one, we have 1/2 and 1/2 is in B prime because zero is in B. You will see that this is important. So zero is in B. So one half is in B prime. Now what is the largest gap in B prime? So by definition the largest gap in B is row. So that's the definition of row. So what is the largest gap in B prime? >> Row over two. Here the largest gap is row over two because I'm scaling down by a factor of two. And here the largest gap is row over two because I'm translating and scaling down by Yes. >> Could actually there be a gap of size row if B has a big gap at the ends of the intervals? Okay. So I guess uh maybe let's assume that one is also in B or something like this. So I mean there could be an infinite gap. Is is that what you're worried about? >> That yeah there's a gap from like one minus row to one or something. But if one is in in B then uh >> let's say zero and one are in B. So one is also here because you could take A3 and A4 to be A1 and A2. So one is in B. Uh if you define the gap in a way that avoids this issue, you don't need one to be in B. But let's it's not important. Okay. Why is it important that one half is in B? Because here the largest gap is has size row over two. Here the largest gap has size row over two. But if one half wasn't here, there they could be combined to form a larger gap going across. But it cannot go across because there is one half is there. Okay. So now um now let's draw the largest gap or the gap that approximates the largest gap. So this one has size let's say row minus epsilon and okay so this is the center of the gap. So this is the gap in B not in B prime in B. And now let's write let's draw an interval in the middle of length row over two. Maybe a closed interval. This closed interval contains an element of B prime because the largest gap of B prime is row over two. That means that any interval of length row over two contains a point in B prime. Okay. So maybe let's write this down. So largest gap. So this interval contains a point in B prime. But this point is a distance at least row over four from B because this gap is double the size. So even if the point was at one of the end points, so the point could be here. But even if it was at one of the end points, this is row over four. This is row over four. Okay. So maybe let's do a larger picture. So this is row minus epsilon gap in b. Okay. And this is a row interval. So it contains some point in b prime because the largest gap in b prime is row. And this interval has length row. So it cannot be completely empty otherwise it would be a larger gap. Okay. Whichever point is in this interval is at large distance from B because there is nothing in B here. So that's the proof. So you do the calculation is at least row over four. Uh maybe row over five because you need to take into account this epsilon. Maybe row over five just in case it's not it's not important. So you see that this is a simple geometric argument but it very very strongly uses the order structure of R. So this argument doesn't work in C because there is no order and in fact it cannot work because what we are going to prove using this is not true over C. Any questions about this? Okay you can prove this lema in other ways. So Guat and Zal in their paper I think they don't do this proof but I think this proof is easier and shows how the order structure is fundamental. Okay. So hopefully I have proved the lema. Okay. So of course a point in B prime has either this form or this form because that's the definition of B prime. Okay. So here we have a B prime in B prime which is far from B. that B prime is either this or this because that's the definition of B prime. So that's how one concludes the proof. Any questions again? Okay. So now what the idea is to use B over two or B+ over two instead of B+ one. So why does B+1 work? So what is important about b+ or x + one? So what is important is that again it's a polomial in this case is a linear polomial but that that takes something in x and lands it not in x. Well the same is true for b over two and b plus one over two. you take something in B and it lands far from B. Okay. So, uh let's say first step of proof. So, I'm not going to prove but well, we have to pick a row in 01 carefully. In fact, it's going to be a power of delta as usual. Some power don't remember which power. One has to choose this power carefully. And then there are two cases that sort of morally correspond to those two cases. B now is that B that B up up there. Not an arbitrary B. that be is row dense. Row dense means that the largest gap is at most row or if you take the row neighborhood you cover everything everything is 01. So any questions about what row dense means? Okay. And here we use an argument which is similar to the case x - x /x sorry uh it's not x it's a minus a over a minus a equals fp to get growth which I'm not going to show this is the sort of easier case I here was also the easier case. Okay. And the other possibility is that there exist a B in B such that either B / 2 is far from B or B + 1 / two is far from B. in this sense. So there are two cases by dilemma. Okay. And then we use B over two or B plus one over two in a similar way to X the way that X + one was used in the final field setting to get expansion. And it works. is much more complicated. So the the actual details are much more complicated than in the final field setting but it works and I would say the overall idea is very similar but the details are much more complicated. Okay. So, so far so good module, lots of details, but uh this was the first step in the final field setting and we can replicate it. So, it seems that things are going well. But now we have a much bigger issue. Maybe I'm going to explain the much bigger issue and talk about how to overcome it next time because this is maybe the biggest issue, the biggest difference. Okay, you can see that this was already a big issue and a big difference in the proof. But now comes I would say a bigger issue. This was the first step in the final field setting. What is the second step in the final field setting? Iterate in the first step and you just iterate. Nobody's preventing you from iterating. So you get that Q of A growth. So you can do Q of Q of A. So here maybe let's call it the second step. You look at Q of Q of Q of Q of A and this is very large. So uh you can make it as close to P as you want in terms of powers. I don't know I don't know it. So for any ita if we iterate enough times we keep growing and we can reach any power we want. In fact, we actually eventually in the fin setting we get all of all of the finite field after iterating finite finitely many times. I don't know if you saw this but anyway so this is clear because we just keep iterating. Okay. So now let's go back to sorry did I ever state uh oh here it is okay so here is the lema that I told you we can prove using this idea. So then this is the lema. So we have a delta s delta to the minus epsilon set of size delta t to the minus s. Then we apply q and the size grows. Okay. So what's the problem? We would like to iterate but we cannot. So why can we not iterate? Well, apparently we cannot. I'm not saying in the end we will iterate but why why is it completely unclear whether we can iterate? There's no guarantee that Q of A will satisfy the spacing condition. >> Exactly. That's the issue and it is a big issue. So we know that the size of Q of A grows. But here we have this additional assumption and we need it or we need some assumption. We need the assumption that A is a delta S delta to the minus epsilon set. So in order to iterate we would need to know that not only Q of A has grown in size but we would need to know that Q of A is a delta S plus epsilon delta to the minus epsilon set and we don't know that a priori if we go over the proof the proof doesn't show that so when we okay so I haven't given the proof of the lema only gave a very rough sketch but you have to trust me that if you go through the proof we do not get any non concentration for Q of A we literally only get get growth at scale delta. Okay, so let me write this somewhere. Big issue We know Q of A grows in delta covering number. But the proof does not show that Q of A is a delta S plus epsilon could be a different epsilon that's we did the same epsilon but we need some epsilon if we want to iterate here Okay. So we are going to talk about some of the things we do to overcome this uh in the next lecture. But let me say that I think in fact it is not true that Q of A has to be a delta S plus epsilon delta 2 minus epsilon set. It is not even true. But what is true is that Q of A contains a delta S plus epsilon delta to the minus epsilon set. Okay. And this is good enough because we just just take that subset and use that to iterate and then we then we can iterate and the second step will work in the same way. But this is a big issue and somehow we have to go through the whole steps of the proof in the finite field setting just to get this and then we have to sort of do the full so one has to sort of cycle through all the steps twice in this proof. The first cycle is to solve this issue. So we have to use valuedic hours for example to solve this issue that comes much later in the proof in the finite field setting and then we have to use it again once we have expanded a lot uh by iterating okay so I'll explain uh the ideas behind this on Thursday yes for showing that QA contains the delta s plus epus epsilon set does that set have to be kind of very close to the size of a and like an s plus epsilon or delta spacing level. >> Well, it needs to be much okay. Uh something maybe I should have say but I didn't say is that a delta t c ignore this for a moment. So a delta t cz set has size at least delta to the minus t because you apply the definition of delta t cz set at scale delta. This is something I should have mentioned. I will try to remember to mention it next time. So this set that is contained actually has already size bigger than the size of a but in addition to having larger size it has good spacing. But yeah one question is that I'm going to answer next time is how how come that something contains so this notion of delta s set is bad in the sense that it is not monotone. So you can so if you take a set which has this non spacing condition or non concentration condition and make it larger you may lose the non concentration condition and that's kind of bad. So we'll see how to get around this next time. Any other questions? >> Yes. >> I wonder like in the two cases you wrote so in the first case you said the set is dense. So somehow it is large but in the second case what's the intuition behind okay I have one element that is far away from the set and then we can get the set. is really very similar to what you did in the final field setting. In the case when x is in a minus a over a minus a and x plus one is not. You use that to show that some projection of the original set is large. >> Okay? >> It's it's a very similar idea except that you have to fight with small denominators and but but morally it's a very similar idea. Okay.