Okay everyone. Um so so today uh we're going to learn some of the fundamental estimates of projection theory for balls in the plane for the setting of real analysis. Um there are kind of two goals of the class. The first goal is to adapt the techniques that we learned last time in finite fields. So the double counting technique and the forier technique to uklitian space. Um and the second goal is to start to explore. So there's a difference between uklidian space and finite fields is that in uklidian space we have to pay attention to how the how our sets are clustered. And so the second goal of the class is to start to explore uh clustering can cl information about how the sets are clustered and and how that comes into the store. Okay, so here's our setup. We'll have X will be a set of disjoint unit balls in um in the ball of radius R in the plane. Okay, so that's our set of points, set of balls. And then we're going to have a set of directions called D. So D is a finite subset of S1. It's 1 / R separated. So the distance between any two points of D is at least one / R D. Um and then S which depends on X and D is the maximum size of the projection. So I look at all the ang all the directions in D and I project the set X in that direction and I take its measure and the maximum of that is called S. Okay. So projection theory we try to understand how these things are related to each other and in this uklidian setting we also need to care about how this set X and how the set D are clustered. So that's measured by I guess call them clustering functions. So n subx of little r is the measures the most amount of x in any ball of radius little r. So this is the maximum over c in r2 or um of the size of x intersected with the ball around c of radius r. So this measures how x is clustered and we're also going to measure how d is cluster clustered. So n subd of row is the maximum over any uh so sigma in s1 and arc of length row of d intersect zip. Okay. Okay. So our big goal is in terms of this information and and how big d is and how big x is. What can we say about S? Okay. So, we're first going to do the double counting approach. And the argument is in in spirit the same as last time. But we'll see that when we try to do the double counting that we did last time that the n subx function and the n subd function will come into the store and it leads to the following bound. So theorem one I'll call it theorem 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r for the real case. Uh whereas last time we had something called theorem one which when I do it again it'll be theorem 1 f for the finite field case and eventually we'll compare them. Okay. So if we have this setup then the number of directions is bounded by let's see okay so you'll notice that this is not a formula that I have memorized s overx times the sum over different scales else. Cool. Okay. So, it's a sum over different scales and we often in this class will sum over a diadic sequence of scales, powers of two or whatever. Um uh okay and um and the so the formula doesn't yet look that similar but the the idea is the same as last time and then eventually we'll compare the formulas and see that under certain assumptions on this it's actually very similar to last time. So the proof is to double count a certain quantity which which we which we called coincidences last time. So the key quantity called star is the number of b1 and b2 in x. So these are these are unit balls. So remember x is a set of unit balls. So these are two of the unit balls. Um and um theta and d I guess we'll say they're not equal to each other although that won't matter as much this time. um uh so that pi theta of b1 and pi theta of b2 are similar to each other and in this setting we won't count they don't have to be exactly the same I would just like them to overlap so my condition will be that the intersection of these is non empty so that's my key quantity actually in this setup. I'm going to I'm going to allow them to be equal to each other. Um that makes the double counting a little easier and in a sense it's we'll see it's it's part of what's up here. Okay. So um so there's a lower bound which is straightforward. The lower bound says that this this star is at least the number of directions times in each direction x over s^2 * s. So in each direction these x different balls have been projected into only s slots. So a typical slot has x over s balls in its fiber. And so we have this many squared choices for to pick B1 and B2 in the same five s times. So lower bound is is really the same as last time. Same as last time, same as the homework. Okay. So now let's look at the upper bound. So I will uh for now I'll fix B1 B2 and I'll say that the distance between B1 and B2 is around R. Um so here's my picture B1 and B2 and the distance between them is around R. Okay. So now I'm interested in projections where the projection of B1 and the projection of B2 overlap. And so the angles for those projections are in a little angular range. The angle of the projection must be somewhere in this range here. So what um what I'll say is let's say that V is the direction from B1 to to to B2. So v is um center of b2 minus center of b1 over the norm of that. And if pi theta of b1 intersect pi theta b2 is not empty um then theta must be pretty close to v. What I'll say is that the angle between theta and v is smaller than around 1 / r. Okay. Um so now the number of theta so that pi theta of b1 intersect pi theta of b2 is not empty that would be bounded by well the number of directions in this little arc. So that would be nd of 1 / r. So we see the spacing uh the spacing function of the set d comes into play here. Okay, so that's what happens when we fix B1 and B2. And the case B1 equals B2 is allowed. And I'll make the slightly funny convention that then R is one. They're unit ball. So the distance between them is sort of one. And this is true. Then I mean V is not well defined, but this condition includes the whole range of angles. So it's it's true. So look if B1 equals B2 we take little R equals 1 and it's slightly exceptional but but all the bounds are true. So if we want to upper bound star now we need to count the number of choices for So now I'm interested in the number of pairs B1, B2, and X with the property that the distance from B1 to B2 is at most R. Okay, how big is that? Well, I have norm of X choices for B1. But once I choose B1, I don't have all that many choices for B2 because B2 has to be close to B1. It has to be in a little R ball. So the number of choices for B2 is at most nx of R. So at this moment the spacing function of X comes into play. Okay. So now we can combine these to to upper bound star. So star is um is now upper bounded by x * nx of r time n d of 1 / r uh ah sorry so star is upperbounded by the sum over the diatic r of this quantity. Okay, so let me say why. So star is this set of coincidences. It's a B1 and B2 and a theta. And for each coincidence, I know I I sort these coincidences by the distance from B1 to B2, which I call R. So I take the the coincidences where the distance is around R, and I sum over the possible Rs. Once I fixed R, um, I have this many choices for the pair B1 B2. And once I fixed B1 and B2, I have this many choices for theta. So that's that. Okay. Uh, the rest is algebra. I'll sketch it quickly on the board and that'll be the end of the proof and then we'll pause to digest and check it. Okay. So al together we have x^2 s inverse d is bounded by star which is bounded by the sum over r datic of x nx of r and d of 1 / r and then I just get the d by itself. If you move this stuff over to the other side, you get the formula on the board. Okay, so let's pause there for questions and comments. All right. All right. So, um, so I wanted to, uh, get a sense of start to explore this function nx of r by looking at a few different examples of sets x and writing down what is nx of r. It's not difficult, but having a few different examples in our mind, it'll help to orient us as we keep going. um and and actually will help also to digest this formula. So this this proof was clean. This formula is a little bit messy. So after looking at some examples, we'll digest this formula and think about a situation where it works out a little more cleanly. All right. All right. So examples for n sub x sub rar. Okay. So number one, x is the one neighborhood of a curve like a nice like a circle or parabola or something. So here's the ball of radius r and inside of there I have a nice curve and all along the curve I have unit balls. That's x. So if I have this set, how many unit balls do I have in a ball of radius little r? That would be around r. Okay. Do a second example. Um second example, it would be very spread out. You know, if you imagine that these points are like positive charges that repel each other and they push as far away from each other as possible, they would arrange themselves in something like a lattice inside of here. So, okay. So, I'll call this the uh well spaced example, the most spread out example. So, it looks like this. So it's a let's say it's a well spaced n byn grid and so the distance between neighboring balls would be like r /n. Okay so now what would nx of r be like? Um well it would be one for quite a while if our radius is less than rn. um then this would be one but then eventually as the radius gets bigger it would get bigger than one and at that point it would be um its fair share of the total number total size of x. So once once r is bigger than this threshold, every little r ball contains the same amount of x. And so the density of x is like n^2 r 2. The area of the ball is like this. Okay. And um I'll do a third example which is the points could be very um uh clustered cluster. So we could have n squared unit balls in um in an n ball. So the the picture would be like this. We have our ball of radius r. Inside of there we have a smaller ball of radius n and we pack the smaller ball with unit balls of x. Okay. So now what is uh n subx of r? Well it grows like r 2 until r is as big as this n ball. And after that there are only n squared balls at all. So you can make a little r bigger. It doesn't grow anymore. So it caps off at n^ squ if r is bigger than n. Okay. So now I will draw um some pictures of of of these three functions. You can compare them. Okay, we'll do some pictures. I'm going to normalize in my pictures. I have to choose an n. I'm going to choose n= r to the half. Uh, and that's helpful because it says that the total size of x is around r in all three examples. It makes them a little easier to compare with each other. Okay. So now I'll make a graph. Basically I'd like to put on this axis little r and on this axis n subx of little r. Um but this graph like many graphs in math looks nicer if we use log is a log log plot. So on this on this axis I'm going to put the log of little r and then the nicest base for that is big r. This goes from 0 to one. And on this axis, I'm going to put the log of n subx of r. And it's natural to use the same base. So this goes from 0 to one. This could go above one potentially, but because the size of x happens to be r, we're going to stop there. Okay. So now what do these three examples look like? The first example is a straight line. So that's example one. Um, the second example grows more slowly than the straight line for a while. It doesn't grow at all for a while and then it grows quickly to catch up. So that's the second example. It lies below the straight line. Uh and then the third example grows more quickly than the first example and then it reaches a certain point and it stops growing. So it looks like this and it lies above the straight line. Okay. So um so in this theory there turns out to be that things that grow the the straight line case is an important case and then there's an important distinction between things that are below the straight line things that are above the straight line. Um so the straight line case would be that n that that the size of x would be r to the alpha for some alpha and then n sub little r of x or n subx of little r would be little r to the alpha. That would be the straight line case. And the uh below the straight line case, uh x would still be r to the alpha. So the end point would be the same, but now in the middle, we're going to go below what we had before. So n subx of r would be at most r Okay. So this thing here is called a regular alpha dimensional spacing and this thing is called a alpha dimensional spacing. Um I'd like and I'd like to make one more definition. And I'll say that X has a housegrowth spacing if it has alpha dimensional spacing for some of but another way of saying that is if you look at how many points of X are in a ball of radius R to the beta it's bounded by the total number of points of x to the beta. And this is this is equivalent. This is still below the straight line. Okay. So over here um we would have we have example one and and in general if you have any if you have a submanifold in any dimensional space it will behave like this and alpha is the dimension of the sub manifold. Also some self- similar caner set kind of fractals like the caner set um have this kind of spacing where alpha would be the dimension of the of your caner set. That's why it's called alpha dimensional. Um and um and these things this thing called housedorf spacing I called it that because it it appears naturally in the theory of housed dorf dimensions. yeah, so it's maybe worth saying briefly that in the geometric measure theory literature, a lot of the stuff we're talking about today was originally described in the language of housedorf dimensions. Um but my impression is that that's not really that helpful. Like if we if we defined housedorf dimensions and then we wanted to prove things about housed dorf dimensions we would add an extra layer of definition and then we'd have to check the extra layer of definition. Um but then in all the applications that we'll talk about we would never use those definitions. We would go back to this theorem the way it's stated now and use that. Um, so I have a bit tentatively but I've come to the conclusion that house dorf dimension is not really a helpful notion for this subject and and so I'm going to leave it out. Okay. Um, but any questions or comments about these different ways that a set can be spaced? >> Yeah. >> I'm wondering like is the And the pro 01 for the pro lower bound. If we try to calculate lower bound for B1 B2 like is distance like somehow R from R1 to R2 like with that and compare this with the upper bound with different distance from B1 and B2. that information that >> yeah okay so the question is um when we were processing the upper bound for this we sorted it according to the distance so we really have a set star sub r where we add the condition that the distance from b1 to b2 is around r and the question is if if we looked at the lower bound we could also sort it by r and and would that be helpful yeah Um um yeah I that is a a good thing to look into. Off the top of my head I don't know if it would be helpful. Um you know it's uh our our lower bound with this s here depends on taking all of them. Um but it would be interesting. Yeah it would be interesting to think about. Other questions or comments? Okay. Okay. So, let me show you uh so so I so I claim so okay it seems that um this spacing condition say housedorf spacing is helpful in the theory. Um and one way that comes about is that a lot of the theorem statements become a lot cleaner if you put in house spacing. Um so let's do that here. Let's suppose that X and D have housed doororf spacing and we'll use that to simplify this thing. Okay. So corollary one real is that if we have the the setup and x and d are housedorf spacing then we get a simpler inequality which matches quite well what happens in finite fields. Then d is bounded by um s plus x. Okay. So, I'll prove this and then I'll try to argue actually. So, so okay. So, this looks a little nicer than before. It might still not look that nice to you. Um but I would summarize it like this. Um either either s e either s is pretty close to x or d is smaller than s and that's what we had in finite fields. So why is it if s is a lot smaller than x? This is much less than one. So we can rearrange that and we get that d is less than s. Okay. So, what's the proof? Well, um, we're going to have an expression like nx of r n d of 1 / r. And so now let's suppose that little r is big r to the beta. And um and then being housedorf it tells us that nx of r the beta n d of r the minus beta there that is bounded by x to the beta * d to the 1 - beta. That's what being housed tells us. So being house of dwarf allows us to to relate nx of r for any r to the size of x which is nx of big r and algebraically it works out like this and for d it works out like that. Okay. And then by amg this is smaller than x plus d. So every one of these complicated things they're all bounded by x plus d and the number of them is only log of r. So, okay, sorry. So, I should put a log of R here. Um, okay. So, now we're just going to plug this in up there. I'll have an x plus d up there and a log r factor. The x in the x plus d gives me this and the d and the x plus d gives me that. It's just algebra. Okay. Now let's compare this with the theorem we proved last time in finite fields. So theorem one in finite fields said that if we had x in fq2 and d in fq and s is the maximum theta and d size is pi theta of x. Um then either S is around X or D is bounded by S. And the numerology is now the same in finite fields or or or if you have balls with the house space. Okay. Um so in general the numerology in a lot of things is the same between finite fields and balls with housedorf spacing and so now I'll so this was theorem one from last time I'll track through also theorem two from last time and the conjecture from last time and we'll see that they all match up Okay. So I have projection theory in FQ2 versus um in versus unit balls in B2R and B2R with housed door space. Okay, so here was theorem two last time in finite fields. So if we have our finite field setup which is over here and S is smaller than Q. Um then conclusion is that the number of directions is smaller than SQX. And here's what we'll prove in the real case correlary to R. So if we have our setup of the day and X and D are housed and S is a good bit smaller than R. Then maybe this needs a little bit more um than d smaller than sr /x. Okay. So I I use this symbol with the extra tilda that's hiding something like a log factor similar to the log factor that appeared over here. Like if you if you compare the real case theorem one and the finite field case we lost an extra log r factor and that h that will happen sometimes. Um so uh notation a less sum b means for every epsilon bigger than zero there exists c epsilon. So a is less than or equal to c epsilon r the epsilon. Okay. But if you compare these um Q corresponds to R. That makes sense. There are Q ^2 points here and there are R squar unit balls here. Um and these basically match up except that there's a minor sort of loss here. Okay. And so this is this is the forier method that we'll turn to in a little bit. Um there is also a conjecture about the sharp behavior. So conjecture if P is prime and we have our finite field setup and S is smaller than the minimum of Q and X. So either of these are sort of trivial. S is always at most Q and it's always at most X. So we're make it less than that. So we're sort of in a non-trivial range. um then b should be bounded by s^2 overx which would be sharp if it's true and it matches the behavior in an integer grid. Okay, this conjecture has an analog uh over in the real case and the real analog is uh is due to fenberg. It's called the fenber set conjecture. So it says if we have the setup and X and B are housed dorf um and S is significantly less than the minimum of R and X. So again S is always smaller than R. It's always smaller than X and we're saying it's significantly less than that. So it's sort of non-trivial. the number of directions would be less than tilda tilda s^2 overx. You see that these conjectures again match up. Cool. Okay. Now I mentioned on the first day that one of the fundamental thought problems of projection theory recently had been solved. This is the problem. So this conjecture has been proven. Um so this is a theorem from 2024 of Orpinan Schmurkin Ran and Wong conjecture is true. in the first but finite field is still open. >> Yes, thank you. Yeah, conjecture R is true. Finite field is still wide open. Yes. Cool. So actually another reason I was excited to do projection theory this semester is that a bunch of the architects of the recent developments will be visiting. Pablo Mkin is going to be here for about a month. He's going to talk in the analysis seminar. I might rope him into talking in this class. Um Kevin Ran is going to visit and give a talk. Hung will be here at at some point, although maybe not during classes. Yeah, I'll say let me say something very briefly. So these these two conjectures I presented them as being parallel to each other. I think that's fair. Um and they're both quite difficult. Um this one people have managed to prove which is exciting and um and this one is still open. So uh the difference is that in this problem there are many different scales. We've sort of seen the many different scales in in what we just did with double counting. We had to think about all these different scales and we're going to do it again with the forier method. So far you might have the impression that these different scales are just a nuisance. They make simple arguments more complicated and the expressions longer. Um but but actually having these many different scales will turn out to be a help. Um so they play a key role in the proof of this that somehow because of all these scales if if if something goes wrong something has to go wrong at many different scales. Um the argument also has different cases depending upon whether the sets look like set have spacing like number one or spacing like number two. There are different things to play with. They're both helpful in different ways and and none of that structure is available here. So So probably completely different ideas would be needed. Okay, good. So the second half of the class the goal is to do the forier method in the real case and build up towards towards doing this. Um let me remind you first of the main thing we proved using for analysis over finite fields and then we'll set up a version over over the rings. Okay. So part two of the class for a method. Um okay so the main lema that we proved over finite fields is like this. So let's say fancy L is a set of lines in FQ^2 and um F is a sum over all these lines of the characteristic function of the line. Okay, if that's true, then we can break up f into two pieces. a zero frequency piece and a nonzero frequency piece. So then f is equal to f0 plus f we called it f high zero frequency high frequency. So that so the support of f0 hat is just zero. In other words, f0 is constant. Um and we can find out exactly what the constant is. And based on that we can say that the L2 norm squared of this is the number of lines squared. Then the support of the high frequency part is the complement of zero. And the high frequency part has an L2 bound. L2 2 is L * Q right I remember teaching a intro to real analysis class once and I and so I I tried to answer the question on the first day what is real analysis so there are several you know there are lots of different things you might say something about convergence and infinity or whatever but another thing I proposed is um analysis is complicated equals simple plus small. We study something complicated. The real analysis point of view is to try to write it as something simple plus something small. So this is our function that maybe we feel is complicated. We don't understand it that well yet. We wrote it as something simple. This is a constant function which makes it quite simpler than a general function. And then this bit and the point here is that this is smaller than fot or f. Now that that only becomes true and this only becomes at all interesting when the number of lines is much bigger than Q. But when that h when that happens this L2 norm is much smaller than that L2 norm. So complicated equals simple plus small. Okay. So uh so our goal is I will describe to you the version of this lema in over the real numbers. Okay. So instead of a line, so infinitely thin line, what we're going to talk about is a rectangle or I usually call it a tube. So capital T for tube is a one by R rectangle in the plane in any direction. Okay. And so basically we're going to add up characteristic functions of rectangles. Um but when you do for analysis characteristic functions of rectangles or characteristic functions in general are not super nice because of the discontinuous sharp cut offs their 4A transforms are not very well behaved. So what we often do is we work with a smoothed approximation of the characteristic function. So C subt is a smooth approximation of the characteristic function of T. Okay. Um so another thing about this step of doing for analysis on R2 instead of finite fields is that certain things are a little bit messy. for example, it's a little bit messy to write down the formula for C subt. Um, so I'm going to try the approach of not doing the messy details in class. So in class I'll give you an overview and then on the homework, uh, I'll do all of the details and and and you can check the things and make sure you understand how it works. And uh and I do that partly because I feel like sometimes the messy details obscure sort of the main trajectory of what we want to do. It's good to sort of first learn what you want to do and then um once you know where you're trying to go, fill in all the little steps to get there. Okay. So for this class, I won't say anything more precise than C subt is a smooth approximation of the characteristic function of T. Okay. So now here is our um main lema in the real case. Okay. So instead of L is a set of lines, T is a set of 1 by R rectangles in the plane R2. And then f is the sum over all the rectangles of this smooth characteristic function. And that plays the role of the function f up there. Okay. And then we're going to break this function up into pieces. There are going to be sort of low frequency pieces that have the advantage of being kind of constant and there are going to be some high frequency pieces that have the advantage of being small. Uh but the difference between the real world and and FQ is that in FQ there are only two kinds of frequencies. There was zero and not zero. Um but uh in in the reals there are a lot of frequencies. There's large, medium, small, very small and all of those are they're each going to to to be there. Okay. So instead of having two pieces, we will have many pieces. So f is going to be the sum of f little r little r goes from one up to capital r and is diatic just like in theorem one. So we'll have log of r many pieces and these are the different scales of the frequencies. Okay. Uh we'll do this so that the support of fr hat is contained in the ball of radius one over little r. So that's the frequency information and um we will say something about the L2 norm. Okay. Now, um, our bounds on the L2 norm before only depended on how many lines there were, not about how the lines were arranged. Uh, but that won't be quite true anymore. Like, like we've seen in other places, it will matter how these tubes are clumped. So, if you have many tubes that are clumped together inside of a um Yeah. Okay. So, let me let me put the other part of the definition. So n subr of t is the maximum over tilda which is like a two little r by two big r rectangle of the number of t in our set of t that are so that t is contained in t tilda. So here's a picture. So here's tilda. This axis is little r basically and this axis is big r basically. Maybe it's good to put two big R. Um, and inside of here there may be a bunch of R twos. So just like uh oh and I I guess to be consistent with before I should actually do this. So n subx of r measured whether many of the balls in x were clumped together and n subt of r measures whether many of the tubes of t are clumped together. Okay. So the bound will depend on that thing and it is formula is okay. n subt of little r um times the number of tubes time little r inverse time big. Okay, so you can see that I don't remember this formula that well. Um but one thing to notice about it is that as as this number gets bigger then our bound for this gets bigger. Um I also claim that this tracks with the finite field case. Um so if you plug in little r equals 1 that's the highest frequency part. Um n subt of one is is going to be just one. If if the tubes are disjoint then then or the tubes are distinct then anyway um uh so then if you plug in little r equals 1 this number will match with the high frequency case. And if you plug in little r equals big r, then this will match with the zero frequency case. But now we also have all this in between stuff. Okay, any questions or comments about this statement? So I'm going to do a proof sketch. proof sketch main are details on homework two. How's homework one going? If you're interested, there are office hours after class today and after class on Thursday. Okay. Um, okay. There's a fora analysis proof and an important character is well we're take the fora transform of each of these ct hat and the support of ct hat is going to be contained in t star where t star is defined as follows it's the set of c and r2 so that the dotproduct x1 - x2 c is at most has norm at most one for any x1 and x2 in t. Um here's a picture. So in x space here is our tube t and I take a couple of points in it x1 and x2 and so so our c is going to have a small dotproduct with any vector like that. And so um okay the dimensions of this t are this is one and this is r. Okay. Now in csp space um t star is going to be sort of perpendicular to t. There's t star and it has length one and width like 1 / r. So geometrically the idea is that if I take my vector here and my vector there, the long component of this one has size R and it gets paired with the short component of that one which has size one over R which gives me around one and the two short component the short component here has size one which gets paired with the long component here which has size one. Okay. Um and this is analogous to the lema we had in the finite field case that that the characteristic function of a line hat was supported in the line per which is like star. Okay. Um okay so that's the first important ingredient where the 4A transforms live and I guess you're doing the homework now where you're checking what what line hat looks like and then in the next homework you'll check what ct hat looks like and you'll see it supported like this. Okay. So now I'll tell you who F subr is. Um so let's next do so the f subr comes from from littlewood paley theory where you can take any function and you can break its frequencies into diatic pieces the little wood pale pieces. That's what we're doing here. Okay. So, so little wood pale decomposition. So, I'm going to write one as a sum on my diatic little rs of ad r of c. So this is a a partition of unity on in 4A space. It's a partition of unity. So these are all positive and um the support of A to R is contained in in an annulus where the norm of C is at most 1 / R and at least 1 / 10R. And that's true for R strictly between 1 and R. And at the end points we need to have not just an annulus but something a little bit bigger to cover all the frequencies. So the support of ADA capital R is contained in the ball of radius 1 / R and the support of ADA1 is contained in the set of C where the norm of C is bigger than 110. All right. Oh, I guess one maybe I should mention one one thing that we see from this is that the support of f hat is contained in the unit ball because every t star is in is in the unit ball. Okay. So now I can say who f_sub_r is. So f is just taking f and taking multiplying on the frequency side by 8 r. So I take fhat I multiply it by a r and I take the 4 a transform back. So this is also equal to f involved with a to r inverse 4 a transform. Okay. And because this is a partition of unity that tells me that f is indeed the sum over r of fr. So that so we can check off our first conclusion. Um and from this formula this here is the for transform of FR hat is a R * Fhat and that tells us that the support of FR hat is contained in the ball of radius 1 / R. So we can check off that part of the conclusion. And then the difficult and interesting part will be to figure out the L2 norm of each of these pieces FR. Okay. Um now this operation of localizing frequencies to to an annulus around 1 / R you can do it with any function not just with f. So you can also do it with each of the ct one at a time. So ct comma r would be I take ct hat I multiply it by a to r I take the for a transform back and so f is the sum over all the t in my set of tubes of ct. Okay. So the next thing I'd like to do is to visualize together this function a to r check and this function ctr do a visual of ad r check um and ctr. Okay, so the function A to R itself A to R of C that's around one on the annulus of size 1 / little R. So when I take its inverse for a transform um a to r check of x will be around it'll be around um 1 / r 2 of most of x less than r. So the you know the biggest this could possibly be is integrating this would be the area of this annulus which is 1 / r^2. Um and then because this is smooth once I look at x's that are significantly bigger than r I start to get a lot of cancellation in the integral and let me write down the formula for this. So a to r check of x is the integral e to the ix a r of c dx c. So if x is smaller than r, there's no significant cancellation in this integral because the c is around 1 / r. Um but then when x is bigger than r, there starts to be cancellation in this integral. And because this is smooth, the cancellation is quite dramatic. So this is rapidly decaying x. Okay, so that's what the size of this function is like. Um but but also um there's some cancellation in it. So if you integrate this function well if you integrate that you get a to r of zero which is zero because a to r is supported on an annulus and not a ball. So this function has some cancellation in it. It averages to zero. Okay. Um so I I can graph it. Um C sub R check is radial. So here is the radius norm of X and here's ADA R check of X and it would look something like this. And we have to do this carefully but the negative part is going to balance the positive part to integrate to zero. So imagine rotating this Um, and this scale here is is that's okay. Now, these different exponents here are work out nicely. Um and and a a different way a way to describe it is that if I take the integral of the norm of a total r check of x dx um well it's around 1 / r^2 times the area of the ball of radius r which is 1. That integral is around 1. So um so if I were to take some function and convolve it with the absolute value of a total r check of x that would roughly be the average value of f on the ball around x of radius r the sort of weighted average. It's not exactly the standard average but that's roughly what what it is. So is it the case that like um convoluting with a function on the end like if data r is like on the end basically behaves the same as if it were on the fall radius. >> So the question is how would we compare an ad r that's supported on an annulus with a similar function that was supported on the whole ball. Um yeah, it's mostly similar because of the annulus. There's more cancellation. So if we did it on the whole ball, we wouldn't have this integral property. >> Okay. >> And the ne there may or may not be a little negative part if we did it on the whole ball, but the negative part would probably would be dominated by the positive part. Okay, so that's what the function ad looks like. And now that we understand that we can understand the function CTR because CTR is equal to CT convolved with ADA R check. Okay. So the norm of ctr of x is around r inverse times the characteristic function of a thickened tube. So if I take the r neighborhood of t. So if this is uh t I could take a fat neighborhood of that would look sort of like this. So that's the R neighborhood of T. Um so PT itself is basically supported on T although it's smoothed out a little bit. And then when I take the low frequency part the R the one over R frequency part then it gets spread out and it gets smaller. Okay. And it also has some cancellation in it. So if the the graph of this function mostly depends on the transverse direction and then it looks a lot like this. So this would be the transverse direction and this would be the height. So here I'll put that in the picture. So this transverse direction maybe I'll call y. And then we could make a graph where here we put y and here we put ct r of y and we would see the same thing uh positive negative. Okay. And this length scale here is r. the negative part would cancel the positive part because if you convolve something who integrates to zero with something else then the the whole thing will integrate to zero. Okay, so that's what what these functions look like. All right. So before I erase this maybe I'll say sorry we mentioned earlier that if we have a smooth function supported on this tube we take its 4A transform it's essentially supported on this dual tube. That proof is a slightly fancier version of what we were just talking about. So we were just saying that if you have a smooth function on a certain annulus or a certain ball then its fora transform is essentially supported on a dual ball and then it's rapidly decaying outside. So the this first statement is exactly the same as that except that we have a tube instead of a ball. Having a tube instead of a ball makes it a little there's a little bit more writing or thinking involved but it's the same idea. uh and you'll and and it'll be the details will be on the homework. Okay. Okay. So, um in the finite field case, the the the the heart of the argument, the key thing called the key lema was an orthogonality lema that said that the high frequency parts of two different lines are orthogonal. and um something like that is true here. So lema on orthogonality this is like the key letter. So it says the following um uh t1 and t2 are are are tubes one by r tubes um then the ctrs are usually orthogonal. So if I take the inner product of CT1R with CT2R, it's usually really small. R the minus a,000, something that's really small compared to everything in our proof. Uh unless the two tubes are quite similar. And the way we'll say this is there exists tilda which is like basically it's basically a little r by big r two. I'm going to magnify it just a little bit. um that contains them both tilda and inside of here and I have this t1 and t2. Okay, so we could have some intuition about this from our visualization of ctr. If I were to take T1 and T2 in in the same Tilda. So this thickened neighborhood notice is basically the same as Tilda. If I pick T1 and T2 corresponding to the same Tilda, then when I when I thicken them both, I get basically the same rectangle. And in fact, then the functions CT1R and CT2R are basically the same function. So they are not at all orthogonal. And that's the only thing that can go wrong. Um if the thickened neighborhoods are disjoint they certainly are orthogonal and the more interesting part is that if the thickened neighborhoods are transverse to each other they are orthogonal and we we can we check that by by for analysis. Um so proof sketch. if the if the angle between t1 and t2 is bigger than maybe r epsilon 1 / r or little r big r. Um then the support of CTR hat intercepted the support T1 of CT2R hat is empty right so the support of CT1 so this is the support of CT1 hat intersected with the annulus of size 1 / are intersected with the support of CT2 hat and these are two rectangles that are transverse to each other. Uh and so wow and you can you can check the intersection. >> Why does it rule out the translations of rectangles? >> Yeah. And so that's case one. So the other case is if um the R neighborhood of T1 is disjoint from the R neighborhood of T2 or you know a little bit more than R. Um then we use the formula CTR is CT1. So that so then we have here integral ct1 r c2 r complex conjugate it's the integral ct1 convolved with ad1 and ct2 convolved a r check and and these two guys have disjoint report. Okay. So now we are ready to estimate the L2 norm. Um so our orthogonality lema says that these different CTRs are usually orthogonal with a few exceptions and we're going to use that orthogonality to estimate the L2 norm. But we have to keep track of how many exceptions there are. All right. So, L2 estimate. So, the last thing we need to check is FR L2 squared. So, FR is the sum over all of our T of ctr. L2 squ. So that's this thing inner product with itself. So if I expand it out, it's the sum T1 T2 of um the inner product of C T1R C T2R. Okay. And the key point is orthogonality lema tells us that most of the inner products in this sum are negligible. There's only a few that are not. Let me give a bit of a name to the ones that are not. So this scenario here I'm going to abbreviate it as saying that T1 uh is related to T2. T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T1 is close to T2. I guess we could put a little r here. So this inner product is negligible unless T1 is related to T2. Okay, so let's look at our big sum of inner products and I'll break it up into two parts. It's the sum where T1 is related to T2 inner product plus the rest of them and the rest of them are really tiny by the orthogonality lema. So the rest of them are negligible. Okay. Now each of these inner products I'll arithmetic geometric mean it. So that's less than this sum t1 related to t2 of ctr l2 ct1 r l2 2 plus ct2r l2. Okay. So I want to know how many times does each of these functions ct1 appear in this sum and the number of times is the number of different t2s that are related to t1 and that number is basically the number that appears in our main lema. This thing that we were counting here how many tubes lie in a little r by big r big tube. That's exactly how many tubes t2 are related to t1. So this thing uh we can say the number of t2 so that t2 is related to t1 this is bounded by nr of t. So this whole sum is bounded by nr of t times just the sum on all the t and t of ctr l2. Cool. And then finally each of these functions we've already described. Hopefully I didn't erase it. Yeah, so we described it. It has height r inverse and it's supported on a little r by big r rectangle. So we can compute its L2 norm. Um so this is n subt of r times the number of tubes times uh the height was r inverse. So that's rus 2 times the uh so this is the amplitude squared and this is the area for this ptr. Okay. And that was the thing that was on the right hand side. Okay. Let me summarize the proof for the last minute. Um let's look back at our statement here. So if we look at this sum of sum of tubes, we're going to break it into different frequency pieces. Littlewood pale theory. And then um the highfrequency pieces are usually orthogonal to each other. If you take if you look at two tubes and you look at the frequency one over R part, they're orthogonal to each other unless those two tubes are in a common fat tube little R by big R. And so you take advantage of that orthogonality where it's available and it gives this bound. Okay, good. Let's stop there for today. uh we will wrap this up on Thursday and and then uh discuss how similar ideas apply in a different looking context in civ theory in in number theory.