We're going to continue our discussion of public goods. You remember the setup. In chapter seven, we talked about general public goods theory uh and the general sort of uh Samuelson rule for optimal public goods provision. In chapter eight, we talked about the first aspect of how you actually deal with the problems of public public's good provision, which is costbenefit analysis. In chapter nine, we talked about political economy and all the challenges of accurately creating decisions when to aggregate preferences and get them revealed honestly. Now, in chapter 10 and 11, we're going to do sort of two applications of public good theory. Today we'll talk about what we call fiscal federalism which is this question I raised in chapter one of what should be done at which level of government. Why is for example national defense a federal priority while fixing roads a local priority. So that's the first thing we'll discuss is fiscal federalism today. Next time and maybe starting today we'll start talking about education as an example of a of a government provided public good. But let's start with fiscal federalism. This is particularly timely, more so than any other time I taught this class probably uh which is that in the wake of COVID, we saw an unprecedented transfer from the federal government to state governments. If you look at all the bills that responded to CO, all the fiscal relief bills in total, they transferred $350 billion from the federal government to the state government. And that's a big amount. And the question is why? Why is the government why is the federal government why didn't the federal government just spend the money? why they feel the need to transfer to state and local governments and that's exactly the kind of question we'll answer today. So to look at that let's start um with some facts. Okay, the first fact is in figure 101. Okay, so first handouts for chapter 10. Uh that's figure 101 is the green, purple and blue bars. Okay, um this shows the division of spending across different levels of government over time. So in 1902, a more than a century ago, 122 years ago, most spending in the US, that's government spending was done by local governments. There was very small role for states and a fairly modest role for the federal government. Indeed, that was true through the 1920s. So by the time you get to the Great Depression in 1927, most government activity happens for at the level of local governments. that changes dramatically between 197 and 19 1927 1952 where the centralized shar spending goes up dramatically and the local share shrinks state share stays about the same. What changed? Well, two things changed. First of all was the was World War II which dramatically increased defense spending which is done at the central government level. The second was the New Deal, which uses a broad set of new federal programs to uh support our nation's poor and elderly. By 1977 and especially by 2002, you see an interesting trend which is the federal government share shrinks some, but it's much of it's made up for by the state share. So you see over this period you see sort of a shift not local government stays roughly the same size. You see a shift of less federal responsibility more state responsibility and in particular this period saw saw a large rise in what we call intergovernmental grants. Intergovernmental grants are transfers from one level of government to the other. And so this period from 77 to 2000 from uh 77 to 2002 and beyond or really from 52 to 2002 and beyond saw a large rise in intergovernmental grants. So the so sort of the first half of the 20th century is marked by a rise in the central government. The second half of the 20th century is marked by a rise in state government size state government but not necessarily funded by state governments. It was sort of a transfer of the federal government offsetting some of the spending it does to states. And this in particular came true through things like the Medicaid program which is a jointly funded state federal health insurance program. So there was sort of more joint funding with states. At the same time there was sort of more basically the federal government basically states more responsibility and sent them more money to to be able to fund those responsibilities. And then by 2019 and then things are pretty things are pretty stabilized. Okay. Now what do states and localities spend their money on? We talked about that in chapter one. They spend their money on health just like the federal government does um on a modest amount of redistribution and social insurance but a lot of things like schools and roads and police. Now what's interesting is if you look at across states the main source two main sources of spending are education and health care and table 10 one shows how much variation there is across states. There's huge variation in what the states spend on things like education and healthcare. There's also by the way huge variation what states raise. For instance, New York collects almost $3,000 per person in income taxes, whereas seven states have no income tax. In terms of sales taxes, Washington raised $2,500 per person per year in sales taxes, while four states literally have no sales tax. So, you got a situation where there's enormous differences. The main takeaway from table 101 is that there are enormous differences across states and how they spend their money. So when the federal government devolves responsibility to the states, it's increasing the variance in how its citizens are treated. When the federal government does something, it citizens are treated fairly uniformly nationally. When the federal government devolves that responsible to states and then even more to localities, that raises the variance in how citizens are treated. And that's interesting observation want to carry with us today. Now, interestingly, we are much more decentralized than most nations. If you look at table 10 three 10 table 10 two I'm sorry this shows the share of spending and revenues that are done by subnational governments what we call state and local governments in the US basically nonentralized share of spending and revenues and what you see is in the US about 43% of it's the next the third from the bottom row about 43% of our spending and 48% of our revenues are collected at the state level that is much much higher than the average the rest of the world. Okay, the OECD average developed country they colle they spend 31% at the subnational level where we spend 43%. And they collect 19% at the subnational level whereas we collect almost 50% of our revenues. So we are much more decentralized than most developed countries. Not all. You can see Denmark's even more centralized in the spending side, but we're much more decentralized than most. Although, interesting, the trend worldwide has been towards more decentralization over time. There's still more centralized, but there's been a trend towards more decentralization. Now this raises the question the fact that there's so much variation raised the question of what is the right differentiation of responsibilities across different levels of government or what we call optimal fiscal federalism. Fiscal federalism is the term for the distribution of responsibilities across different levels of government. Now, what we're going to start with is sort of the the workhorse e economics model for optimal fiscal federalism. What's known as the T-Bo model. It looks like TBO, but it's pronounced TBO like the old quarterback for the sports fans among us. Okay, the T-Bo model. Okay, and basically Charles Tibo is an economist who in 1956 said look the Samson article had come out. We all knew that there was too little provision of public goods compared to private goods. And Tibo asked the following question. He said, what is it that makes private good provision efficient where public good provision by the private market is not? What's the key? And he said the key thing missing for public goods is essentially shopping and competition and the market forces that drive the private market towards efficiency. What drives the private market to efficiency? Why is private market efficient? Because there's shopping and competition. When there's imperfect competition, remember the private market is no longer efficient. So what makes the private market efficient is shopping competition. And he said, "Look, that's just not true for public goods. You don't shop across defense systems. I mean, you could move across countries to the one we like the national events the most, but you probably won't. That's a pretty modest compared to culture and language and family ties. So there's not a lot of shopping. across public goods at the federal level. But he said at locality level there is in fact at the locality level people very much do shop. He they they vote with their feet which is by moving to localities that are can be otherwise similar but which could be more closely matched to their taste for public goods. Okay. And indeed he argued that in the limit you can actually get efficient public good provision in the private market through shopping across localities. It's a coastlike result. Okay, which is that basically you can actually solve the Samson public goods problem by letting people shop for public goods across localities. Okay. So let's say so his point is look if let's say you found that you know in 19 in in 19 um in the 1980s we were told that the US Department of Defense was spending on average $110 on electric dodes that were worth 4 cents or $435 on claw hammers or $437 on tape measures and we all got outraged and said that what a waste of money but no one moved over it. On the other hand, um, in New York City in 2014, they showed that the public library system was spending $37,000 a year to ride the library director with a sports car and raising taxes accordingly. At that point, you might say, "Look, I'm out of New York. It's got high taxes. I don't really care if the library director has a sports car. I'll just move to the suburbs. I can still get to my job. What do I care?" So, you can vote with your feet. And Tibu set out a model under which you can actually solve the Samuelson problem through competition across localities. And the model is quite simple. Okay. Imagine that there are many people in the world and they divide themselves into n towns with n subi residents. Okay. Each town there are n towns. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, that's that's backwards. That's backwards. scratch what I said. There are towns denoted by I. There's towns I each town has n subi residents. That's what I meant to say. There are towns denoted by I and each town has n subi residents. And let's say moreover that towns finance any public good they're going to provide with a flat tax G subi, which is equal for all I. It's a flat lumpsum tax. So each town eye finances public goods with a flat what we call a lump sum. A lump sum tax is a flat amount on everyone. Doesn't depend on your doesn't depend on anything about you. It's not individualistic. It's just a flat tax on everyone that's equal. So there ends my residents in the town and they each pay um uh and um there's a flat tax. The total public goods version is G subi. I'm sorry. The total public goods is G subi. So each resident pays G subi over N subi in taxes. Okay, N subi residents G subi is the total level of public goods. So each resident plays a flat tax of G subi over N subi. Okay, that is the way the system works. I towns N subi people in each G subi is what they spend on public goods. It can be different. Each I can be different and they charge G subi over N subi for public goods. He argues that in that world we will actually get efficient public goods provision solely from voting with your feet. And the reason is because in this world we can get back to the Lindal equilibrium. Remember the problem with Lindal equilibrium is people had to tell us the truth. Well in this world people reveal the truth by moving to the places that reveal their true preferences. They move to what reveals their true preferences. Therefore, we get people getting exactly the amount of public goods they want through private behavior. Let's go to the example we talked about in chapter 7 and chapter nine. Remember Jack and Aworks? You remember Jack wanted Jack wanted 75 fireworks at 75 cents each. Okay. Ava wanted 25 fireworks at 25 cents each. Okay. The Samson rule was we should end up providing 100 fireworks at a dollar. Okay, that was the Samuelson rule. But we then talked about how Jack and Ava won't necessarily get there because Jack is a to lie, understate his preferences, and by lying, he makes Ava pay more. And so he pays less but gets almost as many fireworks. Stephen, >> this is right now we're not we're going to come back to limitations in this model, but right now just assume everybody just kind of there's one the people vote they all decide. Well, actually this is sort of the point of the proof. So basically Jack and A are that we said they cheat. Now let's saying Jack and Aich of their own towns. So in chapter nine we said Jack instead of to lie about his preferences. We proved that that he would get a better deal. But now let's say Jack and A their own towns. Now does Jack And so the only way Jack can lie is by moving to Avisa's town. What happens if Jack moves to Avisa's town? Well, he gets a third of the fireworks at a third the cost. He's no better off. Okay, before he was better off because by voting he could bring a to the pool and make her pay more. Now he can't because there's a town full of aas. He's got to move there. He's got to do what she wants. And so based by voting with his feet, we reveal that Jack will stay what's optimal for him. There'll be a set of towns of people with different fireworks preferences and everyone will be in exactly the town that matches their fireworks preferences paying exactly the right price. And the reason is because there's no incentive to move. You're in a national equilibrium because every other town, if you get different amount of fireworks, you pay the right amount for that different amount of fireworks. So by differentiating these towns, letting people vote with their feet, we've achieved the Lindall equilibrium. We're not relying on honesty. we're relying on people moving, okay? And that is essentially a formal proof, but that's essentially the T-Bo argument, okay? Is that basically local public goods be provided efficiently because if they're not, people will just move. That's the way to think about it. If you're ever in a town, you don't like the public goods, you move to one where you do and therefore everyone will get the public goods they want. Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. They're moving into all these these towns. There's these eye towns that have n people and in each town they have G level of public goods and you move across towns to >> Yeah. Yeah. You move across towns until you get until you get to the town that you like. Good question. Sorry. Yep. It's a collocicalism that's in my head, but you're right. It's not obvious till I explain it. Good question. Other questions? So that's the tou proof and once again like coast like the other things we've talked about it's a very interesting intuition which is clearly not true in practice. There's clearly a number of reasons why this won't work perfectly in practice and what are those basically the subsets there's two class of reasons. The first is reasons why this mechanism of competition won't actually work well. So what are some reasons why this competitive mechanism won't actually work well? Yeah. >> Yeah. So, basically, you've got costly moving. So, you're not going to move until there's some hurdle rate in which you're really pissed off about the tax level public because unless you and then you move. So, there's some bound over which they can deviate from your preferences and as long as it gets too far doesn't get too far from your preferences, you'll stay. What else? What else is What else? Yeah. Exactly. Information frictions is exactly right. You don't know what the public librarians pay. You know your taxes, but but then they stand up and say, "Oh, those tax supporting vital public goods, bullshit." And you don't know. So, it's hard to actually know what your town's doing if they're wasting the money or not. Yeah. Yeah. So, basically, here's the thing. There's a fundamental tension in this model which is on the one hand why couldn't you just have why do you need a limited number of towns? Why couldn't it just be each person could be a town? What's wrong with that? And what do we call that an economies of scale? Because there's economies of scale and public goods provision. It makes no sense for you to have your own school. Okay. As a result, it only makes sense to have schools over some aggregated set of people. So on the one hand, you have economies of scale. But on the other hand, if you have economies of scale versus heterogeneity. So what Tibo is assuming is that there's that there are n identical people that can fit in your town that there's enough identical people you can afford to build a school, but they still have identical preferences. But that's never going to be true, right? I mean, maybe you can find, but I mean, actually, I don't think true. It could be, you know, people could be homogeneous. could find you, you know, you could form, you know, the skydiving town and maybe there's enough sky divers that like that's the public good. They want to provide is parachutes for everyone and maybe that would work. But the point is you need a big enough number of people versus people of similar enough tastes and that's attention. Yeah, >> that's okay. No worries. Yeah, Stephen. >> Yeah. So there's sort of in subsets, you know, imperfect competition. Some of that comes from costly moving, but some of that also comes from the fact that there's a bundle of public goods. So you need not only to have heterogeneity among every single public good. So that's going to be impossible. So that's one class of problems with this model. There's another class of problems which is separate but very important which is we don't pay for public goods in this way. these lumpsum charges. That's not how public goods are paid for. Okay, lump sum tax it turns out are incredibly unpopular. Um uh actually I'll talk about talk about taxation but basically the only modern example of a government trying to impose lumpsum taxes was Margaret Thatcher who was the most popular leader in modern history proposed a lump sum tax in England lost office over it because people viewed them as unfair fundamentally viewed unfair that like Bill Gates and you would pay the same tax. Okay. As a result, nobody does nobody finances anything through lumpsum taxes. Typically, how are p local public goods financed? Through property taxes. That is the way that local public goods are financed are through tax on property, primarily housing. 90 plus% of property tax revenues. There's some other property taxes, but basically tax on housing. So, you can think of public goods at the local level as being paid for by a tax on housing. Why does that screw up this model? Well, here's a question for you. Let's say you're a rich person and you know that public goods are fin you have fa your rich people have fancy houses. You know that public goods are financed by a property tax. Who do you want to who else do you want to live with? Alec >> probably a bunch of other people. Now, let's say you're a poor person. Alec, who do you want to live with? >> A bunch of other rich people. The problem is in a world with property taxes, you have a bit of a free rider problem because basically the rich pay more but everyone gets the public good. And if they're not all homogeneous, that screws it up. So heterogenating income with a property tax means this doesn't work. But the rich have found a solution to this. And what's that called? What's how do the rich solve the free rider problem inherent in this system? They claim it's for something else. What is it really? Yeah. Well, private goods. But what else? What is What is the Yeah. >> What? >> Well, there are that's typically illegal uh to do that. Not always. But what else what else do towns do? What do towns do to try to fight the fact that both the rich and the poor want to live with the rich? Yeah, zoning laws. So, Western Massachusetts will tell you that it restricts everyone to have at least two acres because it wants to preserve green space, but that's They want two acres because that keeps the poor people out. Poor people can't afford two acres. So, zoning laws are how towns have reacted to the incentives to free ride on property taxes. When you have a property tax where the rich pay more, if you don't keep the poor out, then they're going to free ride on the taxes the rich pay. So that's why towns have zoning laws. These zoning laws are incredibly pernitious. They're first of all incredibly prevalent, but also incredibly pernitious because what they do is they massively restrict the amount of housing available. Okay? Because basically the way you do zoning, you can't say a house in Montana has to cost at least a million dollars. That's illegal. But you can say at least it has to at least have amenities such that no one would build such a house for less than a million dollars. And those amenities mean that you don't get many houses in your town. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, we have two things like that in the US. We have within buildings we have called co-op buildings which are essentially cooperatives where the other owners have to approve you and like if you want to make a renovation your apartment the whole co-op has to approve. We also have um some communities. This is a community behind me which is essentially was set up as a community with what's called a a covet and basically what that means is not anyone can buy in but you can't for example change your house without approval of that of everyone in the neighborhood but you can't stop someone from buying in certainly not for any reason like you're like they're poor you get sued for that. Okay. But zoning totally fine. Zoning uh the effects of zoning are enormous. um the best estimates um there's a um uh an excellent urban economist named Ed Glazer at Harvard. They said that um market in zone land in zoned areas costs about 10 times more than land in unzoned areas just roughly speaking to try to compare them. Okay, zoning is a huge huge effect on the cost of housing, the availability of housing. And so, but it's a natural reaction to the TBO mechanism. So, in other words, competition, think of it like we did in 1401. Competition only delivers the efficient outcome if there's no barrier. Sell mentioned barriers to entry. Well, here's a barrier that makes competition not deliver the efficient outcome. Yeah. uh the district was that's about getting your voters. This is about this is about literally who can live there. >> School district. Oh, I see. Yes. Some sometimes they have like school districts that don't follow town boundaries and that's another thing. But that's more about economies of scale. Okay. Now, there's a third problem. So, there's three problems of Tibu. One is sort of market imperfections. two is the financing. And then the third problem with TIBU TIBO, which is they ass it assumes no spillovers. But that's not true. Anytime a town builds public goods, it affects other towns. If I pave my road, then people who drive through on their way home benefit. If I have better police, then there's less crime. Maybe that hurts the other town because it pushes the criminals to the other town. If I have better education, there's better educated workers that maybe want to come work in my town. Once there's spillovers, that leads to the same market failure we get with positive externalities or negative externalities in our standard market, which is competition doesn't work if there's externalities. Well, with spillovers in public goods, there's externalities. Therefore, we won't get the optimal level. Even if we were don't worry about these other conditions, we won't get the the people Tibo model will not deliver optimality because we will not get um we will not get the uh the optimal level of public goods because of spillovers or externalities. Okay, questions about the Tibo model. Now much like coast or the median voter theorem, the tibo model is not true and extreme but has a lot of power to explain phenomena we see in the real world. So what is some evidence that the model actually works in the real world? Well, for example, let's imagine um let's imagine two cities, one of which has three big suburbs, one of which has 20 little suburbs. What does the Tibo model predict should be different about the suburbs in those two cities? What sort of things, not one thing, what sort of things should be different? going try to get some other folks involved out. Let's see. Come on. Let's get Let's get some other folks involved. Let's get more participation up. What What other things should be different? They want a place with a few or even one to make it extreme. One big suburb versus 20 little suburbs. What should be different in the nature of the suburbs in those two places? Actually, one doesn't work. It's got be at least three. Yeah. >> With more with more towns, there'd be more specialization. Absolutely. You predict there'd be more specialization. There'd be more diversity across towns. Yeah, exactly. You'd expect more homod the two predictions. You'd expect more diversity in public goods provision as the number of towns goes up and more homogeneity within a town as the number of towns go up. And both are true. It is true. Now, three versus but if you think about 15 versus 20, as the number gets bigger, you get more specialization and more homogeneity. never all the way to what Tibo would want, but you go in that direction as predicted by that model. You also get a higher level of satisfaction with public goods as the number of towns get bigger because people are moving towards that Tibo equilibrium. So the more choice they have, the happier people are because they can move to a place that really matches their preferences. Okay, so that's one prediction. The second prediction is really important and interesting because the pro another problem of the T-Bo model is that and so mentioned this in the first thing moving is a big deal. It's really costly to move. I mean you guys move your dorm rooms every year and you don't care. Okay, but believe me like selling a house buying a new house it's a nightmare. Okay, it's really costly. And so one problem you always might have with the TBU model is G Tibo model G all these people have to move. That's a very weak mechanism. But here's the thing, they don't have to move. You don't need that many people to move. In fact, you in theory don't need anyone to move or certainly a very small number of people to move. And why is that? Why would the TBO force operate even if in theory even if no one moves, but as long as you don't need many people to move? What else is going to change that's going to make the TBO force operate? How you're the mayor of a town, you screwed up. How are you gonna get a signal without everyone leaving town? How are you gonna get a signal you screwed up? What's gonna tell you screwed up? >> Yeah. What? >> What? >> Well, okay, but there's no vote for three years. Yeah. >> People might But let's imagine you throw them in jail. Okay. What else? What else do you observe in economic indicators about that town? Yeah. Well, that's what she just said. And people, but then you throw them in jail. What else? Think about think about how public goods are financed. Think about markets and towns. What's going to change? Yeah. >> Private good provision is one thing. What about the fundamental nature of prices in the economy will change? What's that? House prices will drop because people don't want to live there anymore. and asset prices can react much quicker than people can move. So in theory, you don't even need anyone to move. If it gets in the news that this town sucks, all of a sudden no one wants to live there and house prices drop. You don't actually even need mobility. That's what's great about this is c this is what we call capitalization. There's something called capitalization, which is the notion that a house price embeds a stream of services that come with that house. Why is one house expensive, one house not expensive? Well, embeds it embeds how many bedrooms there are and how nice it is in the yard, but it also embeds how good the schools are and how high the property taxes are. Those are all embedded in one stream of things that determine the price of a house. So, for g for a given level of property taxes, if I suddenly start keeping all the money for my public librarian sports car and don't spend it on things that are good for people, they'll say, "Don't live here. This town sucks." And house prices will drop. So you don't need everyone to move to get to have the market show that you screwed up. Okay. So what this says, what's really cool about this is it says that even in a world where people don't move much, we can use house prices as an indicator for how good a job a government's doing on meeting the tastes of it citizens. Okay? So, in other words, if you cut taxes, if you cut property taxes, let's say you have a town and you cut property taxes, should house prices go down or up? And for what reasons? If you cut property taxes in your town, should the price of the house go down or even up? And why? Yeah. >> You pay less taxes. But doesn't it make more desirable town? >> Yeah. >> In fact, if you're at the Tibo equilibrium, it'll make prices go down. Why? Because the TB equilibrium, everyone's perfectly happy. So, if I cut property taxes in TBO equilibrium, prices will go down. But if I'm o if I'm overspending on public goods, prices will go up. If I'm underspending on public goods, prices will go down. So the what happens to prices can tell us about where we are relative to Tibo equilibrium assuming people are informed to stuff. Yeah. >> Um no not necessarily because if I what explain what you mean by that. >> No no no no because as the tax goes up so let's say you were underproviding public goods. So your tax goes up, price goes up. But now public goods go up too. Now let's say you've hit the optimal point. Well, tax goes up again, price will go down. Think of it as climbing a hill. The hill is the net of taxes versus benefits. The hill is the net of tax versus benefits. And Tibo's saying you want to settle at the top where the next dollar in tax is worth it in terms of the next dollar of benefits it pays for. Indeed, what's the key lesson from Tibo is that we want to think about tax benefit linkages. It's a totally new way of thinking about taxes. We're going to think about taxes as things like are they efficient? Do they help poor people? There's a different way to think about it, which is think of a tax as a price. In Tibo's world, a local tax is a price at which you purchase a public good. And once you think of it that way, it makes sense. If the price is too high, you buy less. Price is too low, you buy more. So that says the net of the tax versus the benefit you're getting on the margin determines the value of the house and your desirable to live in there. >> I'm leaving all the polit once again, we've leaving chapter nine behind. We're suming up a a social planner who's, you know, vote max, you know, vote maximize something like that. We're just doing doing an easy case. But you're right, there'd be a lot of subtleties about pleasing maybe certain residents of town who hold the power versus not, etc. As we talked about in chapter nine. Yeah. >> Oh, it's it's in everything. I mean, so yeah, the stock market, what determines the price of a stock? Well, in theory, it's the underlying future profits of that company determine the value of a stock. Now in practice it's kind of how day traders are feeling that day but in theory so yes capitalization is fundamental all assets are capitalized something every asset you hold is a capitalized value of its future utilization or future utility future value now yeah question >> yeah for example Florida Right. >> I mean, if if that's the reason they moved once again, they might have moved for other reasons, but if but if they're voting with their feet and saying, "Look, Georgia's got all these taxes, why do people move to Florida when they're retired? >> No state income tax because it's Warren, but also no state income tax." So, like, why should I pay taxes to support schools? Screw that. I'm I'm a selfish old person. I'm moving to Florida and I won't pay taxes. And the schools suck in Florida. I'm no offense, but they do. Okay. So that's exactly and so that's a TBO outcome. People who don't care about schools move to Florida. People who do care about schools move to places where schools are good. Okay. Now so that says that basically um what well let me let me come back to one thing. What is the actual evidence that capitalization exists? And here we have a wonderful example from Cal from one of the most important events in our nation's history of public of fiscal federalism which was California's Proposition 13. Proposition 13 was a law passed by California in 1978 that limited local towns a ability to raise property taxes. Before this law, all over the country, towns could do whatever they wanted. California was the first state to say, "Wait a second. We are not going to let towns set their own property tax. We're going to limit them." In particular, what the law said is that you could not have a property tax that was more than 1% of a home's assessed value. So, every year, people could not pay more than 1%. Just to fix ideas, property tax in the US are typically between sort of one and two and a half percent. Or between half a percent and two and a half percent. it will cover property taxes in chapter 23. So that's a pretty strict limit. Moreover, the it could not be more than 1% of the home's value at that point in time and it could only increase at 2% per year no matter what happened to the value of a house. Okay? So think about what that means. So, a great study in 1982 looked at the effect of Proposition 13. And he said, "Look, let's compare towns that before this law already had low property taxes to ones that had high property taxes. The high property taxes had to reduce their property taxes a ton. The ones with low property taxes didn't. So, let's ask what happened to house values." And what he found was an enormous increase in house values. An enormous increase in house values. Indeed, what he found was that um uh that basically for every $1 in property tax reduction, for every $1 per year in property tax reduction, the value of homes in California went up by $7. Now, your reaction is, wait a second, that how can that be so big? But why does that make sense? Why does it make sense that you'd get $1 per year leading to $7 in house value? Yeah. because you hold the house >> because you hold the house for a long time. Indeed, if we think you hold the house forever, what is $7 worth in PDF? Basically, what what is this? What is $7? What should it compare to? Well, you're paying $1 a year. If you're paying it forever, you put it over the interest rate. When this law passed, interest rates were very very high. Interest rates were typically about 12%. So, this equals $8.33. So, actually, the capitalization was pretty close to 100%. pretty close to, if you look at the PDV of what people are going to owe in property taxes, when you lowered taxes, house prices went up just about dollar for dollar. So what does this imply? This implies that people thought we were massively overproviding public goods or they thought the state would bail them out. And maybe people thought, yeah, we'll do this and the state realized our school's going to fall apart and they'll send us money. This is just the way we squeeze money out of the state. Okay. Well, it turned out um they were wrong. California went from having top 10 school system in the nation to bottom 10 school system in the nation. California public schools went to Everybody left and went to private school and basically the California public school system uh has has suffered massively. Um uh more moreover um there's other so basically we have a system where essentially people now maybe that's what people wanted. Maybe people wanted crappy public schools at low price. Nothing wrong with that. The question is it really what they wanted? Did they really understand that that was the consequence? Or do they think maybe nah, they'll figure some other way to pay for the schools. Maybe they're misinformed. They thought the state would bail them out. Okay. Um indeed more recent work suggests that on average in the US more spending on schools would actually raise house values. More spending schools financed by a private would raise house values. There's a cool study um which looked at what happens when towns hold special elections to raise certain supplemental funds to fund capital improvements in schools. So a town will have a special election. everybody to pay $500 more or another 0.1% in their property tax and we're going to rebuild all the schools. They found when they do that house values go up, not down as a California example would suggest. So higher taxes funding better schools make it go up. Okay, so what might be going on in California too was just okay, we don't think the schools suffer. We think politicians are wasting a lot of money on other stuff and that'll all go away and our schools won't suffer. and folks were just wrong and now California's crappy public schools. So, it's an interesting example of capitalization in practice. The capitalization really worked. The question is, is it really a test of TBO? That depends on uh this information friction. Do people really understand what they were voting for? Uh because at least later evidence suggests they didn't because when people have the choice to just vote about what I pay more for better schools, typically that's when they do so that's better for their housing value. Okay, questions about that. Where does this leave us in the question we started with which is optimal fiscal federalism? Optimal fiscal federalism. Where does this leave us in optimal fiscal federalism? Where it leaves us is basically the TBO model says that the optimal that government spending should be done is most efficient where the tax benefit linkages are the largest that where the tax benefit linkages are the largest you have the least inefficiency because people can vote with their feet and get the level of public goods they want. Okay. So basically that says um so what the model says is federalism is determined by three things. One is tax benefit links. Two the second thing is determined by is the level of spillovers because the more spillovers the less the more that it'll be inefficient do it locally. And the third thing it's going to be determined by is economies of scale. because basically something which has to be huge to succeed shouldn't be provided locally. So in other words, if we go back to chapter one and that mystery of some stuff was done federally, some stuff was done locally, we can ask, do these three factors explain it? And the answer is they do. What does the federal government do? Defense, huge economies of scale. Very hard to make a tax benefit linkage on defense. Okay. What do local economies do? Fix the roads. Not that big economy of scale. You see like a guy in a machine. Okay. But a lot of tax benefit linkage. I can see that my road got better when I pay higher taxes. Schools. Some economies of scale but a lot of linkages. Police same thing. So actually the division responsibilities kind of make sense. The main thing you have from TBO framework is stuff's kind of divided the way it should be. Think about redistribution especially social insurance programs. They are done at the state and mostly federal level. Why? Why don't we have local redistribution? Why don't >> Well, that's right. But why else? I mean, they they do, but you it's still not fully. Why don't we just in Lexon? Why don't we just say get rid of federal income tax, have big Lexin income tax, and distribute to the poor people lexing it? Why won't that work? What does that violate here? Yeah. >> No. Yeah. >> Yeah. Basically, if Lexus starts taxing all the rich people, give to the poor people, they'll leave. If America does, they're not going to leave. I mean, some will. They'll go to, you know, Macau or whatever or no, Monica or whatever. Okay. But basically, the point is the tax benefit linkages are sufficiently weak that if a town tries to do it, they'll get killed. So basically, that's why redistribution is mostly done at higher levels of government is for tax benefit linkages. Things like defense are at a high level of government because of economies of scale. Things like roads and police are done at lower levels of government because the economy scale is large and the tax benefit linkages are tight. Yeah. >> What's an example of >> okay well let's come to the one category. So I would say I would argue on pretty much every category we have the US kind of gets it right except for one where we differ from the rest of the world and we probably get it somewhat wrong which is education. Education as we'll talk about next chapter is about 50% locally financed 50 it's about 45% locally financed 45% state financed less or 10% fally financed or probably even less. The US federal government does very little education. Why is that? Why could that be wrong? And why do other countries actually have the central government play a much larger role in education? And why why and the example is spillovers that basically when I educate someone in my town that benefits the whole country. They pay higher federal taxes. They might start a company in some other place which hires lots of people. Now, it does benefit a lot. Most people don't move. Okay. Uh I love a great line of head. You everybody talks about I like to think I married the love of my life. Everybody says they're married love of their life. They said it is interesting that most people happen to have the love of the life living within 10 miles of where they were born. Um because most people don't move. Okay. So it is true that most of the benefits acrew to states and localities. But it's hard to argue less than 10% of the benefits acrew to the country of having a better educated population. So for that that's a spillover argument and that's example of why most other countries actually finance education much more at a central level than we do and we probably should. Okay. questions about that? >> Yeah. >> Would healthare be another area with big spillover effect? >> Healthcare could Yes. Yes. Absolutely. Healthcare be another area and that's once again not really state that that but that one we kind of get right that's fally and state financed not really locally financed. So once again if you it's what's once again the theory these theories are kind of wacky but actually they explain a lot of central patterns pretty well. Like these three factors explain a lot of why stuff is done at different levels of government pretty well. Okay. Other questions or comments? I guess it it we don't I mean it's a trade-off. We don't know. I mean obviously like for example one of the main things that localities do is roads. There are spillovers with roads, right? Because you drive through and uh you know there are there are economies of scale with roads. So there are re it's not it's more sort of the forces in each direction. Okay. The forces that push in each direction. Yeah. Whi- which public good like if you do redistribution at the local level that would be underprovided because the problem is if you try to redistribute too much everybody leaves your town. So you end up equilibrium where you can't do redistribution. >> Yes. >> Right. So basically here's another way to put it. It's a great way to put it. More tax benefit linkages means more local. More spillovers means less local. More economies of scale means less local. That's the way to think about it. Those the forces pushing. That's a good way to answer question too. Yeah. >> Excellent. I mean I mean look we will talk you know there it's not that there's no mobility across countries. There's obviously mobility across countries. So and that mobility but I think there is not a lot of evidence that mobility for most people responds to local public goods or tax. it's more about like not getting killed. Um, that is not true, however, totally. There's a lot of cool studies we'll talk about when we get to chapter 25 about very rich people moving across countries in response to the top marginal tax rate, particularly athletes. Uh, but it's just generally not really true. Okay, other questions, comments. All right, now that's all optimal fiscal federalism. Now having done that we now come to the part that we really care about which is okay we know it should be optimal but what should we do to try to encourage the optimal level of fiscal federal level of public provision. Okay and now we get to the last topic which is the role of intergovernmental grants and thinking about how government should behave to get at that optimal level. So the first thing is let's step back and just talk about the general topic of redistribution across communities. Okay, just think about the general topic of redistributing across communities. So let me just ask you a general question. Given all you've learned, should we or should we not redistribute from say rich communities to poor communities? Should we or should we we I'm not talking about rich people to poor people. I'm talking about rich communities to poor communities. Should we be in general take money from rich places and give it to poor places? Should we or should we not do that? What are the the answer is of course ambiguous. What are the factors pushing each direction? Yeah. >> What's that? So, so in some sense a reason, so let me just shortcut this a little bit because we're getting a little late on time. The reason not to distribute is TBO. The bottom line is if Tibo holds, you don't want to redistribute. Okay, you might still want to distribute from rich to poor people, but there's no reason to take from one community give to another if everybody's happy. In a TBO world, everybody's happy. It can't be welfare improving to redistribute across communities in a TBO world because everyone's chosen their optimal level of tax and public goods. Not saying rich you shouldn't have a federal income tax from rich to poor, but there's no reason to actually take from one town to get just because my town has rich people with good schools and another town has poor people with bad schools. Tibo would say that's the choice they made. There's no reason to distribute. If you want if if you care about income distribution, you have a federal income tax. No reason to take from my town and give to the other town. Why is Tibo wrong? Where would be wrong? He's wrong if people can't freely move. Okay, in other words, redistribution does matter to the extent Tibo doesn't hold. So essentially, it's a simple equation which is the more T-Bo holds, the less you want to be doing community level redistribution. The less TBO holds, the more you at least want to be considering. Not saying it's optimal, but at least you want to open that. Just like we talked about only on market failures should the government intervene. A T equilibria is equal with no market failures. So the government should intervene. Everybody's in the right town for them. The government should leave it alone. But if people are stuck and can't move to get to the T equilibrium. So if for example someone who's a family that really wants good education for their kids, but they're stuck in a town with a shitty educational system and they can't move to another town because zoning laws keep them out, then we should redistribute. Stephen Right. >> Right. So, so that would be a breakdown of the table. So, essentially what's pretty cool about this is essentially if someone asks you, you know, as people often come walk up and ask you, they'll say, "Hey, should we distributing from rich to poor communities? How do I think about that?" And the your answer is it all depends on how efficiently we think p people are sorted across those communities. If we think we're in a purely tbo, the answer is no. Given that we're not, the answer is probably a little bit yes. And how much depends. Okay. So um now let's say so let's say we decide we do want to redistribute. So now the question is how do we do that? And the way we do it is through intergovernmental grants. So I want to talk about the analysis of intergovernmental grants. This is a fun example. It shows you sort of how you have how you have fun with budget constraints. So let's imagine um let's imagine that there's the town of Lexington and there's and we're in a simple world with a private good and a public good. There are private goods and a public good. The public good's education. So people can either spend their money on private goods or they can spend the money on its schooling. And to make life easy, a unit of each is a dollar. We always do this numeric thing. So we can have about units of dollars interoperably without worrying about each. Okay. So let's assume people can just the town of Lexington has a representative democracy and it's choosing for its people and it's a true median voter theorem representative democracy. It's choosing for its people how much spend in education. So it's essentially representing its voters in thinking about that trade-off. Let's further assume that more education spending delivers a better outcome. Let's assume people want more. I'm going to come back to that next chapter. Let's just assume that every dollar of education spending is that much better outcome. Okay? So people want more education spending, but they also want other stuff. So what that means is that essentially you get something like figure 102 shows the tradeoff facing Lexington. This is below table 102 that we looked at a few minutes ago. Shows the trade-off facing Lexington. They people in Lexington spend their money on private goods or education. Let's say the town of Lexington has a thousand dollars, okay? And it a as an entity and it can decide as a town whether want to spend the $1,000 on private goods or education. And once again, we're ignoring the whole voting difficulties here. Assume it's a representative. It's representing people's preferences. Even assume everybody's identical to make this easy. Okay. So let's assume the town as a set of identical individuals has some indifference curve between private goods and education and that indifference curve is tangent with their budget constraint at the point X. So let's say that the voters of Lexon decide they want to spend half their money education and half their money on everything else. And that's the equilibrium. Now let's say the federal government says you know what we think you are not spending enough on education. They ask we want you to spend more and to entice you to spend more we are going to give you a grant to try to entice you. There are three forms that grant can take. The first form is what we call a matching grant. A matching grant says, "Hey Lexington, I'm going to pass a state law that says for every dollar you spend in education, I'm going to give you a dollar. So I'm going to match one for one your education spending." What does that do to the budget stream? We see that in figure 103. In figure 103, you see the new in red is the new budget constraint. This budget is such that if that if people accident decide to spend all their money on private goods, they still only have $1,000 worth of private goods. But if they decide to spend all their money on public goods, they now get $2,000 worth of public goods. Why? Because the state has announced they're matching it one for one. So the new budget has shifted outwards. In other words, the price of education has fallen to half the price of private goods. Education used cost the same as private goods. Education now costs the town half as much. What will that do to the level of education? Well, we know from 1401 that depends on income and substitution effects. Right? On the one hand, the price has fallen. So substitution effects unambiguously lead you to say they want more of it. On the other hand, they're richer. So if it's a if education is a normal good, which we'll assume that would say that uh they want uh they want more of it, that would the income effect would work would work the same way. They're now richer say more of it as well. So the association of effects would both say they want more education. Both the price has fallen and they're richer. So for both reasons, they want more education. So, education shifts out and you end up getting spending $750 on education instead of 500. Note also, you also spend more money on private goods. Why? Because you're richer. And as long as private goods are normal, you're going to take that windfall and spread it across both. So, you're going to spend $750 on education now and 625 on private goods. Okay? So even though private goods price hasn't fallen since you're richer you want more private goods as well. So you are going to end up at a point like why? Okay questions about that. Now imagine the state said well wait a second let's try a different kind of grant. Let's give them what we call a block grant. A block grant is saying, "Look, we know that basically um we know that that point you choose with the matching grant, if we gave you a block grant of 1.3 of of $1,375, you could get to that exact point." Why? Because look at what you're spending. You're spending 750 plus 625 is $1,325. So, if I literally just gave you $1,325, you could literally get to the same point. But is that what you do? It's not. Take a look at figure 104. Figure 104. Now, in blue, we have the original budget constraint and the matching grant budget constraint. But we also have a third budget constraint, which is a block grant budget constraint. Now in red, that is just a shift out of the budget constraint of $1375. Why does that cause a smaller increase in education spending than does the matching grant? Why does the block grant cause a smaller increase? Yeah, >> we only have income effect. Relative price haven't changed. This is like our old proof remember of income substitution effects. Okay, we only have income effect as education spending rises less and private spending goes up more. Does that mean that the town is worse off? Is the town worse off or better off? And how do you know? Is the town worse off or better off? And how do you know? Under the blocker of the matching grant. Yeah. How how do you know? >> Yeah. By definition, it's better off because it could have chosen the exact same outcome as before, but it didn't. Or in other words, you can see the indifference curve tangent at Z will be higher than difference curve tangent at Y. That's a kind of revealed preference proof we like in economics. Just keep that in mind. Okay? Is that if someone is making if has a choice they made before and they choose not to make it, then they clearly like the new outcome better. Okay? So in here in we have the fundamental tradeoff of grant making. If your goal is just to increase education spending, then a better way to to set that up is with a matching grant. If your goal is to make the town better off while also increasing education spending, then it's better to do the block grant. And that comes right back to why we're redistributing. If we feel like we really care about poor towns and we also want education increase, we may want a block grant. May want to say, "Look, we education won't increase as much, but at least we'll give more to the poor towns. A matching grant gives more to rich towns, right? Because rich towns spend more in education. So a matching grant gives more to rich towns. A block grant gives the same to everyone. So if your goal is purely we want to increase education spending, we don't care about redistribution, then a matching grant dominates. If your goal is both to increase educational spending and to redistribute across towns, a block grant's better. Now, you're probably thinking, "Well, John, can't we have our cake and eat it, too? Can't we do a conditional block grant?" A condition conditional block grant. What would a condition block grant look like? Well, it would say look conditional block grant would say look um we are going to say we're going to give you Lexidin 30 I shouldn't this is I didn't say they don't give him that grant they give him this grant my bad wasn't $1,3 they give $375 in that example on the right okay so in that example they gave them $375 not $1,375 okay because it increased their spending by $375 is the delta they gave them well now imagine that they gave them they said to Lexington, you could have $375, but you have to spend education. In that case, can we have our cake and eat it too? If we say to Lexin, $375, but you have to spend education, will that both give a block grant, which is fair across communities, and enforce more education spending? And the answer is in economics, you never get to have your cake and eat it too. And to see that let's go to figure uh 105 which look familiar should look familiar from our old figures about food stamps. Okay, figure 105 we have the regular budget strength be the first budget strength. We have the the the upper blue line is the matching grant. The line that goes DF is the block grant. The new budget strength goes AF. Why? Why is the new budget constraint a fee as opposed to the old DFE? Explain why you draw the new budget constraint that way. Yeah. >> Yeah. The first 375 you have to spend in education. You don't have a choice. So that segment that goes from F to D is not available to you. You can't do that. That's not available to you. you have to spend at least $375 on education. Once you spend at least $375 on education, then you're back on the MA. You're back on the block grant. So what this means is in many ways you end up with the same outcome as a block grant, but not fully. And why is that? Why is it different than the block grant? For what kind of towns will you not get the same outcome as a block grant? Yeah. >> Yeah. If you can see towns which might any town which would choose a point D and F will now be forced to spend more on education okay and be on a lower indifference curve if your tangency was a DNF and I force you between DNF I force you to F you'll be in a lower indifference curve and that's probably the poorest towns it's probably the poorest towns that spend least education so in some sense this is not as good for redistribution of block grant it's better for getting more educ education spending because it forces the towns that weren't spending education to spend, but it's not as good for distribution. So, it's sort of a halfway between example. So, matching grant gets the maximum increase in education spending. Block grant gets the maximum increase in town utility. Conditional block grant is halfway in between, partly in between. Okay. Questions about that? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Even though >> exactly exactly well no lower they're not getting more money the people between D and Afric are getting the same >> they're being forced to spend their money differently yeah Stephen >> um at the same budget level it will at the same budget level because you get the income and substitution effect unless substitution effects are zero so it's strictly as good or better in terms of educ ation spending because you get a substitution effect you don't get with any kind of condition with any block rate. Um so basically what you have is a situation let me just check that at the same budget yes at the same budget will strictly outperform it now matching granted less money won't necessarily outperform it but the same budget will strictly outperform it so basically what you have is a situation where there's this inherent trade-off and it come it all comes full circle I like about this chapter it's very in it's very circular in the sense it all comes full circle which is it all comes back to Tibo which is if TBO is holding perfectly we just say isn't it wonderful local public goods are efficient that's wonderful but whether that's going to be true depends on a lot of things what you should do at which level is going to depend on how much Tibo holds and whether you want to redistribute across communities and which kind of grant you is going to depend on how much Tibo holds so it's sort of a nice way to think about optimal fiscal federalism Okay, now questions about that. Okay, we're going to do next time, we're not stopping, but next time we're going to come back to one last cool to all this. Uh um which is actually um actually no, I'm going to do it now. Um so basically, um let's talk about two more things. The first other thing I want to talk about in chapter 10 is an important public policy called school finance equalization. Many states have felt that um first of all there's enormous discrepancy across districts and what they spend in education. So within within um Texas for example there's a five-fold discrepancy across towns and what they spend education per student. Okay that's true all over the place. Huge discrepancy. Okay. So, um what happened was state people started suing under state constitutions saying that the state constitution guaranteed equal rights for everyone and different such vast disparag educational spending violated their equal rights. And the first such case was one once once again um in California in 1976. In California, 1976, there was a lawsuit and the state ruled that the state, the Supreme Court of the state ruled that the state had to equalize financing across districts. And indeed, there's been subsequent lawsuits in almost every state in the country. And that's led to a massive shift towards school finance equalization. I haven't got education yet, but this how education is paid for. Now, these plans differ a lot. For example, in California, what California says is, look, every district should spend the same, you can exceed that by $350 per student, which is tiny, but beyond that, you don't get to have any more. So, in California, basically, it doesn't matter how much you collect in property taxes, your education spending could only be $350 above the statewide average. New Jersey on the other hand does a different system where they say look if you are below the 85th percentile of property values in the state we're going to send you money and above we're not so a different system both redistribution but done in very different ways what are the effects of this redistribution it's quite interesting there's been a number of studies they found the following first of all all these schemes equalize school financing all these schemes worked is that the spending across districts got much more equal. But how they work was very different. States like New Jersey, they work by bringing the bottom up. States like California, they work by bringing the top down. Why? Because think about the California system. It's essentially 100% tax. Once you're spending $350 above the average, all the rest of the tax revenues you raise just go to pay for other towns education. So people are like, "Forget it. We're not going to invest in education. Whereas in New Jersey, the rich towns get sort of taxed, but they still it's it's sort of it's like a typical tax. They get they some of what they spend they have to give to the government, but the rest they get to keep. So they might spend less education otherwise would, but they rush through to the bottom, which spends a lot more. So there's equalization, but the way it happens is very different depending on how the system's set up. So this is it's kind of a it's not not quite it's sort of a technical detail, but it matters enormously. Okay. And this matters more than that because studies have shown this matters for educational outcomes. And we'll talk about money and education next time. But there's studies have shown which not only is equalization lead to equalization of spending, at least equalization of student outcomes. This stuff matters. Okay. So that's an example of um of how equalization works. Now this leads to one of my favorite examples in this course, which is someone wrote an article. This guy wrote this article in the 1980s about why did Proposition 13 happen. Proposition 13 was this incredible event that changed the whole nature of public finance in the country. But people have bitched about property taxes from since the first century. Why 1978? Why did property why did Proposition 13 not happen till 1978? And he said, well, the answer is what happened in California 1976? School finance equalization. What does school finance equalization do? It fundamentally breaks the tax benefit linkage between the taxes you collect and what you get from them. Before 1976, if you raise more tax, you got better schools. After 1976, you raise more tax, you don't get better schools. So why pay higher taxes? So pro his argument, it's just sort of more of a curiosity argument. It's not really strongly proven. Okay. His argument is that basically Proposition 13 was a natural consequence of causing uh of essentially the hund essentially what what the school finance equalization in 1976 was impose a 100% tax on your property taxes giving it back to the state breaking the tax benefit linkage and causing towns say well forget it we don't want property taxes anymore. Okay, that that led to all the property taxes falling which led to the entire educational system cratering. So this was somebody mentioned sort of a cycle. This is a real cycle. You see you break the linkage, people vote for lower taxes and the whole bottom falls out of the school system. And that's what happened in California. Really fascinating set of events in the late 1970s. Okay. Yeah. It is very hard. It turns out to be very it's a great question. It turns to be very hard to make the argument that you should raise taxes fundamentally just to be very hard. I mean you should you can go in and say look you know look what's happened to our schools. And the problem is while you say people say well raising taxes wouldn't solve it with these corrupt politicians da da da da. It's hard to change the status quo is the bottom line. So Massachusetts has a law like this called Proposition 2 and a half which limits property taxes to growing to uh growing at two and a half% a year. By the way, these limits are binding in California. Here's a fascinating case. California, starting 1978, your property tax bill could only grow at 2% a year. California property values have gone up like 50fold since 1978. So you have houses that are worth gazillions of dollars, paying almost nothing in property tax. Here's a fascinating thing. until you sell the house. When you sell the house, the property tax gets reset at 1% of the new value. So that leads to this thing called housing lock where people in California you don't want to sell their houses because basically once they do it is there's a huge property tax at the next owner. It's like a good deal. It's like remember we talked about the old uh the old pollution the old the old plants and we had these new standards which said only new plants have to put in scrubbers. We have a new thing which says only new houses pay a higher property tax. People don't sell their houses. another example of anticipated distortion that comes from systems like this. But it turns out to be hard. So in Massachusetts we have Proposition two and a half. But in the law there's the ability of towns to have override votes. So towns can have specific votes to say this year we're going to raise our property taxes extra to fund X. Why does that work? Those pass more than they fail. So even though Massachusetts has kept Proposition two and a half because they make the they make it at every vote about a specific tax benefit linkage. So if California I would argue could prove [snorts] that we promise every dollar of higher tax will go to bed education they probably could change their system. But it's hard to prove that in Lexington what we do is we have relatively modest increases for specific projects like to fix this high school to fix this building. So you maximize tax benefit linkages and that's how you get around the law. It's hard to get around, but just vaguely we should increase tax and make education better is hard. It's hard to prove and hard for people to uh to accept. All right, other it's a good question. Other questions? Okay, I like chapter 10 a lot because once again like chapter 8 on costbenefit analysis seems like it's getting kind of boring going in actually ends up being pretty interesting. Okay, I want to chapter 11 has a lot in it. So I want to get started on chapter 11 for five minutes. So let's take your chapter 11 handout um uh which is the other handout you have and let's talk a little bit about education in the US. Education is the single largest expenditure for state and local governments. Onethird of all of our state and local budgets go to education. Yet our education system is not very good. Okay. If you look at table figure 111, this shows education spending and test scores on an inter internationally comparable eighth grade math test. What you'll notice is first of all, the US spends the most and does the worst. Okay? Second of all, there's a remarkably low correlation between the blue bars and the orange bars. There's a remarkably low correlation between who spends the most and who does the best. Okay? So this is I said we'd assume in the example a few minutes ago that more education spending meant better outcomes. This doesn't look like it. Okay? It certainly doesn't look like more education spending deliver better outcomes. There's no correlation between the blue bars and the orange bars. And that's why we raised this question of is the government getting it wrong with education and so education spending. So what I want to start with be the last five minutes I want to ask let's step back and ask the first question in public finance why is the government even in education why don't we just have a system where everybody pays for their own education you could take out a loan from the bank and pay for your own education why don't we have private schools everybody paying for their own education why not what are the market failures in that system so the private market system we literally there's no public involvement education literally We just have everyone financing their own private education. What would be wrong with that, Nick? >> Externals of what type? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, basically there's two types of externalities. One is sort of fiscal externalities, which is you pay higher taxes and that benefits all of us if you have better education. But more generally, we think that like citizenship, the basic tenants of what it means to be a citizen in the US, what it means to be a resident in the US are things we fundamentally want people to know. Remember, your vote affects me. I want you to know enough to cast a vote that's informed. Okay? There's a basic set of things that we want citizens to know. Now, that so that's one one benefit. Another externality benefit is things like uh reduce crime. Okay, we don't want people to be committing crimes that affects all of us. The problem with those arguments is those are pretty compelling arguments for elementary school, middle school, maybe even high school. It's a little hard to justify like AP classes, like you know, I'd be a criminal if I hadn't taken AP chemistry. You know it's a little hard to justify a lot of we spend money education with those alone. So what else? Yeah. >> Productivity writ large. Okay. But should under what condition should we care? Under what condition should that cause us to want a publicly financed education or in which case should it not want us to? You can answer that a different question. Different comment. Well, no. I I want to answer this question right now. Why why might she be wrong? Why might the fact Yeah. >> Yeah. Remember, it has to be an externality. Now, obviously, you can't because you pay taxes. But beyond that, the question is if I literally if does Elon Musk generate more utility for the world that he captured himself in his private wealth despite it maybe now not so much anymore, but five years ago, I would say yes. Elon Musk is worth hundred billion dollars. the world is more than hundred billion dollars better off because of Tesla and SpaceX and stuff. Okay, so basically the extent that we create benefits above and beyond the wages we get, that's another argument. Okay, other other um other arguments. Let me just actually we're out of time. Let me just hit the other two and then we can go. The first argument is I said that like you know highle high school and college can't be justified by the stuff Eno mentioned. But what about the fact that folks need to who want to go to that might not have the money to. Now the classic answer is well they'll just borrow from a bank. The problem is they can't because you can't borrow money from a bank without collateral. Okay? When I buy a house I take a mortgage. The bank gives me a mortgage because they know they can take my house if I don't pay. If I take a loan from my education, don't pay, they can't take me. They can harass me on the phone, but ultimately there's no collateral. So banks are not willing to loan for things like education because they're not sure they can get their money back or they'll charge very high interest rates. These types of credit market failures are reasons why we might care about education. So even absent all the other things, people just can't carry out their plans. We don't want to screw and more generally failures to family ma maximize family utility. Do we really want to screw the ambitious kid with loser parents who's not willing to invest in them? No. We want what's best for society. And so once again, that's another reason why the private market might not deliver. And then finally, we have redistribution. That a great way to distribution society is to actually bring is to give everyone a basic set of skills. Remember in 1401, we talked about arguments for redistribution. And even conservatives agreed that we should at least give everyone an equal playing field and then we should let the dice roll. But we at least want everyone to have an equal playing field. That's an argument for public education's redistribution as making sure everybody sort of has a level playing field to start.