last time. One of the things we we did were we proved two mean value inequalities. So we proved two mean value inequality and let me call those And the first one was that. So if you had a function f on some interval from a to b into r and this function uh f is differentiable. Then it said that there exist some x0 with uh x0 between strictly between a and b. So that the derivative at x0 is equal to uh the average of the function or the average of the function at the end points. So this is the average on the end points divide. So it's it's average over the length of the interval. So so this is what the mean value theorem said. And then there was a second mean value theorem and that was the cush mean value theorem. So the cushy bean museum and that was where you had two functions f and g on this interval into r and they are both assumed to be And then again it was that there exist some x0 strictly between uh a and b. And uh if you take the derivative uh at x0 of f times the value uh the difference in value of G at the end points. Then this is equal to the derivative of G at X0 times the difference in value of F at the end points. Right? So that was the Kushim man theorem. So it was a little bit more complicated than the actual minium because you had two functions at the same time and the point here was that you could arrange this x0 to work for both points for both functions. Let me just make an observation that if um so if we're looking at so so so right so the cushim seems like a more elaborate version of the mean value theorem and it really is because if you if you suppose that g here was the function uh that is equal to x. So g of x is equal to x. I have f here on the integral from a to b. This is again differentiable. Well, if the other function was just this sort of rather trivial function G, of course, G is also differentiable and we even know that the derivative of G at all points is one, right? So if you are now applying the cushy mean then it say that by the cushy mean right? there exist some x0 with uh x0 strictly between a and b and so that the derivative of f so that's whatever that is that's the derivative of f at x0 the value of g at these two end points where g is just a function x so this is just b minus a and the derivative of g is one h and then it's the difference in value of f at the end point right and so now if you just divide by b minus a so this of course imply that frime of x0 is equal to f of b minus f of a divided by b minus a. So in other words and so you see this here gives you uh this here gives you this the more standard mean value inequalities. So in other words, the cushive mean man theorem is more general than the than than this mean value inequality, right? Because you recover this if you just let one of the two functions be just a trivial function x, right? Um okay, so that was just an observation. The second thing I want to talk about uh is something we didn't get to uh last time and this is uh this is this uh op uh rule and I'm just going to state one version of it. There are two versions and they're both in the notes but I will just state one of them. Uh and so this is so you have so the situation here is that you have two function uh f and g uh and they are defined on some interval say from a to b into r uh uh the interval does not include the end point. Okay, so these are differentiable. Uh and then we assume that uh the limit here we assume that g sorry uh of x is uh and not only g of x but also g prime of x are not equal to zero for all x. And then we assume that the limit here of g of x as x goes to a that this here is zero. And the same hold for the function uh f. So let's here and then what you're interested in is what you're interested in is that you're interested in looking at uh f ofx divided by g of x. Right? So this here makes sense. g doesn't vanish. So this here makes sense. And you are interested in looking at this fraction here as x go to a right. If x go to a then the denominator go to zero and the nominator also go to zero right and the question is does it has have a limit or not right and so there's one more assumption here that you need and that is that um that if you're looking at the Assume also that uh that's the limit here uh as x go to a of frime of x / g prime assume that this here exist and is equal to some l. Okay. And then the claim is that then so the claim here is that the this fraction here f ofx / g of x that this does have a limit as x go to a and that limit is is actually l. So this is uh this is one version of of of of this rule. Okay. And there's a there's another one very similar. Okay. And so so we want to prove this. So uh we looking at so so we have we want to uh apply the Kushim mean value theorem to to prove this theorem and so we're looking at a interval here. Uh so you're looking at at uh say y. So here you have a here you have uh x and then here you have y and here you have b right and I'm now going to apply so we will apply the so apply the kushimi value But we are applying it on on this interval here between uh so so y here is less than x but it's strictly bigger than a and this is x is strictly less than than x right so the function was differentiable on this open interval. So of course it's differentiable or both functions are differentiable on this closed interval. So we can apply it and so we get that uh fprime at some intermediate point uh x0 uh times uh g of uh uh x minus g of y. This is equal to g prime again x0 here is like is some intermediate point in lie between these two uh g prime at x0 times uh f of x minus g of x g of y sorry like that right this is just uh applying the cushy mean value >> Uh what what did you say? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry about that. Thanks. Yeah. Thank you. Right. And so now I just divide. Of course, this here is supposed to be uh non zero. So I can just divide. Um so so we have that uh that fprime of x0 divided by uh by g prime of x0 and then I will I want to divide by this but I just need to make sure that this here is um is um that I can divide by right that it's not zero this thing here. So I have this now think about X is being fixed and do this for all Y. Right? If I do this, if I do this for y where y is very very close to a, this here becomes really really close to zero. Right? This here is fixed and it's it's not equal to zero. Right? So this here is very close to zero. This is not equal to zero. So this here if y is really close if x is fixed y is really close to a. This is definitely not zero. Right? So I can divide by it right. So for for x fixed and y sufficiently close close to zero. then you have then uh then g of x minus g of y is not equal to zero. Right? And so I can so I get that uh fprime at this intermediate point divided by g prime at the same intermediate point is equal to f ofx - f of y / g of x minus g of y and now you see that as y here goes to zero right so x is fixed still as y goes to sorry not to zero But to a this here goes to zero by assumption. This here goes to zero. So the whole thing goes to f ofx divided by g of x. Right? Now the thing is that if you so this is for all x fixed Right. So now if you if you So now we want to use So now you since uh fprime at at say set divided by g prime at set since this fraction here as set go to a this is assumed to go to l right. So this means that that uh given given epsilon greater than zero there exist a delta greater than zero. So that if uh if if um set here is uh is less than a plus delta then this fraction here then f prime of set minus g prime of set is minus l is less than epsilon. Right? So now coming back here if you were starting with so this here again was for all fixed x right uh you had this statement right and again uh x0 was between y and x right so now if you so if if this x here If x is is delta close to the left end point of the interval, right? Then you would have that x0, right? But x0 remember that x0 is lying here, right? So since x0 would lie here, this means that also x0 here is uh white is is is uh in this interval here, right? And so this means that this thing this number here you get is is L with up to some you know it's it's L up to some error of like epsilon right so this here is almost equal to L and so this means that this limit here right is almost equal to L within a error of epsilon right okay so this proof this version of the rule and there's a second version and that's in the notes but uh I'll skip it actually for now just because you know there was sort of from the last lecture and it's very similar to this yeah >> sorry why Yeah. Okay. So this is because um g of x is for is supposed to be not equal to x for all x. Right? And now I'm fixing x. Okay? So this here is non zero. Then I'm letting y go to a but then this here goes to zero by assumption. Right? So you see that if you're fixing X and you just take a Y sufficiently close to A, then this denominator is definitely not zero. Right? You really want to let this you want to let Y goes to A because then this here is eliminated, right? This is not part of the statement the G of Y, right? Okay. And so again, as long as we started with a x that was sufficiently close to if x was in this interval, then x0 is even further to the left. So this is also in this interval. We don't know exactly what x0 is, but it is in that interval. And so this means that this is strictly smaller than epsilon. Okay. So, another thing we talked about last time was this with the tail expansion. Uh, and right and that all of these things really came out of this uh bodice theorem uh and and and that was also the case for the tail expansion. So, you have a function f. So this is just to remind you about the tail expansion. So you have a function uh f and let's say that is defined on some interval here into r and the function is so f here is uh k times differentiable So this means that that fprime exist fprime up to the k derivative right. So they all exist. Uh and then the statement was so then you looked at the k minus one this is the k minus one tail polomium and uh and it was given by that k minus one of x is equal to and now you're summing here from i =0 to k minus one and you take the i derivative this is sorry this is the i derivative uh of f and you do this in a and you divide by a factorial and then you're looking at uh at x - a to the power i right So this was this was the k minus one tail and then uh the tail expansion tail expansion just told you that uh that um that uh f here at some x was equal to uh p k minus one it's tail up polinomial plus and then this is what is usually referred to as a remainder term and this was uh the this looked very similar to one of these terms. It was the k derivative of f but then it was evaluated at a point c uh divided by k factorial time uh time um x minus uh a to the power k and c here was supposed to lie between a and X. Okay. So that was the this was the this is the tail expansion theorem right and and so the thing is that so why is this so useful and it is extremely useful uh in many different settings also in much more general settings than what I'm describing here and that is because that if you take a function here then um and it may be a very complicated function but this tail expansion theorem tells you that it is it is close to if you want to evaluate it at some X you can evaluate the tail polinom that's after all just a polinomial so that's easy to evaluate and then you get within this remainder term of the right answer okay so that's how it always is used and so the question is now the natural question is how well does the tail polomial uh approximate the value of the given function. Right? So, so how well does the tail upon the the function. Okay. and and of course to to um to understand that you need to estimate the remainder term. Let me write the remainder term here. So this the remainder term um right so the remainder term is um so I write this here as uh so it really depends on on on x also right but I would just write it like this thing here so by this I mean the k derivative of f in c divided by k factorial and then x minus a to the power k. So again it depends on really also on it. Of course it depend on a but it also depends on x right and it's this thing here. The thing the the catch here is that you don't really know what c is right the only thing you know about c is that c is lying between uh a and x. So this is essentially all you need, all you know about C. Okay. So now let's look at some examples. Let's look at two examples. So the the first one is like a promising example and the second one is much less promising. Uh and so uh but and so the thing is that that how well it approximate really depends on the function. Okay. But the first one is is quite typical though example. So suppose that the function f ofx is the exponential function. Um and then we have that the derivative is just the exponential function itself. So this means that if you take the derivative k times then you just get the function itself. So this means that the k minus one this means that a k minus one tail polinomial right this is just the value of the function I'll just write it out here so this is the value and now I do it uh I do it for a equal to uh zero and I'm assuming that b here so I'm thinking about I will think about this function here f ofx uh on on the this function the exponential function I'm going to sing about it on the interval say from uh minus1 to one um um into r maybe maybe I will maybe I'll just take it from zero to one into r Um okay so the and the tail polinomial so I'm going to so so so the tailum one also talk about that this tail polinomium is expanded around a okay so we talk about that the tail polom so we talk about tail expansion around uh A. Okay. And this just refer to that when when you plug in A here, well then of course you have exact equality, right? And that all of the derivative are evaluated at A. Okay? So it's really like the tail polom. It's only a good approximation near A. Right? So I want now to tail expand uh near uh the zero and so um so right so the value here of the function is one at zero the derivative is right so it's the derivative is also one because it's just a function itself and so this is so you get x and then you get the next Uh the next uh element in the tail expansion is x^2 / 2 + x^2 over 3 factorial and then uh x 4 over 4 factorial etc up to x ^ k minus one over u uh k minus one factorial right so this is the a tail expansion or take k minus one tail polomial uh around zero. Okay. And so now if you're interested in evaluating p you want to say how well does this here approximate uh the original function the exponential function. So you want to bound this thing here right? So you want to have a bound for that. Well the thing again is that f ofx you know that f ofx is equal to this tail polomial and then plus this remainder term right in the c right now c again has to lie will c will lie between a and x. In this case a is zero. So it means that c here. So this means that here here c here is between zero and x. Right? And the remainder term here this here was was equal to that you took the k derivative of the function. So in this case the k derivative of the function is the function itself. So this here is the value of the k derivative and this is uh at c this is the k derivative of the original function and then you have to divide by a k factorial and then it's x to the power uh k like that right and so you see that if if x here is now between zero and one. This means that this thing here, this remainder term here, the absolute value is so c here is less than one. So this means that this thing here is less than e. So it's less or equal to e divided by k factorial. This here is bounded by since x is bounded by one, this is bounded by one. So you're getting this inequality here, right? And so you see that if K is is very large, this is a tiny number, right? So it's a really good approximation. I mean, you don't even need to make K very large because it's exponential, right? Not exponential, it's factorial. Yeah. Right. Okay. So that's a kind of encouraging example. Let's say that the the tail expansion uh is is a very in this case is a very good approximation to the function. Uh the another example that is less encouraging and so again the moral is that how well the tail expansion approximate the function depend on the function. So suppose that the function here was uh was a function that was zero here. When x is less than zero less or equal to zero and when x is bigger than zero then it is e to the minus 1 /x^2. Okay. So you see that when x becomes very very small you are looking at one over this squared. So this here is huge right but now it's with a minus sign. So this means that this thing here is incredibly small right and so it's clearly it's clear that this function here is continuous at zero. It's clearly continuous everywhere else. But actually it's you know sort of using in this sort of argument it's easy to see that this function f here is uh infinite differentiable. So it's you can differentiate it infinitely many times and even at zero. Okay. and and by it and of course the derivative uh the derivative is right so it's an example of a function that looks like this is zero until zero and then it goes up like this right and so the derivative at zero is zero any derivative however many times you take the derivative of this function sorry this thing here if you take any derivative and you evaluate at zero, you always get zero, right? So, so this means that if you're looking at the tail expansion at zero, so you're looking at this k minus one tailor polomial. This polomial is all of the coefficient in the polinomial are zero right. So this polinomial is just zero. So this means that if you're looking at f ofx well f of x is actually equal to this remainder term right. So it's somehow you know the teleport number is like too trivial. It doesn't really help you all that much. Right? So it's equal to this remainder term. Yeah. >> Is there a way of um so like the remainder like bounding this helps us figure out how well the expansion approximates the actual function. Is there a way to determine like how far from the point you're approximating like a or zero in this case you can go a >> Yeah. by it. That's right. I mean, so you're asking, right? So you're asking suppose and you definitely could do this, right? You you asking you you you're thinking that you have you have a you you you're thinking a slightly different situation than here but closely related that you have some a here and you have a function f and and you want to and you are willing to maybe uh look at you're willing to take some fixed large k and then you're asking um what I'm interested in how well does this how well does this function this polomial approximate this but I want it within an error certain area right so it's a given epsilon and you're interested in how far away can you go from a so that this here is less than epsilon and so this is so so this becomes a question of this remainder term, right? So this becomes a question of this remainder term. When can you always say that this remainder term is less than epsilon and so like in this particular you would have to do it on a casebyase basis. Uh but in this particular case the remainder term is right if this interval here in the in that example over there if if you if you have here zero this was a in our example and then you want to go out here to some x and now you know that c here is between zero and x but you don't really know anything else right so then it's like this remainder term you will have this remainder term in this example uh at this c here this again was equal to this thing here over k factorial and so you would have that you would want this thing here r k you would want this to be less than epsilon and so you would have that this thing here the the only the only thing you can really do is that you can say that C is less or equal to to X for C. >> Yeah, that's right. But that no so so you would do so what you would do here is you would say R K C this here has to be bounded by by because XC is less than X. So this is E to the X you have to eliminate C. So, so, so you would do like this k factorial * x ^ k you have to eliminate uh c right because you don't know anything really about c and so this here now has to be less than epsilon so now you only have you know you have fixed your k and so now you only have one variable and you can solve that but you you you really have to eliminate change yeah uh Okay. Uh so so so again so so the how well the tail expansion approximate depends on the function. Okay. The next topic is another important topic and so this is uh integrals and there are different ways of of um defining integrals. This here is um this here is certainly one of the maybe the most natural one. Uh and so this is what's called reman. So it's after German mathematicians reman uh integrals. And so the thing is that here now you look at a function you have a function on some interval from a to b into r and this function f here is um is bounded and the idea is so the idea is for integrals is that so you have a function function and you want to be able to define. So define uh area below graph. So so if this is a function you want to be able to calculate what is this area. Okay. Now, if the function was to if the function was to have crossed um the x-axis, then this area here would count negatively and this area here would count positively. Anyway, so this is this is what you want to do and and you always starting with a bounded function. Now, to do that, right? And so so you want to define that the only thing that you know for sure is so so there's only like one ingredient you have. So, so only only thing uh no you know at the outset. So the only thing you know is that if you take a right angle so if this length here is um uh is let's call it D and this here is E right then you know that the area here so area is D * E right okay that's that's the only thing we have so Now how do we define the the area below the graph? And to do that we first need to talk about partitions. So partition. So suppose I have a interval here. A and b are real numbers. So I have an interval here. Then I talk about a partition and and it's useful to have a notation for a partition. So I call it P of of this interval here. This is finite is finally many many dividing points and the dividing points always have to start at A and end at B. So you have finally many let's say k many and you're looking at okay take I'll write it k + one many. So uh the first one has to be a and then you have uh x1 up to the last one and that has to be b. Okay. And so so what you're thinking about is so you have this interval here from a to b and you have these dividing points and you are thinking about dividing the the original interval into these sub intervals. Right? So these are the sub intervals. Right? So you divide the original interval into sub intervals and the sub intervals are I'll do it like this. I will do it the where I take from it's always from you know one to the next and I will write it typically where I'm starting where I'm ending at I and beginning at I minus one. So right so I'm dividing it into these sub intervals and so in this case here in this case here where this is x0 uh there's going to be uh k uh sub intervals okay and it's you know you only always go from one to the next right so so that's a partition and now we need a second notion related to this and this is a sub partition. So subartetition subartetition this is also sometime called uh sometimes called uh refinement. So a sub partition is so if you have a partition so P1 is a partition and then P2 is a sub partition of If if P2 has all the dividing points of P1 and then some and then some I mean it right right I mean of course it could be a trivial sub partition where P1 and P2 are the same. That's okay. But in general, it would have some more points also, some more dividing points. Okay. Now, um, right. So, now let me look at uh, so what is then? So, so now let's try to get closer to try to define this with the area below the graph. Okay. So again we have we have a function f from a to b into r. We assume that this is so uh that is bounded. We have P here is a partition of of this interval here. Then we defined a upper and a lower sum. Then we define upper and lower sums. as follows right so again you have a given function that is bounded and you have a partition and so we define upper and lower sums and the upper and lower sum I will denote like this it depends on the function of course and then on the partition that's a upper sum and the lower sum similar I would denote like this and so how are these defined? So they are defined as follow that you have here you have your interval from a to b. Then you have this here is x0 here I have x1 and here I have maybe x2 and then this thing here is then x3. So I take uh I look at one of these intervals or it could be this one here. that's between in this case it would be between uh x1 and x2 and I would look at the function in this interval here and I would so the contribution from this here would be that I would take so for the upper for the upper sum with respect to this partition the one that comes from this sub interval here would be um would be uh the soup of f on this sub interval here. So the soup of the function times the length of the interval like that. So this would be the value that in the upper that would come uh in a minute I'll write it out more more clearly but this would be what is coming from here and likewise uh for the lower one um the contribution from this little interval here would be the in of f and then times and The idea right is okay. So that would be the contribution. Um the idea of course is that you have but the only thing we knew was this with the area of a right angle. Right? And so you have this function here and you have some little interval here between x i and x i - uh sorry x i - one and x i right and you're focusing on this little interval here and you're looking at the function the function was bounded so there is a soup on this and you try to look at the smallest red angle angle that kind of have the graph that fits where the graph fits inside that right and then you're looking at so this this is the contribution from this little interval to P to to the upper sum and then you have right that you're looking at the largest right angle like this that fits under the graph and that's then contribution to the lower one. Right? And the idea is that if the function is reasonable, if you're looking at finer and finer partition, then you should you should certainly get a better a better approximation to the area below the graph, right? I mean, and and and if the function is reasonable, these two Okay, so now what is then the uh let me just define this. So this thing here it would be convenient to to the length of this interval to denote it by by this. So this is x i x i minus one. This just the length of that interval. Okay. And so now written out this thing and okay let me make one other notation. MI is the soup of f on x i minus one x i that's m capital mi and little mi is then the in on the same interval like that. And so the upper sum for this partition this is the sum from i = uh one to k of m i * delta xi. That's the upper sum. And the lower sum is then the sum from i = 1 to k of mi delta xi. Okay. So that's the upper and the lower sum. Okay. The first thing you observe is the first thing you observe is is a trivial fact and it's you know that really should be the case because one is like what fits inside the graph uh below the graph the other is you know where the graph fits below the right angle. So you clearly have just be and this is just because this number here is the in this is the soup on the same interval. So you clearly have that uh L F is less or equal to U FP. Right? So this is so this is clear. Right? Okay. Let's look at uh let's look at an a couple of examples. So just to make sure that this is totally clear uh let me look at a couple example. So uh the um the first example is so I take a function f ofx = 2x^2 + 1 and my partition and the interval here I'm going to think about this as a function on minus2 two to two into R. And my partition here is going to be min -2 -1 0 1 and two um and um right and so you have so let's see so this so this here so if I draw the function then this is looks like if this here is one uh here you have one then it looks sort of like this. Uh doesn't more or less like this. Okay. And so this means that here and here you have two uh and this here is minus one um and um and uh and here you have uh minus two. So now if you're looking at so that the um right so so this means here that so this is my partition so this means that x0 is uh equal to minus2 x1 that's the next one is minus one x3 is the next one that's zero x4 is uh one and x5 y is two, right? And so of course all of these intervals here, right? They all have the same length in this case. So x i - x i -1. This was what we call delta x i. This here is for each of these is equal to one. And now we have that the and we have that the when you're looking between minus2 and two and sorry minus2 and minus one. So on this interval here um the function is the function on this interval here is decreasing. So the largest value is achieved at this point here. Right? Uh so uh m M1 this is the same as a soup of f between uh x0 and x1. And so this is the same as the soup of minus2 to minus1 right of f and the function was decreasing so the li on this interval so the largest value is achieved here and that's five right so this would be five and uh on the second interval here right so this is between minus1 and zero still decreasing So the value is the largest value is here where it's two. So this here is is two and m3 this is now uh between zero and one. So now it's increasing. So the large value is over here. So that's again two. And then the last one is is is again five. Right? And then likewise for the the the ones that are the info. So the first one m1 well the function was decreasing. So the smallest value is over at this end point there. The value is true. So you're getting uh this here is is two. And then between between minus1 and zero it's still decreasing. So there the smallest is at this point where it's one. So this is m2 and then m3 this is now here the function is increasing. So it's still the value here. So it's still one. And then the last one um is between one and two and there it's the infreom is the value here. So that's two right and so you see that in this case the upper for this function uh for this partition it's this right all of the intervals have length these small interval have length one so it's just the sum of these guys right so this is just equal to five if you will it's 5 * 1 that was length of the interval plus 2 * 1 + uh 2 * 1 + 5 * 1. So in other words, you get here 14. And for the lower ones, it's again this time I want rise times one. It's a sum of those guys and that's actually six, right? So So that's upper and lower sum. Okay. Now, uh and we had we had one um one observation that was a an immediate observation and that was uh this thing here. Now, what is useful is that you starting with a partition and then you you have a subartition. So the next one is so I take a function f on some interval from a to b and this function here is bounded and then I have p is a partition p1 say is a partition and then p2 is a sub partition. of P1. And now the thing that is uh useful is the following. that. So, so the following claim, the following leham that if you take a sub partition then I claim that the value of the upper sum go down and the value of the lower go up. So this is the following. So uh so lower of f * p1. This is less or equal to the lower of f of p2. We already proved that this thing here, this one here, this this inequality we haven't proved yet. But this one here, we have that this is less than than the upper one for the same partition. And the second claim is that this here is then less than the upper one for the first. Okay. Now why is this the case? This is also actually a trivial statement but it's very useful statement. So imagine that you have your partition P1 here and then you have the dividing points I minus one and here you have I right and P2 is a sub partition. So there may be intervals like this where there are no further dividing points right but in that case the what you the contribution that for the lower and upper is the same for the two partitions right but should there be one or more let's just say there's one right then for the upper one you would look at you would then get so you would get a a a new dividing point. Let's call it y. And then you would get for the new one, you would have you would look at the soup here on this interval here, right? But the soup on this interval here of the function is less than the soup on the larger interval. So you would get a soup of f on the interval from i -1 to y of f you get that and then you would get times the length of the interval that's y - x i -1 and then you would get a second soup but this is now from from y to x I of f and then you would have multiple by the length of this interval. So this is this here is then from x i to y. Okay. So this is this is what you get from the new petition. the contribution from the from the second from the this is what this is the contribution that you get from the upper sum for this partition P2 from this part right but now you see that this thing here the soup over this little interval well that of course is less than the soup over the larger interval so This is less than m i and I just keep this one here and this one here is also a sub interval of this larger interval. So this is less than m i again time x i - x y. But now you can factor out the mi. So you're getting MI and you're getting the sum of these two Y - X I - one + uh X I - Y. And so you see that this here is exactly MI * X I - X I - one. Right? And so you see that the contribution that we get here to the upper sum from this part here that was this and this those two things this is less than the contribution we get from the upper sum from the first partition. Right? And so this prove this proves this inequality here and this inequality is just similar. It's just with the instead of the soups. Okay. So this is this is a this is like a key point. It's a you know each of these steps is like completely trivial. Uh but together it it actually means that you can really define something non-trivial. Okay. So now um and this may seem cheating. Now we uh well first of all we define the upper and lower integrals. So we have upper and lower sum and now we define the upper and lower intervals. So our and lower instruments. Okay. Um so the upper lower integral so the upper here is denoted like this. We take a bar over this and this is the upper lower integral. So this is the integral. This is the function. And then you write this. And so this is simply defined to be the info over all partitions of the upper integral upper sum. Sorry. Right. And so remember again that if you take a partition and you refined it, if you're looking at a subartition of the given partition, then this number here goes down, right? I mean it may stay the same, but it's certainly not bigger, right? So so this is so so the idea here is that essentially this number here you get by looking at finer and finer partition, right? So idea is that uh the infirmum uh that this is that this is a limit over finer and final partition. Right? So that's the idea sort of the the but the precise statement is is is that it's just the info right. So this is the upper integral and then likewise we define the lower integral >> asset many obviously >> right there it's it's not you know but there is a a key assumption is that we that for each partitions there are only finitely many divisions but there's not a but it's but but there are infinite many partitions. So it's really and so so when I say that it's a limit over uh finer and finer partitions you should really think about that in sort of quotation mark this not very precise statements okay so but the precise statement is just that it's infome all partitions and so so I mean you can make that precise but then that require a lot of stuff uh that we don't want to do here. Uh and there's no reason to it because there's a perfectly reasonable way of defining it. And so that was the upper integral. So this is the upper integral. And then similarly the lower integral the lower integral. And there I'm just putting the bar below. And you refine it like this. And this is now the soup, right? Because remember that if you took a partition and then you take a sub partition, then this lower sum actually went up. So it's a soup of all partitions of these lower Okay. Right. And so now we say that uh and then we say that so now here's the the definition. And again this may initially seem like kind of we are uh wimping out uh because but but but it but in a minute we will then determine when this is the case. So we define so so f here. So if you have a bounded function like this that uh f is reman integral. So if uh if the lower sum is equal to the upper sum. So if this has the case um and and uh and and in that case and then the reman integral is this this common uh so the reman is written like And this is just this this common value. Now, uh one thing I just want to remark um is that that we have you always have That's the so one remark is that so so note that so first of all we had this trivial statement that if you take a partition then the lower sum is less or equal to the upper sum Fine. Then we had that if you took a sub partition, if this here was a sub partition of P1. Then this lower sum here under a sub partition, the lower sum went up, but it's still staying below So you have this inequality here. Okay. Now what what is this useful form? So as a consequence of this we get that the you know whether or not the function is rem integral you always have that the lower integral here of f dx is less or equal to the upper integral. So this here is for all functions. And why is this the case? This is because if you take this here is the soup of these lower partitions, right? But if you take any given partition, then this lower thing here is less than than the upper one, right? And so now so now imagine that you take so if you take a lower partition right suppose sorry suppose now that you take the soup over all partitions then it means that there is one partition so that this value here is close to the soup. But uh but for this one here right you have this inequality here right and so in fact but in fact if you take any so any other partition you can think about maybe I'll explain this more detail next time because I only have a minute but but it basically come from this inequality here is coming from from from uh from this this inequality here it will take just a few minutes to explain it clearly. So maybe I'll just leave it here. But but but a key point here is that you have this inequality here and it comes from that and but but we return to that next time because it's to make it really clear it it would take a few minutes. Now the last thing I want to say in the is that so this so you may think that we sort of whimped out of saying when this uh right because we just define it we just say that it's reman integraable if if uh those two things are equal right and so but then the question of course become when are those two things equal right so that's the key question so the key question is when are they equal? And and we'll answer this next time. Um where we will show that if f is continuous then then they are equal. Okay. And so uh so anyways I'll return to this. I will first um um you know we need anyway some more information about this upper and lower integral and I will first show why the lower one is less or equal to the lower one is lesser equal to the upper one always and then we will talk about you know some criteria for when they are equal and then we will prove this for continuous functions >> is that only >> no no no it's not it's not it's Not it's um it's uh yeah it's not a total answer. It's it's a it's a good initial answer but there are many functions that are not continuous that are very worth you know that plays in key roles and they're still um and we will also look at an example it's in the notes but I didn't get to it. we look at an example of a function that is u that is not where where you don't have this equality and this is like an old