Okay. So, this is this is our last class before spring break. This is sort of like the halfway mark of the of the semester. Um, in the beginning of it, I'm going to continue with some product theory. Um, and uh try to get to a good a good place with it. Um but then in the second half I wanted to kind of check in with everybody about some possible directions for the second half of the class. Um okay so in in some product theory last time we introduced some fundamental tools from additive combinotaurics the like plunka inequality and ra inequality and so on and the the theme of today is like practicing using those inequalities. So let's call this Lica Raa toolbox. All right. Um so these are all inequalities that connect sums and diff different combinations of sums and differences. So there's the ruer triangle inequality and it says that a * b minus c is bounded by a minus b * a minus c or if you you can replace blast and cruise by negative themselves. So you could say this okay's inequality says that um if a + b is at most k * a Then B added to it to itself M * minus B added to itself N times is bounded by K to the M + N. And the main lema inside the proof of Plunicus inequality is also useful. that says um that there exists so that we have the same. If if then there exists a subset in A which sort of has the subset that has the additive structure that causes this to happen. So that for any set C, X + C + B, this over X + C is also at most. Okay, cool. So one of our goals today is to practice using this toolbox. Um I was reflecting a little bit on where these come from. Um and I think high level point of view of where these come from is that if if say this set is small then there are a lot of coincidences where a1 plus b1 is the same as a2 plus b2 and um by kind of rearranging those coincidences can see that there are also a lot of coincidences over there. That's the um uh rough uh reason for these things. Okay. Now, I made a small mistake last time, so I'm going to begin by correcting it. Thanks for the person who pointed it out to me. Um and correcting it is not a bad thing. It's it's already a good opportunity to practice these things. Okay, so LMA one from last time was stated not quite right. It should have said if A is in Z mod P. So this is let's say let's call this corrections. Um then either a minus a over a minus a is everything or um some kind of big mess with a lot of addition and multiplication and subtraction of a's is a lot bigger than a okay but the big mess uh actually should look like this. So you have a * a. You add that to itself a bunch of times. You also subtract that from itself a bunch of times. This is what we had last time. But I also need to divide by a minus a, which I left out last time. Okay. So the second possibility is if you make this giant mess, it's significantly bigger than a. Okay. Um the proof of this is very clean. Um so the point is that if a minus a over a minus a is not everything then you can find some b in a minus a over a minus a so that b + one is not a minus a minus a. Okay. And then we can say that a squared is at most a + ba because if you had any coincidences in that sum, it would cause b to be written uh sorry b + one. If we had any coincidences in this sum, you could solve for b + one and you would be able to write it in this way. Okay. But b by hypothesis can be written this way. So now we have a plus a minus a over a minus a + one * a. This is less than or equal to the size of this thing. Okay. And then now you just expand out this thing. And if you just expand it out you get this. Um, now what I did wrong before is I said we can like sort of multiply by a minus a and and like move it. Um, that's that's not right. I just want to do something very simple. You just this is a set of a1 + a2 - a3 over a4 - a5 + 1 * a6. That's just what this means. And then take this thing and put it over a common denominator and expand it out. And all those things you can write this way. Okay. It's always good not to trust me too much, but does it does it look okay to people? All right. Um, cool. So then I had a lema two from last time, which was true, but the uh because it depended on lema one, I'm going to have to make it a little bit weaker. Um and it says that if a is in zp and the size of a is p to the s z less than s less than one then um can have a cubed minus a cubed should be at least p to the s plus a little So last time we had a^2 minus a^2 but but that was based on having this nicer thing over here. The proof of this is an excellent example of practicing using plunic and ruse inequalities. And what we're going to do is we're going to suppose that this is not true. So this thing is quite small. And then we'll keep using Pluna inversion. We'll see like many other things are small and eventually we'll see that this thing is small uh and this thing is small uh and which is impossible by lema one. Okay. So let's start with a remark. Um all right. So that we have that that messy thing a^ 2 + 3 - a^ 2 + 3. Let's call this b. A minus a call it c. And so lema 1 tells us that the size of b / c is at least p to the s plus a little bit. why? Um well uh this this B over C it contains just A minus A over A minus A. So one possibility is it has the full size P. And then that would be good. That's a little bigger than P to the S. And the other possibility is that it's at least a squ. So then it's at least P to the 2s. And again that's that's good. Okay, so this guy is actually pretty big and we're going to to we're going to say if we suppose that this is small then more and more things will be small and eventually this will be small and have a contradiction. Okay, so we'll do a proof by contradiction. All right, let me just say a cub minus a cubed is less than k* a. And we're going to see that try to prove that k is big. All right. So this has a couple of easy corlaries. One is that a cubed itself is bounded by k * a. And another thing is that a cub minus a cubed is bounded by k * a cubed. So I can now plug this one into plumacus inequality into into yeah inequality. Once this one difference is small then I could add up many copies of a cubed and that would be also small. So this inequality says that I can take a cub to one big power minus a cubed to some other big power and that will be bounded by k + n * a cubed but a cubed by hypothesis is basically n. So this is k + n + 1. So all of these guys are okay. Now what about um so um that covers B. So B is certainly small but um we need to think about B divided by C. Um yeah so B divided by C is not quite obvious how it fits in here. But if you take B and you multiply it by C then you'll get a sum of degree three things which will be part of this. So that tells us that B * C is small. and B * C and B divided by C are related to each other. We can I we can also say that a * b and a * c these will also be c. Okay. Um so then we can use ruse's inequality to relate b / c to these guys. And so could say a * b / c is smaller than uh a * b a * c. So this is the multiplicative version of uh the rusa inequality version two. So subtraction has been replaced by division and addition has been replaced by multiplication. Okay. And then this is bounded by k to the order of 1 * a^ 2 and cancel the a's and we get that uh so b over c on the one hand is big p to the s plus gamma it's bounded by b over c but on the other hand it's small and if you compare these you see that k needs to be at least a small power of p. Okay. Um and then our third lema uh was that if you if you take a subset a and you it starts off maybe small p to the s and you'd like to get take products and stuff and and you'd like to get up to something much bigger some p to the t then you can do that with a controlled number of additions and multiplications. Um, okay. So, here's what it says. So, the definition poly k of a is a take a product of k things take a sum of k of those and you can also subtract similar stuff. And then lema 3 says uh if 0 is less than s is less than t is less than one then there exists some k that only depends on s and t. So that um if A is a subset of FP of size P to the S um then the size of poly K of A is at least P to the T. So I sort of you start with a set A and you're allowed to add and multiply then in a controlled amount of time you can spread out to cover a very large chunk of FB. Okay. And the proof of this is just repeat lambda 2 many times. All right. So this is sort of where we left off last time with with this mistake about the denominators correct. Okay. Yeah. So um a takeaway that I have from the Rusa and Punicus inequality is that there's some kind of contagiousness of structure. So if if you see that one projection or few projections are very small um then it implies that some other projections are small or few if a few subsets are small it implies that other subsets are small. Um, so that that Okay, so let me spell that out. contagious structure. Okay. So, contagious structure lema one says that uh so Z isn't it? So, in in all of these things maybe I should say These are theorems that work in any aelion group. So Z is an aelion group and and and they have some of them have versions of nonabelian groups too that are not that different although we won't talk about that too but okay and we have some subsets of this group so same setting. So Z is a billion group. All right. So suppose that a + t1 * a is not too much bigger than a and also a + t2 * a is not that much bigger than a. And remember that these are this so this kind of thing is basic in some additive combinator some product theory but it also looks like a projection. We're taking the products at a cross a and we're projecting it in the t2 direction. Okay. So if we have these two small projections then if I project in the direction t1 plus t2 it's also small pretty actually let's do let's do t1 times t2 first because that's easier and this will be a nicer fixed. All right. So, there's the proof. Um All right. Um Okay. So, this this is uh actually let me also make all of these Yeah, let's also make all of these minus signs. Okay. So, a minus t1 a is quite small and a minus t2 a is quite small. I'm going to multiply this just by a constant t1. So, so this here it implies that t1 a minus t1 t2 a is quite small. Okay, Russa had this funny idea that to sort of think of the size of this as some kind of distance between A and T1 A. So A is kind of close to T1 A. And also T1 A is kind of close to T1 T2 A. And so something like the triangle inequality would tell us that A is close to T1 T2 A. And you you can really use the rera triangle inequality in this way. Okay. So the proof is by rera triangle inequality. Um and um so we have to decide who's a and who's b and who's c. And we want b minus c. We're going to try to bond b minus c. So this is going to be b minus c. Um so our um so our I'll call it b bar is a c bar is t1 t2 a and then a bar I guess must be t1 a okay so then the inequality says t1 a * a minus t1 t2 a bounded by um a bar minus b bar. So t1 a minus a time a bar minus c bar t1 a - t1 t2. Okay. So a * a minus t1 t2 a is bounded by these guys that are both small k and then that's it. I just divide by a. Okay. So if the d projection in the negative t1 direction and negative t2 directions are small and same for the negative t1 * t2 direction that's also small. All right. Um All right. Contagious structure lema 2. You can replace T by minus T. So if A + T A is less than or equal to K a then a minus T A is less than or equal to K. Yeah. So we saw this last time that if if a sum set is big then the different set should also be sorry if a sum set is small then the different set should also be pretty small and vice versa. Yeah. Okay. So this is also uh also pl so this is going to be a pluna inequality proof. So let's say that t a is b. So a plus b is pretty small. And then therefore we get that b minus b. No. Okay, let's try Ruse's inequality. So, I'll say this is B and this is C because I want to have that B minus C on the right hand side. And then uh uh M AI guess can be a A minus T I less than or equal to um and then let's use the second version. A + A A + T. So the so this one we know is small. Now we need to check that this one is small. Um and but by plunicus inequality starting here um a + a is less than a 2 a. So this is less than k. Okay. And now the most interesting and difficult of the contagious structure leas says that if a + t a is small a + t1 a is small and a + t2 a is small then a + t1 + t2 is small. This is the trickiest. So, I ended up needing the largest exponent. Okay. Um, all right. So, this is a very good exercise in combining these things. We're going to start with this and we're going to relate it to some sets that are sound even much bigger. Um, but then those sets we can easily chop through with these inequalities and get back to to a. Okay. So, a + t1 + t2 AI'm going to bound that. And this this looks quite wasteful by a plus t1 a plus t2 a. So this is quite wasteful because I'm allowed to have t1 * one guy plus t2 * the other guy. Here I only had t1 plus t2 times the same guy. But it's a true inequality. Uh, and it's helpful because we know something about adding T1A to somebody. And actually, the nicest thing we know about adding T1A comes from the main LMA. So here in the main lema, you know, we could have this B could be T1A. And then we'll have a very general thing about when you add B to somebody of this form. and it doesn't get very much bigger. So have the main lama. Uh and it tells us that there is subset x1 in a so that for every c x1 + c + t1 a is bounded by k * x1 + c. Whenever you see a sum like this, you can remove this plus T1A and it only slightly increases the size of the set or you can Yeah. Okay. And same for X2. Okay. Um, okay. So now we want to bound this thing and we could get rid of the T1 A and get rid of the T2A by by using this inequality if the rest of the stuff had the form X1 plus somebody or X2 plus somebody. We don't have an X1 plus somebody here and X2 plus somebody in here. So I'm just going to add them in, which again sounds extremely wasteful, but is actually okay. So a + t1 a + t2 a that is bounded by x1 + x2 + a + t1 a + t2. All right. So now this has the form x1 plus some stuff plus t1a. And I can get rid of the T1A by main lema one. So that's less than X1 less than I pick up a factor of K. X1 + X2 + A plus T2 A. And then this thing has X2 plus some stuff plus T2A. So I can get rid of the T2A by by main LMA one again. So this is less than k^2 x1 + x2 + a. Now x1 and x2 are subsets of a. So this is less than k^ 2 a + a + a. And then by plunicas inequality this is less than k 5* Yeah. >> What do you mean that a + a is less than k a but you can only get k^2 a from the a + t1? Um so starting from here and applying plunka I can say if you call this guy B that B cubed is smaller B plus B plus B is bounded by K cubed A and B plus B plus B is the same as >> yeah it wouldn't really matter if this was a bigger number Okay, cool. Cool. Okay, so qualitatively we have this picture that the small projections are organized. They have um algebraic structure. You can take you can add two small projections. You can take the negative of one of them. You can multiply them. So they are a ring. It's not so clear that one is in there, but um anyway, they have they have a lot of algebraic structure. And that mesh is something that we saw in in in examples, you know, when we wrote down like here's an interesting set that has a lot of small projections on the first day. The interesting set was an integer grid. So integer cross integer and the set of directions were rational numbers with small small uh numerators and denominators and you know if you add two rational numbers you get another rational number. If you multiply two rational numbers you get another rational number. And um and the numerology here is roughly maybe not precisely but roughly consistent with that. So if you took rational numbers with very small numerators and denominators, you get really great projections. Then if you add two of them, you get a new guy where the numerator and denominator are bigger. And that is still a pretty good projection even though it's not quite as great as what you started with. and and that's what we see here. So this guy is a pretty good projection although not quite as great as what we started with. And same with addition. Okay. So that structural feature of our first example, it was not just a coincidence about that example. It's a general thing and um and it follows from these inequalities. Okay. Okay. Great. So now with with this toolbox we're going to start to make progress towards the the Borgan cats tow projection theorem and we will we will prove uh an important an important inequality of some product theorem. So there is a theorem. So if a is a subset of FP and it has a certain size P to the S A and D is a set of directions in FP. D is P to the S D. Um let's say that each of these is strictly between zero and one. Then there exists some epsilon depends on the dimens on the s's big greater than zero. So that the following thing is true. The maximum t and d of a + t a is significantly bigger than a. Okay. So let's make some remarks about it. So here's an easy correlary. Um if you just take a plus a time a that should be bigger than a uh why let a be d and plug it in. But this theorem is stronger than this corlary in two important ways. One point is that we're not taking the union over d of all these sets. We're just taking the maximum overd of all these sets which op priori is a much smaller thing. And the other point is that the set of directions is independent from A. So the most interesting case here is when SD is much smaller than SA. So we have a medium-sized set uh a but we have we consider only quite few different projections and still that's enough that one of those projections will cause uh the projection to get bigger. Um we're going to use one of our tools from Yeah. in uh this is essay. Okay, we're going to use one of our tools from day one of projection theory which was the double counting. So at the beginning of projection theory, we proved that if X is in FP2 and D is in FP Then um the maximum over t and d of pi t of x is at least a minimum of the size of x and the size of d. Okay. So um so if it was the case that uh SD was bigger than S A then then this double counter implies our our because then this maximum would be at least either P to the 2 SA which is the size of our X or P to the SD which is the size of Okay, by itself that so that that is worth noticing. But by itself it's not that exciting. The hard case of our theorem is when SD is far smaller than S. It has to be positive. All right. So here's the proof of our theorem that combines the ideas that we've seen today. So first of all, even though D itself is small, if I'm allowed to add and multiply elements of D, then I can make that as big as I like. So the first step is by lema 3 there exists um some K which depends on SA and SD. So that poly k of d is significantly bigger than p to the s. And therefore by our double counting argument there is a u in poly k of d. So that a + u aa is significantly bigger than a. So we don't yet have a a a u that's actually in d, but we have a u that is formed by doing a bounded number of multiplications and additions and so on of things in d. And we play this against the contagious structure. if the maximum t and d of a + t a was less than k a. Then we can use contagious structure many times and we'll see that also this guy should be small. So then here's our contagious structure and we get that the maximum U in poly K of D of A plus UA is smaller than K to a power um power here. And so this power depends on little K. But then if you unwind, little K depends on SA and S. All right. So if all of these projections had been really small then other projections would be small where you add or take negatives or multiply and you would get by putting that together you would get that these are small. Okay. Okay. And so the conclusion is that K to the C is bigger than P to the gamma. And so K is bigger than P to the gamma over C which is our P to the epsilon. That's the proof. Okay. So, let me restate um the projection theorem that was sort of this uh that we announced on Tuesday as our next big goal and we'll compare it to this theorem and we'll see that it's closely related, but there there's still something that we need to do. Okay. So our our goal which we won't get to today but assume is a theorem KT that if X contained in FP^2 and X could be P to the SX where SX is really between zero and two and D is contained at FP. P the size of D is P to the SD where SD is bigger than zero. Um then the maximum of the projections is bigger than the square root of X. So the maximum T of D of projection T of X is at least P to the epsilon X to the 12. Okay. So, so this theorem although the epsilon is small is important because it's the first theorem in projection theory that fundamentally distinguishes the prime fields from not prime fields. And that is important in many applications and it gets kind of bootstrapped in the strong theorems that that recent uh you know strong theorems like ka conjecture versus conjecture and stuff like that. Okay. So let's compare this goal to what we have from some product theory. They look almost the same if you just set x equal to a cross a. So one. So theorem one is equal to theorem bkt in the special case that x is a product set a cross a any questions or comments. Okay, so maybe it's worth reflecting since this was our main goal. Um, why in the proof of theorem one did we need to know that X was a product set? So proof of theorem one is over here. It's not very long. This double counting argument has nothing to do with product sets. And we start to go along. We can say um that the the direction self it itself might be very small but we if we take polomials in the direction set then we get something big. So up to here we have not used at all that our set is a product set. This would have worked for any x and then we use the contagious structure. So the contagious structure said that if if if all of these guys were small then also the projections in directions t plus one t1 plus t2 and so on are also small. That contagious structure step did use the fact that this had this particular form which allowed us to think about everything in terms of ruse's inequality and the pluna inequality and so on. So I have been asking myself if it is possible to prove those contagious structure things uh directly for arbitrary sets. Um I I believe that they're true. Um and it sort of follow so that the the proof of this theorem is going to be some kind of reduction to the case of product sets. Um, so I think that in hindsight the contagious structure is true in general and so it I don't know it seems like perhaps it would be natural that it could be proven in general but I'm not sure. Okay. Now on the other hand I would like to argue that okay so so so then then at first you see this and you say well product sets are extremely special subclass of all sets. So this is not very good. But I would like to try to argue that if X uh is a if this if this thing is small at all then X is quite close to a product set. And if I convince you of that then maybe you'll feel like like what we've done so far is actually pretty close to our goal. All right. So let's talk about that. All right. So okay. So remember that pi t of x1 x2 is x1 + t x2 and also pi infinity of x1 x2 is simply x2. It's just a convention. Okay. Now we have some set of directions and by performing a change of variables we can assume that two of the directions are zero and infinity. So without loss of generality the direction D is zero and infinity and then some other directions. Right. So now X is any set X is contained in pi 0 of X cross pi infinity of X. So pi 0 of X are all the possible first coordinates of anybody in X. Pi infinity of X is all the possible second coordinates of everybody in X. And so this product contains X. So this is true for any set. But because these are directions in our direction set um so okay so let's say let's suppose that the maximum t and d of the size of pi t of x is at most k * the square root of x and imagine that k is pretty small okay so in that case the size of pi 0x cross p infinity x. That's the size of p 0x * the size of pi infinity x. That's at most k^ 2 times the size of x. So this here is an actual product set. X is sitting inside of it and x is um occupies a large fraction of it if this is a scenario that we're worried about. Okay. So in order to prove this theorem um it suffices to prove it for sets that are a large fraction of a product set and on the other hand we've just proven it for actual product sets. Okay. So now maybe it feels like this theorem is is in reach that we just have to all we have to do is to take our proof that works for honest product sets. We have to extend it to something that is a large fraction of a product set. Cool. Okay. So, we'll do that after the break. It does involve some significant ideas. There are significant recurring ideas in additive cominatorics and projection theory and lots of stuff. Uh, and there are ideas about going back and forth between something that is true um a large fraction of the time and something that's true uh all the time. Okay, so that's the part of the class today about some product theory. Take a minute and see if you have any questions or comments and then we'll let that rest for the break. Yeah. >> So is it like in the true we have our freedom to choose like gamma? >> Yeah that's right. We have a lot of we have freedom to choose gamma. So lma 3 lets us put here any exponent t that we like and then this k will depend on t. So this gamma can be pretty big. Um this you know we could be halfway from SA to one. >> Can you see there depends on like like in the last line it's like sort of like absolute equal to gamma in the last. >> Yeah. So this C um yeah I mean we could make it maybe it's more maybe it's helpful to say gamma is one minus SA over two. So yes things depend on gamma but gamma just depends on SA. So things still only depend on SA and S. >> Okay. Um would there be a like gamma that give us a nice bump for the absolute there? >> Yeah. So another thing you might wonder about is you might like you know you might want to write down the actual size of epsilon and you might like to uh adjust the parameters in our argument strategically to make it as big as possible. Um so you can do that the actual size of epsilon is there's a formula for it but it it is pretty small and so people often don't write it down that carefully. Um adjusting gamma who knows I think something like this is reasonable. um it's not going to help a whole lot. Yeah. Yeah. >> What is kind of the complication? If you just kind of try and sort of straightforwardly plug this into theorem one, you can say that this will be kind of less than guess you can take pi 0 of x union of pi infinity of x as a and then apply to theorem one which seems like it would contradict kind of the the statement that the projections are all less than the square root of x. Am I missing something kind of more subtle there? >> Yeah. Okay. So what so what happens now if we try to directly deduce our goal theorem from theorem one. So let's let's say a is defined to be pi 0 of x union pi infinity of x and so x is indeed a subset of a cross and the size of a is still basically this or this. Okay. So now theorem one tells us that the maximum uh t and d of the size of pi t of a cross a is big. Um okay now we actually want to bound the size of pi t of x. How are these related to each other? Well, this is a subset of this. So, we we know this. Um, but that's the wrong direction for this to be helpful. So, we're worried about the following scenario that x so a cross a is a product. So there's a cross a and inside of it is x which is a pretty big fraction and then somehow we managed to find a projection where the projection of x is quite small even though the projection of a cross a we know the projection of a cross a is large but maybe there's significant piece that got projected onto something small. That's what we don't know yet. Okay. So, um so your next homework assignment is due the week after the break and it's not a regular problem set with problems. It is a check-in and reflection about the class. So, you'll ask people to reflect on um you know what what we've what we've learned so far, see what parts seem confusing or what parts seem like clear. Um and then to um and then to think about what direction we'd like to go in in the second half of the class. Um so there are a bunch of topics that I think is cool are cool that we could talk about and we could talk about just one or two of them in depth. we could do all of them in less depth. Um, and I wanted to get your thoughts about it. So, I remind people what the topics are and introduce some of them that I haven't properly introduced before. So, for for for context. Okay. Um, okay. So, these are topics that are connected to maybe applications of maybe extensions of the stuff in projection theory that we have learned. Okay. So one topic is um mixing or random walks on discrete groups and some of the key names are. Um another topic is a part of homogeneous dynamics and it's also about mixing. It's like mixing of orchids. Um and some of the names involved in it are Margulus Danny Aratner. Um and there's some recent work of Lynden Strauss. Okay, there is um Fenberg which is like the sharp sharp projection theory estimate in two dimensions. Um and another thing that's related to this is the CA problem and there's a recent you know recent proof of the CA conjecture. Monday after break the colloquium Hong Wong is going to come and talk about the Ka conjecture. Okay. Um, so I wanted to tell you a little bit about some of these things and um, uh, I just you can make give be a little informed as you think about what you'd like to study. Um, okay. So, this one I tried to mention on the first day, but I don't think we really talked about it at all. I wanted to say something about it. okay. So, so homo the word homogeneous is a reference to homogeneous spaces and a typical example of a homogeneous space is slnr modulo slnz call this x. It's homogeneous in the sense that slnr acts on this space on the left and it the action is transitive. So every point gets mapped to every other point. um why would you care about this space? So you can think of X as the space of lises in Rn with co one y. So start with the unit cube lice. I can make another lattice of co one by applying an element of sr to my lattice. Um, now not all of those will be different. So if my element was in SLNZ, it will map the lattice Z to the N to itself. So that's the kernel of this map. And so the space of lises is the quotient like this. Okay. Um, so that's a homogeneous space. They're homogeneous dynamics. So SLNR acts on X and it acts uh transitively. So if you take any X and X um the orbit SNR of X is the whole space. However, um SLNR has many interesting subgroups and you could take one of those subgroups and look at that orbit and then different things can happen. So let's say H is a subgroup of SLNR and you look at H * X. Um so that's so some kind of visual. So this space is almost a manifold and it has finite volume and it has a little cusp which sometimes important sometimes not important. Um and we have a point little x in here and we take it orbit which wraps around this thing in a sort of crazy way. It looks sort of looks like this. And uh people would like to know um is this kind of evenly distributed on the whole space or does it uh concentrate somewhere and if so where might it concentrate? So how is the orbit distributed? Okay. So questions of this type come up in many places. Let me mention one of them to you. Um so here is an application in number theory called the Oenheim conjecture. Okay. So let's say Q of X1 up to Xn is a quadratic form and the question is to understand how Q behaves when you put in integers. So question how is Q of Z to the N distributed. Okay. So one observation is that if Q is always positive for real numbers then Q of Z to the N will be always positive. Um and another observation is that if the coefficients of Q are all integers, then Q of Z to the N will be integers. Um and those are the main obvious reasons why Q of Z to the N would not be distributed evenly on the real numbers. so motivated by that, Oenheim made this conjecture quite a while ago. So conjecture is that if n is at least three and the signature of q is next so it's not always positive and not always negative and um the uh u the coefficients of q are not contained in z time alpha for any alpha. Um then Q of Z to the N should be dense and and also in fact not just dense but kind of these conjectures said it should be dense but later people thought you know if you take a big ball and Z to the N and you apply Q to it you should get a set of points that are quite evenly distributed in um along an interval in the real way. Okay. Okay. So this conjecture was proven by Margulus and his proof involves connecting this problem to this setup of an orbit in in the space of lises. So how does the connection go? Well, the way I've written it right now, I have the standard lattice Zn and I have some obscure quadratic form. But I could make a change of variables so that Q is a standard quadratic form and then I would have some obscure lattice. So after a change of variables, um Q could be just X1 2 plus X K. Let's say we're just in three variables and we have a mixed size. Q is just this. But um Z3 is becomes maybe Q becomes this Z3 becomes lambda a new lattice. So now we have a lattice which is one point in that space and we don't know anything about it really. could be any point. But why would we have a whole orbit? Well, we have a whole orbit because this quadratic form has a lot of symmetries. So remark um the group SO21 sitting in SL3 R uh that preserves this that's just the definition of this group and a somewhat non-trivial fact is that this is a large group. It's not you know it's not the identity. Um, okay. And so you could use lambda, but you could also use any of these guys. So you could use the the lattice lambda, but you could also change coordinates by anybody in so 21. So you get a lot of other lises and you can use any of these lises and it's equivalent to the original problem. Okay. So now over here this orbit h this is going to be so one and n is going to be three in in this particular application and this initial point little x is going to be our lambda and so we can use any lambda in this whole thing. Okay, so now it matters like who is in this orbit and if the orbit was dense, so then lambda is allowed to be basically any lattice. Um and uh okay and then once you're allowed once lambda could be basically any lattice, then maybe it's believable that um that Q of lambda should behave in a nice way. Or on the other hand u maybe maybe this orbit is quite a bit smaller and there are only a few special lambdas in the orbit and then it's not so clear what's going to happen. Okay. So that is how this setting setup in homogeneous dynamics occurs in a natural way in this number theory application and there are there are more applications also in a similar sphere. Okay. Um, now what does it have to do with projection theory? Um, all right. So there are lots of different subgroups uh h there and this problem actually behaves in really different ways for different subgroups and the subgroups where there are strong theorems are uh are unipotent subgroups. Let me just write an example of a unipotent subgroup. So let's say we have SL and R and our group our group H but I'll call it U for unipotent is the group that looks like this. Right? So you have all ones on the diagonal. You have one guy in the upper right hand corner called T which is not one and everything else is zero. So this is a subgroup u and this is one that is behaved particularly nicely for this problem. Okay. What is nice about it? Let's also let's also just for example we work with SL2R. So U is just this right. Okay. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to take so let's say UT is one T 01. Um, and so I'm in principle interested in the infinite orbit, but I'm going to I'm sort of interested in the asmtoic behavior. So I'm going to I want to study the set of u subt where t goes in some range. Okay. Um, cool. So what's important about this structure is that it interplays very nicely with a different uh matrix. So suppose now that little a is the diagonal matrix um little a r maybe is e to the r 0 e to the minus r. So that's sub 2 r also. And the nifty thing about this is that little a r u t little a minus r is u e to the r t. And so um right so I can take utx where t just goes from zero to one and then I can apply a to it many times and a a inverse to it a a1 let's say many times and a1 inverse many times and this thing is now say we do this n times that that so in other words in order to study this thing I start with that which is quite innocent looking so that's just like a nice segment that I can draw in my manifold and then I I do this operation of conjugating by a and I keep conjugating by a and eventually I get this thing. So to understand this thing I just it's important it's what's just important to understand what happens when we conjugate by a Okay. So what happens when we conjugate by a. All right. Um um All right. So the conjugation map conjugation by a, it takes our homogeneous space to itself. Um, but if you look at a little piece of the homogeneous space, take a little box here, then some of these directions will be stretched and some of them will be contracted. So get maybe something Okay. Um, and now so let's say let's say our orbit is yellow. So we've we've done this a few times. So we have some piece of orbit. Um, and now we want to see what's going to happen to the orbit. Uh, well, some of the some piece of it got squashed. Um, so okay. Um so it it depends upon this orbit and then um if the if the if two strands here are separated by a direction that's the squash direction then they'll end up closer together here. And if they're in a direction separated by a direction that doesn't get squashed then they'll stay far apart. Um um so so in this box there is a direction so this is a box is B and there's a direction D subB direction in B that gets contracted. It's not quite true but it's almost like this box gets completely flattened. It's almost like the box is being projected to something lower dimensional projection. Okay. Um, and these guys go through a bunch of boxes. So here's B2, B1, B2, and so on. And um the direction DBJ is is changing, right? So um so you can choose coordinates so that the direction of these orbits is a coordinate axis and then the direction that's getting squashed is changing. So it's sort of like as you go along here there are projections in different directions. Okay. Um so right so that's let's call this conjugation map fee. So fe restricted to B is sort of like a projection and changing B is sort of like looking at different projections. Um so we have one set of orbits but they pass through a bunch of boxes and so we're applying different projections to them. Okay. So this is roughly how projection theory comes into understanding how these orbits look like which has applications in different areas. Okay. Okay. So I guess I mostly talked about about this one. uh but it was the one that we hadn't talked about and I thought I should say something about it. have just a couple minutes. Should we It's almost spring break. Maybe we should take a break. We should just stop early. Yeah, let's do that. So, let's stop there. I wish you a very nice and restful and fun spring break and I will see you afterwards.