Okay. So let's continue discussing uh the proof of burgans production theorem and how it's similar and different from the corresponding statement in the final field setting. Um so just as a quick review because we are going to keep working uh with this concept uh a delta S C D set is a subset of let's say the unit ball or maybe the unit cube. It doesn't really matter. So it has to live in some bounded region of space such that if we intersect X with a ball and look at the delta covering number, this is controlled by well first of all this tolerance constant C then the radius of the ball to the power s and then the size of all of. So it is a spacing condition and although this is not part of the definition it's convenient to imagine that the size of x is maybe delta to the minus s although it doesn't have to be but it is in the setting of bugans projection theorem as I stated it and speaking of bugans projection theorem as I stated it let me state the version well not the version it's really exactly the same theorem I stated last time but using this language. So, Borgans projection theorem again. So, it's really exactly the same statement just using this language and rescaling. Suppose that X is in the unit B2 and is a delta oh sorry quantifiers. So given t between zero and two is strictly positive at most one there exist or there exist two parameters epsilon and ea positive depending on t and s so that the following happens if x is a delta t delta to the minus ea uh set in R2 2 with size delta to the minus t and d the set of directions uh let's say in 01 is a delta s delta to the minus ea set then there exist a direction in our set of directions such that if you look at the minimum over all subsets of X which are dense in the sense that the delta covering number is at least delta EA this tolerance parameter times the delta covering number of X and we project the subset then no matter how I choose the subset We get a gain over the between quotes trivial bound which is less trivial in this setting but nevertheless uh this is at least delta to the minus t / 2 minus epsilon. So epsilon is how much we gain and delta to the minus ea is our tolerance. Okay, this is really the same theorem as last time. Last time x was in the radius r and it was a union of unit balls but we just scale it down by a scale of 1 / r and by the equivalences for measuring the delta covering number that I mentioned last time this is really the same statement. Okay. Okay. Okay, so last time we saw that the following is true even though we didn't actually prove all of it. Last time we saw that there exist a polomial uh which is just x1 x2 x3 - x4 x5 x6 or okay that works. So exist a polomial such that for every s between zero and one and okay I didn't state it this way last time but maybe let's introduce also the two parameters here last time I stated it with just one parameter of course you can just take epsilon and it to be the same by taking the minimum so the whole statement if you replace epsilon or and ora by a smaller number is still true so we could just take the minimum and have just one parameter but I sort of want to distinguish them because they play different roles. Okay. So there exists epsilon anita such that if a is delta s delta to the minus ea set maybe contained in 01 and maybe let's assume also that the size of a is delta to the minus s then the size grows by applying this polomial Okay. And we discussed that uh this is not enough to iterate because in order to iterate we need to know that Q of A also satisfies these assumptions and this is not clear at all and in fact is not true. So need to improve to Q of A contains a delta S plus epsilon delta to the minus EA set. If we knew this then we could iterate and keep growing. So keep adding epsilon and because epsilon is continuous in s we can get as close to delta to the minus one as we want. Okay. So uh today we will discuss how to do this. So let me say that it's not going to be the same epsilon and ea. So they're going to they're going to yeah they will become much smaller but same order of quantifier. So there exist s for every s there will exist eta and epsilon. So that this is true. Okay. So this is what we are going to mostly discuss today and hopefully then go briefly over how to uh finish the proof. But I would say this is the main difference with respect to the finite field setting where we don't have to worry about any of these. Okay. So before coming back to this we'll take a detour and then uh we'll come back. So let me state a lema with some basic properties of delta s c sets. Suppose that x is a delta s c set in any dimension. Then we make the following two fairly easy but important observations. So maybe I should have done this last time to get some intuition about what this concept does. First of all, X is large at all scales. So the row covering number of X is at least C to the minus one row to the minus S for every row between delta and one. I mentioned in passing last time that this is true for row equals delta, but in fact it's true for every row. And two, this concept is robust and they're passing to subsets. So if X or maybe Y is a subset of X and the delta covering number is let's say 1 / K times the delta covering number of X then Y is delta S C * K set. So the constant C gets worse by the parameter measuring how dense Y is in X always using delta covering numbers. Okay. So the proof of this is fairly simple. So let's do it. We have to prove something. Well, we need to show that the row covering number is something. So the definition of the row covering number is the smallest number of row balls needed to cover the set. So let's cover the set by row balls. And let's see how many balls we need. So let's say we cover the set by m balls of radius row. Well then the delta covering number of a. So the delta covering number is subjective. Something which will be very will come out repeatedly today. And this is just because if we have a delta cover sorry a row cover sorry a delta cover we are covering by reduce delta now if we have a delta cover of each of these we can put them together and we get a delta cover of this. So for this reason the delta covering number is sub additive. Okay, so the delta covering number of a is at most the sum of the delta covering numbers of a intersected with these balls. But by definition of delta covering set, each of these is at most c row to the s times the delta covering number of a. So we have a uniform upper bound that only depends on row. So the center doesn't matter. So this is just the definition of a being a delta c set. Okay. So this is at most m c row to the s delta covering number of a. So we see that we can cancel out the delta covering number of a and we get the claim one. So we get that m is at least what is on the right hand side there. But the smallest possible M is by definition the rock covering number. Okay. Okay. And two is even easier. Well, uh we have to show that y is a delta uh dc of course should be s. So we have to y satisfies the definition of delta covering number. So of delta is set. So we intersect with the ball of radius row. Well y is contained in x. So this is at most the same thing with x instead of row. But x is a delta s set. So this is at c * row to the s times the delta covering number of x but the delta covering number of x is at most k times by the delta covering number of y by assumption. So this is at most ck row to the s delta covering number of y. So we have checked that y is a delta s ck set. Okay. So what what information have we gained regarding our task? So we need to show that q of a contains a delta s plus epsilon delta to the minus ea set. Well, if it contains such a set, then Q of A must satisfy the conclusion of the first part of the lema. So the row covering number of Q of A has to be large. We have proved that the delta covering number is large. But it is necess it is ne it's not sufficient but it's necessary to show that Q of A grows at every scale. Right? We want to show that it contains a delta T over 2 plus epsilon something set. So it needs to be large at all scales. Okay. So uh we see that we need q of a a scale row to be larger than row to the minus t / 2 minus minus epsilon for every row between delta and one and a purely we only know it for delta. So what we discussed last time is that this is true for delta and again this is not sufficient. Yes that say row to the minus s minus >> row to the okay so now okay so this this is was a general statement about delta sets and now I'm going back to what we are trying to achieve. Oh sorry s yeah yeah so there is sorry yeah so this is still not buggans production theorem we are working with just one setting 01 thank you okay um we need this to be true and okay so one could think that we have it for free because why can't we just apply what we know at scale row So this is a question for you. So why so again uh this is necessary is not sufficient but okay let's try to focus on getting this first. So why why do why don't we get it for free? So what is the difference between row and delta? So that's the assumption that we have over there. Yes, >> because we don't know that a sum. >> Well, okay. So, the assumption is that a is a delta s something set. And you're right. We don't know that a is a row s something set. Uh there is another thing that could be a bit worrying. I would say is less worrying which is that delta to the minus epsilon is not row to the minus epsilon. We would need row to the minus epilon. Delta to the minus epsilon is much bigger. This last thing is not so serious because we can always okay the last thing is not so ser okay okay neither of them is so serious in some sense but okay the second one maybe we'll come back to discussing later but it is less serious the main issue is that okay so we don't get this for free Because a needs not be and delta row delta to the minus epsilon set. Okay. And we also would need row here. But let's ignore this for a moment. And my parameters are all wrong. Row s delta minus epsilon set. And also okay even if we did uh we still have the issue that this is necessary but not sufficient. So this condition is necessary but not sufficient for Q of A to contain the delta S plus epsilon delta to the minus EA set. Okay. So we are going to overcome these two issues by passing to what is known as uniform sets. So now we make a new detour and we are going to study uniform sets and so uniform sets and uniformization come up all the time in studying these type of problems not only in this proof. So maybe will come up again later in the course but it is what we are going to use to overcome these two issues. Okay. So, Okay. So let's start by defining what a uniform set is. So definition um okay so maybe before definition uh let's let's do some notation so we can write the definition. So this is from last time but recall that I was denoting the delta to be the delta mesh cubes. So we split RD into cubes of side length delta and one of them has a vertex at the origin. Okay. So let's define dta of a set x to be the cubes. This is in any dimension. So the cubes that are heat by x. So these are the q cubes of sin f delta with heat x. And let's define a box counting version of a delta covering number by looking at this. So uh let's define x delta star to distinguish it from the delta covering number to be the cardality of this set. How many delta cubes the set hits. And we discussed last time that up to a multiplicative constant that could depend on the ambient dimension but we don't care. This is really the same as the delta covering number. So in some sense they are the same but in order to work with uniform sets is this version is better as we will see. Okay. So we are counting how many of these are hit by the set X and we can compare cubes with balls. And this is why these two things are comparable as we discussed last time. Okay. Now we can give a definition of uniform sets. So a set x and now our reference bounded part of space is going to be the unit ball not the unit ball the unit cube not the unit ball the unit cube. So 0 one to the d is delta m uniform. Okay. What is delta is a parameter in 01. So it's a number in 01 and what is m a natural number and you should think so I will maybe come back to this but you should think that delta is fixed but m is not. So we fix delta and let m go to infinity something like this. So we're going to fix delta and then m will grow. But this is just a definition. if uh the following happens. So for every jet between zero and n minus one and for every cube of size delta to the j that intersects x. We look at how many cubes of the next generation hit X and the next generation is delta to the J + one cubes. So for every scale delta to the J. So we're going to look at scales delta to the J. For every cube of one of these scales that intersects the set, we look at How many sorry star how many cubes of the next generation scale hit X and this is some number that depends on the scale J but it doesn't depend on the particular cube Q. Okay, let's draw a picture. So, let's draw a picture to understand what's going on. And I guess we actually want delta to be not just a number in 01 but actually a diadic number. Okay, this is a definition. So but in practice want to get a diagic number. So things are nested. Okay, so let's draw a picture to understand what's going on. Suppose that delta is 1/2 and we are in dimension two. Okay, so uh we look at okay we have a set X. Let's say that X hits this three diadic squares of first level but it doesn't hit this one. Then R0 will be three. There is only one cube of first level which is the unit cube by the assumption that Q lives in the unit cube. So the unit cube has size delta to the zero and x hits just one of those because it's contained in the unit cube. Okay. Now we split each of the surviving squares again diagically. And what uniformity means is that the number in each of these three cubes that are hit by x is the same for all three cubes. But the actual cubes could be different. So for example X could hit this one, this one, this one, this one, this one and this one. So this is a possibility and in this case R1 will be two. So every of these three cubes that survive survived in the first generation hit two cubes of the second generation. And what is important is that it is two. Two and two. The same for all the cubes. This is what makes it uniform. Okay. Now we could keep going. So maybe in the next generation every one of these will hit just one. It could be anywhere. Okay. Then R2 would be one. Okay. Is it clear what a uniform set is? Okay. So uh we can see the set x as a tree where the root is the unit cube. The vertices of first level. So the children of the unit cube are the squares of size 1/2 hitting the set. The cubes of size 1/2 square. So delta square will be the children of the vertices of the first level and so on. Yes. How does this work when delta isn't the reciprocal of an integer and you have this kind of data >> otherwise things don't line up exactly it's not the end of the world but in practice okay in practice we will see that we are free to pick delta satisfying certain well at this stage delta could be anything but yeah we are going to pick delta by addic no not just reciprocal of an integer but reciprocal of a power of two just just in case yeah otherwise things are not exactly nested and this picture is not as neat okay so these numbers are Okay, we call them so we can view as a tree X as a tree and for this reason we call them branching numbers. Okay, I'm having a very bad Blackboard management. So let's show this again for a second. So in general if we have a row s delta sorry a delta s c set it does not need to be a row a row s c set but if the set is uniform it is. So this is one big advantage of working with uniform sets. So let's say so this will overcome this issue and also actually this issue. If the set is uniform then this condition is not only necessary but sufficient for the set to be yeah so I if we knew that Q of A is uniform which we don't but okay we we we have to work a lot to actually make this work for us but if we have a uniform set then both of these issues are overcome so if the set is uniform and it is a delta SC set it is a row is slightly worse C set and if the set satisfies that is large at every scale then it is a delta SC set. So both of these issues are overcome by working with uniform sets. Okay, let let me state how it works. So let okay lema. So let x the be delta m uniform and the delta big delta to the m. So again at some point we are going to fix big delta and then this is not a restriction. This is really not a restriction because delta will be a constant. So if delta small delta is not big delta to the m we sandwich it between big delta to the m and big delta to the m plus one and work with those powers. So this is not a big restriction. Then if the size of X is large, let's say 1 / C row to the minus S for every row. But in fact, we don't even need every row. Let's say for every row in one delta delta to the M. So we only need this to be true for powers of delta. But the point is if we know that the size of X is large at every scale then X is delta S and not quite C set but uh well up to some constant that depends on delta but because delta will be fixed at some point this is harmless. So for uniform sets it is sufficient to be large at all scales for the set to be a delta s c set. Okay. And what was the other issue that we wanted to overcome? It's it's oh okay and this one as well. And if X so X is a uniform set. If X is a delta S c set then X is a row S and again not quite C but we lose something that depends on delta. So we are happy set for every row between delta and one. Okay, maybe an exercise for you is to think about why both of these claims are false if we don't assume that the city is uniform. It does have to be uniform. It's not true in general. >> Any questions? >> Yes. >> I was a little bit confused like if acts like in the world that would cover like you said like one problem is like X is not a row S something. >> Yes. Um what if like like if f if x was like row s that's why does that imply q x has >> okay so what we saw last time is that if a is a delta s c set if forget about what is the c then q of a at scale delta grows. >> Yeah. Well, that is true for every delta. So if the original a was also a row s c set, then we could apply what we did last time with row instead of delta and get this conclusion. the polomial is fixed. So in the order of quantifiers, so maybe this is still on some board. Yeah, you see the polinomial comes first. The polinomial is fixed. So it's actually a a minus a a >> the polinomial doesn't depend on s doesn't depend on row doesn't depend on c doesn't depend on anything. It's a completely universal polinomial. So it's really a a minus aa or >> there are other options. Yeah. Okay. Um, okay. So now we are seeing both dilemma and you sort of see why dilemma will be helpful. Although one has to be careful and we will be careful because in order to uh overcome this we need a to be a row s something set. So if a was uniform we would be happy. But for the second one we need q of a to be uniform. Not a but q of a. So to overcome one issue we need a to be uniform. To overcome the other issue we need q of a to be uniform. So we still will have work to do. But okay let's go step by step and let's prove this lema. And the proof of dilemma will also help us understand and sort of work with uniform sets. Okay. So the idea is to do everything just at the scales powers of delta and any other scale we can sandwich between powers of delta because delta is a constant the sandwiching will only lose a constant depending on delta. So uh for the first okay let me just give it letters A and B. So for a um well let's consider row some power of delta then uh what is so we have to look at the intersection of a with a ball of radius row but instead of a ball of radius row let's use a cube of size row and again we can always pass between cubes and balls losing only constants and this makes sense because we want to use the assumption that the set is uniform okay so let's take a 2 in delta d delta to the j of I guess I called it x. Okay, we fix one of the scales delta to the j. We fix a cube that intersects the set and what is this delta is delta to the m. So here we are jumping from scale delta to the j to delta to the m. When we jump from scale delta to the j to delta to the j + one, we have r j + one children. Each of those children has r to the j +2 children and so on up to r m minus one with the star. So you see what I have. I want you to have the star. Without the star we this would be true up to constants. Okay, so every time we go down one scale, every cube splits into R depending on the scale number of offspring. And the point is it doesn't matter where the set is with the number of offspring is fixed but the assumption that the set is uniform. Okay. So let's write this as R1 R MUS1 divided by R1 RJ. What is the numerator? Sorry, zero. We start at zero. >> Yes. >> The delta not covering number of x because we start at the top and we go all the way down to the bottom. So the numerator is the delta covering number of a. And what is the denominator? Sorry, actually we start at J because of the way we define things. So we stop at J minus one. So J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J + one I think now is correct. Yes denominator just the del capital delta to the j covering of a >> exactly this is the delta to the j covering number I guess we would start because we split into r o uh children then r1 and so on and if we stop here we stopped at the scale delta to the j big delta to the j okay and now we use the assumption in part a the assumption is that sorry I keep switching around a and x the assumption is that this is large so the fraction is small so the assumption is that so this is smaller actually a constant because now I'm going to go back to standard delta covering numbers uh this is c row to the s delta covering number of n x sorry so we are done. So we took a cube of size uh delta to the j sorry delta to the j. So this is row s. So we took a cube of size delta to the j. So delta to the j is our row and we show that the delta covering number of that is a constant row to the s and the delta covering number of x. Okay. So this shows X is a delta C set at scales one delta delta to the M. So it satisfies the condition of being delta S maybe 01. O of C O of 1* C at these scales. But then we sandwich a scale row in delta 1 between two of these and we are going to lose some power of delta by this sandwiching. We are going to lose a power of delta in the constant. So this is why the constant in the claim depends on delta. Okay, an exercise is to fill in these details. But hopefully this convinces you that this the claim is true. Any questions? Okay. And the second part of the lema say is that if the original set was a delta s set then it is also a row slightly worse c set. Okay. And um it is a very similar argument. Okay. So it is really the same argument. So we do exactly the same thing again except that now instead of delta we have to write row. Okay let's do it again but it's it's basically the same argument. Okay. B. So assume that row is delta to the J. Otherwise we sandwich before maybe delta to the J zero. Okay. And then we have to look at x intersection. Okay. So now we take a j uh which is at most j0 because we have to see what happens when we intercepted x with cubes or balls of size larger than row. Now and let's pick a cube well of size larger than row. Then we intersect X with Q. And now we look at the row covering number. But it is exactly the same story as before. So what is this? This is R J0 blah blah blah R J minus one. >> Does it start at RJ and goes to RJ 0us one? Yes. Okay. And this is R1 RJ 0 - one. Sorry. R0 R 0* R0 R J minus one. And this is the covering number at scale delta to the J0 divided by the delta covering number at scale delta to the J. And because the set is a delta s c set this is at most after a constant because I'm going to now delete the star uh this is at most c let's write it like row to the sorry Okay, let's try to do this correctly. So what is this? So here we start at the top and go up to scale delta to the J0 which is row. So this is actually a the original set At scale row, we start at the top. We go down to scale delta to the j zero. >> A or f. >> Sorry, sorry about that. X. I should just call it a and then but if I call it a in the statement then I will write x. So it's not going to work. It's x. There is just one set which is x. Okay. and the denominator is a delta to the j covering number of x. Okay, in the numerator I just write uh the row covering number of x without the star and for the denominator we use a previous lema. So uh we previously see I think it's not in any board anymore or maybe it is yeah it is there we saw that if we have a delta SC c set then the row covering number is at least row to the minus s divided by c. So we use that at this scale. So this is our R. Okay. And so uh so this has size r equals delta to the j. So we have shown what we wanted. So now if we replace cubes by balls and we interpolate scales. So we use just powers of delta we get that x intersection evol of radius r row covering number is at most a constant at most a constant that depends on delta that comes from the sandwiching the original constant that is here then this is actually row to the minus s in the denominator r to the minus s in the denominator so we get r to the X and then the row covering number of X and that's the definition of being a row is slightly worsey set questions. Okay. So we have seen that uniform sets are much better behaved. We can well first of all if it is a good set at scale delta it is a good set at coarser scales as well and also it's enough to know that the set is large at all scales to know that it has this spacing condition. So how do we find uniform sets? So this is the content of the next lema which is simple but extremely important and has uh lots and lots of applications all over the place. in particular for what we are trying to do. Okay, let little delta be big delta to the m and let x be a subset of 01 to the d. So we assume nothing about x and what the lema says is that x contains a dense between quotes uniform subset. Okay. Uh so what does what does dense mean? Well, it means different things in different settings. So, I'm going to prove a slightly more general versions. So, let mu be a subaditive set function finitely set function like like a measure. But the only aim I assume is that mu of a plus b is less or equal than mu of a plus mu of b. nothing nothing else. And a very good example to keep in mind which is one of the examples where this is useful but not the only one. This is why I state a more general version is that mu of B can be the delta covering number of P. So this is not a measure because it is not additive. It is extremely far from additive but it is sub additive. Okay. Then uh there exists y which is contained in x which is well two things happen. One is that y is delta m uniform and the second thing is that y is large measured by mu. mu of y is large compared to what compared to mu of x. So mu of x could be anything. We don't know what it is. Mu is something very general. Okay. And we do lose something. We lose something like 2 delta log 1 / big delta 2d sorry 2d is the ambient dimension to the m to the minus n. Okay. Okay, so here the point is that the scale is delta to the m and here we have log of 1 / delta to the m. So we lose something exponential but if delta is small is a very small exponential. Maybe let's write it in this equivalent way. This is delta to the minus sigma mu of x where sigma is logarithm of 2d logarithm of 1 / delta. So it's a double log divided by log of 1 / delta. So if we make delta small enough, we can make sigma arbitrarily close to zero. So in practice at some point we are going to choose this delta so that this is small enough for our purposes and from that point on delta will be fixed but m will not so m will go to infinity. Okay. Uh proof of dilemma says delta to the minus sigma m. Is it just delta to the minus sigma >> plus sigma m? Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. So the measure, it doesn't have to be a measure, but the measure of Y is not much smaller than the measure of X, but not much smaller. Okay. Depends on your point of view. So we do some we do lo do some exponential thing. But this sigma is as small as you want by choosing delta small enough. Yes. So you said we we fix sigma fixing delta and then we let go. So does that not >> Yeah, it blows up. So it's not a Yeah, it's Yeah, it blows up, but it blows up like a power but the power is arbitrarily small. Sorry. Ah, sorry. Bad day with typos. Delta to the sigma. So small delta is big delta to the m. So big small delta is big delta to the m. So this okay sorry about this. So this is delta to the sigma by definition of sigma and actually it is delta to the minus sigma. Sorry this is delta to the minus sigma by definition. This is the definition of sigma. So this is delta to big delta to the sigma n. Big delta to the sigma n is small delta to the sigma. So yes as n goes to infinity delta goes to zero. This goes to zero but it goes to zero as a power which is arbitrarily small. So this is the way which you think about this sorry is it is it correct now. Okay. Okay. Okay, so the proof is I'm clear clever pigeon holing starting from the bottom of the tree. Okay, so the proof is trim the tree starting from the bottom. Okay. So we have the set X and let's call it XM and we are going to construct by pigeon holding from the bottom we are going to construct a nested sequence of sets all the way down to X0 and this is going to be our Y that we are looking for okay so let's explain I'm going to explain how to construct X minus one and then we just continue the same way by induction ction. Okay, so we have XM which is X really and okay. So, so we have all the cubes of size delta to the n minus one that intersect the set but the branching numbers could be different. So this could be four, this could be one, this could be two, two, and so on. And we want want them all to be the same. So we are just going to pigeon hold the sort of the most popular value and okay because there are too many values we are going to do it diadically. So that's basically the proof. Okay. So let's write it down. Uh so let x m n minus one l be the union of all the q's which are squares of level n minus one that intersects the original set such that the branching number so the number of descendants of generation M so Q intersection X delta to the M star covering number is roughly 2 to the L. Okay. And what are the possible values of L? Well, it could be zero because there is at least one because the cube intersects X. There is at least one descendant. And uh the largest it could possibly be. So the largest 2 to the L can be is delta to the minus D. So each time we go down one generation uh we subdivide into relative scale one over delta and we have D dimensions. So L ranges from zero to the logarithm of well the logarithm of 1 / delta. Okay. So we pigeon hole. So okay mu is sub additive. So you see that this is what we use. So mu of x is this these sets cover x. So mu of x is at most the sum over l of mu xm. So it is x but let's write it as xm. So it's clear how to continue inductively x -1 l and l takes d log one / delta possible values. So there exists some L such that mu of X minus one L has measure at least maybe let's put a tilda just in case 1 / the log of 1 / delta times the measure of X. Okay. And so what the situation now? Now we know that the number of offspring is constant up to a factor of two. So here there could be seven, here there could be eight, here there could be five. Well, in that case we are going to keep the four with the largest mass which again we can do by sub additivity of mu. Okay. So inside each uh Q which is a subset of these. So the ones that survived keep 2 to the L cubes exactly 2 to the L. So there are between 2 to the L and 2 to the L plus one. we give exactly 2 to the L cubes of size uh delta 2D. Okay, by doing this we lose another factor of two. So this is why we have 2d log of one over delta. Maybe should be four or something like this. But of course it doesn't matter. Okay. And let x n minus one be the union of all of those. Okay, so first we do diadic pigeon on holding because if diatic pigeon holding things are constant up to a factor of two then I trim against to make it exactly constant then I only lose a factor of two. So by doing this now uh we have our set xm minus one and the size sorry the size in terms of the measure so the measure could be the delta covering number but it could be other things. So the measure of x n minus one is bigger than 1 / 2 the log one / delta time the measure of x and this set is now uniform at the last scale. So every every Q that intersects this new set has some fixed number. Let's call it R N minus one descendants. So this will be two to the L for the L that we pigeon hold. Okay. And now we take X minus one and we keep going up until all the way up to the top until we get X0. And then we have to convince ourselves that X0 works. Okay. So uh one thing is clear every time we iterate we lose this factor. So we lose this factor m times and that was the second part of the claim. and the second claim is that uh the Z Y is uniform. Well, uh every time we do this, it becomes uniform from one scale to the next and the only thing that needs to be observed is that this is preserved. So when we go up from scale n minus one to scale n minus2 we don't mess up the uniformity that we already had and okay let me do a proof by picture. So let's say that in the first stage we chose these two these three cubes and each of them has the same number of descendants. In the next stage we might remove some of these but it doesn't matter. So the ones let's say that we remove this one in the next stage. So the ones we keep still have the uniformity. So we don't destroy the uniformity as we that we already obtain in at finer scales when we go to coarser scales. So it is uniform. Okay. So this is the proof that given any set we can find a dense in this set then up to delta to the sigma subset which is also uniform and well by taking mu to be the delta covering number it is literally dense in the standard way but sometimes it's convenient as we will see or maybe not depending on time uh it is convenient to take other muses this is why I stated it in this Any questions? Again, all of the tools that we have been discussing today are useful not just in this proof but all over the place in projection theory. Yes, >> I'm not being confused like by this construction. Yeah, I can believe um uh on like uh on level one everything uh the the degree is the same. But if you do induction for each sub tree, you can only guarantee that the degree inside each sub tree are the same. You cannot guarantee the degrees between different sub trees are equal. Right? >> What do you mean different sub trees? >> Uh like like first you you divide this this unit cube into four cube and you choose the three yellow ones and these three yellow ones have the same uh same same number of smaller boxes. But then then yeah like as my understanding you kind of do inductive argument for each of the three yellow boxes. >> No we start from the bottom. So what is yeah what is confusing you? You're thinking about starting from the top >> and you cannot start from the top precisely because of what is confusing you. >> If we don't I mean it's you cannot make it work but we start from the bottom. And this is exactly why we start from the bottom. >> Okay. when we go from the bottom to the top everything every uniformity that we gain is preserved when we keep iterating moving in the up direction. >> Okay. >> Okay. So in the remaining uh 14 minutes let's try to go back and see how all of this helps us deal with the issue that we had. Maybe let's keep dilemma. Okay. So, let's go back. So, now we go back to our goal. So, a is a delta s. So this c is delta to the minus ea but that's not where the issue lies. On the other hand, if you want to write the things correctly, you have to keep track of many parameters and how they change and I'm not going to be able to do that today. So let's ignore this. So we know that Q of A has large size at scale delta. Okay. So the first thing we do is uh we replace so Q of A is AAA minus I AA. So by using same similar techniques or basically the same techniques that you already used in the finite field setting uh we can get the following conclusion. There exists one a in a such that a plus little a grows. Okay it's not the same epsilon. So every time I write epsilon is a different epsilon. Is that okay? Or do you want me to write epsilon one or we we lose a lot. So this epsilon we lose a lot. Okay. Uh so this is similar to the final field setting. This uses uh ras triangular inequality. I guess the main thing it uses is pluner rouia and as I explained last time all of these things are still true for delta covering numbers. So it uses plunic triangle inequality and I guess maybe some double counting. So I'm not saying this is trivial but I hope you did something similar in the final field setting. Okay, great. Okay. Uh second we can assume that a is uniform. Maybe okay maybe this should be so first we assume that a is uniform and sec second we do this maybe this is better so a is uniform and okay so we have to choose at this stage delta small enough um so here okay so here the mu is just the delta covering So we apply the uniformization lema. So we start with the delta SC set. Now we pass to a uniform subset. The uniform subset is dense up to a factor delta to the epsilon not epsilon delta to the sigma where sigma is as small as I want. Dense subsets of delta s sets are still delta s sets by the lema that we saw before. This is why we can assume this. Now this constant is going to become worse by a factor delta to the minus sigma because that's the density. So C gets worse by delta to the minus sigma but sigma is arbitrarily small. So I'm going to ignore it. So you have to keep track of all of these parameters but they are not the real issue. You have to be careful but they're not the real issue. Okay. Then this a still satisfies the assumptions of what we did last time. So this is really the first step and so we know that a for the uniform one a a minus a a grows. So already this grows. Okay. And but a is uniform. So in fact uh because a is uniform by dilemma that we used about uniformity this is true at every scale. So in fact we have this at every scale. Okay. The third thing that is going to be important is that a priority we only have one a in a but in fact once we have it for one a in a we have it for almost all a in a. And maybe you have seen this sort of uh argument in the finite field setting. But this is true for almost all a and a because uh we define a bad to be the points in a such that the conclusion we want. So the second step is not true. it doesn't hold. And if this set is large, we can apply the same argument to this set and get a contradiction. So a dense subset of a delta S set is a delta S slightly worse C set. How much worse the constant is depends on how dense a body is. So if a body is too dense we get a contradiction. So it cannot be too dense. And this means that very few A's are in are bad. So almost all are not bad. Well, the step just two two a bad and we get the contradiction. Okay, the first step is maybe the key step. So we are going to upgrade the second step to not just saying that a plus little a a is large but so what is a plus little a is pi a of a * a. So we are going to upgrade this to say that this is still true true if we pass to a dense subset of a * a. So first step if x is contained in a plus a and it is dense in the sense that the delta covering number doesn't okay so at some point there should be a parameter it completely ignoring maybe at this step we want something like it aa square dense then if we reject X, we still have growth and in fact at all scales or almost all scales. Maybe instead of epsilon the grow the growth will be epsilon over two but there will still be growth. So okay let me try to explain uh the first step in the last five minutes. So this is really as we will see the absolutely key step. We need to make this estimate in the second step robust and they're passing to then subsets and we will see maybe next time why this is what we really need to do in order to conclude what we want. Okay. So suppose that one is in a and this is just for notational simplicity. Okay. So there are two possibilities. One. Okay. So we want to show that there exist an a with this property. One a in a with this property. I guess step three should maybe be a later step. So or maybe we want to apply it at at many steps. So many steps we prove that something exists but once something exists actually almost all elements in a have this property. Okay let's say we want to prove that so at this stage we want to get one little a in a so that this is true. Okay so maybe we are lucky and the first thing we choose and let's call it one works well if it works it works. Okay so first case a equals one works. So it has this property. Well, if it works, it works. We are done. So let's assume that one doesn't work. What does it mean that a equals 1 doesn't work? It means that there exists some x in a * a which has size bigger than delta to the ea square or something like this times the size of a time a but the projection is small okay uh we have to do this for every row but okay let's let's let's do it one row at a time and next time I will ex let's do it for delta next time I will explain how Why is true for for every delta in some sense? Okay, let's assume that for the particular scale delta there is no there is no growth. Well, this reminds you of what? So there is a theorem that you've seen before that this should remind you of. So we are projecting sorry and a is one actually a is one. So this is just the sum. So we are so if if one one is in a either it is good if it is good we have proved what we want because something is good or it's not good. If it's not good this is what it means by definition of not being good bsg. So this is exactly the assumption to apply value toic hours. So a has size delta to the minus s. Here we have a dense subset of the product set which has small partial subset. The pi 1 image is small. It doesn't grow. So these are exactly the assumptions that we need to apply valuic hours. Okay. And I ran out of time. So uh so we are in the middle of the most important argument. So uh maybe on Tuesday, sorry, you will see me again. I will start with step four from the from the top. But maybe as an exercise you have five days, you can try to imagine how this will continue. So at least try to well just write down what is the outcome of aloxic hours and try to think how we can use that to eventually get what we want. At least this claim then I will explain how this claim together with uniformization lema allows us to conclude what we want.