Okay, so we're talking about chapter nine about political economy. Um, let's remember where we've been so far. We've talked about our sort of first best outcome or what we called unanimous consent which under certain theoretical conditions that'll ever be met we could actually provide meet the Samuelson rule would actually get everyone to contribute and provide the optimal level of public goods. Okay. Then we said well look that's not realistic. What we actually do in society is we vote. So let's start with society where actually all votes are done by direct democracy. And we talked about direct democracy and we talked about uh when when direct democracy will or will not deliver consistent outcomes and in particular the um we talked about the fact that if you assume preferences are single peaked then majority voting can deliver consistent outcomes and moreover it delivers this wonderful thing we call the median voter theorem which is to know what society wants you only have to know what the median voter wants or what we call today swing voter that's all you need to know which we said has the advantage that it's incredibly data efficient uh has the disadvantage that it is not necessarily the first best outcome that what the median voter wants may not be what's the a what is what meets the Samuelson rule in particular if the median of the distribution does not equal the mean of the preference distribution will not meet the Samuelson rule with the median voter outcome okay so that's where we've gotten to so far questions about we covered last time or any of that stuff okay today we get to the fun stuff which is well in reality most decisions that are made politically are not made either by a Lindall mechanism or direct democracy but by representative democracy and that's we'll talk about today which is the the promise and pitfalls of representative democracy. Now what we're going to start with is sort of another version of the median voter theorem which is we're going to show that in fact even if you elect your representatives under certain conditions you will still get the median voter outcome actually only under one you need single peak preferences still and you need one other thing you need that politicians are vote maximizers that their sole their sole goal is to maximize their votes. If you take single peak preferences and have vote maximizing politicians, it turns out that it doesn't matter if you have direct democracy or representative democracy, you will still get the median voter outcome. And to see that, let's go to figure 93. So imagine these two candidates running, Joe and Donald. Now we'll next session be Klan and Donald. Okay? And they uh and imagine it's a oneisssue election. Okay? And the issue is how much to spend on defense. And there's some range of spending from zero to 50%. And let's assume voters are lined up along this line. Okay, this line represents voters's preferences and they're sort of equally distributed. It it I'm it doesn't have to be a a normal it doesn't have to be a normal distribution, but it has to be a symmetric distribution. Imagine a symmetrically distributed along this line and Joe and Donald are considering what positions to take. So if Donald says, "Look, I'm going to advocate for a lot of defense spending." And Joe says, "I'm going to advocate for a little defense spending," then they'll split the vote. People go to who'sever closest to them, and the people in the middle will be just indifferent. In that situation, it is in Joe's interest to move to the center. Why? Because by moving the center, he doesn't lose anybody on the left. He still preferred to Donald, but he gets some people towards the center who now are closer to his preferences. They are to Donald's preferences. Well, Donald seeing this could immediately react by moving even closer to the center. And then he'll get more votes. And you can see where this ends up. This game ends up clearly with both people at the center. And indeed, it's a Nash equilibrium. There's no incentive to deviate because the minute you move away from the perfect center, you seed votes to your opponent. So this says that the median voter theorem is not just a theorem for dem democracy, but it's actually a theorem that applies to representative democracy as well. But it turns out only applies to representative democracy under a wide variety of assumptions that have implicitly made. So why don't we talk through uh where's my chalk? Uh I'll use big chalk today. Uh here's the one. Why don't we talk through what are the implicit assumptions I've made in laying out this model? What are some things about reality that deviate from what I've laid out, Alec? >> Nobody will. >> Yeah. So, I've assumed sort of universal voting universal as opposed to, you know, non- selective voting. Okay. What else? What else is Yeah. >> What's that? >> Right. So, I've assumed only two candidates. In fact, it turns out and those of you who are sort of game theoretically minded will see this immediately. This model breaks down with three candidates because you can always gain market share by continuing to move once there's three candidates. There's no equilibrium. There's no Nash equilibrium with three candidates. So, I've assumed two candidates. What else? What else have I assumed that's violated in reality? Yeah. >> I've assumed fundamentally no ideology, right? I've assumed that candidates only are vote maximizing machines that don't actually care about anything. Stephen, >> yeah. Okay. Okay. Good. Uh, others, what else? What else have I done here? What else have I assumed here? Okay. Well, I let's go through these and then we'll talk. So, first of all, I've assumed universal voting. Once there's non-universal voting, people might deviate from the middle. In particular, if voters on one end of the spectrum, if people on one end of the spectrum or another are more likely to vote, they'll be incentive to move away from the middle towards that end of the spectrum. I think it's pretty pretty clear to see. So first of all, now once again, if there's non- selective voting that's equally distributed, that doesn't matter. So if randomly half the people vote, the model still works. It's only if there's differential selective voting. So it's not it's not that the voting has to be universal. It's really has to be non- selective. That's the key. It has to be symmetric the people who aren't voting. Once they're not, then you're going to not be at the middle anymore. Okay? Likewise, two candidates I explained, the model breaks down mathemat. You just can't find a equilibrium on the line with three candidates. No ideology is very interesting. No ideology is important because remember I'm assuming this sort of normal symmetric distribution. But once there's ideology, then candidates may not want to be at the middle. In particular, if voting is selective, and there's one other important element of the political system I haven't mentioned yet, and what's that? What's sort of a key aspect of the US political system in particular I haven't mentioned yet besides voting? What else matters in US politics? >> Well, no. Yes, they matter. But what else systematically matters US politics besides people's votes? >> Lobbying is is an aspect that matters. But more generally than that, what would some say is the most important factor in US politics today? Stephen, attention. What? And what? How do you get attention? And how do you get media? Money. So, I've ignored the role of money. I'm I'm delighted that you all are such brighteyed and optimistic and believers in democracy, not immediately come up with this answer. That's a good sign for your lack of skepticism about the world. Unfortunately, you're wrong. It is money. Um, so now imagine a world where there's where money matters. And money matters because money buys you attention. Okay, imagine where money matters, voting is is not universal and ideology then ideology can matter. So for example, you could imagine a world where you say look, I am willing to not be at the median defense. I will advocate for high defense spending because the people like defense spending are very passionate about other things and they'll turn out and vote and give me money if I signal high if I like defense spending. So basically once there's just like intensity of preferences violates the efficiency of the median voter theorem intensity of preferences here can lead people to actually not want to settle at the middle if there's more intense preferences. Once again if preference are equally intense on both sides it doesn't change things. It needs you as asymmetry of preference intensity. But here but that's sort of related to the to the other thing which is we said we said only two candidates. We also didn't talk about we're assuming this model singledimensional voting. That's another problem with this model which is people don't just vote over one thing. And so by not staking out the middle on one thing you might signal your preference something else that people care more about. So people who like big defense tend to be uh anti-abortion. So maybe by saying that like you know taking a consition on abortion maybe if there are other voters who don't really care about abortion like but I really like defense then then you don't have to be in the middle on abortion. That's a reason not to be in the middle because you pull in people who really like defense and they matter. So it gets much more complicated. And then finally we have the last thing which we once again cannot forget. We're always assuming here which is we're assuming full information and slash you know, no uh I mean, I don't want to call them mistakes, but but but sort of no no no no bias, if you will. We're assuming that people truly understand what candidates mean when they say things and truly understand what the candidates positions are. In a world where moving away from the middle allows you to obfuscate in certain ways, you may move away from the middle because that could be beneficial. Yeah, Alec >> does the full information assumption supersede the money assumption because money is to provide information. >> Excellent. Excellent question actually least what I'm talking about next. So let me hold that question. Other questions about this. Okay. So that's a great So the bottom line here is once again as with all these sort of generalized models we'll teach from coast to this model to the medium the medium voter model there's a lot of interesting aspects of this that speak to reality but it clearly is not a pure description of reality okay and basically let's talk for a minute I'll come back to your question a minute le let's talk about evidence which is does the median voter model explain reality? And the answer is to some extent yes, to some extent no. So how do you actually test the median voter model? Okay. Well, basically you want to ask so the median voter model says that if I'm in a district, if if uh Paul and I are in two districts and my district cares more about X and his district cares more about Y, I should vote more towards X and you should vote more towards Y. The problem with testing that is well how do you separate that from other things about our districts that might viol bias problem we talked about in chapter 3. So what studies have done is essentially looked at random variation in the makeup of a district. For instance there's redistricting or if there's population shifts then suddenly who's in your district changes and what they found is when when people and the when the composition of district changes politicians voters change with votes change with it. Look at what politicians do, what they do and their votes in Congress actually do respond to changing the composition of the people they're representing. Basically, um you have and moreover another piece of confirmative evidence, if you look at politicians in their last term when they're going to quit, they become less responsive to the composition of their district, which is once again consistent with a median voter vote maximization model. On the other hand, there's clear evidence the vote maximization model isn't right. And maybe the most transparent evidence is US senators. Two US senators from the same state have the same median voter. And yet in a large number of states, the two senators are often of different parties, includ agree agree on every issue. So clearly the median voter can't explain everything when you got two people represent the exact same population taking diametrically opposed positions. Yes, Stephen. Yes, that's a good point. If they're elected points in time, but you need a pretty radical swing in preferences over say two years to go from AI mean, if they're right towards the middle, you can imagine that. But that's a good point. But even sometimes elected at the same time, you get two different parties. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Because you have special elections and things. Um, so basically, uh, so that's a rejection. A very a more clever rejection actually comes from research a former student of mine IA Washington did which is she looked at how politicians voted on issues affecting women's rights based on the gender composition of their children. So condition on having a certain number of children the gender composition is random. Okay. So two politicians, both of which have two kids, one is two boys, one is a boy and a girl, are functionally identical. Okay? Yet she finds the ones that is the boy and the girl votes much more positively on women's issues than the one that has two sons. That cannot be explained the median voters. That's got to be ideology, underlying ideology. So clearly the median voter model ma matters. people respond to the composition of who their voters are, but it's also not determinant. Um, I think the most interesting evidence of the medium voter model actually comes from this thing in 2007. So, basically there's something we do in the US government, do all governments called earmarks. An earmark is when they put together this giant $3 trillion budget, they'll be a line 974 will say including $3 million for this baby pet project to this politician. And that's how these deals get made. There's a bunch of little pet projects that get rolled in to get people's votes on the big budget. Those are called earmarks. Okay? Those are really buried in these bills. In 2007, the House of Representatives added a rule to try to fight. These ear marks are generally viewed as often very wasteful things done to sort of police constituents and not really what should be in the interest of the overall US public. So in 2007, the House of Representatives put in a rule which said we've got to make all these earmarks public. And the idea was they hoped it would shame politicians into not creating earmarks. It had the opposite effect because they were like,"Great, I can brag to my constituents now about all the things I'm doing for them." It actually increased earmarks because politicians didn't want to hide the fact they were doing good things for constituents. They wanted to advertise them. So, it actually had the opposite effect, which is once again consistent with sort of a median voter uh kind of model. Um uh as one as a representative from Kansas said, "Democracy is a contact sport. I'm not going to be shy about asking for money for my community. Um so so that's um so that's kind of where we are the median voter model. But I want to come back to questions about that. I want to come back to Alex's point which is let's talk about the L word lobbying. Okay everybody's this is sort of a swear word in you know common political discourse. Those lobbyists they're so terrible lobbyists are ruining Washington. First of all where does lobbying come from? The term lobbying comes from the fact that uh President Grant, the first president a President Grant um when he was president uh would every afternoon uh get drunk and sit in the lobby of the Willard Hotel which was across the street from the White House and you go ask favors and he'd say yes because he was drunk. So that's the term lobbying comes from. Um and basically I guess I I don't want to impute the guy maybe not every afternoon but on many afternoons. Um so uh and that is sort of that history maybe leads to sort of negative taste in people's mouths with lobbying. But in fact as Alex question point out lobbying is not obviously bad. It's not obviously bad for two reasons. Why is that? Why might lobbying be productive? In fact why might an optimal government have some lobbying? Yeah. >> It helps with information. So I worked in the government. We had to deal with an enormous number of issues all the time on which we were not expert. Lobbyists would come in and they'd be experts. Now they' be experts with a point of view. But as long lobbyists from both sides, I got educated. So actually they help fight the full information problem. That's one thing they help with. What else they help with? How else do lobbyists could lobbyists help to deliver the efficient outcome? >> You mean they provide information about? >> Yeah. They can represent intensity of preferences. Remember, the median voter model fails when the median voter does not represent the mean voter because there's an intensity of preferences we're missing. Well, lobbyists represent that intensity of preferences. The problem of course is when they go too far. The problem of course is um that basically um so I have an example in the book. You don't have to write it down. It's just a simple example. Imagine there's a there's a policy that will will benefit a hundred people in the US by $1 million each, but the remaining citizens in the US will lose a $100 each. Clearly, that's a loser. Clearly, we lo we are worse off as a society, but that project may still pass often through an earmark because basically the intensity of preference those 10 voters is not offset by anyone representing the non-intense preference of every other voter. So, once again, you could see the balancing act here. The balancing act is on the one hand if you don't at all represent preference intensity and there is ideological differences then you do not get the optimal outcome with the median voter. On the other hand, lobbying probably overcorrects for that by over representing the preferences of small groups versus large groups. Okay? And that's that's sort of the tension with lobbying. Now there's no better example of that and I have several page notes I'll just sort quickly uh than foreign policy in the US. Okay, in 1900 35% of all workers in the US worked on farms. Today it's 1%. And yet we spend $22.4 billion as a federal government every year sending money to farms. Okay now um think of it this way. Uh, and so basically, um, each US household, every household in the US spends $144 every year supporting US farmers. Now, you might think, gee, I don't want to spend $445 spending US farmers. Why does that happen? Well, that's because each farmer in the US gets on average $15,000 in supports. So, you for $144, you don't get together and lobby because it's a classic free rider problem. Who's going to put all the work in to lobby for $144? Lots of people who work put the work in to lobby to get $15,000. So the problem with lobbying is the free rider problem is going to lead to an overweight on issues that are intensely important to a small number of people versus issues that aren't that important to a large number of people. That's the classic flaw in lobbying. Um uh now now if you ask the um the farm folk, they'll say, "Well, you're just biased against the family farm and family farming is sort of a way of life in America. We need it." Well, they'd be wrong because um uh all almost all the subsidies to farms go to large corporate farms, not small family farms. Um the uh the top 10% of farms in the US all which are owned by big corporations received on average $560,000 per year while the bottom 80% which include family farms on average 8,000 a year. So this is not preserving some way of life of the family farm. It's large subsidies to large corporations that farm. Um and basically uh this is not just a US phenomenon. You know a lot of things we'll talk about are how messed up US politics are. This has got the benefit that it's messed up all over the world. Um, for example, the European Union spends about $113 annually supporting its farmers. Um, uh, the average European cow, the average cow in Europe gets $2.33 in government subsidy every day. Okay. Um, uh, Japan spends more than $47 billion on its farmers with rice tariffs near 800%. Um and a lot of times this farm subsidies are just pure corruption and we'll come back to corruption talk about later this lecture. They're not actually even going directly people supposed to benefit. So basically foreign policy is a classic example of how lobbying can work in theory but in practice uh will not work when you have small small groups with large interests versus large groups with small interests. Yeah. It's a very complicated system. Some of it's a direct subsidy, some's loans, subsidized loans. It depends by it varies by crop. It varies by by type of crop. There's winter wheat and spring wheat and winter wheat subsidy to spring wheat. It varies by all sorts of things. So there's no simple explanation. I described more in the book, but there's no simple explanation. All right. So we've done sort of this whole study of kind of okay here's how represent democracy works and that's where my lecture ended until about 2016 when American politics broke and where we cannot discuss American politics without discussing the issue of polarization. So we have become an unbelievably polarized nation and there's no better way to see that than to look at figure 94. So what does figure 94 show? There's an organization which represents how cons which measures how conservative and how liberal each politician's votes are. So on most issues there's a conservative position and a liberal position and they give a score based on essentially how conservative or liberal the votes are of each politician. We have two graphs here, one for the Senate, one for the House. Let's look at the bottom line in the Senate graph, the line for Democrats. What this says is in the average Democratic senator was about 45% more liberal than a neutral set of votes than if they'd randomly voted up or down at everything. They then become became more centrist, less liberal. So as this goes towards the median line, that's less polarization, more centrism. and by about the middle of the 20th century and then became more uh more polarized again, more partisan again. Same with Democrats in the House, similar pattern. Republicans have a similar time pattern, but much more extreme. So we see is that polarization has gone up enormously. So the two lines are as far apart today as they were in 1879. The difference is that the Democratic line hasn't changed a lot and the Republican line has gone up a lot. So essentially a polarization that's driven by both sides but primarily by one side. Okay. And but the bottom line is we have polarizations. This is not a US specific phenomena. Polarization is happening all over the world. Okay. Um now the US is um uh the but so all over the world we see this separation but the US is unique in how extreme it's been. Yeah. You know, there's judgment involved. Obviously, um they're obviously on every bill they there's a panel of people who work for this organization who evaluate is a liberal, what votes liberal, what votes conservative. They're nonpartisan experts. They may get it wrong sometimes, but there's the average should be pretty good. Um so basically um we the whole world is polarized but the US actually seems to lead the world in polarizations. We're number one in polarization. Um uh you know and you see this uh in CO is the best example where when you ask people a different party uh 37% of Republicans thought CO was a big problem and 73% of Democrats did. Now CO it's a scientific thing about whether CO is a big problem. I mean you could imagine a little variation with around the word big problem but the bottom line is there's just enormous disagreement over basic facts. Okay. And we all see this every day. We all this is true. I don't think it's controversial to say we've become an incredibly polarized country. The question is what has changed? What's going on? What's driven this polarization? So you tell me what's caused this. Yeah. >> What do you mean? >> Well the how's the internet caused Okay, more information. But in fact, if anything, we think more information would cause less polarization. More information would be now you know you if you have biases, you can defeat them with information. So let's stay on this. So flesh out your answer. It's not just more. What are you thinking about the internet? You're not thinking about all websites. Well, besides are you thinking about in particular? >> What about the internet? Yeah. Yeah. So, it's I mean, look, let's be honest. The internet's great. Social media not so much. Okay. Basically, it's what's gone on is essentially essentially individuals have been able to create their own what we call echo chambers and their own fact bases based on the ba it wouldn't be possible without the internet, but it's not espn.com that's causing this, okay? it's it's social media sites, other news sites and essentially um we put this it that essentially there is there's just been this proliferation of media which has caused polarization. Um so basically um you know if you go back to history after World War II most Americans got all their news from one of two or three sources. Okay. And then as one author put it all that changed with the advent of cable television in the 1980s and the internet in the 1990s. Now Americans can choose from hundred of partisan hundreds of partisan news sources, many of which care more about arousing emotions than he to journalistic standards. This proliferation of sources interacts with the most notorious problems in human cognition, the confirmation bias. And this is where information can be bad, not good. People rarely seek out evidence on both sides before making a decision on moral political matters. Rather, they begin with their initial belief and seek out events to confirm it. And this has become this is the fundamental challenge which is when in when providing the typical view of economists and scientists would be you know data you know truth is the best disinfectant that basically if people are biased give them the truth and that'll fix it but in fact that is no longer true when there's no objective truth and that is sort of a little bit where where we've been heading. um that basically um what we have is that a partisan media environment that's not just confirming voters beliefs but actually shaping them uh as some authors say describe a polarizing feedback loop an echo chamber where partisans can reinforce and strengthen their initial biases. So you have these these e echo chambers the key term people are put in these echo chambers where they can essentially get initial biases confirmed and strengthened and of course this is strengthened by the algorithm used by social media companies which essentially when they see you like something that is leftwing or rightwing immediately pound you with more and more leftter and leer and leer and righter and writer and writer things that's the way the algorithms are designed to uh to maximize eyeballs. Okay, so we have this. Now the question is I mean I don't think what I'm saying is new to y'all. The question is like is this just sort of you know quite frankly liberal usually whining or is this real? And the evidence is that it's actually quite real. And in fact probably the best evidence for this comes from a really cool study um which asked how much does Fox News influence voters. Look, we know Fox News is a conservative bias, but whatever. As long as people are watching it, they understand that shouldn't influence their views. How would you test that? Well, it's hard because people choose to watch Fox are different than people choose not to. There's no random assignment there. But they found a very clever way to get random assignment, which is it turns out that most people when they turn the TV, when they used to watch TV, turn TV would start at two and click up. And it turns out that stations that are at the bottom of the number distribution were more likely to be watched than stations at the top of the number distribution. It also turns out that it's random where Fox News was in the number distribution. Basically depends on the timing of when Fox got to town. So they said if you're randomly in a place where Fox is low in the number distribution, it turns out you watch Fox more than if you're random than if you're a place where Fox is randomly higher in the number distribution. And they found that places where Fox was low in the number distribution were much more likely to convert conservatively even though being otherwise identical to places where it was higher. And this is not small. They actually estimate that I don't have the numbers in the book, but they estimate that in 2004 John Kerry would have beaten George Bush if you take out the Fox effect. And then 2012, President Obama would have won by 10% more than he did if you take out the Fox effect. So this is just enorm. So this is quantifying and saying there are enormous enormous effects here. Okay. Now that's just Fox News but social media's amplified this. So in 2020 71% of Americans reported getting at least some of the news from social media. Um and basically the echo chamber um uh basically allows uh allows people to confirm and and confirm their biases and their positions. Um, you know, something personally important to me is how it affected perceptions of the Affordable Care Act. Okay. So, in 20 in a 2017 poll, um, respondents were asked whether the repeal of the Affordable Care Act w which eliminated expanded Medicaid coverage and private insurance subsidies. So, basically repeal this law, which basically gave a lot of people insurance. Um, they asked would this lower insurance coverage? The answer is unamiguously yes. Uh, 70 80% of Democrats said it would. 50% of Republicans said it would. Here is what's perhaps most disturbing. If you took people who had pre-existing beliefs about the Affordable Care Act and gave them facts about the Affordable Care Act, objective facts to both sides, that moved their opinions farther apart, not closer. Now, how can that be? It's because the confirmation bias principle. People heard what they wanted to from the facts and used to confirm their pre-existing positions. That is incredibly scary. That's the scariest thing of all. It says the problem is not necessarily even more the lack of objective truth that basically there is no more objective truth that if you give people objective truth they it becomes twisted and confirmation bias. So that is a clear cause of our polarization and seems like a clear major cause of our polarization. Okay. The second so one is media. So one is media. The second is the voters which is absent media. Obviously these are going to be impossible to separate. But there is an important distinction which is even absent media are we becoming more polarized as society and we clearly becoming massively more polarized society. Now we don't know how much is the media channel but it's be it's it's incredible. Here is my um favorite scary fact about this. Um um in uh 1960 um the majority of people in America were opposed to someone marrying someone of of a different race. Today it's only 10%. Still too high, but whatever. 10% of Americans opposed to their child marrying someone of a different race. In 1960, 5% of voters were opposed to their child marrying someone to a different political party. Today, it's 50%. So people are as opposed to the children of political a different political party as they were opposed to different races in 1960. Okay. And basically the sort of most thoughtful writer in all this is a guy named Ezra Klene. And he talks about the rise of tribalism that essentially political party has become a symbol for identity that basically we that essentially there's a bundle of things that make you a Republican voter and those things are reinforced and they go together and they become an identity of a set of people and likewise with the Democratic voter you know we talk about the MAGA you know true real conservatives or or or the woke Okay, these are groups where basically they are self-reinforcing. They hang out with each other. Media helps with that and where they're becoming less and less likely to either communicate with or even interact with people of opposing views. They don't interact with people opposing views. They don't see people with opposing views. They are vividly opposed to those opposing views. And it becomes a sense of everything becomes that way that it's not like well you know I don't like them on this issue but I'll compromise on this issue. No it becomes this is your tribe and you can't look I don't know how many of you there's probably no one in this room as big a sports fan as I am. Okay I conjecture but if you're a sports fan it's like sports spot rivalries. Okay I hate the Yankees. Okay I'm a Red Sox fan. I hate the Yankees. And you know what that doesn't do anybody any harm. I mean I don't do anything physically bad to them. I might boo them occasionally. I think they can handle it. Okay. But that when people have that same feeling about the opposing political party, that matters. That matters because the voters, the vote, the Yankees, what happens to Yankees does not determine why my well-being. They don't rule me yet. Okay? But what happens to in the elections does and so people have the kind of fandom, super fandom about political parties and irrational. My love of the Red Sox is totally irrational. There's nothing rational behind it. then that's sort of worrisome about where we're heading. So that's the second problem. A third problem that I think is not discussed as much but is very important actually the is essentially institutional changes institutional changes which have happened at the same time as people become polarized and media is changing the institutions have changed. Okay? And there's no better example of this than gerrymandering, a term many of you have heard. It's because uh there was a politician whose name was Jerry who wanted to create a district where he could win. So it's shaped like a salamander. So basically here's the deal. In a rational system, we have senators are elected from each state. representatives. All 438 of them are elected from districts and they're supposed to be population representative. Senators are state representative. Congress people are supposed to be population representative. So the idea is to divide the country into 438 pieces in a sensible way. So they represent the US population. Okay, that is the idea. So you can imagine how you could do this. An MIT thesis could do this. You could sit down. You could say, look, districts have to be geographically sensible because people go to vote physically. Maybe in 50 years we all vote by mail. It won't matter. But traditionally, people vote physically. So you've got to have some geographically sensible configuration of land. Let's figure out the best way to geographically divide the country to into 438 blocks that best represent the views of our country. Now, there'd be some decisions along the way, but you could get pretty close. That is how you that's how most countries do it. In the US, in many states, the shapes of districts are created not by some a-olitical process, but by the state legislators themselves. State legislators determine what districts look like. And state legislators are therefore an incentive to shape the districts in a way that maximize the chance that their party wins. Okay. How do they do that? They do that by cracking and packing. I love these terms. Cracking is divide your opponent's supporters into multiple districts. So in no district are they a majority. Packing means take make one or two districts which have a ton of your opponents in them but then you become majority everyone else everywhere else. So the best way to think about this is essentially you want to maximize the number of wasted votes that the opposing party has. you'd like to win every race 51 to 49 because then you win every race and your opponents wasted all their votes. Okay? So essentially every vote which is every time you lose or vote which where you win by more than 51% those are wasted. The only vote that matters is the vote that gets you to 51%. Everything above that's a waste. Everything below that's a waste. So you can measure how efficient political systems are, how neutral they are by how close they are, how many wasted votes there are. The more wasted votes, the less well-designed a district system is. You like a system that would minimize wasted votes, whereas partisans want a system that maximizes wasted votes. This is actually pretty cool because this is the first time I know that computer simulations were presented in front of the Supreme Court was in 2017. There was a case about this. Um um Wisconsin had a massive efficiency gap. That is the you would in a typical system you like to be a zero a zero efficiency gap. Both parties would be equally efficient. Both parties have the same number of wasted votes. Wisconsin there's a 12% gap. Democrats had 12% more wasted votes than Republicans. Now the Wisconsin Republican Congress state legislature supported this said, "Well, look, that's just random chance. that's going to happen. So he is he did a computer simulation and he essentially drew 200 different possible configurations of geographies of Wisconsin and in each configuration measured the efficiency gap and of all 200 there existed configuration had a bigger efficiency gap than any other randomly selected possible configuration of areas which clearly showed there was bias going into selecting those areas. Okay. Um so basically we have this problem fundamentally put that voters should choose politicians but right now through gerrymandering politicians are choosing their voters because they're determining where voters go and who they vote for. That's the kind of institution. Now of course there's another institution which we talk about a lot which is coming up in a couple of months. Remember to vote. I'll keep reminding you. Remember if you don't know what to do, go to MIT Turbo Vote, learn about how to register. Make sure you vote. presidential elections coming up. Okay. And there we're going to hear a lot about the electoral college which is once again another institution. Now this is not new but another institution which is affecting the bias in our system which is that we have had um essentially I think let's see it's what three of the last six elections the winner of the election has not won the popular vote. Okay. So the majority of America is not electing the candidate. Okay. So that's another institution that matters. The one institution that matters. Yeah. torically because it was too hard to aggregate. You know, we just everyone was just voting on pieces of paper and you had to ride drive by horses and get them all together. So, it's just too hard to aggregate. There's no reason to have it now except let's remember think about the political economy which is as long as more states to repeal this you would need an amendment to the constitution. The amendment to the constitution has to be passed by twothirds of states. As long as one-third of states, one-third plus one state, benefit more from this than the other two/irds lose, you'll never pass that amendment. And that'll by definition always be true. By definition, there'll always be at least one-third of states that are better off because of the electoral college. That may shift over time. So you if you could manage some period of time where suddenly electoral college was neutral, maybe then you could get a change. But if it's ever not neutral, the people who win from it, people get more power because of it. So, a vote a um uh a vote in um uh a vote for president cast in Wyoming currently counts four times as much for president as one count cast in California. Why would you want to give up that power for you in Wyoming? Why what politician would ever visit Wyoming with a national electoral? They wouldn't. They polit. So basically the argument that advocacy of electoral college make which you know is worth discussing. This is not a priaryy crazy is look right if we got rid electoral college politicians would never visit any but the top 10 most populous states because why bother be inefficient. So the whole the country would not get attention if we got rid of electoral college. That's the argument. >> Yes Stephen. for example, lower voting age or something like that. >> Uh the voting age is set federally. The voting age is set federally, I believe. No. Is that not true? >> Can states let 16-year-olds vote if they want? >> Okay. But I'm not sure. I know about that, but I'm not sure about age. Are you sure about age? >> Age is maximum like limit is 18 >> maximum. >> Great. So that that's a good point. That may be another reason why you wouldn't want to race to the bottom among states of of letting newborns vote. That that's a fair point. Um but um on the other hand uh the electoral college, you know, it's funny. Those people who say, "Well, all the attention we paid to California are missing the fact now all the attention is paid to Pennsylvania." So no matter what system you have, there'll be a small subset of states that get all the attention. Okay? in with our car system it's the seven swing states okay which are where the median voters live okay the median voter theorem lives and the reason it lives is because uh Harris and Trump we spending a huge amount of their time over the next few months in just seven states okay Pennsylvania Wisconsin Nevada uh Arizona uh Georgia and North Carolina okay they'll be spending the majority now those seven states only have probably 20% of the US population but they'll get 80% of their time. So it's not like having electoral college solve the problem of politicians concentrating their activity. If anything, it's made it less good. At least if they're spending all the time big states, it'll be represent more Americans. So that's the electoral college. We actually have another feature which would be even harder to change which is the structure of the Senate. Now I don't know if you have Hamilton fans here, but we all know about the compromise by which America was set up was a compromise between states rights advocates or not. And the way they solved that compromise was by creating a body where the representation is essentially by state not by population. The result is within a the current projections are um about 70% of the US population will be represented by 30% of the Senate because small states get two senators just like big states do. So once again, does that make it's hard in a pure m, you know, if you really care about direct democracy, it's hard to think how that makes sense. But once again, the argument would be that there's unique set of interests that these states have that would get ignored if it was pop. Once again, and they're right. No one would ever pay attention to Wyoming if there was no Senate. Okay? They'd have no power. Okay? So basically, that's a fair point. The question is why do we care? And that's that that's an important question to be thinking about. So those are the kinds of uh institutions but you know there's another there are other institutional changes that matter too. Uh so for example um uh there's so so one example there's a number of examples some recent examples um is uh is things like uh voter fraud concerns and voter registration that basically once again in principle we should have a national conversation about who is eligible to elect our representatives and then that everyone should follow the same rules and allow those people to vote. that is no longer happening or there's a concern that's no longer happening in that different states based on their partisan composition may be restricting who can vote in different ways passing laws which say this comes to that this maybe is another confront Stephen which is that maybe it's not playing with age but playing with other things like criminal criminal status access to a polling place etc that is basically causing it causing there to be a partisan bias in essentially who can vote Um so basically uh that's another institutional change. Um so we're seeing obviously um we're seeing uh so the point is we're we're seeing lots of interesting changes in how we institutionalize this. Uh and so the question is you know we could talk about which of these is the problem. They're all the problem. And I'm going to use problem. I have no problem using a loaded term like that. It is a problem that we talk past each other that we don't have the same set of objective facts that we don't have a rep truly representative democracy in which I don't mean the the Senate electoral college thing. I mean that is just sort of debate between states rights not and I have my views but there's no objective truth on that. I think it's more stuff like gerrymandering or the other biases that we talked about that are more obviously problematic. So the question is for you guys to solve, lest your lives be ruined. What are we going to do about this? Okay, I'm old. I'm done. Okay, like basically I've gotten through this pretty well. Okay, but you guys, this is your life and it's only getting worse. Okay, so the question is, and I mean this legitimately. I'm ask I'm asking the class like what can we do about this? How do we what answers are there out there to try to address these kinds of problems that are causing more polarization? Yeah, Alec >> independent districting committees. >> We could have so per that's a perfect example of a of a technical but very valid conclusion which some states are doing. Some states have independent districting committees which are trying to really minimize this efficiency gap and choose districts in the most uh appropriate way not in a political way. What else can we do? mandatory voting. >> So, so my um my son's new wife is from Brazil. They have massively higher voting turnout than we do. Okay, why? Well, for two reasons. First of all, you get fined if you don't vote. Second of all, voting is a holiday. Voting day is a holiday. Okay, we're I think the only major country where voting day is not is on a work day. Okay. Now, once again, how could you be opposed to voting day not being on a work day? Will you oppose to that? If you're the side that wants low turnout, which ones could vary [clears throat] over time? Right now, it's the Republican side which would like low turnout. It could in 20 years it could be the Democrats who want low turnout. The bottom line is if you want low turnout, you like voting being on a on a Tuesday. Okay. But and you like it not being mandatory. Okay. So, those are things we could do. Once again, all things that other countries do that are sensible. What else? >> Yeah, Eno. So we could get rid of we could try to tamp down on money in politics. So what happened was the Supreme Court essentially ca took a limit off how much money through various mechanisms people contribute to politics in what 2012 I think was citizens united um 2008 I don't remember uh they took a limit off how much people can contribute and money and politics by and large while in principle once again here's the key thing in principle money and politics could be good because it could represent intensity of preferences which is missed by the median voter model in practice it's bad because it overly represents intensity of preferences and in particular particular overly represents the preferences of people who happen to have money at that point in time. And so as a result um you are getting uh politicians paying attention to particular donors rather than the needs of all their constituents. Uh and you're not necessarily getting what is in the interest of social welfare. Remember our social welfare weights. Remember we think that basically we probably redistributing from those who have a lot and thus a low margin utility to consume. Those have a little and high margin utility to consume. That's the opposite of where the money is currently held. And so there'll be a there'll be a natural bias against kind of social welfare maximizing redistribution. So money and politics is another is another thing we can do. Yeah. They have no sources. >> Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's this is to me the fundamental challenge we face which is echo ch that to me of all these problems is the is the dominant one. uh because I can see answers to a lot of these problems along the way these were suggested. That one I don't see the answer. I mean without nationalizing news, how do you get I mean they're profit maximizing companies. How do you get them to do that? Yeah. >> Yeah, we could try to do that. The only problem is I'm sort of depressed by the evidence says that facts don't matter or could make things worse. So getting both sides doesn't I mean certainly that would help in theory in practice the Fox viewers is going to throw away the blue pamphlet and keep the red pamphlet. So in practice or interpret the blue pamphlet is supporting their position. So in subsets if you said made that session 20 years ago I would have much more optimistic and said yeah we should do that. Now I just I don't know that moves the needle. That is so the question is what we do about that. That's a challenge. Yes, Stephen. >> Oh, not you know we're not doing feasible. >> I mean basically you could make it less profitable in some sense. the the but the problem is you know that's an interesting argument but in fact some economists have explored this issue of whether competition essentially whether the money to be made is causing this bias and it's not clear if it's not profitable to run a news network. Okay, if you can't make a profit on a news network then basically it'll be the really crazy bias people run news networks right because like that's the only reason they're going to run it then is because they have crazy views at least a profit motive can keep them a little honest. Yeah, Alec because you have politicians who cater to >> I think I think that's right. I think this all interacts. I agree and um uh I agree. I think I I remain concerned that it's hard to that this echo chamber problem kind of dominates. Um but the answer but the question is sort of what do we do about this? And there's actually a very interesting new case which may have a big influence on this. So I I don't know you know I don't know how much you guys know about internet law but um part of the reason the internet flourished was a law passed number of years ago section 330 or something which is 3 230 uh which basically says platforms cannot be held responsible for what you post. So basically if you post some racist Nazi in a platform it's not their fault they can't do that. So people have been unable to deal with the fact that public seen this online but there's an interesting lawsuit and and the reason is because they are viewed not as media sources but as platforms as platforms not responsible for what's posted but a lot of what is driving the problems today is not what's being posted but the algorithms that drive where you look and lawsuit says you can sue them over their algorithms. That's kind of interesting because if a lot of these problems are caused by al algorithms then you're not a neutral platform anymore. If you have algorithms drive where people go and so that if we can start to that is that's the most optimistic thing I've heard about trying to deal with this is how do we get at those algorithms that are driving this. I think more generally it's how do we create and here I want to be more optimistic. How do folks like you which are the next generation of sort of elites and thought leaders in the country. How do we deal with this and help solve it? And one way we do that is by recognizing in some sense the underlying danger of social media and trying to deal with it. Um I don't know I don't know how many of you guys have known my my my favorite new social media study. Have you guys heard of the the FOMO study with social media? You guys heard about this one yet? This is the most amazing study. So a great economist at Chicago named Leo Burstein. He went to university students at about a dozen universities and said actually let's question here we go. Um how much let's I'm not I don't have clicker so we can't take the vote. How many of Imagine I told you you're all like busy. You're not typical right? But imagine I told you Imagine I was willing to pay you to give up Tik Tok for a month. Imagine willing to pay you to give up Tik Tok for a month. How much would I have to pay you to give up Tik Tok for a month? I'm not gonna ask you. actually just be embarrassing. But uh but I I I've asked people, kids of people of my friends, I get numbers in the range of $100 and the average the average in his sample was $60. They had to pay people 60 bucks to give Tik Tok for a month. Then he asked them, he said, "Look, I've reached agreement with your university that if twothirds of you agree to give up t agree to it, the university will ban Tik Tok for everyone on campus for a month." How much would I have to pay you to do that? or how much would you pay for that? And the answer is people said they would pay $40. Think about that for a second. They have to be paid to give up their own Tik Tok account, but they would pay $40 for everyone to give up, including themselves, give up their Tik Tok account. That is proof of FOMO. I mean, right there, it's perfect evidence. Basically, only people people using Tik Tok are afraid of not. Okay? In other words, Tik Tok is making us worse off, not better off, because we'd all be happier if it was gone. Now, that's extreme, but the bottom line is how can we use studies like that, evidence like that to really come at the root source of what's driving this. And here here is where I I will put in my pitch for where you can help. And it comes a bit to the comment here about setting out information, which is the other trend that's gone on that's making this worse is sort of a view of sort of um I mean to put in elitist terms, lack of respect for elites. to put it in non- elitist terms, sort of a trend towards uncovering that, you know, people doing their own research. You know, I did my own research. Okay. Well, that's just not healthy. Okay. There are experts in things and experts know stuff and that should be respected, but that's going away. Okay. I don't think that's a controversial statement. I mean it's controversial in today's world but it's not factually controversial that some people know more about things than other people and that we can learn more about things by consulting those who know. Why has this lack of respect for expertise exploded? Well, lot all these reasons plus one more. Elites separating themselves. Intellectuals separating themselves from communicating with everybody. Talking only to each other in language we only understand and not using terminology and expressing ourselves in ways that other people can understand. Not in fact the one piece of really good evidence of how you can move people is through personal connections. The one piece of evidence on how you change those opinions is when people have friends and connections from the other side, you can move their opinions. But when experts stand up and just say, "Look, you're wrong." The uh one of my favorite Onion guys know The Onion favorite Onion articles ever was uh it was a fake editorial by saying, "You know, I totally changed my views when that guy called me an ignorant asshole." And it's like, "No, that's not going to change anybody's views." Okay? Okay. And you may feel that way and you're entitled to your feelings, but the bottom line is we need to engage with where people are. And we as the experts need to go and engage and build our communication skills. I realize MIT is not a communication focused university and y'all hate your communications courses. I understand that. But it's important that we don't just talk to each other, but that we can talk in terms that everyone understands and that we can basically because that's how we actually change things. Okay. So, I'm going to my message to you is to urge you as you become expert in something to not buy into the that expertise is invaluable. Expertise is incredibly valuable, but to recognize people have that view because we're not good at expressing expertise and understandable and humane ways. Okay? And that's that's I think the place we can make a difference and I'm hoping a positive difference. Hoping that someday if it's done in that way, oh, here they come for me. Someday if it's done in that way, um that you can get those red and blue pamphlets and you will pay attention. Okay. So that's what I want to say about polarization. I want to come to one any other questions about that. Let me come to one last topic which is let's go even further which is I've talked about um a system of unanimous consent. I've talked about direct democracy. I've talked about representative democracy. I've talked about polarization. But I have yet to talk about a system where politicians don't actually care at all about what's good for the country. I found about a system where politicians may not do what's best for the country in aggregate or may bias them but I still assume politicians are kind of trying to do what's right and the whole course does but in fact that may not be true and that leads to the whole area of corruption okay which is basically a fundamental challenge to how do we think about modeling government and designing policy in a world where polic where really the goal of the government is not at all to do social welfare maximization but just to maximize their own power and wealth. Okay. Now, this is obviously a huge problem to be fair worse around the world than it is here, especially in developing countries. So fun examples like the prime min foreign prime minister of Malaysia was arrested in July 2018 um uh which because since 2015 the US government had been investigating $4.5 billion stolen from the Malaysian government and laundered through US your corporations more than 1 billion of that was spent on US goods including a 22 karat pink diamond necklace that cost 27 million 27 necklaces that cost 1.3 million um the production of the movie The Wolf of Wall Um uh and uh and his son's lavagant parties and including $12 million in gifts of art to Leo DiCaprio. Okay, so that is one example. Um now the US is not alone. Now probably the king of corruption in the world I think the title probably goes to um Joseph Mabudu of the Congo which was renamed Zire and then renamed back to Congo. um between 1967 and 1997 when he was chased out of power the entire worldwide incomes grew over that period in real terms they probably doubled or tripled in the Congo income per capita fell by twothirds over a 30-year period while the rest was going two to three times richer income per capita fell by twothirds and he became one of the richest men in the world with an in with wealth of more than $5 billion okay now in a situation like that how can you think they're doing anything we're teaching about in this class, right? They're not worrying about optimal public goods provision. They're wor about optimal yacht provision to them. Okay. Now, it's not we're we're not we're not we're not exempt from this. And one of the fun examples is uh we have any folks from Illinois here. Illinois folks. Okay. Well, Illinois is a great maybe you're afraid to admit it. Corruption capital. Um George Ryan was the governor. um he was uh indicted by a federal grand jury in because it turned out that when uh when he was um secretary of state, he allowed people to buy their way into driver's license even if they weren't qualified. On the result, at least 20 people died in accidents involving drivers who were unqualified, who bought their licenses. Um and so he was sent to jail and replaced by someone who campaigned on clean government, a man whose name I heard named Rod Lgoyovich. Rob Lgoyovich, you might say, "God, that name sounds maybe a little familiar when I was a kid." Um, he um went to jail because he auctioned off Barack Obama's Senate seat. So Barack Obama was a went to president, ran for president, his Senate seat became open, and there should be an election for it. Bgoyovich secretly took bribes to decide who would the governor got to appoint the senator. He took bribes to decide who would get that seat and so he went down. So corruption is everywhere. It's a demic. So what do we think about this? How do we think about the role of corruption? Well, there's a couple points I want to make. Point one is we should not have a black and white view view of thinking about corruption. That is we should never have the view that any corruption means the whole system's broken. This is a problem we have in US politics today which is that any example of corruption causes a uniform loss of loss of uh belief in the whole system. Okay. And that is a that's that's a that's a problem that basically people lose their faith in the system at even a hint of corruption. We're going to talk in the next section of the course all about public programs like social security, Medicare, unemployment insurance. There has never been a public program in the history of the world in any country that has not had some fraud. Never. Does that mean they shouldn't exist? No. It just means you got to balance the fraud against the good they do. Likewise, the fact that there's some corruption in a system does not mean the system is funly broken has to be ripped apart. Only if you've got a better system with less corruption should you do it. Maybe that a certain amount of corruption is inevitable in a system. And one should not think that any corruption it's sort of like we talking about pollution said that optimal pollution is never zero. Not saying although corrosion corruption is never zero. I'm just saying realistic corruption is never zero. And so the first point is we cannot get this black and white system of thinking like people got about pollution that any means the whole thing needs to be torn down. That's not true. Okay. We have to think about trading off how bad the corruptions versus the other features of the system. Okay. So that's point one. Point two um is related to that which is corruption can lead to a dangerous cycle. Now I've traveled all over the world and whenever I'm in a country I try to talk politics with the local folk and um in most countries in the world and every developing country I've been to you always get I'll say like okay who are you who are your political parties? Who are you going to vote for? You always get the same answer. Everyone I ask they're all corrupt. It doesn't matter anyway. I'm not going to vote. everywhere, every developing country gives the same answer. Think about what that means. That means that corruption can create a self-reinforcing cycle. And the reason is my third point, which is that the best barrier to corruption is democracy. That basically the evidence exists that the more democratic a society, the less corruption there is. Okay? There's a number of studies which show that increasing democratic institutions, democratic supports leads to a fallen corruption. So this means that we have a possibility of a vicious cycle where corrupt politicians cause people to lose faith in government cause them not to participate which allows more corruption and it continues till you're a zire. Okay. And that is the risk with corruption that you move to. We talk in economic about multiple equilibrium. We'll talk about some macroeconomics different equilibriums that are equally likely possible depending on random things happening. Well, we are in a we are in the US of Churchman in a very good equilibrium where we have relatively little corruption and relatively high participation in democracy. Not as high it could be. We're not as good as Europe, but we're better than developing countries. Okay, that can go away if a corrupt president erodess the faith in the political whole political system. People just throw up their hands and say, "Forget it. I'm not I'm not interested." And that is the other message my on my soap box I'm delivering to you all which is many of my friends on my side of the political spectrum got very depressed after 2016 and said oh the whole thing's broken I'm not going to participate and that's wrong okay it's actually the wrong reaction if the side you like is don't like is winning the reaction is not to drop out but it's paid more okay but the problem is it can feel you know it can feel like an uphill battle it can feel like sisphus doing that and that situation may devel developing countries find them in and it's a risk that any country could find themselves in that situation. Okay. Yeah. >> Right. >> Yeah. They've done studies that it's a great point. It's a great point. Yeah. You know, it's a bias problem, right? Um democracy also correlates with now democracy also correlates with economic success. say to separate them, but there's various clever ways they've done that. And it's not it's not a pure it's not a randomized trial, but generally the views from the bulk of evidence that democracies correlate with lower corruption. corruption countries. >> I mean, once again, we don't know. That's the problem. We don't know how much corruption there is in China. You know, it could be enormous. We've got no I mean, look at how little Putin knew about the corruption of his own military and the the decrepit state of his own military before he went to war. He thought he had a great military. Turns out he doesn't because it's all corrupt. So, the problem with a non-democracy is you can't even you don't know the institutions that let you know how much corruption there is. So, as a result, it could be self-reinforcing. I don't know how much corruption is in China. I'm not sure anybody does. So um so that's um that's the other point I want to make. Finally, let me come to the meta point of this of this chapter. The meta point of this chapter is to go back to the four questions of public finance and to remember that just because the private market fails doesn't mean the government will succeed. when we what we tactically are saying when we prove private market failure like an externality or public good we're saying there is the scope for the government to improve things but not they necessarily will and I'll be sloppy on that discourse I'll sometimes slip in a language like okay the market's broken the government should fix it but the government might not just like there's market failure there is government failure and so the the key thing to remember even if I'm not even if I'm sloppy with my language Okay. Is that basically the when we prove market failure, we are not proving the government can make it better. We're proving the government has the scope to potentially make it better. When the government will make it better depends on the scope of government failure. Okay? And in particular, let me end with one important point about that which comes as I mentioned I realized like I said we only get a lecture and a half on political economy which is too bad. It's a great topic but we have maybe the world's most famous little economist Ronas Simoglu teaching here and he has a famous book called why nations fail uh which is all about the role that institutions play in terms of success or failure of the success or failure of countries that it's not just about whether you got some corrupt guy in charge or not but basically how robust the institutions are and there's no way to see that more than than look at the 2020 election okay the US electoral system held an under enormous pressure from one side to change the results. It held up. Institutions matter. So there's a long-standing debate about well is it institutions a matter of people that matter? What what really matters? And this Jerome's sort of lifeblood has been a series of articles showing the how critical institutions are the underlying institutions are country success. Maybe his most famous article is a super cool article he did where he and his co-authors noted that basically um there were two sets two types of countries colonized by the great powers back in the 1600s and 1700s. Um and basically uh countries some countries were colonized Some countries were colonized from afar. Countries in the Caribbean and Africa, the Europeans generally didn't go live there. They sent a proxy government and went back to live in Europe. Other countries like in South America or Australia, the Europeans went and lived there. It turns out that if you look today and it turns out from the perspective of that time those countries were all about pretty comparable economically today there's an incredible correlation between whether they were countries where the Europeans actually went and lived and economic outcomes in particular the ones where Europeans went and colonized and lived there had much better economic outcomes than when they they ruled from afar. They might say well I don't know maybe they want to live there because things about the country. So how did they actually test that? They did a really cool thing was they said look what's the best predictor of whether Europeans would live there. The incident of malaria that basically Europeans didn't want to go live where there was malaria. Okay, locals aren't affected by malaria. They were immune. So it's basically whether Europeans would get sick by living there. And they found that places where people you get more sick by living there. The Europeans were less likely to live there. What did they do? They did not set up strong institutions because they didn't live there. They didn't care. They were extracting resources. They didn't care if there was crime. They didn't care like what life was like there, how awful life was there. That should give me my diamonds. I'm out. Whereas when they lived there, they cared. They didn't want to be victim to crime. They wanted good schools. So essentially, where there wasn't a risk of malaria, low risk of malaria, Europeans actually settled there, created good institutions, and those countries grew rapidly. Where there was a risk of malaria, now it's not one to one, it's a correl, it's a it's, you know, it's a relationship. But as the risk of malaria went up, Europeans were less likely to settle there. they just became extractive powers and weak institutions got set up. So that's why and that's sort of they argue a fundamental reason why Africa was much less successful in South America. If you look at two c two continents which were in pretty similar places in 1600 indeed Africa's resource richer than South America is you know Africa is a mess and South America's at least historically been largely successful certainly a lot richer than Africa and they would argue it's because Africa was set up as an extractive culture whereas South America was set up as a culture which had good institutions because Europeans wanted to live there so it's a pretty cool study that says that this stuff matters doesn't matter for our everyday life but literally it matters to orders of magnitude of GDP setting up proper institutions and that's why once again it comes back to this point that it's critical that we keep the institutions in the U it's it's critical it matters less who's in charge who's president okay what matters to the underlying institutions that support a democracy stay in place when those start to road that's when things really go south okay question about that yeah Yeah. So, um what bill is incentivized corruption? What do you mean by that? >> Yeah. No, obviously you can build good and bad institutions. Uh but I think the point is that legitimate institutions are generally more observable and observability is the opposite of corruption. So basically when things are you know the when things are observable they're less likely to be corrupt. So I think that would be the answer. Once again if you find this interesting when nations fail why nations fail sold more than a million copies amazing book. Uh so you can read all about this set of really interesting issues from you know one of our nation's leading intellectual stars. >> Yeah. >> You know it's a really interesting question about the proper reimbursement of public officials. Indeed, there's a lot of incentive that part of the reason politicians are so corrupt and local officials are corrupt in low-inccome countries, they're paid so little than they can survive that basically they take bribes and think of a simple model where there's an income. Think of a simple model where I have consumption and honesty in my utility function. Okay? And I'm and I have a budget constraint. Well, in that model, the more income I have, the more honest I'll be because honesty is a is a good something I want, but I got to survive too. Okay? So in that simple model, paying politicians more will fight corruption. There's some evidence that's true. Um I think it's second order. I I'm not an expert. Ben Olen, who's another incredibly wonderful political economist in our department, has done work on that. I think the evidence is that it matters, but it's not first. It's it's not a primary determinant. All right, great. Uh good. Hopefully I didn't get myself in too much trouble. Let's uh stop there and we will uh come back on Monday and we'll talk about chapter 10.