So next we will so we we're switching away from metric basis and we talk about differentiation. So if we have a function uh on R say uh and then we say that that uh that x that f is differentiable. at x0. If the limit here if the limit uh f ofx minus f of x0 if the divided by x - x0 if this limit here exist um if this limit here exists as x go to x0 this here This here this quotient here is usually called the difference quotion and it's always of course when you form this different quotient it's always assumed obviously that x is not equal to x0 so that the denominator makes sense right so if this limit here as x go to x0 if this exists then we say that the function f is differentiable at x0 and the limit is called the derivative of f at x0 and this is how it's denoted. Okay. So now the simplest possible example of this would be uh that suppose that you're looking at a function that is constant. of f is equal to f for some constant uh c uh then if you're looking at this difference quotient so f of x - f of x0 x - x0 well the value at any point is c so this here is c minus c / X - Y X 0 and so the denominator is zero. So this whole thing is zero and so of course the limit this is zero for each X and also it takes zero. So in particular of course the limit here exist. So the limit here of the different quotient uh exist and it's equal to zero right because it's zero for all x for a given x0. So that would be like the simplest possible example. The second simplest example, second most simple example would be that you're looking at a linear function. So let's say that f ofx is equal to x, right? In this case, the difference quotient. So the difference quotient here, well this here is x. This here is x0. So this here is for each x and x0. This is one. So the limit of course in this case also exist. The limit here exist and it's equal to to one. Right? So in this case, so in this case f is differentiable at all points and the derivative at all points is equal to zero. In this case, f here is also differentiable and the derivative at all points is equal to one. Okay. So now in general how do we compute the so how do we compute the derivative of a function? Uh how how do we compute the derivative and for that there are some some basic uh laws how to compute it. So there's these laws um the sum rule uh what's usually called the liess rule. uh the quotient rule and then uh also the chain rule. Okay. Now let me uh look at the first three rules first. So um I have uh two functions f and g they are defined say on r but it could have been a subset of r uh and uh I'm assuming that that they are both and both right actually I need we'll need one okay so both Um f and g are differentiable at x0. Then we have the following. So we have the following lema. Uh uh one is we have that. So one and this is really the sum rule. We have that the sum here f plus g. So the sum of these two functions this is the function that is just in x is just a sum of f ofx and g of x. We have that this function here f + g is differentiable at x0 and the derivative f + g. The derivative of this nx0 is just a sum of the derivative. Okay, let me let me prove this one here right away. So let me so let's prove this. So we have the sum. So uh we we will we are going to look at so we form the difference. So form the difference quotion. So f + g at x - f + g x - x0 right so now what is this? So this here is uh this is just f of x plus g of x minus and then f of x0 plus g of x0 and then divided by x - x0 right and so then you can split this up into two. You can write this difference quotion as if you split it up. If you collect the fs in a nominator. So I just collect the fs and then afterwards I collect the and I put it on two different fractions. Separate them out and then I collect the G's. And now you see that because f was differentiable at x0 this thing here as x go to x0 this here goes to fprime. So this here goes to f prime of x0. This is what this difference quotient here. And this difference quotient goes to g prime of zero. So you have that indeed it does converge and this is what it converts to right and so this prove that the sum of these two functions is also differentiable and their derivative is the sum of the derivative okay the next thing we will prove is len rule but before that I need to kind of step back and I want to so before proving so the next uh maybe I'll just state it and then we'll go back and we need something The next is what's called liveness rule. So it's all you know you could also call it product rule but it's really quite generally called the lieness rule. And so this is when you looking at the product of these function. So the product function, the product function is a function in x that is just the product of f ofx and g of x and lightness rule. Lightness rule it say the following that if f and g are differentiable at x0 then the product of these two function here is also differentiable at x0. And the derivative of the product is the derivative of the first function at x0 times the value of the second function at x0 plus the uh the symmetric in f and g which is the value of f at x0 times the derivative of g at x0. Right? So the product is differentiable at x0 also. And this is what the derivative is. And in the notes, I just copied a little bit of thing just for fun from Wikipedia about lightnings. That was kind of interesting figure and played an important role long time ago. Okay. So before I want to prove this, let me step back and let me make an observation about um uh what it means to be differentiable at a point. So So this is the next lemon. So you have a function f on r into r and and you assume that um uh f so if f here is differentiable at x0. Then I claim that then f here is also continuous at x0. Okay. Okay. So, so in other words, different being differentiable is stronger than being continuous. In a minute, we will see an example of something that's continuous but not differentiable. And so uh okay so now let's try to prove that so right so I'm assuming that it's differentiable so this means that this this difference quotient here this here has a limit and that limit is the derivative right as x go to x0. So this means that um that there exist uh there exist delta greater than zero such that if x here uh minus x0 is less than delta right of course I'm assuming that it's not equal to x0. If it is less than the difference to uh between x and x0 is less than delta, then this difference quotient here then f of x - f of x0 x - x0 - frime of x0. this thing here have to be less than one right I mean this is just using that this limit exists and I'm sort of using in place of epsilon I'm using one right okay now so this means just multiplying over and And multiplying over you get that f ofx minus f of x0 uh minus frime uh of x0 this thing here uh times I'm I'm multiplying both sides. So I'm multiplying both sides uh by uh x - x0. This is a positive thing, right? So I'm multiplying both sync by that. So then I get this thing here x - x0. Uh and then I get less less strictly less than x - x0, right? Because this here is strictly positive. because x is not equal to x0. So I have that and so I get that. So I now I just split it up. So I have that f ofx - f of x0 is now less than x - x0 plus frime of x0. time uh x - x0 right this is just the triangle inequality that we've used many times just on right and so now you see that um that if you now um so given so now if you so now and this here of course I can also write uh like this sorry I can just factor this out and I can write it as 1 + frime of x0 like this fine and so now if I want this thing here so so now you can if you were to right so now you want to prove that f is continuous at x0 so you want this here to be less than some given epsilon So given epsilon epsilon greater than zero you uh let delta 1 be like the minimum of uh if you let said delta 1 to be the minimum of the delta that I already chose. So then I have this inequality and then um and then uh epsilon uh over 1 + frime of x0 so if I make delta I choose delta like this then I have I fill in that so now I'm assuming that this thing here is less than delta 1. So again I have this inequality because it's less than delta. So then uh when I fill in here delta 1 for this then I see that this thing here times this is less than epsilon. This here holds when is less than delta 1 right again because if it's less than delta 1 it's less than delta so I have this inequality and then I can use that delta 1 since is less than this and then I get this inequality okay so this prove right so this is really what we want to prove right we want to prove that if it's differentiable then it's also continuous and the continuity here I I proved it you know with you know epsilon or delta that you really should prove it like okay now let's look at some examples so this means that if a function is differentiable then it's continuous Let me give you an example uh of a function that is so let me give you a few three examples. The first example is maybe the simplest one um that so this is the function f ofx that is equal to the absolute value of of x. So f here is defined on r into r and it's just the absolute value and so I well the absolute value here so we've seen before so f here is continuous it's continuous at all points right uh in particular of course at zero right but if you now form the difference quotient, right? Suppose that x here is bigger than zero. And now look at the difference quotient. So the difference quotient uh uh quotient at uh at x0 equal to zero. If you're looking at that difference quotient and and you at the you first look at where x is positive if x is positive then uh f ofx minus f of 0 x - 0 this difference quotient here if x is positive then this thing here is just x. So this is x - 0 x - 0. So this here is one right this difference quotient is one. This is when x is positive. When x is negative then the then f ofx if x is negative then the absolute value is minus x right. So the difference quotient here f ofx minus uh f of 0 which is zero x - 0. This here is just - x / x. But this thing here is minus one. So for all if you are if you're looking at the difference quotient and you uh that comes from looking at the derivative as zero. Then when you approach zero from the right then the difference quotient is one. When you approach it from the sorry uh yeah from the when you approach it from the left then the difference quotient is minus one. So it doesn't have a limit right. It has a limit from the right from the left but it doesn't have a limit if you don't restrict where it's coming from. So this function here uh is not differentiable. Yeah. >> So okay. So this is right. So so this so this is so so we did this earlier in the class. So if you take so that the difference quotient here that this thing here is converging to to some number say a right. This here means that for all for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a delta greater than zero such that if x - x0 is less than delta and again x is is assumed to be different from x0. If you have that then this difference quotient here minus this a is supposed to be less than epsilon. And so that's is okay. And so you see again in this example that we just looked at where uh in the example that we just looked at where uh so in the example where f ofx was equal to the absolute value of fx the if you were graphing it then this looks like this right and we saw that the difference quotion when you approach it over here, difference quotient was one. When you approach it over here, the difference quotient is minus one. So if you take a little any little interval around zero, then there the difference quotient could be either minus one or one, right? But even however small you make this little interval, it's not like that it converts to some number because it has it it is both you know they're both uh cases where it's one and cases where it's minus one. Okay. So that's that's like the first example and again you know of a function that is continuous but it's it's not differentiable as at zero. In this case it was a zero. Um and maybe a little bit more interesting example along the same line uh is uh the following. So So um if I so this is again a function on r into r and I said f ofx = x * sin of 1 /x. This here is not really defined at zero. So I need to define it also at zero. So when x is equal to zero then I just set it equal to to to zero and otherwise I set it equal to x * sin 1 /x okay and so the thing is that this function here so f here is continuous in particular it's continuous at x at at when at at zero it's continuous continuous it's actually continuous everywhere but but it's mostly interested in it at zero the graph of this to remember that sine function sine function looks like this that at zero um at zero at pi at 2 pi at 3 pi and so on at all of these by at all integer multiples also for the negative ones at all integer multiple of pi sign function vanishes and in between here it is at pi / two it achieves its maximum which is one and so the function looks like this so this here is one right that's how a sign function looks And so now if you're looking at sine of 1 /x that's going to be a function as you're going down. So this is so if you're looking at this here was sine of x but if you're looking at sine of one of x as x go to zero this here becomes very large. So this means that as you're going to zero it go very rapidly through these periods where it goes where it's oscillates between minus1 and one the value here is minus one and so as you it will look like this that uh it will again uh if you're looking at it will again fluctu it will fluctuate but it will fluctuate operates uh much more rapidly. So if this here say was one over pi at one over pi 1 over 1 / pi is the same as pi there it would be zero and it would like fluctuate um it would fluctuate so it would look like something like this but it would fluctuate you know it and then as you're going way it will fluctuate less less often right so as you're going down towards zero it will fluctuate a lot right it always because sign always is between minus1 and one the value here will always between minus1 and one but as you're going towards zero from the right or from the left it's going to fluctuate more and more right as you're going away from zero is fluctuating less and less. Okay. So, so this is the function I'm interested in. And so, but when you multiply when you multiply through by X then you see when you multiply through by X it's fluctuating but it's always fluctuating between minus1 and one. If you multiply it by x then as you're going to zero this hair will squeeze down and it will become the fluctuation will be zero at zero. So it's easy to see that this function here so is indeed continuous. Right? But let's look at the difference quotient. So the difference quotient. So if we're looking at the difference quotion, so we're looking at and we just look at the difference quotient at zero. So this is the difference quotient and so it's x sin 1 /x. The value at zero by definition was zero. And so you see that now this here the x this here becomes just x sin 1 /x / x. And so you see that this here cancel with that. So you just get sine 1 /x. And so you see that now as x go to so when x here goes to zero this here fluctuates. This have fluctuate between minus one and one n1 but it doesn't have a limit right because it's fluctuated y or why not right. So this is a this is an example again this is another example of a function that is continuous at zero but not differentiable at zero. It's actually much worse than the previous the previous one was the previous one the example the previous example that was this example is much more tame. It is not differentiable at zero but if you were restrict to just positive things then from then it would be differentiable right if you were you could also define derivative. In general when we define derivative we let it be defined in a neighborhood of that point. So on either side. But if you were considering where you were allowing the function just to be defined at this point and then to the right say or to the left then this function would be differentiable. Right? But the in the in in in this example here it doesn't matter if you restrict the interval to just to the right or to the left. It's still not differential. Okay. Right. So this is something about this example is something about that it fluctuates wildly and that is causing it not to be differentiable. If it wasn't again if if you if you defined it if you didn't have this kind of the X here is sort of serving as some sort of it's dampening how much it's fluctuating right so if there wasn't a X here then this function wouldn't it would just fluctuate and it wouldn't even be continuous at X0 right but once I put this X on then it becomes continuous if I put another x. So if I'm looking at f ofx = x^2 * sin 1 / x. Suppose I'm looking at this function. So now I have sort of dampened dampened the fluctuation even more. And so if I again looking at the difference quotient. So so I'm looking at this function maybe I should be more careful. So again at zero I need to define it separately. So I define a function that is zero at x = 0 and then it is x^2 * sin 1 /x otherwise if I'm looking at this function then I claim that this function is in fact uh French at x at zero and so let's look at Okay. So again, I'm looking at the difference quotient and the value at zero is zero. So I have this. And so this here is now just x² sin 1 /x. This thing here is then x. And so you see that this difference quotient is just this. But this here does converge to zero as x go to zero. Right? So this function is actually differentiable. Right? It's fluctuates but it's it's more mild the way it fluctuates. Okay. Now let me get back to the the rules. So we proved one uh rule that was this sum rule. Then the second rule we're interested in is when we're looking at the likeness rule. So we're looking at the product of these two functions and each function is assumed to be differentiable uh at x0 and then we claim that the product function is also differentiable at x0 and this is the formula for the derivative. Right? to prove this one here I need this fact that we have now proved that if it is defensible then it's also continuous at that point okay so I'm going to use that fact and so and now so so now so let's let's prove uh of lightness room. So we have uh these two functions. We're looking at f of x. We form the difference quotient. So this is the difference quotient x - x0 uh I I we do this trick that we've done a bunch of times before when we also looked at products. We had two sequences and we looked at the sequence that was the product of the these two. Right? So if you have just a reminder that I mean it's not like but but but so remember that if you had a sequence a n and a sequence bn and you knew that a n converts to a and bn converts to b then the product here converts to a * b. Right? So, and when we prove that we use this little trick with that we are uh we're splitting the difference between this and this. Right? And so I'm going to do exactly the same trick here. So I'm looking at this thing here. And so I write this thing here as f ofx * g ofx minus and it doesn't really matter you know where you're inserting it. So this here it's like splitting the difference and then I have to add it again. So this is certainly the same. I'm just subtracting it and adding it right back. And now I split this into two. So I write this in here. So I So this uh fraction I split into two. And the first one I take this one here together. So and you can factor out f ofx. You can write it like this. f of x - f of x0 x - x0 right so this is just right I'm just here I'm factoring out the g of x and then I'm left with this this is this and this is giving the denominator like that this is this part here and then I have the other part here but there you see that f of x0 is factoring out and then I have g of x minus g of x0 x - x0 like that. But now you see that as x goes to x0, right? Well, g was continuous at x0, right? So this thing here as x go to x0 this thing here goes to g of x0 right this one here that was because g was continuous because it was differentiable so it was also continuous this here goes to the derivative and the second thing here is this here is just constant and this here goes to the derivative like that right so we have so what we have proven is this here is as x goes to x0 so you see that we have proven that the difference this difference quotient here for the product has a limit and this is what the limit is right and so this means that the product is differentiable and this here is the derivative and that's exactly the this formula. Okay, which was this over here. This formula here. Okay, the next thing is that we uh want to prove the next rule is like this quotient rule. So let me prove the quotient rule. So, Leness, right? Less and Leness and Newton was the one that was uh um um responsible for calculus. Uh and so then the next thing I want to prove is this quotion. And so again you have these two functions f and g and uh they are differentiable. at x0 and I'm also assuming that g here at x0 is is not equal to let's just assume that g is not equal to zero everywhere is never is is is is different from zero everywhere. And then the quotient rule say that if you're looking at the quotient here and you take the derivative of the so it say that if you're looking at the quotient here maybe I should so the quotion will say that that if you're looking at this thing here this now makes sense because g does not vanish This here is differentiable at x0. And the derivative the derivative of this function at x0 is given by the following formula that it is the derivative of f at x0 time g of x0 minus uh um f at x0 * g prime at x0 divided by G G² so G of X0 times itself I'll write that as a square this here again this here this here is just g of X0 * G of X0 okay so now let's try to prove So we're looking at f ofx f like this at x minus. So this is the difference quotient at x0 divided by x - x0, right? That's the difference quotion. And so written out this is f of x g of x minus g uh f sorry f of x0 divided by g of x0 x - x0. So let me put this on a with on a fraction with a common denominator. So if I do that then this thing here is right. So then I'm multiplying uh by g of x0 both in the denominator and denominator here. So I'm getting f of x times g of x0 and then here I'm multiplying by g of x in both denominator and denominator. So getting this thing here g of x and then it becomes x - x0 and then g of x g of x0 like that. And so now you can write this thing here uh as right. And so now you do the same trick uh as before. I mean I could have I could have gotten away uh slightly easier with looking at a special case of this quotion rule where f was a constant function one. So I could do that first and then the general case I could then from get from this special case together with the lens. But I chose to it's most often they want to do it together anyway. But if you have to do it together, you have to use the same trick that we just did. So we're using uh that over here. So uh so f ofx g of x0 minus uh and then uh f of uh f of x0 plus uh f of x0 uh minus f(x) g of x. So this is again where I'm subtracting in the denominator something and then I'm adding it back up immediately. So I have this like that. And so now uh if you do that then you see that. So now you can and now you split it up again into two fractions. So we split it up and so this thing here this thing here but there you see that there's a g of x0 that factor out. So this is equal to g of x0 and then you have f ofx minus f of x0 and then x - x0 g of x g of x0 like that. And for the second one, see that there you there you also have something that's factor out. And this is f of x0 And you're getting g of u of x0 minus g of x over um x - x0. uh g of x g of x here like that. And now okay so now I can make this looks nicer. I can this one here cancel with that. And so I can write this thing here as 1 / g of x f ofx - f of x0 / x - x0. So this take care of this. Here I can um here I can um I will write it as I will take this one here out. So I'll write it as f of x0 g of x time g of x0. And then I'm left with this thing here. And what I don't love about this thing here is it's not quite the difference quotient because the order of these two is wrong. So I switch the order. But if I switch the order then I have to pick up a minus sign. So I get minus here. And now it is g of x g of x0 x - x0 like that. Okay. And now you see that as x so as x goes to x0 so now as x well this one here the function was differentiable so it's also continuous. So this goes to 1 / g of x0. This one here just goes to the derivative at x0. This one here goes to again because the function is continuous. This goes to minus f of x0 and then it's what I wrote before as d² is d of x0 * itself. And then this in here goes to the derivative of x0 at zero. Right? And now I can if I want to I can rewrite this in here. If I want to put it back on a common denominator, then I have to multiply in the nominator and denominator by g of x0. If I do this, I get f prime of x0 g of x0 and then I get g^2 of x0 in the denominator. And then here it's just those two minus f of x0 g prime of x0. And so you see that this here is exactly this formula here this this quotion rule right. So this proof that if you take two functions the the one you have in the denominator if that is non vanishing so you can form the quotient and if each of these two functions is differentiable then the quotient is also differentiable and this is the formula for the right so now why is this already really really useful so so We calculated we already we calculated so we started with the example of where f is a constant right and we saw that it's differentiable and the derivative is zero. Then the second example we had was where the function was x and we saw that it was differentiable and the derivative is one. Right? If you now take um if you now take ax times uh right so let's just take ax as the next example this is like a constant function times this function so light rule sorry if f ofx is equal to a * x where a is a constant lightn will say that the product of two differentiable functions is differentiable and the derivative of This is the derivative of that, but the derivative of that does a constant function. So that's zero. So I don't really have to think about that. So it's just the a times the derivative of the second function, but that's one. So this here is the derivative of that. Right? So and the next example would be that you're looking at a x plus say b f of x is equal to this. Then you can use the sum plus you know we know what each of these is. So you get that this one here is also differentiable and the derivative of this function here is also just a and and you can continue like this that if you take um if you use if you now have a polomial suppose you take a to the power n so f of sorry uh if f of x is x to the^ n then you can think about this thing here as x * X * X * X and you can use the lieness rule right and so if you use the leness rule so you just do it first in the case where f ofx is equal to x^2 you can think about this as x * x these are two differentiable functions so the derivative here is now the derivative of this so that's 1 times the other function plus you keep this one here and you take the derivative of that. So this is this. So this is 2 * x, right? And so if you take this function here using lightness rule, in this case the derivative it's differentiable and the derivative is uh n * x ^ nus one. Right? So that's so so and and in fact find even more generally you know just using the sum and the likeness rule if you take any if you take any polomium a n x n + a n -1 x n minus one down to the last sign is being a constant. If you take a polinomial like this just using the lieness rule and the sum rule using those repeatedly we know that this here is differentiable and the derivative is just like the sum of the derivative of these. So this is going to be a n * n * x ^ n -1 + n -1 * a n -1 x n - 2 and then the this one here the derivative is zero. So the last one you're getting something non-trivial for is a one right. So this is just using sum and license room. And so this is just using the sum plus lightness room repeatedly. Okay. Now likewise if you take a rational function so meaning that if you take something if f ofx is equal to some polomium a polomial so it's called p of x divided by uh q of x. So where this here is a polinomial and and and so is that right? So now you can use the uh the quotient rule right. So the quotient rule will tell you that as long as you are looking at point where this here does not vanish. So then the quotient here is also differentiable and it gives you a formula for the derivative in terms of the derivative of each of these two and each of those two they can be calculated like that. So you see it's already already now we have like quite the derivative of a lot of functions right we have of all function and of all rational functions rational functions again are clos by other polinomial okay so now the next rule uh that we want to talk about is the the chain rule So what is the chain rule? So the chain rule is a little bit different from those three rules here and and it is where you take the composition of functions. So the next is the chain rule and again this is about composition of functions. Okay. So I have a function f that goes say from say that it goes from some interval a to b into another interval from c to d and then I have a function g that goes from this interval here into r because g is defined you So like whatever the the image of of of F always if it's in this set this is where G is defined then you have that uh you can form if you take some X in here. So if X here is in A to B then this here makes sense and this is now an element here. So this is where G is defined. So this here makes sense, right? And this is now what we call the composition. And we write it like this. It's important to write it in the correct order. And so this is the composition function. Okay. And uh and the thing is that this so right. So now the chain rule is the following. So the chain rule is a following theorem. that if f is differentiable at x0 and and uh g is differentiable. at y0 where y0 is equal to the value of f at x0. Then the composition then the composition of these two functions is differentiable at x0. And the derivative is equal to the derivative of g at y0 times the derivative of f at x0. So this is the chain rule, right? The chain rule say that the composition is also at x0. And this is the formula for the derivative. Okay, let's try to prove that. Uh and so that we in this case it's useful to divide up to two to two cases. Um and the two cases to divide up to. So let me just look at the look at the special case first and then once we understand that it's would be clear the general case would be clear. So let's make one assumption. So let's try to prove it. Uh and but we assume first that the derivative I'm going to assume that the derivative at x0 is not equal to zero. So I'm assuming that first. What does this guarantee me? Well, remember that the derivative is the limit of this difference quotient, right? So this is this is the limit. If this here is not equal to zero, this means that when x is very close to x0, this thing here is very close to this thing that is not equal to zero. But then it means that if you are very close to x0, f ofx cannot be equal to. So if you have this here, this implies that f ofx is not equal to x0 for sorry is not equal to f of x0 for x sufficiently closed close to x0. I'm always assuming of course that x is not But x is not equal to right. So, so I'm going to first make this assumption. And if I make this assumption, what I get out of it is that this thing here is not equal to that. Why is this useful? Because now I can actually look at this difference and I can divide by it. Okay. So, I'm going to I'm going to just to make things a little bit clearer. So I have my function. So this here is is this f and here I have g. Here I have x0. But under f it's taken to this which is f of x0. But this I also will denote by y z right. So I'm denoting just to make clear y0 is just the value here. And then I will use uh for I will I will f ofx I will denote by y. Okay. So now I'm looking at the difference quotient. So I'm looking at f of sorry I'm looking at g of f of x minus uh g of f of x0 uh x - x0 that's what I'm supposed to look at and I'm can write this thing here as g of y because this here I also call y right so you can write it like this g of y 0 and then I will write it as y - y 0 but I didn't have this in the denominator up here so I have to multiply it back on and then I still have to divide by like like that right so I can write it like this this here I'm happy with we'll get to this in just a taken, but I'm happy with this expression. The other one I really want to put it back in in terms of f. So I'm writing this thing here. And this thing here, I really want to put it back in in terms of f. So if I do that, I write it as f ofx - f of x0 x - x0. But now you see that as um as x go to x0, right? Well, as x go to x0 the because the function f was continuous at x0 it means that if x go to x0 then the value at x which is y will go to the value at x0. So when when x goes to x0 we have that y goes to y0 right so this means that this thing here this here converge right that's just because the function f is differentiable so this here will converge to the derivative so this the the second factor here is converging to fprime at x0. The first factor is but now you see that we just argued that y goes to y0. So this is also a difference quotient, but it's a difference quotient for g. And since y goes to y z, this difference quotient here goes to the derivative of g at at y z. Right? But that's exactly the formula that we wanted to prove except that we made one assumption that the derivative of f at x0 was not equal to zero. We made that assumption only so that this number here was not equal to zero. Right? And so we could kind of divide by it. Right? But actually otherwise um right if if you for some reason if y was not equal to y z but right then this formula here would still hold right so it's only the the the possibility that uh that y could be equal to y z but now you see that if you We're just looking at the difference quotient g of f g of uh of y minus sorry uh g of f ofx minus. So this is the difference quotion that is the one we really have to look at for the for the composition right and this is what we also called this here is what we call this thing here is what we called y0 this thing here is what we call y and the only case we haven't dealt with is where f prime of zero is equal to zero and y is equal to y z right this here again was f of x and this here was equal to f of x0 so this only this case here we haven't dealt with right but you see that if If you if it h if it so happened that f ofx was equal to f of z then this difference quotient here the d the denominator would trivially be zero right and so you want to prove we have that if this here was not equal to zero then we have that this is converging to the to the derivative and the only case we have to look at where this derivative is zero. So we want we are claiming that so the only case we're left with that we haven't dealt with is first of all where the derivative so let's see so let me just write down here clearly the remaining case for the chain rule So the main cases that the derivative at x0 is zero. Right? And and we have already observed that if the derivative is zero but but y is not equal to y z. If this is the case then actually g of f ofx minus g of f of x0. This thing here still converge in this case here where this is the case. This here still converts to zero. Right? So, so we still have the chain rule in that case if this here was not the case. The only thing we have to worry about is what if y was equal to y z. But if y was equal to y z when we're looking at the difference quotient, this is the difference quotion after all. And so in that case, this thing here is y z. This is y z. But in that case the difference quotion is actually zero already. So of course it's it's going to be very close to zero right it's actually is zero right you see that the remaining case that's sort of trivial but we wanted to first exclude it because we wanted to be able to divide by this difference right and then once we have seen that under that assumption it was it was you know we got the formula we wanted then we go back and then we say that not only you know the the the the the remaining issue was well first of all was the case where the derivative was zero but in fact um you the only case that was potentially a problem was when y was equal to y zero but for that it's the difference quotient was was actually trivial zero okay so that's the the chain rule Um, and so we only have a few minutes left. Uh, and I won't quite be able to get through all of the stuff. Uh, but I can get through one more lema. And so, and then I'll pick up from from here uh, next time. uh the notes are already posted but but so the last bit of the notes we'll do next time. So so the following lema here. So if you have a function say from R to R and you have that X here X0 is a local max or min. So f is a function from r to r that is that is differentiable. And uh x0 is a local max or local min for f. then uh then the derivative at x0 is equal to zero. Okay, let me remind you what a local max and local min is. So if you take a function so a local max similar for a local min if you have a function here you have here x0 a local max means that in a neighborhood of x this point then the value at x0 is the maximum. So local max means that they exist delta greater than zero such that um that if you're looking at the interval um to either side of x0 this interval and you're looking at uh at f here restricted to this subset then uh then uh x0 is a local max is a max. So this means that f ofx zero is equal to the max of f where x here is in this little interval here. Oops. Like that. Right. So it's it may not be right. So, so the idea is that it's just the function may look like this and this here is x0. So, you see that in a neighborhood like this, it looks like that you have that this x0 is a maximum, but there might even be somewhere else where the value is much higher. Right? So, that's a local maximum and similarly for a local minimum. Okay? And so I won't be able to to actually prove this lema. We we'll prove that next time. Uh and then once we have that lema, we prove what's called roles theorem. And then we will use it to prove the mean battle theorem. But so but I'll do that next time, but it's actually in the notes that I I posted already.