Um today we're going to continue uh with discussion of chapter 7. So you remember chapter 7, we started with the sort of basically defining public goods which are goods that are non-rival and non-excludable. We then talked about how the the op that basically optimal provision of public goods we've been determined differently optimal provision of private goods that when you solve for the optimal provision of private goods you're equating each individual's marginal rate of substitution with the marginal rate of transformation or in this case just marginal cost. Um, but when you do public goods, you care about the sum of marginal rates of of marginal rates of substitution because when you have a public good, everyone gets it. So you care about everyone's happiness, not just one person's happiness. Okay, so that's the key difference between the two and that key difference drives the answer to the first question of public finance which is when should the government intervene and the answer is that the government needs to intervene or let me say it again the market will fail if there is uh the private market will fail under goods because the classic free rider problem the free rider problem is whenever someone's actions have a private cost but a public benefit they will underprovide that action okay because they will not see all the benefit okay so to see that um I have an example in the text but let's go to the example in the appendix because the appendix is for MIT students the text is for is for is for others MIT students too but the the the appendix is more what you want to see and can handle so let's take two individuals Ben and Jerry Okay, Ben and Jerry live by themselves far away from others. They have a private good X with a price of $1. So P subX equals one. That's the numerator good. They consume two things. A private good X with P sub X is one and fireworks which is a pure public good. Okay. And we're also going to assume P subf equals one. Once again, no harm in doing this. It just avoids us carrying around a bunch of extra P terms. Okay. Okay, it doesn't change the math at all. Just makes it simpler to see. Okay, so they can consume a private good X. Think of this composite of everything else they consume. Or fireworks, which is a pure public good. Okay. Um, they each have an income of $100. So, YB= YJ equals 100. They each have an income of $100. Um, and because fireworks are a public good, they care about the total amount of fireworks, which is fireworks provided by Ben plus fireworks provided by Jerry. Okay, what they care about is the total amount of fireworks. Okay, in particular, each individual I has utility of the following form. You, we're going to assume their utility. Obviously, utility functions are assumed. The utility function is 2 * log x subi. Okay, so I where i denotes b and j. That's each individual. Um, plus log f, which is the total amount of fireworks. Here's the key thing. This is what's going to make the math work here, which is that they only care about the total amount of fireworks. They don't care about the amount they set off. That's just what's in the sky. Okay, we'll come back later to whether when they get utility from actually setting it off. Okay, but we're not going to ignore that for now. We're just going to assume they're different who sets the fireworks off. They just care how many fireworks are in the sky. Okay, and [snorts] their budget constraint is that x subi plus f subi equals 100. Okay, so that's their maximization problem. And the reason it's just quantities rather than ra than amounts is because we assume price are equal to one. So our budget constraint which is expressed in terms of quantities. Now imagine that um each individual is deciding on their own how many fireworks to set up. Now, here we go back to a classic game theoretic prisoners dilemma type problem of the type we saw in 1401, which is that basically we have a uh an issue where each individual's actions affect the other. And so they're going to have to have some game theoretic solution to the situation. And we're going to as in 1401 assume that it's Nash that there's a Nash bargaining context. And remember the way the Nash bargaining context works is that each individual optimizes their behavior taking the other individual's behavior as given. And then a Nash equilibrium is one where both are satisfied where when I do what's best for me given your behavior and you do what's best for you given my behavior, we get to the same equilibrium point. Then we're at a Nash equilibrium. Okay? And so it's just going to be the same kind of math we did when we did Nash equilibrium, Corno equilibria in uh in 1401. Okay. So basically we're going to simply say um if we can insert what we can do a trick here is we can just insert the budget constraint directly into the utility function to make our math a little easier. We can just say their goal is to maximize utility which is equal to 2 * log 100 minus fi plus log fi plus fj. Okay. So I've now written their utility solely as a function of fireworks. Their own not so let's make this utility of Jerry right. Let me write this right. utility of uh utility of Ben. Utility of Ben. So it's two times 100 minus how many fireworks Ben sets off plus the fireworks set by Ben and the fireworks set by Jerry. Okay. So that is their utility function. Just plug your budget constraint in. If we differentiate this with respect to f subb differentiate with respect to f subb you get um -2 over 100 minus f subb uh plus 1 over f subb plus f subj equals zero. Okay, that's what happens. we differentiate that equation and therefore from that we can generate the conclusion okay I'm just going to work upwards here we'll generate the conclusion that f subb is equal to 100 minus 2 fubj over 3 f subb= 100 - 2 f subj over Okay. So once again taking f subj as fixed ben solves and gets that outcome. Similarly by symmetry we get that f subj equals 100 minus 2 f subb over 3. Okay you can solve that out or you can just know by symmetry that's going to be true in this case. So that's two equations and two unknowns. solve them and you get that F subb star or F subb the private equilibrium is 20 and F subj equals 20 that they each provide 20 fireworks for a total F of 40. Okay, questions about that? Okay, so they once again they've each maximized their firework use taking the other person's behavior as given. Okay. Now, what is the optimal level of fireworks? Well, the optimal level of fireworks we know from last lecture is where the sum of the marginal rates of substitution equals the marginal rate of transformation. So, that is the sum of what's the marginal rate of substitution of um of uh of Ben? It's going to be the um it's going to be the ratio of their margin utility of fireworks to their margin utility of private goods. So their margin rate of substitution for Ben equals the ratio of the margin utility of fireworks to Ben over the margin utility of private goods for Ben. Okay. So if we differentiate the utility function to get this, we're going to get that for Ben, we're going to get that 100 minus f subj I'm sorry 100us f subb that's differentiating this utility this function this utility function with respect to uh to fireworks over times f subb plus f subj is going to be his marginal rate of substitution. That's Ben's rate of marginal rate of substitution. And what do we know from optimal provision of public goods that you want to set the sum of marginal rates of substitution equal the margin rate of equal margin rate of transformation. So when I said that we want to do the same thing for Jerry which by symmetry we know will look the same. It'll be 100 minus F subj over 2 * FB plus FJ. Okay, that's going to be Jerry's marginary substitution. We want to set that sum equal to the ratio of marginal cost of fireworks over marginal cost of X which is equal to one by assumption here. Okay, because in a competitive market price equals marginal cost. Yeah, I did skip one step here. Notice I wrote that prices were one. Here I said marginal costs are one. Why can I skip that step? Because in a competitive market, price equals marginal cost. Okay, so that's that's a be very clear that when I assume price equals one, I also assume marginal cost equals one because I'm in a competitive market. Okay, it's just a a step I've skipped here. So this is the equation we solve for optimal provision of public goods. And if you solve that you get that FB equals FJ equals 30. The optimum provision is that they each provide 30. Uh I'm sorry 33.3 my bad 33.3. So that f equals 66.6 or 7666. Okay, that that is the optimal provision. Okay, that is much higher than the private provision. Okay, this is the key of all this math. Okay, the key conclusion is that when individuals privately optimize taking the other person's behavior as given, okay, they will end up providing fewer fireworks in total, 40 fireworks rather than 66.6666 fireworks. Okay, why? What's the intuition for that? Someone raise their hand and tell me. Why does a private provision yield less than the optimal amount they should be providing? Hint, I've already given the answer in this lecture. >> Yeah. Envir, >> right? So, it's an example of the what? >> Free writer problem. Raise your hand. Free writer problem. Okay. It's example of the free rider problem. Okay. which is basically this is the key intuition here. It's tricky, but we have in this class what I call our light bulb moments, okay? Where things are hard until they're suddenly not. Okay? You just got to get the light bulb moment on this, which is that basically when I when my actions benefit under pe other people, this it's the intuition from positive externalities, right? A public good is just an infinite is the ultimate positive externality. When my benefits b when my actions benefit others, I do too little of it. This is the perfect case. I'm doing too little fireworks because my actions are benefiting my neighbor. So, privately, I'm shooting off too few fireworks relative to what's socially optimal. Okay. So by this Samuelson condition which we proved last time which says that the optimal provision of public goods relies on the sum of marginal rates of substitution while the private provision of public goods is going to rely on each individual's margin rate of substitution. We end up providing too few public goods in the private market. The private market will fail to provide public goods. This not fail to provide them fail to provide the out quantity and this will come back. We have to remember to avoid black and white thinking in this class. It's not either the private market completely fails or completely succeeds. Failure is defined as nonoptimality. It's not defined as the market being destroyed. It's defined as nonoptimality. The market still works. We get 40 fireworks. The skies lit up. Just not as lit up as it would be if there was a social planner optimizing social welfare. Okay. Questions about that? Yeah. >> Oh, the margins utilities just I just differentiated this function with respect to uh with respect to fireworks f subb. >> Yes, exactly that that that utility function. Other questions? Okay, so this is the mathematical illustration of the free rider problem. In practice, the free rider problem is everywhere. So some fun examples in the book like for example um Vic the state of Victoria in Australia used to used to pay for fire protection by a tax on homeowner insurance policies. So you bought your homeowner insurance, there was an extra tax and that paid for fire services. Okay? So that meant if you didn't insure your home, you didn't pay for fire services, but the fire company still came and saved your home because they had to because they didn't know other homes had burned down. So people stopped buying insurance because they were like, I'm going to get it anyway. And so then the state of Victoria switched to financing it through a property tax rather than an insurance through insurance. Uh, do you have to New York? New York City orers here? Not New York City or here. Well, the Met, any you guys been to the Met in New York City? F museum there. So, the Met in New York City since 1970 has had a recommended donation instead of an admissions fee. You don't have to pay to get into this incredibly fancy museum. There's a recommended donation for years to try to make get now that's a clear free rider problem. I cannot pay and get the same thing as you get by paying. So, how did they try to solve it? recommended was in like tiny letters rel. Well, actually uh a lawsuit um uh in a lawsuit in a lawsuit in 2013 said they could no longer do that. They had to make it the same size and the share of people donating from 50% to 10%. Okay, that's another example of your rider problem. And of course, we all probably every day see example this with our online usage. Take Dropbox. Okay, Dropbox uh you can use for free until a certain level people don't pay. Uh streaming services you can, you know, there are certain options and what do they do? They try to fight it. Spotify, it's free. If it's free, you got to pay ads. Dropbox, it's better if it's not free, etc. That's how they're trying to fight fight this free rider problem. Okay, so that's that's the free rider problem in practice. The question is can now the fact the private market doesn't deliver optimality does not by itself say the government should be involved. In fact once again our friend coast spoke up and said wait a second the private market can solve public good problems. And he pointed to a famous example of lighouses. Okay. He said, "Lighthouse seems to fit the classic definition of a pure public good." Right? You can't exclude someone from seeing the beacon. And if the beacon's out there and I'm using it, doesn't deter your use of it. So, lighouses are pretty pure public good. And yet, for much of history, lighouses were privately provided. There was no government provision of lighouses. They're privately provided. How did they do it? when your boat landed, they wouldn't let you take the cargo off the boat until you paid a fee that offset the cost of running the lighthouse. So since they had a property right to docking, they could essentially in a cosian way solve the public goods problem. So once again, in theory, the same theoretical cosian argument which says that externalities can be internalized says public good problems can be solved as long as there's property rights. Okay. Um, and indeed a famous example of this occurring is something called business improvement districts. Okay, once again, we don't have New Yorkers here, but how many you guys have been to Times Square? Okay, most of you. Okay, Times Square when I was a kid was like a nightmare. I mean, I can't believe my parents let me go there. Okay, it was just prostitutes and gambling and drugs. It was awful. Now it's just Disney characters and Eminem stores. Okay. What happened? What happened was the government was failing to provide it and New York had a law which is called the business improvement district law. And the way this law worked was that basically um uh the law said that if you have an organization of businesses and 60% of them agree you can levy a charge on every business for private purposes. So long as the business of Times Square got together and said, "As long as 60% of us agree, we can force every business in Times Square to pay a charge that will go to private sanitation and private enforcement." And they did. And they privately cleaned up Times Square. The Times Square business improvement district is one of the most successful examples in the country where basically um uh they basically the budget of of the Times Square Alliance has is about $23 million, have 200 employees, and they keep the place clean and safe. Okay, so that's a cosian solution. Okay, is basically and these business improvement districts are all over the countries. Almost every state is a law with business improvement districts and they've grown um um there's a big one in Los Angeles which provided crime reductions, etc. Okay, probably the state with the fewest and the least successful is Massachusetts. Now, why is that? Well, think about the key way the Massachusetts law differs from other laws, which is that if your if the vote passes in your area within 30 days, you can opt out of paying the tax. So, if the if the district in Waltham, which is a suburb of Boston, 60% of the businesses vote to tax themselves, the other 40% could just say, "No thanks, we're not going to pay." Well, what does that do? reintroduce the free rider problem because they know once the service ride they'll benefit so why should they pay? So in subsets you need more than a property right to make the coing solution work for business improvement districts you need correct legislation to enforce the abs the free rider problem. It was the fact that in Times Square when 60% approved, everyone had to pay make it work. In Massachusetts, when 60% approve, if um if people can drop out, then the whole thing falls apart. Yeah. >> It It's a legal authority. It's basically, it's a great question. I don't know enough of the the legality. I know what lawsuits they faced. They've certainly withtood any lawsuits they faced, but basically this the state has given legal authority for businesses to essentially create one of these business improvement districts. And that, you know, I presume the charges are nominal if they were phenomenal. Presumably, people would sue a lot, but maybe they're nominal if it's not paying the lawyers to sue. But it's a good question. I don't know the legality of it. You know, how it's been challenged. Okay. So, so in some sense private private provision has a case here. There's a lighthouse example these business improvement districts. So the question is when is private provision likely to actually work in providing public goods and when is it not? What are the conditions under which it will work under which it will not? And in some sense, a key example, a key point is private provision will work best when there's heterogeneity among the parties involved. The more heterogeneity in either income or tastes, the better private provision of public goods might work. Why is that? Imagine uh imagine Ben and Jerry in their twoperson economy, but Ben is very much richer than Jerry. In that case, we will get closer the alpha provision of fireworks than if they have the same incomes. Why? And for an intuition, think about the extreme case. Imagine Ben has all the money, Jerry has no money. Okay, we still won't get to the optimum. We'll get closer. Why is that? Why does that heterogeneity or if you like think about heterogeneity and taste? Imagine Ben likes fireworks a ton more than Jerry. You'll also get closer to the optimum. Well, think of it this way. Does Robinson Crusoe face a public goods problem when he's trapped alone in his island? You guys know who Robin Zigo is? You guys don't even know who he is. It's an old story. I got trapped alone in island. It's all you need to know. He doesn't have a public good problem. Why? He has a free rider problem because it's just him. As most of the resources and most of the taste for public goods get get coordinated into one person, it gets closer to Robinson Crusoe. So, you get closer to the optimum. So let's see that mathematically once again from the appendix. Imagine that Ben now has an income of $125 and Jerry's income is only $75. So now YB is 125 and YJ equals 75. So we've redistributed income a little bit. So now Ben has more money, but the utilities are still the same. Now Ben has a demand for fireworks. If you do the same math, F subb, Ben's demand for fireworks is going to be 125 minus F subj over 3. And Jerry's is going to be 75 minus F subb over three. Sorry, minus - 2 F subj. There's a two here. Did I have the two there? Did I screw that up? I might have screwed that up. Hold on. Yeah, there should be twos here. That's my bad. There should be twos here. Let's make some math work. Okay. I'm sorry. It's all in the appendix, but if you go back to your notes, there should be twos in front of those. Yeah, I have I got it right up there, but I didn't get it right here. There should be twos here. Okay. Even when I'm reading out the textbook, I can't get it right. Okay, you guys see that? Okay. So, basically, um 75. So, 125 - 2 FJ over 75 - 2 FB over 3. When you solve those two equations jointly, you're going to get that F subb= 45 and F subj= -5. That's what you're going to get when you solve those equations. F sub= 45, F subj= -5. Now, you can't provide negative fireworks. So, F subj becomes zero. So the total amount of fireworks provided becomes 45. Okay. Uh yeah. And the total the total amount of fireworks becomes 45. Okay. This is higher than what they get when uh no actually it doesn't become 45 because once this is zero you resolve for Ben and you actually get that once that's resolve for Ben you actually get that f which is f subb equals 41.66 because once this is zero you got to replplug this into Ben's condition and you're going to get that the amount of the total amount of fire is 41.66. So if you solve it, you get a solution that can't be right, which is Jerry can't provide negative fireworks. Jerry provides zero. You plug zero back in here and you get that Ben's fireworks. Ben's the only person to provide fireworks is 41.66. Take this to the extreme. If Ben has all the money and Jerry has none of the money, you're going to get very, very close to the optimal level. You'll never get there. I like to think, the way I like to think is the following. Imagine you have a giant mansion and a tiny crappy shack that share a driveway. Okay, there's a little extra bit that goes off to each. Okay, there should technically be a free rider problem in plowing that driveway, but the mansion's just going to freaking plow the driveway. They're not going to not plow it because the shack won't kick in. Okay, now maybe they won't do quite as good a job as they do if the shack was paying. They certainly won't do the little bit that goes off to the shack, but they're going to pretty much plow the driveway. The point is if one the more one party really has all the stake in the decision, the more you move away from the free rider problem towards essentially the Robinson Cruso solution, which is they just do the right thing. Yeah. >> Yes, that's right. That's a good point. That could be offsetting heterogeneity. That's a great point. I I've assumed I I've assumed that there's no correlation here. They both like fireworks the same. But if there's offsetting, that would undo it. Great point. Other comments or questions? Okay. So, that's one. Yeah. Yeah, it's concentration is really going to make the difference. So that's one reason. So we're talking about when is the private sector going to be closer to getting it right. One is when there's this concentration. That's a better term than hogenity actually when this is concentration. The second is when there's altruism. Altruism is defined as the fact that my utility includes your utility. An altruistic utility function is a function of my own consumption plus your utility. That's an altruistic utility function. If individuals are altruistic, then that helps solve the free rider problem because they're incorporating the fact that the other person will be happier with more fireworks. Once again, doesn't fully solve it except under certain conditions, but it will it will move us closer to the optimum. Okay. Now, it turns out that much to the chagrin of economists, people are pretty altruistic. Okay? Okay, it's not in our standard models we teach, but it turns out people people are pretty altruistic. And the best way to see this is to look at the dictator game. Any of you guys ever been to the science museum in Boston? You probably didn't go there, but there's a room where you can actually computers play a game where you trade cookies back and forth. Any guys ever play that? I used to play with my kids. Okay, it's it's more of a kids thing. Anyway, so basically imagine the following um uh experiment. And this is a typical experience run hundreds of times universities all over the country. Okay, you have five students are going to play 10 rounds of a game. The way the game's going to work is in each round students are given a dollar and they have the option of keeping that dollar or putting it in the public fund which is in the middle. Okay. if they can choose, if they um the after all students decide whether to contribute, the amount in the public fund is then split up equally and distributed back to everyone. So, everyone gets a dollar, these five guys get a dollar. They have a choice, keep that dollar or put it in a public fund. If they put in the public fund, it gets doubled and then distribute equally back to everyone. So in a perfectly coordinated cooperative equilibrium, what's the optimal thing to do for these guys? Yeah. >> And puts in their dollar and they all end up with put $2 in a Nash private equilibrium. What should each person do? Someone else. What should each person do? What's privately optimal? Socially optimal for each put in a dollar. What's privately optimal? Let's get some other folks. Yeah. Keeping their money because every dollar you put in, you get 40 cents back. So, why would you put in your dollar? Okay. So, there's a free ride. There's a free problem writer problem in practice. You put in a dollar, but you only get 40 cents back of that dollar. so long as you put it in. Well, in fact, when you run these games, when you run these experiments in practice, you find that um if you run this experiment in practice, you find that roughly half of participants put in their dollar even though there's no private incentive. roughly half put in the dollar which is consistent with altruism consistent with the notion that basically now altruism could arise through social appropriation like I feel like a jerk if I don't put in my dollar it could arise through true loving your fellow person however it arises it effectively acts as if you care about your fellow person it acts it operationalized itself in the same way okay it's an interesting question about where it comes through but that's sort of irrelevant to the reduced form outcome which is sort of operationalize itself as people being altruistic. >> Yeah. different from a lottery example. What What do you mean by? >> No, no, no, no. The most optimal things you all to put in your dollar, right? A lottery is not the same because only one winner. So, and and as as we learned 1401, actually, the lottery is the reverse. For every dollar you put in, you keep about 50 cents. So, because there's this multipliers, I'll throw from them all social put their money in and they they're just making me pay them more money. It's that privately they don't do that. Okay. Now, it's quite interesting that there's that much. Now, there's some interesting lessons from that. First of all, um you might say, well, gee, maybe people didn't understand it. How would you test whether it's about learning versus about altruism? How would you test that empirically? Someone tell tell me what you think. You're running one of these experiments. I say, "Yeah, you ran it, but maybe they just don't understand it." What would you do? Someone raise their hand and tell me. Yeah. >> Yeah. Or you just play it again and again and again. That's the way we think economic intuition is developed. It turns out if you play it again and again, people become a little less altruistic, but even after 10 rounds, people are very altruistic. So, it's not a learning thing. people just don't now I don't know if he's tried explaining like hey you should be selfish but they've had people play it again and again and it doesn't make altruism go away okay now um now of course that's just a laboratory experiment the question is does altruism exist in the real world and there's one great paper it's an older paper but a great paper which looked at contributions to public radio and basically looked at people's giving which is once again a classic example of public good free rider problem. You don't have to contribute to public radio. They make you feel guilty, but they don't come to your house or anything or they don't twist your arm. You don't have to give to public radio. And what a typical economic model would say is if I enjoy public radio, then as the number of listeners grows, I should be less likely to give because basically it's a fixed amount. You know, presuming the cost of running public radio is roughly the same as number of listeners grows. It's a, you know, it's just you're sending the transmission out numbers grows. Then basically there's more and more of a free rider problem. So think of it this way when you're coming out of think of yourself when you're coming out of the subway and there's no one else around there's the guy begging. You feel more likely to get money than if there's 20 people walking by, right? It's just human nature. Likewise, it would say that people should give less to public rate as the user listener base goes up. And in fact, they don't. Okay, which is consistent with the fact there's some altruistic preferences going on. So that's one example of a real world test of this. There's lots more. Now what the problem is where does the then ask the question well where does altruism come from? Why are people altruistic? Is this just inherent in our nature? And it turns out altruism is not purely inherent but can be influenced. And the main thing influences altruism is the degree of social capital. This is the notion. Social capital is an abstract concept, but it's roughly the idea of how much you feel connected to your fellow people. How much you trust them, how much you feel integrated with them. And it turns out if you run experiments in more connected societies, they're more altruistic. When they're playing with friends, you're more altruistic. So clearly part of what drives altruism is actually knowing people. But even when you don't know people, there's still a lot of altruism. Okay, so that is another reason we're talking about reasons why the private market might get closer to the public optimum. The private market can never except in some extremely limiting case achieve the social optimum, but it might get closer if there's if there's concentration. It might get closer if there is altruism. And the third thing that might drive it closer is what we call the warm glow model of giving. Now this is like altruism but important. It has the same net result but an important modeling difference. The warm glow model is that not that I care about you but that I get utility from contributing. So in the fireworks literally I get jollies from lighting them off. So it's literally a warm glow, right? Right? It's not where it then comes from. But literally, if I get some utility to send them off, then in my utility function is your fireworks because I utility or more generally if I if I get utility, you know, this is why churches and temples are filled with plaques and everybody's name is everywhere because people give partly because they want to see their name on a plaque. Okay, that if I give because I want to see my name on the plaque, that is not altruism. That's that I literally get utility of giving. And that's the worm glow model. Now, it ends up with similar outcomes, but it's a very different different model. The ut the altruistic utility function is one where your utility is in my utility function. The warm glow utility function is where my giving is in my utility function. Very different. Okay. I get utility from my giving but similar effects but different models. Okay, so that's basically the bottom line on private provision. Private provision will never achieve the first best but in certain conditions it can get close. Okay, questions about that. Yeah, Eno. >> No, no, but if I'm not altruistic, I would sort of exploit that. That wouldn't solve the problem. That would make it worse at one level. Uh so um but here because but no, that's actually is here. So here I do know my neighbor's use function. So imagine I didn't know. Well, that would all that would just introduce uncertainty this model. I'd be guessing then and which way my I don't know which way I'm biased that would affect it but it wouldn't change the fundamental underprovision. Good question. Other questions about this? Okay. So if the private market is not going to get us to the optimum then we go to the next question bullet finance which is what should the government do? Okay or how should the government intervene? Okay. Well, before I get to that, what we're going to do, here's the way that this sequence of lectures is going to work, which is this is sort of an overview of public goods and then the next three lectures will be sort of applications of public goods. Okay. So, this overview I'm going to talk about the three fundamental challenges facing public provision of public goods and the next three lectures we'll talk about those challenges. So in other words, what I'm going to say is this is the key lesson from this class less we be too liberal. Okay, market failure means that government has the potential to fix things but not that government necessarily will. And what I talk about here, so far government's been the good guy. We have an external government comes in and fix it. Yay. But in fact, that's not always true. And so what I talk about here is reasons why public provision may fail to get us to the optimum. Okay? And there's three reasons. Three reasons why public provision may fail. The first is the problem of crowd out. The first is the problem of crowd out. Okay? which is when the government comes in part of it will do what it will do is just displace what people are already doing rather than actually increasing the amount of the public good. So to see that let's make three assumptions in the firework example. First of all let's assume there's no warm glow or altruism. Ben and Jerry just care about total f. They don't care who contributes. No worm glow or altruism. Second of all, let's say that in this symmetric example, the government will charge Ben and Jerry equal amounts. So there'll be equal financing just because they're individuals identical. We're going to have equal financing. Okay. Finally, we're going to assume the government provides fewer fireworks than were provided individually. The government is going to provide fewer fireworks than the private optimum, less than 40. Okay, under those three conditions, I can now show you mathematically that government provision does nothing. Okay, let's see that mathematically. Okay, so under those conditions, remember that basically um imagine that uh we said in the original example total fireworks underprovided by 26.6. It's covered up now, but I said the social optimum is 66.6, private's 40. So 26.6 Six is the underprovision. So magic government says, "Well, I know how to solve this problem. I'm going to charge Ben and Jerry each 13.3 and have public fireworks." So they'll provide their 40 privately. I'll provide my 26 extra and I'll pay for it by charging them. I'll force them to contribute. So what I do is I set up a tax on each of them of 13.33. So now their utility functions now become u = 2 * log x 2 * log x plus log fb plus fj um plus 26.6 because they're getting 26.6 extra fireworks from the government. Okay. But subject to the budget constraint that X plus X subi plus F subi. These are all I's. Okay. F subi plus X I plus F subi equals 100 minus 13.3. So here's the new problem. We're taxing 13.3 that comes out of the budget stream and we're giving an extra 26.6 fireworks. Okay, people understand that setup. If you solve this, you will find that each individual chooses to provide 20 and the total remains at 40. That is we will get what we call full crowd out full displacement of the public expenditure by reduced private contributions. Why? Why will government intervention in this case make no difference? Yeah. >> Right. Remember, economic equilibria are fundamentally robust. And if the government intervenes in a way that can be undone, it will be undone. Government interventions only matter if they can't be perfectly undone. And literally, you can perfectly undo the government intervention here. There's no distortion, nothing else. You just literally say, "Fine, I'll provide 13.3 less myself. I'll be back where I was." And remember, that's where I wanted to be. I already showed you my optimum. I can get back to that same optimum by just lowering my contributions from 20 to 6.66 and boom, I'm back to the optimum. People always, we already know where they're happiest. If the government intervention allows them to get exactly back to where they're happiest, they'll do so. So, under the assumptions I made, there will be full crowd out. That is, government intervention will not actually increase the level of provision. questions about that? Folks look confused, so please ask. Yeah, >> Eno, >> right? >> That's an example. Now this full crowd will almost never happen. Why in in your example, why it not lead would it not lead to full crowd out? No, even even let's take that out of it. >> Yeah. >> Exactly. The key thing is in my example, I set it up so the people were taxed in proportion of their contributions. Imagine a world where the government comes in and the government um actually taxes some people who weren't contributing before. Well, then the total will go up because remember the key assumption I made is that each individual is taxed by less than what they were contributing before. Once anyone is taxed by more than before, then you'll get more. So, crowd is unlikely to ever be full. Okay? credit is unlikely to ever be full, but it almost certainly will always be partial because there'll always be some view that if the government's contributing, I can contribute less. And it's kind of like my example leading the subway and seeing the homeless guy, right? You're sort of being crowded out by the fact that other people are there giving. Now, there's a lot of studies of crowd out. Most of them are in lab settings and they find very strong evidence for the existence of crowdout. um they find find very strong evidence uh for uh for the uses of crowd out. Okay. Um anyway, so I don't I can't find it, but there's a lot of examples of uh basically where they do laboratory studies where they essentially operationalize crowd out where they basically have the government come in and substitute in for your contributions. In those lab studies, they find a lot of crowd out. In real world empirical studies, the crowd people find is much smaller. So I would say lab studies suggest that crowd out can be close to full. Real world says crowd is less than 50%. In many contexts, but it's hugely context dependent. And this is a term we'll use a ton throughout the course basically. So it's going to come back to sort of praa which is to what extent does government contribution displace private contribution? Here it's literally financial contribution. In health insurance we'll talk about private health insurance versus public health insurance. and unemployment insurance talk about your savings versus the unemployment insurance benefit. But it's all the same thing as the notion that you can contribute privately. So the government rolls in and contributes that will offset your private contributions and whether it's how the extent to which it will is an empirical question. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, that's a great question which is what's the welfare consequences of crowd out? um if the government has free money then there's no welfare consequences but in fact money isn't free when money is raised by taxation now in this case it is free money because I don't have like a distortion margin here but if I had Ben and Jerry working and they could lower the tax by working less that would be a distortion and make life worse than if the government didn't do it >> could also be that they produce cheap >> right so there's what if the government's cheaper at producing them >> then that would so you're absolutely right in the real world it'll depend on a lot of factors one is sort of the crowd will depend on the efficiency of producing like maybe the government's better producing health insurance than the private sector so even if it crowds it out that's still a good thing it'll also depend a lot on sort of how bad crowd is sometimes we crowd out things that people are doing which we sort of wish they weren't doing so for example talking about unemployment insurance um one way people react to being unemployed is by their spouses going to work even if the spouses would prefer not to only in that case if unemployment insurance allows the spouse to stay home and take care of the kids maybe that's not such a bad thing but we call it crowd out so the welfare consequence of crowd out are very much dependent on the efficiency of the government versus the private provision it's a great point in this case I assume they were sort of equally efficient so there's not really any welfare consequences great question other questions okay so that's the first problem that we have the first problem is crowd The second problem with public provision is the problem of measurement which is I've written down the Samson formula which is the sum of MRS's equals the MRT. Okay. Well, that does you no good if you're trying to decide whether to build a bridge or not. We don't know people MR people don't have MRS's and you know we sort of have MRTs we know relative marginal cost we certainly don't have MRS's so we have to figure out how to actually measure costs and benefits in reality we can't just use some theoretical concept and that leads the entire field of what we call costbenefit analysis this we will discuss this next time in chapter eight or may start today this is probably the most single thing that if you look at all economists around the world in the real world probably the single thing they spend the most time on is doing some or another version of costbenefit analysis which is actually quantifying costs and benefits that'll lead to so you can actually decide if it's a decision worth making or not. So chapter eight will be about how do we literally translate this theoretical construct into real measurement. The third problem is let's say we know what's optimal. We know how much crowd out there is. We know how to measure it. We know how to measure the cost of benefits. The question is, how do we measure preferences? And here, in other words, how do we we're a society of 30 60 million people. How do we decide whether or not to do a public good? Because in fact, we don't have just one dictatorial public planner. We have a democracy. Okay? And that raises three critical problems. The first problem is preference revelation which is we need to know people's preferences and if we ask us to tell them they may not be honest. Okay. The second problem is the problem of preference knowledge which is people may not even know their preferences. I mean do you know what a missile is worth to you in terms of cookies? You have no idea. Okay. So you might not even know your preferences. He's saying seven cookies. Okay. Uh you you you may not even know your preferences. This knowledge. The final problem is aggregation which is let's say that you know your preferences and you're honest. How do I collect all those preferences in a way that effectively aggregates them? That turns out to be hard to do for reasons we'll talk about we do chapter nine. This is all leads to the field of political economy in chapter nine political economy and chapter nine. Okay. So this is really the key the key insights of chapter 7 are the following. A optimum provision of public goods is where the sum of the MRS's equals the MRT. B, the private sector is unlikely to achieve that optimum due to the free rider problem. C, or was that A, B or C? One, two, three, I don't know, whatever the third thing is on my list. Okay, is that the public sector itself faces challenges also in solving this problem and those challenges what we'll turn to next. Now, I want to cover one last thing for chapter seven. I won't give it as much time because I want to get to chapter eight, but there's an awesome box in chapter 7 about the fundamental challenge the government faces in deciding whether to provide things publicly or privately. And this is a problem we call contracting out, which is the government, let's say the government knows there's too little of something. There's fundamentally two ways it can address that. It can address that by providing it or by by providing it. or let's say the government wants there to be more of something. Two ways it can and not the only two ways but two ways it can address that is by providing it or by hiring other private parties to provide it. So should the government directly provide something or contract out? And it turns out contracting out raised a host of fascinating issues around how do you write private contracts to get the outcome you want? And there's great examples of all sorts of shenanigans when the government tries. There's an example of good contracting out, but that's no fun to talk about. Let's talk about the shenanigans. Okay, the shenanigans are that basically what we find is a number of studies which show that when the government contracts out social services, it gets low quality outcomes. ambulances um when it contracts out ambulances, prisons, private prisons have like 10% more deaths than public prisons. Uh halfway houses, horror stories about halfway houses, which are p places people go trying to get trying to get cleaned. Uh horrible stories of halfway house being run by for-profit private enterprises that basically the government. Now on the other hand there's a long long literature that privatization of many sectors that the government traditionally provided back in the day and in many places in the world governments often provided things like steel air airplplanes banks those were all public those were all public provided and in many countries like the US became privately provided there's a lot of that when you're providing goods there's efficiencies from the private sector taking it over but when you're providing services they get worse when the private sector takes it over and the fundamental reasons one coast would have us focus on which is essentially observability of quality which is I can really observe easily if it's a good piece of steel or not it's hard to observe it's a good prison or a good halfway house so when you have less observable quality which you have with services the private sector private sector contract now can have costs now you can try to combat those costs with monitoring so for example Um, uh, Riker's Island jail facility in New York City had, um, a spate of violence in 2014. A lot of violence. So, they paid Mckenzian company 27. They're bad guys in all these stories. $27.5 million to create a plan to curtail violence in the faculty. Three years later, McKenzie reported that their $27.5 million plan has succeeded and that violence in the facility had fallen by 70%. It turns out McKenzie rigged the results and violence went up by 50%. That's not even the worst case. The worst case involves one of my favorite names for a company, the Wacken Hut Corporation. The Wacken Nut Corporation is in charge of ensuring that our nuclear facilities are safe from military attack. So what they do is they are in charge of essentially probing and testing whether facilities are safe from military attack. And they're supposed to do this with sort of like simulated attacks. It turned out that the Wacken Corporation would warn these nuclear facilities and the attacks were coming and get paid for those warnings and they all look super safe when they in fact weren't. Okay, so the problem is when you're providing when you're trying to contract out, you get potential efficiencies, but the modeling difficulties can be very very high and that's a real a real challenge in this sort of contracting out world. Anyway, it's a long box in the book, but it's kind of fun to read and there's a lot of fun examples. And in some substance, sometimes the government has no choice or face difficulties, which is like during COVID, okay, during COVID, we suddenly needed a shitload of mass and respirators, okay? So, we contracted out, we got a lot, we got a ton of fraud, okay, a ton of companies which weren't really capable got big contracts and bombed out. We also got a lot of mass and rep respirators. That's why a lot of people were in favor of instead of contracting that out actually invoking something called the Defense Production Act which grants the president authority to literally tell firms what to do. That's scary. Okay. But the idea is if you do that then you get it then you get the firms through it. If you contract out, you might get firms that, you know, don't exist. Or, you know, when when they're trying to cover from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, they hired some firm which turned out to be like two guys in Montana who happen to be buddies of the president at the time, uh, who ended up not doing anything for Hurricane Maria. So, there's an interesting trade-off here that is worth thinking more about. I wish I had more time on that, but that's kind of all I can say about that. Okay, so that's chapter seven. Any other questions about that? Okay, let's go on to chapter eight and let's start thinking about this second problem, measurement and the issue of costbenefit analysis. And we're going to do this through an example. We're going to have example that's going to run through this chapter. We'll start it today. We'll finish it next time. Example is going to run through this chapter of a government's decision to build a highway. And we're going to assume that building this highway, if you look at table 81, will require the following inputs, a million bags of asphalt, a million hours of labor, and $10 million a year of maintenance. But by building this, let's say it's expanding a highway through this project, we'll save 500,000 hours per year in driving time because it be a better highway. And it'll save five lives a year because it'll be safer. So we have here the cost, we have the benefits. We know we want to sum those equal to the cost, but we just have words. We don't have numbers. This is MIT. We need numbers. So how do we translate these words into numbers? And that is the field of costbenefit analysis. Let's start with sort of the easiest side, the easier side of this, which is the cost side. And let's think about how we measure the costs of things like asphalt and labor. And here we're going to rag on our friends accountants. Okay. The way accountants would do this is they would say, well, whatever you pay for the labor of the asphalt is its cost. And economists would say that's not true because what matters is not the cash costs, it's the opportunity costs. It's the best alternative use of those resources in society and those are not always equal. Okay? In a perfectly competitive market, they are by definition equal. In a perfectly competitive market, the price of a good is equal to its opportunity cost. Think about our perfectly competitive market and demand and supply equilibrating. They equivalate to the point where the value of the next bag of asphalt equals the cost of producing the next bag of asphalt. So the opportunity cost, which is producing one less bag of asphalt, is equal to price. So cash accounting works. But now imagine the market's imperfect. And let's actually think about the labor market to start. Imagine that you have a world where um construction workers, as they do in many cities in America, have a higher minimum wage for public projects than the than the statewide minimum wage. So imagine a statewide minimum. Let's imagine the statewide market wage is $10 an hour. That the state on average people earn $10 an hour. But there's a minimum wage for public construction projects of $20 an hour. Okay? So let's imagine that um the government is going to hire these 500,000 workers. Okay? and let's find um and it's gonna uh it's gonna pay end up paying $20 million because $20 an hour for $20 an hour for this million hours of labor. Okay, what is the opportunity cost of that labor? Well, it's the next best use of that labor. And the next best use is a another project where they'd be paid $10 an hour. And assuming labor markets are perfect, that's their marginal product. Their marginal product is what they get paid in an alternative job, which is $10 an hour. So while the cash cost of these workers is 20 million, the opportunity cost is only 10 million. You're only extracting $10 million worth of marginal product out of society because that's what they earn in other jobs, even though you're paying them 20 million. Well, then what's the magic? Where's the other 10 million go? I mean, the accountants are right. We're spending 20 million. What happens to the other 10 million? If the opportunity if the cash cost is 20 million, but the opportunity cost in terms of the marginal product we're using is 10 million. What's the other 10 million? Yeah. >> Yeah. The other 10 million is what we call economic rents. Those workers by getting these jobs have gotten a transfer from the government. The government has transferred $10 an hour to workers by giving them these better jobs. Not better in terms of higher margin of product, better in terms of higher pay. Okay? That has no efficiency cost. If I give you a dollar, I just give you the dollar. There's no efficiency cost to that. So there's the opportunity cost, the efficiency cost to society is the loss marginal product by building this road. It's what the workers could have done instead. And if they weren't building the road, they would have been doing something with a marginal product of $10 an hour. And how do we know that? Because their wage is $10 an hour and wage equals marginal product in a labor market equilibrium. Okay, once again, let me say it again. In a labor market equilibrium, in a perfectly functioning labor market, wage equals marginal product. We solve for that in 1401. Okay. Therefore, the value of their time is the $10 marginal product we're losing by having them build this road. That's the opportunity cost. The other 10 million is literally just a transfer from the government to the lucky set of workers who happen to get these jobs. Okay. That's a hard concept. Questions about that? Yeah. >> How's what? You mean where does that arise from reality? Just political economy that they just decide they're going to the the construction workers lobby, the union lobbies, and they get a higher wage for that. That'll lead us to that leads us to this point, which is why, you know, why do we do what we do? All right. Now, can anyone tell me why this same logic might apply? And why the opportunity cost or the efficiency cost of asphalt, under what condition might the opportunity cost of asphalt be below its cash cost? Remember I said a few minutes ago, under what condition they were equal? So, that tells you under what condition they're not equal. >> Yeah. imperfect competition. Under perfect competition, opportunity cost cash costs are the same. But imagine the asphalt is produced by a monopoly asphalt producer. In that case, the monopouist the marginal cost the monopoulos is below the price they're paying. Remember for monopolist price above marginal cost, we call it the markup. Okay? So the price you pay the monopolist minus the marginal cost of bag of asphalt is a transfer to the monopouist. Just like the better union job is a transfer to the worker, a the difference between the price of asphalt and the marginal cost of asphalt is a transfer to the monopolist. So you would also have an efficiency cost from the cash cost in that case. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, what is the efficiency cost of a bag of asphalt? Here's the key intuition. I should say it this way. The efficiency cost is that I'm pulling that bag of asphalt out of its next best use in the economy. Okay. What is the value of its next best use? Well, it's the marginal cost of producing a bag of asphalt. Okay. What do we pay for it? We pay the price. In a perfectly competitive market, those are equal. Imperfectly competitive market. They're not. And the gap is a transfer given the monopolist. Okay. Good. Good clarifying question. Um, that's a great question which is what if the whole industry is monopolized then things get more difficult. You're right. >> Yeah. So I I'm assuming there is a an efficient market in which it could otherwise be used. >> Yeah. Well, I mean then you get into this question was asked here which is there's only one purchaser for these projects. Why do they pay them 20 bucks an hour instead of 10 bucks an hour? You'd think in that case they'd pay below but you know they can't necessarily they necess they might not necessarily. Okay, this actually goes back to last lecture these examples about contracting out. One of the part of the reason the public sector often pays too much for goods is because they have non-compete contracts. Now you think a non-compete contract for a good if I'm an obsity buyer of a missile. No one is buying missiles. I should be able to pay much less. But in fact by not compete I often end up paying more because I don't really know what the right price is. So when they compete they reveal the right price to me. When there's a non-compete I just have to go by what they tell me and I got no idea what the right answer is. All right. Other questions? Okay. So that's one. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. So basically I'm buying a missile. What I can do is I can say look anybody produces a missile bid on this missile of this specs and the specs unlike with prisons the specs can be really pretty precise. Okay build a missile of these specs. Okay. And I'll get the bids and I'll pick the lowest one. That's the way you'd think we do it. That is less than half of all contracts the government does. And more than half all contracts just say, "Hey, I like you. You produce a missile." Okay, which has the problem that a there's no competitive pressure and b there's no information revelation. Competition, remember, is beautiful in that it solves the information revelation problem. Okay? Because competition reveals what marginal cost is. If you don't have competition, how do you reveal what the true marginal cost is? You don't. And that's the problem with non-compete contracts. Why? Chapter nine. Okay. Yeah. All right. Okay. So that's the first challenge with so costs you would think would be pretty straightforward. The first challenge is imperfect markets. Okay. The second challenge is uh discounting the fact that not all costs come at the same time. Now, we haven't covered chapter four yet, but I'm gonna assume you remember the concept of present discounted value for 1401, which is that dollars in the future are less valuable than dollars today. It's a fundamental concept of value. So, if you want to express the cost of something, you have to express it in today's dollars, discounting future dollars because they're worthless. Why are they worth less? Because if you had them today, you could invest them and they'd be more tomorrow. Okay, once again this will cover this in chapter 4 in review but that was in 1401. Okay, so basically the problem is that some of these costs come in the future like the maintenance cost that's $10 per year. So we can't $10 million a year we can't just add that because in the future it's happening in the future so it's worth less. We have to discount it and get a PDV of costs. the asphalt and the laborers we hire today. So there's no PTV issues. The maintenance we do over time and so we have to discount it. So then that we know how to do discount. We know how to PTV calculations. We've done those. But the question is what's the right discount rate to use? Because now it's a government having to pick a discount rate not a private marketing discount rate. Now you might say what would be a natural starting point for the right discount rate to use for a government deciding whether to do a project. >> Yeah. >> Uh well no because money is the opportunity cost of money is not just about inflation. It's about the fact that money could be worth more tomorrow. Even with zero inflation there's still a discount rate. Yeah. the the private sector discount rate and national point say look the private sector is a cost of capital it's what it costs now they don't just borrow they issue debt and equity we have sort of an aggregate cost of capital okay the that's about 7% is historical estimate so for a typical firm needing to raise capital through equity or debt or other means in aggregate is about a 7% cost of capital that you have to pay about a 7% rate of return to get it to get your money so that's a natural starting point is to say look and this is why the starting point sense. If I take that money to build this highway, what's the alternative use of the money? The private sector could have had it. So, if I'm spending money in the future, I should use the private sector discount rate. But there's one big difference, which is subtle but important, which is 7% is the pre-tax historical rate of return on capital. But if you save in the bank, you get taxed on that. Post tax is more like 5% or whatever it is. Okay. So the rate of return on capital used by the private sector is the post tax rate of return. Should that be the rate used by the government? Why or why not? Should the government follow the private sector using the post tax rate of return? Yeah. >> They keep the money. So they get the tax revenue. They should use the right answer is is that the federal government should discount its future costs and future benefits by the pre-tax private cost of capital because the alternative is private sector has the money and that's their discount rate that they use. Now the government uses a variety of different discount rates but it's they're set around 7%. So let's use 7%. So let's now go to table 8.2. Okay. And let's look at the costs. Okay. We have a million bags of asphalt. Let's assume that the price of asphalt is $100. Let's assume that's a perfectly competitive market. So the opportunity cost is the cash cost. It's $100 a bag. That's $100 million. We have a million dollars of hours of labor, but we're going to use the opportunity cost of labor, which is the market wage of $10. So that's $10 million. We have maintenance of 10 million a year forever. But there's a 7% discount rate. You all remember the formula that if you have an infinite sum, the value of something is the is is the amount you're paying out f over the interest rate. So $10 million over 0.07 is $143 million. So that is the three costs. So the total cost of this effort is $253 million. Today's dollars is $253 million. Questions about that? Okay. So now we're going to go to the harder part which is the benefit. The benefits. Let me just introduce this and we'll stop and get into it next time. The benefits are harder because they're valuing things like time and lives. These are things without market prices. Okay, we can talk about the flaws in the market prices for asphalt and labor, but at least there are market prices. Okay, time and lives do not have market prices. Now, time you might say has a market price, which is the wage. And that' be a natural starting point in valuing time would be to say, look, we should value the time you save by your wage. And that would be what we call a market-based solution. A market-based solution to valuing time would be to use your wage. Now, suppose I said to you, well, you can't use a wage to value time because people don't work all the time. And you responded to me, in fact, the wage times 24 hours is in a perfectly competitive labor market the proper way to value time. Even if, as with most people, they only work about a quarter of the time of their hours. Why is that? Yeah. >> Because they're not working, >> right? And in equilibrium, people set the wage equal to the marginal value of leisure. Okay? Okay, we saw that in 1401. And think about the intuition in a perfectly competitive labor market. If you if working is worth less to you than not working, what would you do? Work less. If working was worth more to you than not working, what would you do? You'd work more. So, you'll work until the point where the wage equals the marginal value of leisure. So, it doesn't matter if the time you're saving by driving faster comes from your kids soccer game or work. Either way you value it at your wage. The problem of questions about people understand that the problem of course with that is we don't have a perfect labor market and as a result the wage can actually be very different than the marginal value of leisure. So what so what's an example of why the wage could be less than the marginal value of leisure? What what would that mean for the wage to be less marginal value and why could that arise? Let's get some other folks involved. What would it mean for your wage to be less than your marginal value of leisure? And why might that arise? Take a stab. I don't bite. Yeah. >> Yeah. If if you Well, no. But passive income, it's marginal. So, passive income is sort of a fixed other thing. But let's let let let's um let's extend that. Let's not think of passive income. What else comes with jobs beside wages? benefits and basically if you some of those benefits will be linked to how hard you work. So in fact the marginal value of work is not the wage, it's your total compensation. So you really should be setting compensation equal to the marginal value of leisure, not wage. So you should be choosing a [snorts] a higher marginal value of leisure. Okay? Which means actually this is a backward example that would say you'd want to work less. This is an opposite example I suggested but it's it's it's so we'll do the flip next. You'd want to work less. Why? Because a higher margin value of leisure means less leisure. Remember margins opposite the opposite way we think. Higher margin utility means less consumption. Higher margin value of leisure means less leisure. So if you consider if you consider benefits that's an example where actually the wage is going to understate the value of leisure. What would be an example the wage might overstate the value of leisure? >> Yeah. >> You might want to work more but why couldn't you? >> Not enough >> or there's overtime loss right you want to work you set W equals MVL or C MVL at 43 and a half hours a week and your employer just won't let you have more than 40. Well, then you're not working hard enough. Your wage is then above your marginal value of leisure, but you can't get to the point where they're equal. So, for reasons like these, wage is an imperfect measure uh of the marginal value of leisure. Okay. So, let me stop there. We'll come back. Paul, we should start next time with table 82 and it we'll do 8 82 34 and then the table in chapter 9. Okay. So, we'll finish up chapter eight and get into chapter nine.