The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, welcome back. So last week we spent the week um talking about policy search methods and trying to um make a distinction between those and the valuebased methods we started with. And by the end of the week we had a couple um pretty slick methods for optimizing an openloop trajectory of the system. Right? So we talked about at least two ways All right. So by open loop I mean it's a function of time not a function of state. We talked about the shooting methods, right? Where we um evaluated J of alpha from X0 time Z just by simulation, right? And we evaluated explicitly evaluated the gradients um by well I gave you two algorithms for it. I gave you one that I called back prop through time which is an adjoint method and another one that I called RT RL realtime recurrent learning which are the names from the neural network community but um perfectly good names for those methods. And then the claim was that if you can compute those two things by simulation or some combination. So simulate forward simulation and then a back propagation path pass or a simulation which carried also the derivatives forward in time. Then we could hand those gradients to snapped or some other um nonlinear optimization package. And if we're good, we can also lean on SNOP to handle things like final value constraints. If you want to make sure the trajectory succeeds in getting you exactly to the goal or if you want to make sure that your torqus are never bigger than some maximum torque allowed, then you can take advantage of that. And the second method remember was a direct collocation method which we often abbreviate as durall. And the big idea there was to um overparameterize our optimization with the openloop trajectory but also the state trajectory. which makes coming up with gradients is simple. Um and then I have to enforce the constraint that x of let's say in discrete time here n plus one had better be um subject to the dynamics So, two very similar um methods of of trying to compute some openloop trajectory um as a function of time. Ultimately, what I care about is a is a is a set of um actions that I apply over time that will um get me to the goal or or minimize my cost function. In the case where I explicitly parameterize an openloop trajectory um both of these result in a solution which satisfies the pontreagan minimum principle okay subject to discret discretization errors and things like in there we discussed time right we did so right so so I should say subject to time discretization that's the the one place where technically it would satisfy a discrete time version of pantry's minimum that delta x or you can think of it either whichever way makes you um happier. So in fact um the parameters that you hand in maybe it's easier to think of it as a as a function a discrete function of time because you're going to hand it u at certain points in time and you're going to handle x at hand it x at certain points in time right and this discrete time update can be an oiler integration or a or a higher order integration of your continuous dynamics but you only satisfy the constraints at discreet intervals of time. Yeah. Okay. I did um give you a slightly more general I tried to to point out that these methods could equally well um compute um find good parameters of a feedback controller or something too, right? The simple case was when my parameters alpha were explicitly my control tape. But more generally, if you wanted to tune a a feedback controller, a linear feedback controller or a nonlinear feedback controller, a neural network or whatever it is, you can use the same methods to do that. Um, I would only make this statement in the case where the the um controller specifically is the openloop tape, right? Um because if I parameterize my trajectory by some feedback controller for instance then that's going to restrict the policy class that's going to restrict the class of tapes that I can look over which makes it a more compact more efficient uh way to solve your optimization but potentially prevents you from achieving a a perfect minima. Yep. So by by virtue of saying that they satisfy Pontriagen's minimum principle, we know that that's only a local optima. This this says that I can't make a small change in U to get better performance. Yeah, but it's only a a necessary condition for optimality, not a sufficient one. But there's a bigger problem with it with both of those and that's the fact that they're completely useless in real life unless I do one more step which is to stabilize the trajectories I get out. Okay. So finding some openloop trajectory um by these methods um satisfying Pontriagen's minimum principle fine but there's nothing um in this process that says if I don't if I change my initial conditions by epsilon I could completely diverge when I follow when I when I execute that openloop trajectory right if I change my simulation time step by a little bit I might diverge if I have modeling errors I might diverge. Okay, so in order to make these useful for a real system, we have to do another step which is trajectory stabilization. And it actually follows quite naturally from the things we've already talked about. Okay, so today we're going to give these guys teeth um with a trajectory optimization. and I'll show you examples of a trajectory that's optimized beautifully for the pendulum even and if I simulated a little differently back, it just does the wrong thing. It never gets to the top. Okay, so we want to get rid of that um problem. Okay, so the solution is is to design a trajectory stabilization. Now, for those of you that that have been playing with robots for many years, when you hear hear trajectory stabilization, what do you think of? What kind of tricks do people use for trajectory stabilization? Sliding surfaces. Sliding surfaces. That's a that's a good one for slot. Often will design a a sliding surface and and squish the aerodynamics, right? Um I mean that's that's actually pretty encompassing. I guess that's what I think a lot of the trajectory um stabilizers are based on sliding modes or feedback linearization in some form. Okay. And all I'll say about it is that the story is sort of the same as everything we've said. If you have a fully actuated system, it's not hard to design a trajectory stabilizer. Okay. A good sliding mode controller could take advant could could work uh even for an underactuated system. But I think there's AI prefer um the linear quadratic form of these trajectory stabilizers. Okay. So um we want to do a trajectory stabilization that's suitable for underactuated systems. Right? And the approach is going to be with LQR. Okay. So, if we're going to use LQR, we better be able to linearize our system. So far when we've done the linearizations um we've only done them at fixed points. Okay. Um so the first thing we have to ask ourselves is what happens if we um try to linearize at a more arbitrary point in state space. Yeah. So let's say I've got the system x dot is= f ofxu and now I want to linearize around um some x knot u knot but not necessarily a carefully chosen x not you not just something random in state space the tailor expansion of This says that this thing is going to be approximately f ofx 0 u0 partial f partial x evaluated x Okay. And we called this before A and this B. And so that thing we can actually write as in general um in the case where f of x not if x not was a fixed point of the system that that term disappears. But you know be careful if you're doing your linearization out here um if you're at not at a fixed point. If you have any velocity for instance then in the original xcoordinates um it's not actually the tailor expansion doesn't give you a linear system. It gives you some aphine system. This thing is harder to work with. Not incredibly harder but harder to work with. Okay. So the trick is the solution is quite simple but I just wanted to say it the bad way first so that so that you appreciate the good way right. Um, if we change coordinates and we use instead for our coordinates the difference between um x and x knot of t. Then xbar dot is going to be x dot minus x0 dot = x dot minus f ofx X0 U0 which is that C, right? This guy here is taken care of in this new coordinate system which allows me to write the whole thing as XAR dot equals A of XAR You with me on that? Linearizing a system at a more arbitrary point. Well, doing a tailor expansion results in a linear system only if you change coordinates to lie on some system trajectory. Okay? So x0 u0 um must be a solution of x of f of x u of that equation and then the system reduces to uh to a linear system description. Okay. But the the cost you pay for this beautiful simple oh let me be even a little bit more careful. Okay. So um a here this partial f partial x is evaluated at x t u of t and in general a and b in this when I do this are functions of time as well as x and t. Okay, that's a pretty important point. Okay, so if I'm willing to change coordinates to along to live along the trajectory, then the result is I can get this linear time varying model of the dynamics. Yeah, along feasible trajectories, system trajectories. The cost is that you have to work in a coordinate system that moves along your trajectory. Okay. So, we'll see where that comes in in a little bit. But the first question is, okay, let's say I've got this linear time varying um time varying linear system. Can I do all the things I want to do with that? Right? That's actually, you know, in most of our control classes, we end up doing LTI systems. um LTV systems linear time varying um are actually a fantastically rich class of systems. Okay, that we don't talk about enough I think in life. They're still linear systems, right? they superposition still holds. So what does that I mean if I have um if I have initial condition um one and some u trajectory one for t greater than equal to t0 and that gives me some resulting x trajectory out for t greater than t0 and I have another solution with a different initial ition and a different control, right? And that gives me a different I call this x1 x2 for t greater than equal to t0. If I have that, then it better be the case that alpha 1 x1 of t0 plus alpha 2 x2 of t0 plus alpha 1 u1 tape plus alpha 2 u2 tape. is going to result in a trajectory which is alpha 1 x1 plus alpha 2 x2 that's superposition right that's the defining characteristic of linear linearity and even though this is a richer class of systems these these um a of t x of t b of t u of t superposition still holds and in fact a lot of our derivations that we've done that are for linear systems still hold. Okay. Okay. And so now the question is how do we design a how do we work with the fact that this thing is still easy you know and design a a controller that works with this new linearized system. Maybe first I should break out my color chalk and make sure we have intuition about this. Do you understand what this is doing? If I do this time varying linearization, let me let me do an example on with the the pendulum here, right? our favorite theta theta dot. And let's say we carve up uh we find some um nice solution which gets me from my one fixed point to the other fix point. Um the ones we were getting were these pumpup trajectories which looked something like this. Right? I'm moving through state space here. And the dynamics here vary with state in a nonlinear way. Right? But if I have a trajectory, a feasible trajectory that goes through the re the relevant parts of state space, then this time varying linearization takes my nonlinear system, right? And makes it parameterized only instead of by being parameterized by by state, it's going to make it parameterized only by time along the trajectory. Right. The trick is the trajectory allows me to reparameterize my sort of nonlinearity. in terms of time instead of state. And if I it sounds like a simple thing when I'm just reparameterizing it, but it makes all the difference in the world. If things are parameterized as a function of time and are otherwise linear, then I can do all kinds of computation on them. I can I can integrate the equations. I can design quadratic regulators on it. It makes all the difference in the world. Okay. So lo, so what I'm effectively doing is coming up with local linear um representations of the dynamics sort of along the trajectory. I'm not sure if this is a helpful way for me to to draw it, but you can sort of think of this thing as approximating the dynamics along that trajectory. At every given instant in time, I'm going to use one of these sort of linear models. This is supposed to be some plane that you're driving through. Not sure if that's actually a helpful graphic but it's the way I think of it. Okay. And by virtue of taking a particular path through I can make locally linear models on which these things have you know igen vectors and igen values or whatever um that are valid in the neighborhood of the trajectory. Okay. So if you can imagine um even without any stabilization it could be that I um I could I could quickly assess the uh stability of my time varying linear model and trajectories in this linear model may converge to the nominal limit cycle or they may diverge depending on A and B. Yeah, right. Or they may blow up. This is by far the more common case. Unfortunately, you'd be very lucky to come out of a shooting method or a direct collocation method and end up with a system where if you played it out, it just happened to be a stable trajectory. Um, okay. But we can assess all that quickly with these time varying linearizations valid locally. Make sense? Yeah. So, I I think I missed some closing practices here. So, we talked about that there isn't bad way of doing this. This is not a bad way of doing this, right? when you're talking about it if I try to linearize if I do a tailor expansion of my system um in the original coordinate system which is x then it's not linear end parenthesis that that was the bad way to do it yeah good way to do it change the coordinates to a to a coordinate system which moves with the tra trajectory if you do that things become time varying linear good way. That was the good way to do it. And that's still an open parenthesy. We're still going. Yeah. Okay. So our task now is to design um a time varying feedback controller. Since our model is time varying, you'd expect our solution to also be time varying which takes these bad unstable trajectories of the system and they really are. I'll show you you know simple pendulum. This trajectory comes out you change the actually if you just integrate in a different way it'll go off and do the wrong thing. It typically doesn't go off and add energy to the system so much. The ones I get I see I'll show you are are more they diverge in the other way and end up just floating around here for instance. um but they're not going to get you up here. Okay. So, can we design a time varying stabilizer that get that regulates that trajectory? Okay, I did actually do um the original finite horizon LQR derivation on the board that day. Um definitely won't write all that again. But let me say that uh roughly nothing in that derivation breaks. I'm going to show you the important pieces. nothing in that derivation breaks surprisingly if a and b are now a function of time. Okay, so let's remember that um the LQR derivation Now I'm working with this x bar coordinate system. Okay. And I want to design a cost function to minimize here which lives in this coordinate system again here. Let's say it's um the final horizon times QF. Um, I've been trying to use t little f since my transposes look like the final horizon time otherwise. 0 to tf dt xar again transpose q plus u bar r uh okay in the original lqr derivation we uh we guessed that the form that the optimal policy had the form um xar s of t xar. That's still intact. That's a still a good assumption. This thing's linear. It's just in a different coordinate system. And we started cranking uh through the the sufficiency theorem, the the Hamilton Jacobe Bellman equation. And we found that our optimal feedback policy our first of all our optimal cost to go was described by this ricotti equation which was negative s of t is q minus s of t b r our inverse brpose S of T plus S of T A plus A transpose S of T. And it turns out that with this if you have a time varying A and B that it's exact same dynamics govern it. You just have your time dependence also in A and B. And that exact same ricotti equation works. And our final value condition was just QF. And you can see from this if if it if it didn't make a difference for me when um when A and B became functions of time, it's pretty simple, although less interesting I guess to if Q were to be a function of time, no problem. If R is a function of time, no problem, right? They still had to be um uh they still have to be positive definite and symmetric. The uh oops I did it the wrong way. Q can be zero but R cannot be zero. Okay, so the LQR you know and love that you've used in mat lab um is the time um invariant infinite horizon LQR, right? I told you that if you cared about a finite horizon and you had a time invariant linear system, then suddenly you had to you couldn't just find the stationary points in this. Remember mat lab's solution just tells you the long-term behavior of s okay in the time finite horizon time even the lti case which is the um a and b do not depend on time the linear time invariant case I still had to integrate back this ricotti equation in order to get my lqr controller okay it's no more expensive to do the same thing in the linear time varying feedback Okay. And the resulting controller is um mu star is my nominal controller minus my r inverse brppose s of t xar. Right? These equations come up enough that I you know this is these are pretty famous pretty important equations. So I those I know off the top of my head they come up all the time. And this is the resulting uh optimal trajectory which is my nominal trajectory plus my feedback gain which came out of my original LQR controller if you remember that R and B are still. Yes. Good. So this I should definitely put a T in under B. Thank you. And R I haven't I haven't written that case but R could equally well be time dependent. Okay. So, some so something big just happened. Okay. Um I can take a really really complicated nonlinear system along some trajectory. If I find a good trajectory, um then I can actually linearize that system along the trajectory and stabilize it. The thing I haven't convinced you of yet because I could I only know how to do it from from showing examples, but it really works well. Like I So even though it's a linear system, um it's a linear approximation of the nonlinear system, something like the Acrobat or the cart pole swing up, it's got a huge basin of attraction. Lots and lots of initial conditions will find their way to the trajectory and get to the goal. Right? If you want to do nonlinear control of a humanoid robot or something like this, um, this actually scales pretty nicely, right? I just have to solve this equation. S is the size is is is a matrix that's number of state by number of state, but I could do that in 30 dimensions. That's no problem, right? And even for very nonlinear systems, local um linear feedback works very very well. So well in fact that I think that if you ask um and when I did ask sort of the lids guys, you know, Sasha Mcgretzky, he says this is this is definitely what I would do if I was controlling a walking robot or or something like that. Okay. Um we're trying to do the same thing to control neural neurons in a dish now, right? Right? We're trying to build good models of of the dynamics, time varying models for instance, and then doing this kind of control. Yeah, it works really really well. Okay. The only complaint about it is that it's going to have it's based on this linear um linear approximation. So, it will have a finite basin of attraction. For some systems, it can be quite big. Um if you have systems with hard nonlinearities, it won't be as big, right? Um later in the course I'll show you ways to explicitly reason about the size of those basins of attraction. But today let's just say um this is a good thing to know, good thing to have in your pocket. Let me show you it working. Try to convince you that it's it's pretty pretty good. Okay. So, let's see where I've left myself here. I took this um the pendulum. Let's do the shooting version. They both work fine, but let's do the shooting version. Um is that bigger than I did last time? That's pretty obnoxious. Maybe it's always been obnoxious. Can we get away with that? Yeah. You guys are like, I'm not blind. Okay. Um, so I did I I showed you last time the shooting code. It comes out with a resulting tape um x t and u right so it comes out the result of these trajectory optimizers whether it's shooting or whether it's um uh direct collocation whatever it is it comes up with some openloop tape. I put X in there too just to as a the reference trajectory that results. But what really matters is the the timestamps and the U command the open loop tape. Okay. So, let me um right save it this time. Okay. So, it comes up with in this case with these parameters I've chosen, it comes up with some one pump policy with the torque limits I have, the the nurses I have, it comes up with a a one pump policy that gets to me to the to the top in 4 seconds. Okay, let me now um just simulate that a little bit differently. Um okay. Okay. So, the only thing I'm going to do here now is um this control OD is just a simulation which um plays back exactly the the same openloop tape, but it plays it back with a little more careful integration because in the actual in the shooting code I used, I used a big time step just so I don't waste time um computing gradients to the nth degree of accuracy. That's not worthwhile. If I simulate the exact same thing back with a more careful OD integration, let's see what happens. So that was that same trajectory that um exact same control inputs just simulated more carefully. It it made its honest effort to get up there but it it didn't quite get up there, turned around and came back down. Okay. And if you I'm trying to show it also in this uh uh just this is the the different state trajectories over time. You can see that the red and blue lines are the desired versus actual in the in theta in this case. And the um these two lines are the desired versus actual in theta dot. Um they start off exactly on top of each other, but just little differences in the numeric cause them to go in different directions. Yeah. Part ways. Okay. So now I've got this LTVLQR um solution which is exactly what I just showed you and I'm going to put in so I I was just simulating it just now with just U being the nominal U. Now I'm going to add this feed this time varying feedback term X - X desired. And now my more careful integration results in a closed loop system which not only got to the goal but actually stayed up at the goal because I have a um a stable system all the way to the top. Okay. All right. So what I just said was was very unimpressive. I said um I computed a openloop um policy with my methods from Thursday. I simulated them back. They didn't work. Okay. But I then put a feedback controller on and from the exact same initial conditions I now can simulate them and they work. Right. Um, so it's sort of disappointing that we had to do that at all. Uh, but I can now the stability is more than just sort of stabilizing the initial conditions. Let's add some fairly big random numbers to that initial condition and see what happens. It's it's recomputing the um the policy every time just because it was fast enough that I didn't bother to change it. Okay. Okay, so that actually started with pretty big different initial conditions. So, um, you know, theta was off by, uh, I don't know, 2/10 of a radian or something like this. The velocities were off by half a radian per second. Okay, we could crank that up. I bet it does a lot better than that. Um, but if you watch these things, they converge quite nicely to together at at the end there. And what's what matters is they get up to the top, right? So again, these things come together, find their way up to the top and live. Yeah. I bet if I put it, you know, a lot bigger, it'll still work. I normally do an order magnitude, but let's not be silly. Oh, didn't make it. There's only one reason it didn't make it actually. It's because um if you look in here, I'm actually honest about implementing the max torqus. Yeah. So, I actually have a torque limited. I impose it and it ser it lives on there. If I didn't, I bet I could I could convince you it works for any initial condition. But, um let's try one more time. Get a little more lucky with the initial conditions. Oh, come on. Come on. Yes. Right. Okay. That was pretty far off and it still found its way back to the trajectory. Good. Yeah. Look at how big those initial conditions are. Right there and there versus where? Wow. That's really good. Okay. I saw Did I see a question? No. All right. So, this stuff works for pendulum. Uh, it works for more interesting systems, too. I'll just show you the um the cart pole real quick here. So you remember I won't do the sort of here's here is what it looks like without feedback. I'll just do the the initial conditions corrupted um solution pump up. Okay. So if you remember my solutions from last time, it never drove off the screen before. So that was actually it catching it by deviating enough that it came off the screen and then slowly coming back to the top. Yeah. And uh so that's uh this is it must be its X uh position or something going way off. No, not X position. What is that? That's my control. Yeah. Did I do torque limits on that one? I still did torque limits. I just said them high, I guess. Yeah. So it really works. Okay. And the cool thing is it's I mean the the cost of implementing that LQR LTV stabilizer was negligibly more than implementing the uh the most of that time was the shooting optimization, right? Um yes, one question. Why why do you always start at the like zero time? You could look at the initial positions and look where is the closest point on my number of trajectories or something and then do your control policy from that moment. Okay. So that's really really good. Okay. That's exactly what I want to talk about next actually. Um, okay. So, I just marched I I designed uh a time varying feedback controller, right? Is negative k of t uh xar of t, right? I designed that ahead of time and then from the initial conditions I started simulating from zero and I just played out you know the my nominal trajectory just marched forward with time my feedback controller just marched forward with time and my aerodynamics just marched forward with time. Okay. So before I explicitly address your question let me point out let me let me ask um even a simpler question here. Right. So what happened if I had plotted that in state space? What you would have seen is that the trajectory starts off somewhere in state space and comes together. That would have been a good idea. Maybe I should do that in a minute. But um sort of it comes together and finds its way onto that trajectory. Yeah. Okay. So here's the question. What happens if I instead of just changes in initial conditions, what happens if I have disturbances? um that push me off the trajectory. Well, that's okay. That's no different really than a um different initial condition. They'll come back on here. What happens if I have a disturbance that pushes me along the trajectory with this controller? Let's say, you know, I've got sort of the the helpful disturbance which, you know, when I was right here just happened to push me right to there. What's this control? What's my feedback controller going to do? Yeah, probably in a dramatic fashion, right? Um, you know, the same way it tries to quickly converge from here. It's going to try to get it's going to push itself back towards that point possibly. I mean, slowing down doesn't makes it sound sort of no big deal. It might actually try to I mean, it can't go backwards, but it might try to do something um more severe, right? to try to catch up with that old trajectory. Right? So the major limitation of this is that it's blindly in order to have the strong convergence properties that we have, the controller is blindly marching forward in time, right? The great thing about switching to a time parameterization is I can compute everything. Everything's linear again. The bad thing is you're a slave to time. Okay. So, um, Philip asked a nice question. He says, "So, why not why do I just blindly start marching forward from time zero? Maybe if I have a a controller, um, I should just look for the closest point in my trajectory, right? And then instead of indexing off time, index off some sort of phase, some some fraction of my trajectory and then execute that controller." And, you know, you can do that. I sort of I wish you the best if you do that. But my sus my suspicion is that if on every DT you pick the closest point in the trajectory, then the result is you're going to chatter like you wouldn't believe. So there's a lot of protection you get when you So this you could think of this very much as a gain scheduled linear controller. Yeah, this is this is a time varying gain scheduling. And the problem is if I switch gains quickly, then you're going to get chattering. Okay, so it might make a lot of sense um for instance if you were to get a big disturbance to re-evaluate and try to find the closest point and start executing that new policy with with time reindexed. Okay, but it's probably a bad idea in my experience to decide which part of the trajectory you're closest to on every every time you implement the every DT sort of that's probably a bad idea. Yes. Um, could you maybe play some tricks if you had some idea of the basin of traction of the current point you're trying to get to and if you know that you're outside of it, then look around and see if there's a base you are inside. Yes. So, um, so we're going to talk about I so I I have a particular trick that try to does that does that in um, we'll talk about in the motion planning, but um, yeah. So, so Mark knows about these tricks for computing basins of attraction pretty efficiently. And um so these days what we do is we actually try to compute the funnel the sort of the basin of attraction of this trajectory around um around the trajectory and you could know discreetly if you left that basin of attraction. Right? So I'll give you the recipe for that. But it actually makes more sense I think in the in the motion planning context where we actually will design trajectories um that fill the space with these bases. This is the very very similar to the concept of flow tubes. Uh yes. Okay. So big idea. Turn my nonlinear system into a linear time varying system because I've parameter reparameterized it along the trajectory. Do linear time varying control. And you know even really complicated systems it'll work well. Right. We're trying to do it. We're doing it on our perching plane. we're doing it. I mean, it's it's really it's really pretty good idea. Um, when I first started working with it, I I thought that um it would have the problem that um it would have the property that it uses a lot of control to force itself back to the trajectory and sort of rigidly follow the trajectory. Right? It's easy to equate linear control with sort of high gain linear feedback which people do a lot of. Okay. But it doesn't necessarily need that property. If R is small in this derivation, it can actually take very subtle uh approaches back to the trajectory. Your system might come in and sort of, you know, do whatever it needs to to get back on the trajectory with very little torque. The only price you pay is if your torque is smaller. If you're if your R if you're penalizing torque use higher then you might restrict your that might short shrink your basin of attraction. It might be that that because it's trying to use less torque um it will not overcome the nonlinearities. Okay. But in the neighborhood of the trajectory you can get these very elegant um solutions uh which look like minimal energy kind of solutions for the nonlinear problem in the vicinity of these trajectories. Right? And so one of the ideas we'll talk about later is how do you design the minimal set of trajectories which if you use these um controllers which sort of do the right thing in a lot of places. If you walked away from this class knowing nothing but direct collocation and linear time varying feedback control, I bet you could control a lot of cool systems. Yeah. I guess you also have to know CIS ID, which I'm not going to tell you about. And that's the that's the one that sort of that's the gotcha, right? You have to have a model for all this stuff, right? But if you if you're willing if someone gives you a model or if you're willing to construct a model, then you can do a lot of things with this with this. Okay, I want to give you one more um mental um picture to think about what this is doing. So it sort of launches into the next um thing here. So my cost to go function which I just erased is remember. So my my cost to go function J of R Xar T is Xar S of T XAR just like the original um this is a quadratic form just like the original LQR you can think of this as a quadratic bowl in the LTI LQR case. Am I okay throwing around these threeletter acronyms? In the LTI LQR case, um it was a a static quadratic bowl centered around the point I'm trying to stabilize. Right? So my cost to go, it said says as I move away from the point I'm trying to regulate, I'm going to incur more cost in the direction the sensitivity that you know the the rate it grows depends on the the the parame the the variables inside S. Okay. Now in this picture I have a still a time varying I have a time varying quadratic bowl but it's also moving through time because it's um it's par it's it's very based on xbar. Yeah. So in my pendulum world, if I have this sort of nominal trajectory, you could think of it as having some quadratic bowl here. And the the the LTI stabilizer that we did come up with that was based on LQR did have some sort of quadratic bowl shape that looked like that. Okay. Backwards in time, there's going to be another quadratic bowl. Can I sort of draw it very badly like this as maybe some if I can just draw it coming off the the board a little bit. So there's some quadratic bowl um centered around this point which is my cost to go at that point. If I march farther backwards in time I've got some other quadratic bowl around this point. That sort of makes the point again that that um of the if you if I were to get pushed if my quadratic bowl is currently you know this because time is five or I had a 4 second trajectory maybe time is three here. If I'm pushed along the trajectory, it's actually going to ex, you know, incur just as much cost roughly as I as I'm pushed another direction. That there's a quadratic bowl literally centered around x0 at time t, right? That's what this equation says. And this quadratic bowl is the cost to go estimate, right? It says if I'm um away from the trajectory, you know, I should expect the cost I incur in getting back towards the trajectory to be this quadratic form. Is that okay? And the key point is because I've reparameterized my um equations in terms of xbar, this quadratic bowl always lives on that um trajectory. Okay, the best thing to do my cost function was xar qxar. My best thing to do is to drive xar to zero, which means to drive my system back to the trajectory. People okay with that imagery? I don't. It doesn't look like they are. Everybody is okay. Are we okay with the LTI stabilizer being an LQR bowl or a quadratic bowl? Says the farther I am away in the directions defined by S, I'm going to incur some cost getting back. This is just the same thing. It says if I'm at this point on the trajectory, right, I'm going to incur this cost to go. And the best thing to do, the minimal cost to go is living right on that trajectory. As a consequence, the optimal controller, which tries to go down the landscape of the cost to go, is going to drive me back to the trajectory. Now, I said all that because I'm about to do something that sounds totally wacky. Okay. What would I what would it would it ever make sense for me to design a slightly different cost function which when I linearize and design the the feedback controller I end up with a cost to go over here. So let's say I had let's say I I have some nominal trajectory I found through whatever method um some reasonable system trajectory but I really I'm still not happy with that. the the trajectory I really wanted was something like this, let's say. Would it make any sense to do my linearization around this trajectory and try to drive the system to this other trajectory? You mean like scaling your optimal trajectory? I don't even mean scaling. It could they could cross. They could do whatever. It's not a simple scaling. Let me give you a simple simpler version of the problem. Let's say that um Say that again. the second cost. Yes, I'm going to define a cost function which would have it so I prefer to live on that trajectory. Let me do it in the time invariant case just so it's it's clear. So let's say my coordinate system is back and simple. It lives around zero. Let's say I have that cost function or sorry that dynamics and instead of my original cost function was just xrpose qx let's say my cost function now is Um, Let's think about this problem for a second. Okay. So let's say I have a linear system. Now the LQR controller we did initially a little sloppy with that but the L LQR controller I did initially always assumed that the desired place you wanted to be in life was zero. Right? If the desired place you want to be in life is a constant, you know, it's three, let's say, then you can still do your fine same old linear quadratic regulator, just move your coordinate system so the three is zero. Yeah. But let's say I've got a linear system, but I want to drive it through some trajectory, right? Time varying trajectory. X desired is a function of time. Okay, then I can't quite just reenter the origin. I've got to think about how do I drive my linear system through some other trajectories. Okay. Now the the it's actually um so LTI system but my cost function is time varying because my I have this desired trajectory that varies with The result I won't write it down again. It's exactly again. I can do this uh uh ricotti equation back up, right? The only difference is that the the quadratic bowl is no longer going to be centered on the origin. The quadratic bowl is going to move with that desired trajectory. Okay. Yeah. If that's far away from where you linearized, could you That's That's excellent question. So I'm going to um but this is a linear system. So first we don't have to worry about that. But that's but don't let me forget to go back to that. Um okay. So so right. So I can drive my linear system through some trajectory that's non zero beautifully with an LQR controller. The only problem is that my LQR controller has to have a um has a cost to go function and a controller which is not pointing me always at the origin. You wouldn't want that, right? So in fact the way it looks there's a lot of ways people derive it with pontriogen it's not too hard to derive um I prefer to derive it with the HJB I'm not going to do the the whole derivation but to bore you but but what you end up with is um J of X of t has a form xrpose s of t x plus xrpose I call this s2 s1 of t plus s0 of t it's a full quadratic form right when I just have this it's a it's always a quadratic bowl it's always centered around zero if you wanted in general to be a quadratic bowl that's not necessarily at zero you need the full quadratic form term right and I could I could equally well have written this as x - x something you know desired s of t but let's work with this form yeah so this is just the equation of a quadratic bowl not necessarily centered on or on on the origin okay and the lqr derivation gives me my backwards dynamic for S2. It gives me by backwards dynamics for S1 and for S0 and it's in the notes. It's actually already in your notes if it's if you it's in the HJB chapter that has been up there for a while. Okay. Now um the reason I'm on about all this is that there's another way um I told you about shooting methods. I told you about direct collocation. There's yet another way that people like to design trajectories which use LQR im you know uh directly okay and that's this iterative LQR procedure. Okay. So let's say I have some um trajectory that I've already found x0 of t and I have some different trajectory which is my desired trajectory x desired of t. Then using this optimal tracking, if you stick back in the time varying components, using this optimal tracking, I can linearize my dynamical system around that. So I I have no guarantees that X desired is a feasible trajectory. In fact, many cases, it's not. For instance, X desired might be be at the goal at all times, right? If I came up with a perfectly feasible X desired trajectory, I probably wouldn't be running uh an openloop solver, right? um I want to get as I want to get as close as desired as possible to the x desired um while potentially minimizing cost and respecting the dynamics of the system. Yeah. So here's the way to here's one way to do it. Okay. Linearize my system around my initial guess x0 of t. Then design a linear optimal tracking linear time varying optimal tracking which tries to regulate my system as close as possible to that trajectory. Now, what Stephen said was was exactly on point. If I drive my system away from where I linearized, there's no guarantee that that my linear model was going to be any good here. Okay? But the hope is that this meth this trajectory is better a better guess than the one before. Okay? And you iterate. Okay? make another approximation around there. Um improve you know design the LQR controller run the LR controller that drives me here to find the new U tape that design defines my new trajectory repeat. Okay, that's called iterative LQR. What else is it called? Do you know? Yeah. Do you see that? It's differential dynamic programming. almost there's there's a subtle difference which I can tell you if you want um there's a lot of names for it people also call it there's a um another guy Bobo some of you know Jim Babro he wrote this up called the sequential linear quadratic regulators so you can you know any sort of four-letter acronym that ends in LQR if you put it in Google you'll find something that's probably this idea yeah if you put it in whatever arbitrary constant in front of it you'll probably get this idea Um, what prevents your uh actuator costs from accumulating from one iteration to another? I mean, every iteration you're trying to minimize your actuator cost, right? But I mean, if you have a lot of iterations potentially grow, I don't actually add to my old utape. I actually completely replace my old utape with a new controller, which which drives me to the system. Oh, so there's no worries about additive sort of um actions. Um it actually tells me in my original nonlinear system what's my best guess as a as a UAPE that goes there. Yeah. Is this basically a trick to get rid of? So very very good. So why would I want to do this? Why didn't I tell you about this first or why you know how does this compare to the other methods? Okay. there is a sense by which and I um I thought about doing the whole derivation but I think this is I hope that this sort of short discussion is is is sufficient. Okay. So what I'm roughly doing is I'm using LQR to come up with a quadratic approximation of where my cost where where my minimum is. Okay, this is very much this is very much in the spirit of those SQP methods of the sequential quadratic methods. Okay, I'm using computation on this line to come up with a quadratic approximation of where I think the new minimum should be. Okay, so as such, it's a relatively cheap way um with sort of SQP properties. convergence properties. Okay. The the methods I told you about on Thursday, the back prop through time, the RTRL, um they computed J over my trajectory. They computed partial j partial alpha over my trajectory. They did not ever explicitly compute the second derivative. I never computed partial j partial alpha partial alpha. Right? To explicitly do an SQP update, somebody needs to compute the hessen of that um of that optimization. I'm relying on snapped to do some bookkeeping to estimate the hessian to do the second order update. Okay, I would do better if I had an efficient way to compute the second derivatives and I could hand that directly to snapped or whatever and could get would get expect faster convergence. Okay, this isn't quite the gradients that I want, but it has that feel to it and it has similar convergence properties. So what you should think about is you should think about this as a more explicit second- order method for making a large jump in my um uh in my trajectories with sequential quadratic sort of convergence results. Yeah, I feel like I've lost everybody now, but uh ask questions if you need to. Yeah. Uh the advantage of it is that uh uh it's fast. it could potentially require very few iterations to converge. One of the strong disadvantages is that there's no explicit way to do constraints, right? It's you have to think harder about how to do constraints in this. Okay? And I know less formal guarantees that it'll succeed because it's an approximation of that quadratic DDP actually. And so so the RL community uh uses DDP a lot and actually a lot of people who do DDP do iterative LQR for instance for instance Peter Beiel and those guys they always call it DDP they're actually doing iterative LQR DDP explicitly um actually has you have to do a second order expansion of your um of your dynamics. So you don't just get aftx you actually do go to second order expansion of your dynamics. Right? So it's a little bit more expensive of an update. Um but most people sort of equate it almost exactly to iterative LQR. So this X not trajectory is this isn't a trajectory that you found by doing RTRL or something like that. This is something different. So good. So this could be a standin replacement to RTRL. I could start with a random Xnot trajectory. So, so maybe it's better to start with a random u U trajectory, simulate it and get an X knot trajectory and then it will quickly reshape until it gets as close as possible to this X desired trajectory. But you're reshaping your control actions that will get you to the next. Yes. So, I'm reshaping you reimulating to get the new X. Yeah, I wrote it more carefully in the notes and but but I hope this is the the right level to do the class. Okay. Um and there's one extra thing that I want that. So I say you have this works if you have a desired x desired trajectory which means your cost function has this sort of a form. Okay. But the people the advocates of iterative LQR and and DDP say that every cost function has this form. This is just a tailor second order tailor expansion of whatever nonlinear cost function you you want. Okay. So write down whatever nonlinear cost function you have. Do a second order expansion on it and you end up with a quadratic cost function like this and you can then approximate that solution with an iterative LQR scheme or RTRL or background through time. This is just this is the third out of our list of methods. And I just want my goal is only to know so that you know that it exists and you can read the notes if you want more and and uh you can read the papers if you want more. Okay. Yeah. Michael. So I think someone has something similar but like you're palizing the deviation from your normal control input. So what if you're like as literary the control input keeps growing but your you still deviation still small. Good. So, so um I'm als I'm I'm actually the the total cost is actually the cost with respect to some nom some some u desired. Okay. So I end up trying to optimize that in a in a coordinate system based on u knot. But the cost I'm trying to minimize is the the u in the original coordinate system minus u desired which in a lot of cases is zero. Right? So I actually end up although I do it in a weird coordinate system and it it actually sort of eventually subtracts itself out because I add it back in at the end and you it's quite easy to to for instance minimize u ^2 in the original coordinate system. Okay. So on Thursday we get to do walking robots. We're going to move on to the next um major thing. You've now learned um three of the the of the u sort of openloop trajectory optimizers that people really use iterative LQR very quickly RTRL um background through time I grouped as one the shooting methods and direct collocation okay there's another one that that's recent addition to the scene which is this discrete mechanics and optimal control this demok if anybody was excited about that and wanted to do a class project on that that would be perfect sort of thing. Grab that paper, show show us that it works on the Acrobat card poll. That'd be beautiful. I'd love to sort of have that um have have us try that and and see how it compares to the the other methods. Um you've got a pretty good toolkit for for optimal control now, practical optimal control. Okay. Um and it works for flying robots, but it also work for your wheeled robots if you want to control them. um you know with better control uh you know PD controller could be you could do a drop-in replacement LTI um optimal tracking controller and it would it would be better assuming your model's better. Okay, so you now have these these tools. Um quick procedural things. I know we're out of time. Um so next Thursday well so let me say the good thing first. In two weeks you're on spring break. Yeah. Uh the Thursday preceding that is our midterm. Okay. Um so we're going to try We haven't had a midterm in the class before. So there's no old exams for me to give you, but but John and I are going to try to come up with some um some representative problems for you to take home for Thursday of this week. Yeah. So you can have some some problems to munch on um over the weekend. It'll be an in-class exam um Thursday before spring break, which is a week from Thursday. Okay. Um any reference material? Yes. So open book uh well I mean you can grab you can grab whatever notes open note exam. Um absolutely and well I I'll say it more in the preparation package but but roughly we're going to uh I think if you have your notes with you if you've done the problem set and most importantly if you know how these algorithms where the algorithms sort of relate to each other and where they would be used in different systems I can guarantee I'm going to ask you something about that. then um then it's not going to it's not designed to be a killer. Um good. And and I hope you start thinking about projects. We're going to ask I decided that I wasn't going to um just out of sort of being a fairly nice person. I wasn't going to ask you to do projects before your midterm, right? Um but this time last year, I was asking people to submit project uh sort of um proposals. We're going to do that sort of immediately after the midterm. If you've been chewing on on, you know, this method looked like a really good match to my research problem or, you know, I've never actually, you know, thought about juggling robots before or something like this, you can imagine. Um, so so in the fairly near future, we're going to ask you for a a half page uh project proposal uh that we can iterate with you on to to get going on a on a worldclass final project. Yeah. See you Thursday.