Um today we're going to talk about the sum trotder theorem. I mentioned the sum trotder theorem on the first day and it could think of as a fundamental theorem in projection theory. It's um the the one of the rare theorems that is completely sharp. is just the right answer for a natural question in projection theory. Um and um and yeah, so we're gonna talk about it. Um and see yeah, so so there's some interesting techniques involved in it. Um and yeah. Okay. So so that there so that so that's what we'll do. Um all right. So let me remind you what it says. So what we talked about on the first day I called it the sum troder projection theorem. So the setup was that you have a finite set in the plane and you have a set of directions and then s= s of xd is the largest projection of x in any of these directions. So that's that's the if and then the conclusion is that the number of directions is bounded by s2 overx + 1 which we saw in the first. Okay. Um so this theorem is really a correlary of the theorem that they proved that is more general that I'll that I'll state now. Um, and the more general theorem is a theorem about how points and lines intersect in the plane. Okay. So let's say X is a set of points in the plane and L is a set of lines in the plane. The number of incidences between X and L is the number of pairs. So take a point and a line so that the point is in the line and we make a picture. So suppose those are our lines and these are our points. Um, how many incidences are there? This line has two points in it. So that counts two. And that line has one point and that line has one point. So that's four instances. You can also think of this as the sum over all the lines in the set of lines of the number of points on that line. This is a way of measuring sort of how how much the points and lines are intersecting with each other. Okay. So the the general summarity troder theorem says that um you have some points and some lines. The number of incidences between them is bounded by the number of points plus the number of lines plus points to the 2/3 lines to the 2/3. Okay, let's look at some examples to see where this stuff comes from. Um, and the examples will also remind us of the connection with projection theory. Okay. So, how could we have x incidences? Um, that's not too hard to do. If you have one line and you put all the points on it, then the number of incidences is around x. How could you have l incences? That's not too hard to do either. If you have one point and you have all the lines passing through it. Um then the number of incidences is around the number of lines. Okay. Now how can you get this? This is the most the most interesting and it's you know it's it's a fundamentally trickier example than the first. So the third example is one that we have discussed. It's based on an integer grid. So let's say x is an n byn integer grid. Okay. And then we're going to try to draw some lines that each hit many points. And we observed in class on the first day that if you have a line at a rational slope then it will go through many points. So those are our lines. So let's say um so we have to make this a little more precise. So first I'll describe the rational slopes. So q subm is defined to be the fractions a over b where a and b are integers and the a and b have size at most n. Okay. Now our set of lines is a set of lines with slope in qm. Um and they pass through a point of x. Okay. Oh, this is a good day for colored chalk. So, here is a typical line from our set of lines. I pick a rational slope and then I start at any of the points and I draw a line at that slope. All right. So now let's try to compute um how many points and how many lines and how many incidences this has. Um all right. So the size of x is n^2. It's easy to see. How many different slopes are we talking about? Well the number of fractions is around m^2. Some of those are reducible. Um but it turns out that the number of distinct fractions is still around m^ squ. So this is uh not trivial but not difficult. Maybe I'll put a little something about it on the homework. Okay. So now uh how many incidences do we have? And we can say that well each point is in a line of every one of these slopes. So the number of incidences is number of points times number of slopes. So that's n^2 * m^2. Okay. Now how many different lines do we have? Well we we have m² direction. We have to think about how many lines are in each direction. And actually thinking about the number of lines in each direction, you really you can think of it in terms of projection theory. So suppose S is one of our directions. Let's say pi subs the projection at slope s of x1 and x2 is um x2 - sx1. I guess the the projection whose fibers are lines of slowbass. All right. And um so the number of lines in direction S is exactly the size of this projection. Okay. And how big is the projection? Well, so let's make a little lema. Um, so s is in qm and x is as above. Then the size of this projection is bounded by m * n. So proof. Um, okay. So we have x1 and x2 are integers between 1 and n and s is a over b. So if I take ps of the point x1 x2 I have uh what is it? x2 - a over b x1 which I'll put over a common denominator. So it's b x2 minus a x1 over b. And this here is an integer of size at most like m * n m * n. So there are at most m * n choices for for what this could be up to a constant. Okay. So therefore the number of lines is smaller than um the number of slopes times m * n lines per slope. So that's like m cubed n. Okay. These are written as upper bounds. There are also matching lower bounds. Um so the so that those upper bounds are actually tight and if you do a little algebra you will see that the incidences between x and l is at least l to the 2/3 x^ 2/3 just by plugging in that this is l that's the number of incidences and that's x. So that's where this thing comes from. Um so the the two main ingredients we're checking how many directions there are that are have slope. how many rational numbers are there with height up to m and how big is each of these projections? And you can take those same computations and feed it into the projection theory set up here. Um and you you would get you would get theorem one. You you would get that this is a sharp example for theorem one. Uh little pause for questions and comments. Okay. So this example you can kind of see from it that theorem one and theorem two are related to each other and theorem two is more general because this could be any set of lines. Whereas in theorem one in the projection theory setup, we would have a set of directions D and the set of lines would be all the lines in direction D that go through a point of X. So that's a somewhat specific set of lines. And this one is more general. Um, so it's not very difficult to get from here to here and it's not that interesting. So I got to leave it as an exercise on the homework. Um okay. Now another question that came up on the first day is um are there other examples in projection theory besides this square grid that also are uh that also are sharp for somebody trotder and there are very few that are known but since we just did this I can tell you um a bit the other ones and uh it's conceivable that that the list I'll show you is is everything Okay. So, what are the sharp examples for submar? Okay. So we've just seen the historically first example which is a square integer grid and that goes back to air in the 60s. I think there's a second example which is a rather small variation on it but we have we know so few examples that it's worth mentioning. It is a rectangular and that was done by ele. So instead of n byn just put n1 by n2 and then do a similar analysis. And then there is a third thing that we can do which is to replace the integers by integers in some other number field. So for example uh integers adjoin the square root of two um or perhaps another or perhaps other neighborhoods. Okay. So this is in a paper by Olivine Silier and and and myself and it's actually only currently worked out for some special number fields, but I suspect it works for any number field. If anybody knows more about number fields than me, this could be a nice little project to work it out correctly. Yeah. >> One question about the rectang >> um yeah, there probably is. So um yeah so it you know it takes a little writing and whatever you see what happens for each one and each n1 and n2 um but there yeah but there are sharp examples that involve not grids that are not square um okay so let me say a little more precisely what this means here so we would have a set in our ring of things of height up to So that would be the set a1 + square of 2 a2 and with the property that with so with a1 and a2 integers and of size up to n and our our new qm um maybe qrm. So quotients in this ring size n this would be quotients of the form a1 + 2 a2 over b1 + 2 b2 where the AI and b i are integers and they have norm. Okay. And now we can do the same thing. So L is the set of lines um with slope in QRM and they go through a point of of X. Oh sorry X. So X is just Rn by Rn. Okay, so that's the example and then if you compute a little bit you'll see that everything goes in a way that's analogous to the first example. Um and um I guess I erased the key points which was unwise but uh but if you think through the first example you know we used an integer grid. What did we use about integers? Basically we just used that integers are are closed under taking products and taking sums. That was what we used in our proof. And you know this is a ring. This is a ring. So these guys are also in a similar way closed under taking products and taking sums. So it works the same way. U okay. So it's a big mystery in the field to have to have what's called an inverse theorem for severity troder. An inverse theorem would say that uh if you had a set X and L that where this was tight and where especially where this dominated then what could you say about X and L? Or as a special case if you had a set X and a set of directions D where this is tight what could you say about X and D? So we have uh on the one hand we have a handful of examples where they're tight and they're based on a lot of algebraic structure. They're based on the ring of integers in some number field. Um and on the other hand we have very little in the way of theorems that's about what you know what what we can definitely say about x and l if this is tight. >> Yeah. from kind of the quadratic number field examples. Is it important for it to be like a unique factoriization domain? Seems like if that fails then you get extra collapsing along. >> Yeah. So the question is um is it important whether whether our ring has unique factorization? Um I don't think it's I don't think it's too important. Um we in our proof over the integers I don't think we used unique factoriization of integers um uh but you there are there are some things we would have to check about each number field like we'd have to check that there are you know how many quotients are there in this thing of quotients um and um yeah so anyway so there's there's I'll I'll put something about it on the problem set as an optional project for people who want to explore Yeah, >> like for the for the original integer brick case, we sort of reported nice to have different slopes here. Do we have some like requirements on our choice of AI b I >> um so okay so I think the comment is that in the original case I said that the a over b should be a reduced fraction. >> Yeah. >> And do we have an analog of that? Yeah. >> Yeah. Um yeah, we do. Um so you know so this right so this is a set of all the fractions A over B and if if a given real number if a given fra rational number can be represented in two different ways it still only counts once in Q and the same thing is true here. So that you know the the same number here might have more than one representation of this flavor which makes it not trivial to count the cardality of this set. Um and we and we do need to know the cardality of this set to correctly analyze things. Um I guess something like unique factoriization could come in there so that there's you know before I said put it at put it in lowest terms which is maybe not quite as clear what that means if you don't have unique factoriization. >> Yeah. So say in the regime x is greater than square. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um let me say the question back and then I'll make sure I understand. Okay. So if you look at this right hand side, different terms will dominate depending upon the relative sizes of X and L. And there so there's sort of different regimes. Um so one regime is that X could be bigger than L squ. So they have just a ton of points and not very many lines. And in that situation, this term is bigger than that term and that term. So in in this situation the x dominates. Okay. So I think the question was um can we describe some structure theorem in this case? Yeah. So I think we can. So in that case the example is example one here. Um and so the structure theorem would say that um you really have to have well you know there there may not you know let me take let me say that so in this regime I don't think there's that much structure so I have some lines not very many and then I have a ton of points and I want to have x incidences that means I had better put each of my points on a line so I put each point wherever I like but not not off in the middle of space but on one of these lines and then I get this many incences so there's not that much of a structure theorem we could ask for here and there and and there's not that much of a structure theory we could ask for when this dominates but here if that one dominates um there are very few examples and there could be a structure theory >> sharp example in the two um has to be sharp example in the projection >> yeah so the question is how how do sharp examples in the two things compare Um so if you start with a sharp example in the projection theorem um then you can make a set of lines that's the set of lines that go through X and have directions in D and that will become a sharp example in the in the general theorem. Now if you start with a sharp example in the general theorem it may not have the special form that makes it relevant for the projection theorem. So you can't go the other way. always have to read that. But like the sharp example, they are like the the rectangle with the square grid and the one all of them they are sharp for both cases. >> Yeah. So all the sharp examples we mentioned are sharp examples for both Um that's right. I guess there's one more comment about it that um this setup is invariant under projective transformations. Projective transformations take lines to lines and of course take points to points. And so if you start with a sharp example maybe coming from a grid, you can apply a projective transformation to it and get a new sharp example for this theorem, but it won't any longer correspond to the projection set. Um so okay so the full list of sharp examples for this theorem that we know about is the ones I just wrote on the board plus you can apply projective transformations. Um and yeah, in terms of proving an inverse theorem, which is a big open problem, proving an inverse theorem for this would be harder and more general than proving an inverse theorem for the projections. But we don't but that that the one for projections, we don't know either. And that would be a good starting point and it might be a little more accessible. Okay, let's keep going. Um so the goal for the class is to describe how to prove this thing, right? Um so the first thing I'd like the first estimate I'd like to show you is a double counting estimate for the incidences which is in a similar flavor to the double counting estimates we've done earlier in the class. But let's just see how much double counting tells us about this problem. All right. So, double counter All right. So by double counting we will prove the following estimate. I'll call it lema one. The incidences between x and l are bounded by x * l to the 12 plus l. All right. So here's the proof. Um okay. So the incidences are the sum over the lines and I count how many points are on each line. And now I'm going to Koshy Schwarz that so it's less than Okay. So, what do I gain by Koshi Schwarzing it? Well, you think about the number of points on this line squared. It's very similar to counting the number of pairs of points on the line. And then we can make use of the fact that for any pair of points, it only lies on one line. All right. So I'm going to bound this by um here. So okay, so it's not quite true. Let me say all right, let me say something in parenthesis. It is not quite true that the number of points on the line squared is smaller than the number of points on the line choose two. That would be true if the number of points on the line is pretty large. But if there's only one point on the line, then this is one and this is zero. So I have to add here um I guess I can just add one. Okay. So now I get two terms. So this one contributes number of points on the line choose two. So I all I'm doing is changing this to this. Um and then I still have my L to the 1/2. Um and then um if I put in one here, this gives me the number of lines to the 1/2 which groups with that. I get the number of lines and this matches that. Okay. So this here represents lines that contain at least two points and this represents lines that contain only one point. All right. And now the key point is that that is smaller than that. Right? So what are we counting here? For each line, we're considering pairs of points on that line. But you could also think you could sum over all the pairs of points and then ask how many lines go through that pair. And there are at most this many pairs of points and for each one of them there's only one line. So that's the double count. So this here is the number of x1, x2 and l. So that x1 and x2 are on l. If you count the lines first and then add up over the lines, you get this expression. But if you fix x1 and x2 first, there'll only be one line. And so you get this. All right? and and now this is that. So that's the end of the proof. Okay. So let's make some remarks about this simple proof. What double counting tells us and what double counting doesn't tell us. All right. So, first we only used that two points determine a line. The only fact we used is that through two points there's only one line. So that means that it works in some more general cases. So for instance it works uh for points and lines over finite fields because over finite fields it's still true that through any two points there's only one line. Okay. And generality is good but this sort of a blessing and a curse in this case um because the whole sorre troder theorem is not true over finite fields. I'll show you an example in a second. And that means that this proof which only uses this fact cannot really be proving the whole summary troder theorem. So that's remark B. So the summarity troder theorem is false over FQ2. U here's the example. X is uh the entire plane, all the points at Q2. And L is all of the lines. You could take literally all the lines. Uh or you could take all of the lines y = mx + b where n and b are in fq. Uh it doesn't matter very much which one. Uh okay. So size of x is q ^2. The size of L is Q ^2. And how many incidences do we have? Well, each line has Q points. So incidences between X and L is uh Q * L which is Q cubed. Okay. So this example is sharp for lammo 1. is that's equal to x L to the 12. It matches that term up there and it's much bigger than the right hand side of summarity trotter, right? Okay. Yeah. So, let's do a little algebra. So, we have here an x * l to the half and semi troder. We have an x to the 2/3 l to the 2/3. Um, so there are different regimes about who who who dominates there. Um but this thing is always bigger than this thing and it's usually much bigger. Um so and so here x * l is q cubed x to the 2/3 l 2/3 would be q 8/3 which is much less than the number of instances. So the the sum troder bound does not hold in this example. Okay. So um okay so that shows something important about the semary troder theorem that we cannot prove it just by using the fact that two points determine a line and doing our double counting in a very clever complicated way. we generally need another input and all of the proofs of summarity troder theorem use somehow the topology of the plane. Um so see all proofs of similar trout use the topology of the of the plane in some way and the topology of R2 is kind of different from the topology of FQ2 whatever that might mean. Okay cool. Um, so I know four different proofs of I've seen four different proofs of the Seady Troder theorem and they use topology in some different ways. I'll show you just one. I think it's probably the one. I don't think it the proofs are not that different from each other and I uh I think this probably is the one that um would is the most convenient for thinking about projection theory for balls in R2. Yeah, >> you're saying Troder, but you always mean this one on the lower board, not the >> Yeah, that's right. That's right. Yeah. So, we'll prove this theorem and it's not very it's not too hard to see that this theorem implies the one on the top. Yeah. Okay. Um, cool. So the proof I'm going to show you is based on uh cutting the plane into pieces and it goes back to work of Clarkson, Griebus, um Edles, Briner, Shereir, and Welzel. Um it's not it's not the very first proof, but I think it's a very nice proof. Um and then it's a slightly revised version of that that that Netscats and I worked on. Um, okay. So, it's based on cutting the plane into pieces. So, let me say what I mean by that by stating a lema. All right. So, cell decomposition lab. says that if x is a finite subset of the plane and s is a natural number um then there's a way to cut up the plane. So it's um I think of it as a cell wall and then a bunch of cells. So each one of these is open and I'll call it a cell. and the set W is closed and I'll call it the wall between the cells. So the image here is that I have some points. So that's X and then um have something like this. That's W and this is 01, O2, 03 and 04. Um Okay. Okay, so it has some properties. Number one, each line intersects at most around S cells. And also the line can intersect the wall but in at most around S points. Okay. And then um each cell in the cell decomposition has at most x over s2 uh points. Okay. Now um it's not very obvious yet where all this where all these formulas came from. And it's definitely not obvious how to prove this. Um, but it's it's pretty easy to prove this in the example that X is uh approximately like a square grid. So, let me just show you that as a motivation for where this might come from and to help digest what the what the lema says. >> Ah, yeah. So right so the comment is I didn't say anything about a set of lines. Um so so what what this means is uh for every line L and here this is for every line. Um now if we had a set of lines all we would really need is to have this for the lines from our set of lines. But in practice it's actually just true for every line. Okay. All right. So, the cell decomposition lama in general is some somewhat difficult. We'll talk about the proof, but let me show you an easy case that I hope will motivate the statement. >> Yeah, >> we want X to not intersect the wall. Looks like you just put X in the wall. It looks like we could just put X in the wall. Um, let's see here. Yeah. So, another comment is that X is allowed to be a subset of the wall. And that sounds a little suspicious. Um, but um, we do get something from that because every line only hits the wall in S points. So if X were a subset of the wall, then every line would only hit X in S points. And that would be a useful tool for us, right? Also remember that S is a parameter. So for each S, there's a way of doing this. And we're going to eventually, you know, we'll look at our set of points and our set of lines and then we'll pick an S that's strategic. So if S is small, this is really quite quite strong. So here's an example is that x is uh is roughly a square grid. So let me make that more precise. Let's say x is contained in 0 to n^2 and x intersected with a unit ball around any center is small and let's say that there are around n^2 x. So what does this x look like? have an n byn box and um yeah, let me imagine cutting it like a checkerboard into unit squares and um this tells me that I have on the order of one point of x in each unit square. Okay, but this is a class of sets that so I call this this is like roughly a square grid. Okay, so now how would we cut it up? I cut it up like this and over s. So the wall is S vertical lines union with S horizontal lines. Okay, so the wall cuts it into S squared pieces. And because my set is distributed so evenly, each of these pieces has about the same size. So that gives me the third bullet. And if we were to make a line in this picture, well, it can only cross each of these other lines once. So a line will intersect the wall at most 2s times. And it to go from one cell to another cell, it has to cross the wall. So we'll only enter about two S cells. Okay. So the the bullets are not hard to check. Okay. Okay. Um so so this um de decomposition method based on the key observation that it's actually helpful to cut up our problem like this. Cut up our space like this and then count the incidences in each cell separately and the incidences on the wall. Um and in each of those pieces we can use our double counting argument. But when we add it up at the end, we may get something better than using the double counting argument globally. Okay. All right. So, proof of theorem two assuming this lema. All right. So, we're given uh x and l and s is going to be tb and we can apply this uh thing. Okay. So let's say that x i is x intersected with oi and we can say that x i is less than or equal to less than x / s^2 that was given to us as a bullet point and the sum over i of x i is at most x because these are disjoint sets. Okay. Um now let's say that li is the set of lines that intersect the cell oi. Okay. Now these are disjoint. Each point is only in one cell. These are not disjoint. Um because a line goes through many cells. So this blue line belongs to LI for this I and this I and this I but not for this I or this eye or that I. Okay. So if you add up over I the size of L I that is bounded by S times the size of L because each line in L belongs to at most S cells. All right. So now let's count our incidences. So there are incidences from each cell and the incidences related to the E cell have points from the E cell and they have lines that enter the E cell. There also are incidences involving the wall. So add the incidences from X intersected with the wall at L. Okay. Now we apply our double counting LMA to estimate each of these things. So that's less than um the sum on I X I L I to the 12 plus LI. And for the wall, well, each line only hits the wall s times. So we have s times the number of lines. Okay. Now from this point on, we just do a little bit of algebra. We just have an expression involving these numbers x i and li. And we know a few inequalities about x i and li. and we'll just put them together. Um here, uh it's reasonable to Koshy Schwarz because I know information about Xi and Li separately. So that will disentangle this sum on i Xi 2 to the 12 sum on i li to the 12. This sum on li I just read that off and that can be grouped with that. Okay. Um, and now what do I do with this sum of squares? Well, I know that each x i is bounded by something. So, I can pull that out. So, I'll have x over s^2. And I'll have left the sum of x i. This sum of li is just here. So it's S L to the 12 and I copy this. Okay, this sum of X I is bounded by X. And so then I'll do a little algebra here. This is the important term. I'll have an X^ squared to the 12. So X and X. I'll have an L to the 12. And I'll have some powers of S. There'll be a 1 over s coming from here and an s to the 1/2 coming from there. So al together I have an s to the negative one2 and this I'll copy over. Okay, let's pause there for a second after the algebra. Okay. So let's take stock of the bound that we got and how it compares to the double counting argument. If you compare this to the double counting argument, the terms sort of match up. So in the double counting we have x l to the 1/2 and that first term gets decreased by s to the minus a half when we when we uh introduce our cutting and then the second term of l gets in increased by a factor of s. So if originally the first term dominated then life will get better when we uh do this decomposition and if originally the L dominated then life will not get better when we do this decomposition. Okay. So at the at the end here we just choose S greater than or equal to one to minimize the right hand side. Um, and if you do a little bit of algebra, you'll get out the summary trout bound. Okay. Um, so I remember spending some time trying to digest why things were getting better when we subdivided. And here was one thought I had about it. If you look at the double counting bound, there are these different regimes. So there's a regime where the left term dominates and in that regime the double counting bound is bigger than the truth and there's a regime where the right term dominates and you can always have L incidences so that's not that when the right term dominates it's the truth okay and so what are the regimes the the right term that the L dominates if L is bigger than X square. So we have a lot of lines compared to the number of points then um then double counting already gives a sharp bound. Okay. So suppose originally that L is not bigger than X squ. So if I just apply double counting out of the box the the X L to the half would dominate which I'm not so happy with. Then I try cutting things up into cells. I count the incidences in each cell. Is life any better? Well, I have S squared cells. So, if I if I look and and the points are kind of evenly distributed. So, if I look inside one cell, the number of points goes down by S^ squ, which is quite a lot. How about lines? Well, not every line goes through this cell. So, the number of lines also goes down. But because each line goes through many cells, each line goes through S cells, the fraction of lines that I would expect to go through this cell is 1 / s of all the lines. So the number of points goes down a lot and the number of lines only goes down a little. By doing that, I'm tilting things towards having a lot of lines and few points. And if you think about if you if you track you know what is the best value of this S. What happens is the S is best when we cut it in such a way that inside of each cell the number of lines is the number of points squared. And that means the double counting is giving the correct bound inside of each cell. Okay. Uh, questions or comments. Okay. So, let's talk about how to prove the cell decomposition LMA, which uses a little bit of topology. Um so in our cell decomposition lema we want to take our points and kind of cut them up in evenly in some way and that is reminiscent of a classical thing in topology called the ham sandwich theorem and the cell decomposition lama is like a like a cause a variant of the ham sandwich theorem. So I will first recall the ham sandwich theorem and how to prove that and then we'll we'll uh work up to this. All right. So our our starting point in topology is going to be the Borsuk ulong theorem. So I'll I'll recall that. I'll state that and then we'll try to prove everything else from from Borsukan. All right. So the borsak gulam theorem says that if you have a function from the n sphere to rn which is continuous and it's antipodal. So that means f of negative theta is negative f of theta for every theta in the sphere. Um then the conclusion is that 0 is in the image of f. There is some some point in the sphere that got mapped to zero. Okay. Um, so as a correlary of that, we're gonna do the ham sandwich theorem. So one version of the ham sandwich theorem says that if 01 up to O N contained in Rn are bounded open sets um then there exists a hyper plane H that bisects the So for instance, if I had two bounded open sets in the plane, there would be a line somewhere that bisects both of these sets. Okay, so proof. Um, so first we need to sort of parameterize our choice of all the hyperplanes. And a good way to think about that is that a hyper plane is related to a linear function. So this is a hyper plane. I also I'm going to have one a hyper plane and one side of it. or pay attention to which side is which. So this shaded region would be the region um a1 x1 plus a n xn is bigger than b. So one side of a hyper plane can always be described that way and we have the freedom to scale a. Um so let's say that theta is a1 up to a n comma b that could be in the n sphere by scaling theta which doesn't change the hyper plane. Okay, so those are my hyperplanes. And now f of theta let me say here let me say it this way. This guy plus b is bigger than zero. And uh this thing here I will call l sub theta of x. Okay. So f of theta is f subi of theta is the volume of oi intersect l theta is bigger than zero. That's the volume of oi on this side minus the volume of oi and l l sub theta is smaller than zero. So f_subi of theta is the volume of this part of oi minus the volume of that part of oi. Okay. So notice that fi of theta is zero if and only if the hyper plane associated to theta biseects oi. Okay. Um also f_si is antipotal f_subi of minus theta is negative f_subi because if I replace theta by minus theta I take the minus of all these coefficients and I'm replacing l of theta by negative l of theta and so that switches uh who so I so I'll have the same zero set the same hyper plane but now this one will be positive and that one will be negative. So I'll switch these two things which reverses the sign of fi of theta. Okay. Um f_subi is also continuous. So if I adjust theta then I'll make a small motion of this plane and that will change these volumes but only continuously because the sets are bounded and open. Okay, so finally I'll make f by just putting together all these fns. And so f is a function from the n sphere to rn and it's continuous and it's antipodal. So the conclusion is so then Borsagulam tells me that there exists some theta. So that f of theta is zero and that means that h theta bisects all these sets. all right. Now this by itself is not going to be super helpful for us. Um we have a set that lives in the plane. So the theorem says you know I can find a line that bisects any two things. Um I'm hoping to take a complicated set and cut it into many even pieces. And so a more relevant warm-up is some way of bicting many sets not just two. Um okay. So if I put more open sets here then there will not be a hyper plane that bisects all of them but I could be more flexible about what sort of cut I would allow. So it can't be a hyper plane. It has to be a little bit more complicated. And it turns out to be a reasonable idea to consider cuts by polomials of some degree. And there's a so there's a natural generalization of this. Uh you could do really any class of functions but but for this application polomials are useful and it's called the polomial ham sandwich theorem. All right. All right. So here's here's a more general version polomial hand sandwich. Okay. So let's say polomials of degree D in Rn that is the set of polomials so polomials in n variables over R so that the degree is at most D and so this is a vector space and it has dimension approximately d to the n. If you if if the dimension n is fixed and the degree is going to infinity u the dimension is not hard to figure out. You count how many monomials are there of degree at most d. Okay. Um so the proposition says that if capital n is strictly less than the dimension of this space then there exists a polomial p the space of which is non zero and the polomial bisects each of the open sets. So let's say fi of p is defined to be um the volume of oi intersect p is positive minus the volume of oi intersect p is negative and uh fi of p equals zero for all i from one up to Okay, so that's the statement of the proposition. Instead of using a hyper plane, we use a degree D the zero set of a degree D polinomial to bisect our sets. And then we can bict many more sets. And this is exactly how many. As D increases, we have more uh degrees of freedom, bigger dimension, and we can bisect more things. Um so at the level of intuition you can think of this in terms of degrees of freedom. Um so the dimension of this space tells us sort of how many degrees of freedom we have to play with. Each one of these is a constraint. And if the number of degrees of freedom is at least the number of constraints then the then the theorem says we can actually find a solution. Okay. Um, the proof is essentially the same as this. So, proof, what do I need to check? Um, well, fi. So I I've so I just need to check that fi are continuous and fi of negative theta is negative fi of theta. Okay. So why is it continuous? I won't do a full proof but if you adjust the coefficients of this polomial a little bit then the set where it's positive changes but only a little bit and so this volume should only change a little bit that's continuity and why is it antipotal well if I switch P to negative P um actually yeah let me put P's here if I switch P to negative P then it interchanges these two sets and so it swi switches the sign of fi of p. Okay, cool. All right. And now f is going to be f_sub_1 up to fn. Now f is a map from where to where. F is a map from polomials of degree D on Rn take away zero to RN. Why is that? I was waving my hands a little bit when I said that f is fi is continuous. um and uh fi is is not continuous at zero. If you know if the polinomial is zero then both of these sets are empty. So I guess by the definition fi of zero would be zero. Um but um uh then if I move p a tiny bit so it's not zero then these sets are these sets will appear and they're they take up most of space. So there would be sort of a jump discontinuity in those sets. Um so the reason we had to do this is that fi is only continuous on the space of polinomials without zero. So if I take a nonzero polinomial and I change the coefficients a little bit then this set will only change a little bit. Okay. that. So actually I should say that that's not completely trivial that fact. Um it takes a little a little proving um it's related to the fact that if you have a nonzero polomial then any of its level sets like cannot have positive volume. If you have like polomial equals 3 that defines a hypersurface and it cannot happen that that hypersurface has positive volume and that's basically what you need to check that this is continuous. Okay. So this is a space from here to here and to apply borsk ulam I need to have a sphere for my domain. So this sphere is sitting in here as long as n is strictly less than the dimension of this space. So this is this is where we use this hypothesis. Okay. And then Borsulam says that zero is in the image of f which is what we're trying to prove. Okay, cool. All right, so we're getting close to having a tool that we can use to do this decomposition. And now we have a little technical issue or a little mismatch because in what we want is to start with a finite set and have a cell decomposition that kind of cuts it into into even pieces. And um this proposition is about open sets. If we have a bunch of open sets, we can simultaneously cut them each in half. So we need a version where the open sets are replaced by finite sets. And that's not difficult to do. It's just a technical thing. Oh, that's how it works. Okay. So proposition um if SI contained in R2 or Rn I guess is okay are finite sets I = 1 up to N and N is less than the dimension of poly D of Rn um then there exists a nonzero polomial poly D of Rn So that um what does it mean? So in some sense we'd like this polomial to bisect these sets. Um but we have to say something slightly weaker and I'll explain why. So that SI intersect P positive is less than or equal to SI / 2 and SI intersect P negative is less than SI / 2, right? Okay. So you know this set could be a set of three points. So it's not possible that half of them will be positive and half of them will be negative. So the best we could hope to is that one would be positive, one would be negative and one would be zero. Okay. Um Okay. So proof for any epsilon bigger than zero, let's say O epsilon I is the epsilon neighborhood of SI. So that's an open set. And so we can apply our proposition to that set. apply polomial ham sandwich to O epsilon I and we output a polomial pepsilon which is in the unit sphere in the space of polomials uh and it bisects them. So we know that the volume of oepsilon I intersect P bigger than zero is half of the volume of oepilon I okay so we have this for every epsilon and now we want to take some kind of limit as epsilon goes to zero and the sphere is compact so the sphere sn is compact. So we have a subsequence uh pepsilon some subsequence of them converges to a limit p which is a polomial in sn okay and the claim is that the p does the job. So let's say this is the zero set of P. Over here P is positive and down here P is negative. And suppose a particular SI was not split up evenly like this. It's more than half of that on that side. Um here let me do that yellow. There's SI. So why can't that happen? Well, think about what the eps pepsilon would be doing. So oepsilon i would look like this. And what would pepsilon look like? Well, it's a little perturbation of p. We take uh you know we have some convergence. So so that would be the zero set of pepsilon here's pepsilon is positive here is pepsilon is negative and that violates this. if SI intersect P is positive was strictly greater than 12 of SI um then we'd have O epsilon I intersect Pepsilon positive would be strictly greater than 12 of OI epsilon I contradiction Okay. Okay. So now let's prove the cell decomposition lema. So we improve the cell decomposition lama by using the polomial by using this proposition many times. Okay. So we have some set of points x and first we use our uh proposition with um n equals 1 and so d equals 1. So we're only so actually easy case of our proposition we're only bicting this one set of points. So here's p1 equals z. So the output is a polomial P1 of degree D1 = 1 and it bisects the set. So we have X plus is the set of X and X where P1 of X is positive etc. Okay. Then we use our proposition with n= 2 and we get a polomial P2 of degree D2. D2 would probably also be one, but it let me just put sort of the general thing. So it would be less than our N2 uh to the 12. Um okay. And P2 P2 bisects X plus and X minus. So here's the zero set of P2 and it bisects each half. So now I've divided X into quarters. Okay. And we keep going. So at step K, I use my proposition and I have N K which is 2 K and DK which is less than N K to the 12. So that's like 2 to the k over two and uh and I I output a polinomial pk and it bisects the 2 to the k minus one previous guys or two to the k previous guys. So I'll draw one more. I have four pieces and I find a new polomial and I bict all four. Okay. So now uh when do I stop? I choose the final K. So 2 to the K is S squared. And that means the final DK around 2 the K / two is around S. Okay. So since I bisect at every stage um I get x intersect o y smaller than x / 2 k which is like x s^2. So that's my third bullet. So I'm trying to prove each cell has only a 1 over s^ squ fraction of the original points. We have that. And then I'm trying to think about uh how each how the lines intersect the cells and how the line intersects the walls. So these are the different cells and the red stuff is the walls. So if I draw a line here, um the line intersected with the wall is smaller than d1 + dot dot dot plus dk because you know how how many times does a line intersect the zero set of a polomial? It's at most the degree. Okay, so these degrees are bounded by 2 to the 2 to the k / 2. So this this is a geometric series. It's bounded by its last term 2 the k / 2 which is around s. So that's the second bullet. Okay. And every time this pol this line moves from one cell to another, it has to cross the wall. So that also bounds the number of cells that the line intersects. Okay. So that ends this the proof or proof sketch of the cell decomposition lema. Um any questions or comments?