All right. Well, last class we started to talk about the forier method in uklidian space in R2. And the big goal for the class is to to digest the forier method, finish that story, but also just to digest it in general. Um and then after that if there's time we'll start to introduce civ theory which has a extremely parallel story um that but that was developed by a different group of people and with with somewhat different goals. Um okay so to digest the 4A method I wanted to go back for a second to the finite field 4A method where everything is a little bit cleaner and to make a point about it. Okay. So, so our main lema in the finite field case was like this. If you have a set of lines um in FQ2 and then you add up their characteristic functions then it has a a big constant part and then a small high frequency part. And then the conclusion is that f is f plus f high where um fnot is a constant function. It's the number of lines over q and from that you can compute its l2 norm. Um l2 squared is number of lines squared. Um and uh fi is has mean zero and we have a bound for its alorm. Okay. So, um, so one thing that you can get out of this is a bound for the L2 norm of f. If you add these together, you get a bound for the L2 norm of f. Um, and it's worth saying that that bound for the L2 norm of f has a elementary proof that's really simpler than this. Um, let me let me show it for comparison. to help put this in perspective. So let's call this elementary L2 bound. Okay. So there's a first lema that if you have two different lines and then you take the sum over x l1 of x l2 of x uh this is at most one could do that. Uh it's just saying that two two lines intersect in at most one point. Okay. And we can use this to make an L2 estimate. So here's the L2 estimate. Um if f is the sum l and l of l of x then f l2 is bounded by the number the number of lines squared plus number of lines times q. Um here's the proof. So f L2^2 is the sum over L1 and L2 of sum on X L1 of X L2 of X. Okay. And now each one of these sums we can control with this lema. All right. But we have to be a little bit careful. If L1 is equal to L2, that's a different situation. A line intersects itself in a lot of points. So we're going to split up this sum. So it's the sum L1 equals L2 plus the sum L1 did not equal L2. Okay. So here we have um only L choices for L1 or only L choices appear in this sum and each one of them contributes Q. And then over here we have L squar choices for the lines but each one of them contributes one. So that's the all right so if you compare this with this it looks something looks kind of similar right we get an L2 bound up there of L^2 + LQ that matches L^2 + LQ that we get here with this quite simple argument. Okay, but the main lema has more information than that. Um, well, there's actually a really two cases. If Q uh is bigger than the number of lines, then this term dominates here and this term dominates here. And in that situation, the main lema doesn't really have much more information than this because the function fh is not that special. But the other regime is that the number of lines is much bigger than Q. So this dominates that and in that situation most of the L2 norm is coming from F knot which is very special because it's constant. Um so so the um so the main lema has an important piece of information beyond this that when we have many lines this sum is almost constant and and then it's a constant plus something that's much smaller. Okay, so that uh that is also true in spirit for the main lema in the real case, but the main lemon in the real case is a little bit more complicated. So I wanted to do this first and then we could look for the analogous thing in the more complicated real case. Okay. So what did the main lema say in the real case? Main lema in the real case. So now we have t is a set of 1 by r rectangles and um uh s t is a smooth approximation of the characteristic function of t and the exact meaning of that is explained in agonizing detail on the homework. Um okay and then we have a function which is the sum over all the t and t of this smoothed characteristic function of t. Okay. Now our bounds are going to depend on how these tubes are clustered. So n subt of r is the maximum where t tilda is a two little r by two big r a rectangle or tube of the number of tubes in there. So picture is we have this tilda and we see how many middle tubes are in tilda. Okay so that those are the hypotheses of the main lema and then the conclusion is that you can write f uh you can break it up into pieces of different frequencies. So the pieces are labeled by a sort of a width parameter little r which is a diatic number between scale one and scale capital r of f sub little r where the f sub little r has two good properties. It has a frequency support. The support of f little r hat is contained in the ball of radius 1 / r and it has an l2 norm uh bound f sub little r l2 2 is bounded by um the number of tubes times this um packing clustering uh parameter at at the scale little r um times big r Okay. Okay. Now, one thing you could take away from this is you could take away from it a bound for the L2 norm of F by just adding up all of these. And like before, that bound for the L2 norm of F has a simpler proof. Um, and for context for understanding this, I'm going to show you this simpler proof. >> Yes. FR is orthogonal. >> The FRS uh the FRS are orthogonal. Um yeah, the FRS are orthogonal. Um if we didn't know they were orthogonal, we would lose a little bit when we we'd have to do Koshy Schwarz to compute the L2 of F. Um but the amount that we would lose would be like a log R, which is relatively minor. Okay. So, let's do an elementary L2 bound. All right. So, like before we when we expand out the L2 norm, we'll have to estimate the integral of one tube times another tube. Um, but one tube times another tube is a little bit more complicated than one line times another line. Two lines always intersect in a point, but two tubes intersect in a different amount of area depending upon the angle between them. So, we're going to keep track of that. All right. So, let's make a definition. the um width r in between t1 and t2 is the minimum uh r so that there exists a two r two little r by two big r rectangle tilda that contains them both. So if this is t1 and this is t2 then um that would be t tilda and that would be r. So now if I want to integrate t1 of x t2 of x dx that's going to be about big r over the little r associated to these two tubes. Why? Well the integral is the area of their overlap. And if I I'll sort of sketch their overlap over here. Um not a great picture. Um this is around one because it's contained in one of the tubes. And this axis here is uh like big r over little r. As little r gets smaller, they overlap more and more. Okay, good. Um so now we can make it L2 bound. Let's say that the integral of f2 bounded by the sum uh sum over little ratic of t * n subt of little r * big r over Okay. And the proof is that we'll just break up this sum as a bunch of sums bunch of integrals like this. group them according to the value of little r and we'll see what happens. This is what's going to fall out. So here's the proof. Um so the integral of f2 is the sum t1 and t2 in our set of tubes integral of t1 of x t2x. Now this integral here depends on the value of little r. So let's group these by the value of little r. So that's the sum over little ratic sum over t1 and t2 with that value. So the r associated to t1 and t2 would be about this r and then I have this integral which I can bound by the lema. So I get big r over little r. Okay. Now I need to know how many pairs of tubes are in this list here. Well, I can choose T1 and T1 as far as I know could be anything. So I have number of tubes choices for T1. But once I choose T1, I choose need to choose another tube T2 that fits into the same rectangle with T1. So the number of choices for that is about N subt R. It's what it's measured. So this is bounded by sum over r diatic of um number of tubes and n subt of r big r over little. Okay, great. So let's compare this with this. This is exactly what we get by just adding up all those L2 norms uh for the for the F subr. Okay. Um so this proof is a lot easier than the proof of the main lama that we did last time. Um let's compare the L2 bound in the main lama. If I were to erase this information in the main lema, then all that would be left is the L2 bound. But there is this information and this is helpful. This is telling us something more. Um, okay. Now, depending upon what we know about this thing here, different terms might dominate this sum. If it so happens that the term little r equals 1 uh has the biggest contribution here um then we don't learn very much because the our information about the support of f1 hat is is the same as the information we already had about the support of fhat. So we'd have nothing new. uh but it may well happen that the that the the term where this is biggest is has little r much larger and then f little r has this frequency support condition. It gives it some structure some extra information there that's going to help us. So let's talk about what what does it mean about the function f little r that it's frequency is supported there. Okay. So uh intuition we call this the the locally constant intuition says that if I have some function g and the support of g hat is contained in the ball of radius 1 / r um then the function g is approximately constant on balls of radius plus. So um you know if the support of Ghat is in the ball of radius 1 / r then ghat is a combination of waves cosine waves where all of the cosine waves have have frequency at most one over r. So each one of those cosine waves is not changing very much on balls of radius R. So it's sort of intuitively plausible that after we add them up also we'll get something that is roughly constant on balls of radius R. We'll come back in a little while and make a precise statement about this. Okay. So based on this, let me make a picture illustrating main lama R main and then okay. Um so okay so th this will be well so this will be like a uh each one of those lines is going to be a one by R tube. So, I may have a whole bunch of them over here, sort of like this. And a whole bunch of them over here, sort of like this. And over over in this part of the board, I might have some that are not uh so clumped into thick tubes. It might look sort of like this. All right. So over here what the picture I wanted to to give you is that I put so many thin strokes of chalk one by our rectangles that they sort of smooshed on top of each other and they produced with like a thick stroke. Um and so this part over here might be dominated by f of r. So maybe this scale might be R and F subr be sort of the sum of this blob and that blob and on the other so this so this over here in blue would be f subr and on the other hand this over here would be f sub f sub one all of this stuff uh is pretty high frequency Okay. And notice that this f subar is kind of roughly constant on any ball of radius r. And so if I were to visualize the set where f is big. Um well there might be some bits in here where f is big but then there also might be some piece in here where f is big. Okay. Um so over here this is where f sub1 is big and over here this is where fub r is big. All right. And and now the kind of trade-off that happens is we might have like a very strong bound for the L2 norm of F1. And so that bound tells me that this set where F1 is big is small. And then we have a bound for the L2 norm of FR. It might not be such a good bound. It might be bigger. But on the other hand, FR has this nice structure that it is constant on balls. So the set where FR is big is is group is clumped into these big balls. And so that gives us so the area might be larger than this area. But the fact that it's clumped gives us some other geometric information about it. It's kind of simpler. Okay. So let's pause there. I was uh recapping the main lema in the real case and um I sort of tried to have a picture of what it's telling us. Okay. Okay. So the next thing that we should do is this is sort of nice but it is not a actual precise math statement. So in order to really make use of this idea, we need to now replace this intuition by by uh an actual precise thing. So let's let's do that. So here's a precise version of the intuition. Okay. So um okay. So how do we use the fact that the support of g hat is contained in something like v of 1 / r. There's a a nice trick for for doing this for using this which goes like this. So suppose I have a function um ADA so that ADA of C is one for all the C in the ball of radius 1 / R. There are many such functions ADA and and you probably the mo the most useful kind is to suppose that ADA is also smooth and compactly supported. Okay. So g hat is equal to g hat * a ghat is supported on this ball and aa is one on this ball. And now I can take the inverse for a transform of this and I get that g is g convolved with a to check. Okay. Um so this uh follows from and is almost equivalent to this but it's often a little bit easier to work with. So next to work with this we should figure out a little bit uh what this function a check is like. So properties of a check. Okay. So for one thing a check of x is less than um r the minus2 in the plane that just follows from the triangle inequality to compute a check. We integrate ada times a complex exponential and ada has size one and it's supported on this ball. So we get this um but in addition to that if if x is large then we get cancellation so the next thing is that aa check of x um decays rapidly so I'll I'll write something precise in a second decays rapidly if x is bigger than one and so the reason for that is aa check of x is the integral of c E2 pi iix xc dx c and um we can bound this integral by integrating by parts um and uh this is a nice and smooth thing and if x is bigger than this we integrate by parts many times we get a strong estimate from this okay the estimate has the following shape I start with an r to the minus2 just to compare to what I had there and then I have um uh x over r and I can put here I can put here any exponent I like but negative a th000 will be fine for us. So if x is more than teeny bit bigger than r this thing is very small. Okay. All right. So now let me set um C subR to be the norm of A check. And so C subR has bounds that we just computed. So C subar of X is bounded by R the minus2 and it's rapidly decaying if X is much bigger than R. Um and now we can state a lema. So if the support of g hat is contained in the ball of radius 1 / r um then the norm of g of x is bounded by the norm of g convolved with cr x. And the proof is is basically just what just what we what we have. So we we started with G hat is Ghat time ADA and so G is G convolved with ADA check. Now take the triangle inequality. The norm of G is less than or equal to the norm of G convolved with the norm of A check. And that's the proof. The norm of A check is called CR. Okay. And um since we're going to eventually be thinking about L2 norms, it is helpful to have a tiny variant of this lema where we have the norm of G squar instead of the norm of G. And it's sort of convenient to prove it ahead of time instead of in the middle of what's coming. So uh lambda 2 if the support of g hat is contained in the ball of radius 1 / r then the norm of g ^2 is bounded by the norm of g ^2 convolved with cr. Okay. So be before we do the the rigorous proof, let me say something about how I think about this. Um, so this here says that the norm of G is bounded by this is sort of like taking an average. It's like the norm of G is bounded by the average value of the norm of G on a ball of radius R. Um and then if you had that by Koshy Schwarz you would also have that the norm of G squ was bounded by the average of uh the the norm of G squ on the ball. Okay. So that so that's what we'll write down now. So the norm of g of x squared is bounded by the first lema by the norm uh by the norm of g convolved with cr at x squared. If I write out what this convolution is, it's the integral norm of g of x - y cr of y d y all squared. And now I can do a koshy schwarz. Um I want to do a koshy schwarz to get this guy squared with one of those. So when I do my koshi schwarz my first factor will be integral norm of g ^2 x - y cr of y and my second factor will just be the integral cr of y dy. So you could to see that this is a valid Koshy Schwarz. The sort of total number of exponents of G is two. Total number of exponents of C is two. That matches what's on the other side. Okay. And now um this thing here is bounded by one which follows by follows from our bounds for how it behaves and which goes along with the intuition that um you know that this integral is one. And so this convolution is like doing an average. Okay. And this thing here is just the right hand side. This is G ^2 involved with VC. Okay. So this is the way we will rigorously make use of the fact that FR has frequency in there. Um and it corresponds visually to this picture that I think I'll erase now that FR looks sort of like this. And the places where it's big are consists of some blobs with balls of radius r. Okay. Um so now we can use our main lama to prove some projection theory estimates. All right. So our setup is that we have X is a set of unit balls in the two-dimensional ball of radius R. D is a set of directions. So it's a subset of S1, which is 1 / R separated. and s measures the size of the biggest projection of x in here. So it's the maximum over all the thetas in my direction set of the theta projection of x. So that's our setup and we're going to try to bound these different quantities in terms of how the directions and how the spheres are clustered. So remember nx of r is the maximum overall possible center c of the amount of x in the ball of radius c of center c and radius r. And similarly n subd of row is the maximum over arcs in s1 of length row of the number of directions in the ark. So that's our setup and the projection theory estimate that comes from this method I'll call it theorem 2 r theorem 2 in the real case says that uh if we have the setup then the number of directions is bounded I s big R / X times the maximum over little R of um NX of little R and D of little R over big R over little R 2. Okay, so this is a little bit messy. Um, and we'll eventually make some hypotheses that allow to simplify it. Um, but just notice for now that this estimate takes account of how the set of directions is clustered and it takes account of how sorry it takes account of how the set x of unit balls is clustered and it takes account of how the set of directions is clustered. Okay, so the proof uh follows the uh idea of the proof we did in finite fields and and makes use of the main lema. And here's our setup. So for every direction in our direction set, let's say t theta is a set of at most s we could say exactly s one by r tubes t that cover s. So if this projection has size s then looking at the fibers of the projections I get s tubes that cover my set x. Okay. Then um t my master set of tubes will be the union over all the directions t theta and f is going to be the sum over all these tubes of the smoothed approx uh smoothed um characteristic function of the tube. Okay. So we observe that for every x in x um f ofx is at least the number of directions. All right. So now we now we use our main lama and we break up f into these different frs. use main lema. Um, and I there are only logarithmically many different choices of R. And so one of them has to make a pretty big contribution at each of these points. And so I can I can choose R. So that all right. So so I have X * D^2 that's smaller than the integral X of F2. And now there are only a few Rs. So that should be somewhat smaller than a like a log times the integral over X of R 2. Okay. Now the first thing I might try here is if if you look at the statement of the main lama it has an upper bound for the L2 norm of FR and I could plug in that that upper bound and I would bound this I would get something out of it but that's not the optimal thing to do here. Um dep well depending on what we know about X depending on what we know about this. So to get some intuition, let's look at this picture that I haven't managed to erase yet. So we're trying to understand this thing, the integral overx of fr 2. So let's add an x to our picture. Uh do I have any more colors? So x in this picture is going to be yellow. And x may look something like this depends a little bit on nx of r. If nx of r the biggest that nx of r could be is r 2. If it's that big then x could fill in this whole thing. But if nx of r is smaller than r^ 2 then it's sort of like the picture that I drew when x is only a small fraction of this ball. And in this picture it would be lossy to estimate the integral over just x of fr 2 by the global integral of fr which would include the whole orteal. Okay. Um so we're going to try to do a bit better than that by using our lemas. uh about the about the locally constant property of the function fr. All right. So I'm going to erase this but I'm going to leave this picture here for our intuition. All right. So we have the integral overx of fr 2 that is I'll just rewrite it as the integral of 1x fr. Okay. Now if I want to use the locally constant property of fr 2 it means I should I could use these lemas and in particular I can use lema 2 which is sort of well set up to deal with a square. So this is bounded by the integral of 1x * fr 2 convolved with uh cr and um if you write out what this is and do fubini this is the same as the integral of fr 2 times the characteristic function of x involved with E R does that step something you see that yeah okay let's do it so the algebra is like this I have the integral 1x of x and then I have this convolution which is the integral fr of x - y cr of y d y No, let me do it the other way. Okay. So now what happens if I fubini that um that's the integral fr of y integral of 1 x of x c of x - y dy okay it doesn't look quite right yet and it actually reminds me that there's a little something else that's helpful to say about cr Um uh so you can also add here that CR is radial. It implies that it's symmetric. Yeah, I should probably have mentioned that earlier in my plan. Uh so the reason you can do that remember CR was the 4A transform of some bump function ADA. If your bump function ADA is radial, it for a transform will be radial. So so this guy is radial and symmetric. Okay. And then because that's symmetric, I can switch those. So that's the integral fr of y integral 1x of x c of y - x uh sorry this one is this one is dx. Uh so that's the integral of r of y 1x involved with cr of y. I feel like there also should be a nice image of what's going on in this integral. um like we have this imagine for a second that this was the characteristic function of a set. It's not quite true, but it's not far off either. So I have one set and I have another set. But before I multiply them together, which would mean intersecting the sets, I fatten out this set here by a distance r. So I take this this call this set y. I take y, I fatten it out by r, and I intersect it with x. And that's kind of the same thing as taking X and fattening it out by R and intersecting it with Y because I could describe both of them like this. I'm looking for pairs of points, one in X and one in Y. The distance between them is at most R. If I say it that way, it's symmetric. And and that's what's going on here. I guess that's a fancy way of saying I just took this integral and I wrote it like this. And now remember that the function CR is symmetric. Now the whole thing is symmetric symmetric in in exchanging these two functions. Okay, cool. Okay, so now we've written it this way and the intuitive meaning of this is I've averaged the characteristic function of X over balls of radius R. Um and so uh this is bounded by nx of r / r 2. So this is the integral of that guy over a ball of radius r and then I'm picking the average. So I divide by the area of the ball of radius r. Okay. Um so to check this a little bit more carefully we have to use the bounds that we have for this CR thing which are over here. So it's bounded by 1 / r^ 2 on the ball of radius r that would give the average. Then it also has this rapidly decaying tail which to be careful we should take account of. Um but what what it contributes is is uh is smaller than the first term the main term. Okay. So that's how we bound this. This is now a number. So we can take it out of the integral and we just have left the L2 norm of fr 2. So we plug in our bound for that. So we have it's bounded by nx of r / r 2. You can think of this thing as the density of x at scale r times the integral of f_sub_r 2. Okay. And then I just plug in the the bound for the integral of fr 2. And we'll write that out. So um okay, we have number of tubes. We have big r over little r. We have nt of r. That's this thing. Then we have n x of r and then we have r square. Okay, we are almost done. Um but what what we have here is number of tubes in a little r by big r guy and the information we want to be using is the number of directions. So the last step is that the number of tubes in a little r by big r tube is bounded by the number of directions in a little r over big r uh angle times little r. So here's a picture. Here's our um little r by big r tube. Inside of it, I can fit in some tubes in different directions. So if I pick one direction, I can pick little r of them. Um, that's this little r. But they don't have to go that way. I could also have them go may maybe the most extreme direction is I could have them go that way. And this angle here is uh little r. The angle there is little r big. So all of the different tubes that appear here um there are they have to have an angle in a within a range of little r over big r. So the number of directions is like that. And then for each direction then the number of possible tubes is at most little r. Okay. So if you substitute this for that um then this expression becomes the right hand side of the two. Yeah. >> Are you able to kind of use the fact that the tubes that are at an angle like you can fit less of them in? Does that change the bound or do anything different? >> Yeah. Okay. So the question was um if we knew that in a given direction these tubes um were had to have some spacing. So we could so we could also measure the clustering of the tubes in a given direction. So if we add some information about that then maybe this would have to be smaller than little r. So in our setup so our setup involves three things but we only thought about the clustering of two of them. Our setup involves set of unit balls X and we looked at how it's clustered NX of R set of directions D and we looked at how it's clustered ND of row and also a set of projections which each have size at most S but we didn't say anything about how they were clustered. So you could add to this setup something about how each projection is clustered and you could then use that to improve this thing here. Yeah. So, that could be a little homework project if anyone is interested in doing it. Good. Any other questions or comments? Okay. Um Okay. So one uh so this the theorem sort of naturally falls out from using the fora method um but it's a little messy looking and the the the thing that's particularly messy looking is this maximum over little rx and d and there's a a fairly general situation that we mentioned last time where that that messy bit gets a lot cleaner. Um, I don't know that that's so philosophically important, but it's I think it's worth mentioning and that this is the way this the results usually appear in the literature. All right. And and this will allow us to to you know finally prove the result that we stated last time. All right. So um so definition we say x is housedorf or housedorf spacing if nx of r to the beta is bounded by around x to the beta for all beta between zero and one. So when beta is one this is trivial. Um this is always true but this is saying that at at smaller scales beta this x is not too clumped compared to how it is at the uh the top scale. Yeah. >> How does the appear there? >> Ah sorry thanks. There was one uh yeah there was one other thing I forgot to do. Um okay sorry thanks. So, okay. So, the question is um how did we actually do all this algebra and get the equation that the inequality that's actually stated in theorem 2 and thank you for the question because I left out some of the steps. Okay. Um so now that we have done the main ideas we're just talking about the algebra I will erase this and um so what do we have so far? If you put together the inequalities we have so far, we have x times the number of directions squared. That's where we started over here. Then we did some stuff and we ended up here. So that's bounded by number of tubes time big r over little r um times um md little r over big r * r. That was this thing for there. n x of r over little r 2 and we can cross those guys. Now we still have this number of tubes. What's that? Well, we have s tubes in each direction. We have d directions. So this is s * d. Okay. So now I've gotten rid of all the extra letters and we only have left the letters that appear in the inequality we want. And then the last thing you do is you get D by itself. So I take one factor of D and bring it over there and cancel the two. And I'll take the X and bring it over here. And then what's what's left is what's there? >> Yeah. Can that inequality be made shown in any scenario like any choice of like s x? Um yeah. Yes. Okay. So, so the question is is this inequality ever sharp? And uh it is uh sometimes sharp although not super often. And um and the cases that I have worked out so far when it's sharp are within this houseorf setting. So let's maybe do that. It'll all get a lot simpler and then I can say what the cases I know are. Okay. So the house spacing is uh bound on nx of of little r in terms of the size of x that looks like this. And I I coined the term housedorf spacing because it sort of comes up naturally when you talk about housedorf measures and things like that. Okay. And it's useful in our setting because if X and D have housed dorf spacing, then when you take the maximum of actually many expressions, but the one that comes up for us here is this. Okay, what happens? So, so I assume that both X and D have housed dorf spacing. It's important to have both of them. Then each one of these things get replaced by some power of X or D. And um once you have a power law, so the whole the whole expression will be um will be uh or another way to look at is the whole expression will be some power of little r. Power could be positive or negative. the maximum will occur either at one or at big r. So this guy basically is equal to what happens at one. Uh nx of one is always one. Nd of 1 / r is always one. So we just get one. And when little r is big r, nx of big r is all the points. Nd of one is all the directions. And we have that. So it's less nasty. And so we get the following corlary. So correlary says if we have our setup and X and D have high direct spacing then the number of directions is bounded by uh S SR overX * 1 plus SRX * this thing. So s d uh over r. Okay. Now this one has an interpretation. If this term dominates, you can cancel the d's and it tells you that s is almost r. So we get either s is almost as big as r. r is the biggest it could possibly be. So s is almost as big as it could possibly be or d is bounded by srx. So that's what we stated last time. The formula is not as nasty as the general formula. >> Yeah. >> There's also a factor of log in the two. >> Yep. Thanks. So the point from the audience was that I I there was an extra factor of logar that I forgot to write down. So I'll put this to represent that. Yeah. Thanks. Okay. So this relatively clean estimate, it exactly matches our theorem to infinite fields. Um I won't write it down, but the the numerology is the same. Um and it it's a little nicer to look at. It still takes some digesting and um this is sharp in some cases. Um it's sharp in the case that s is pretty close to r. So because I I need this the smallest I could make s would be something like r / log r and if you take s around that r log r 1 - epsilon then this is sharp in the example of a grid of points grid of unit balls. Yeah. So that's the main interesting example when it that is the main example that I know when it's when it's sharp and there are plenty of examples where it's not sharp but that great example is is important. Yeah. Um okay I guess it's also a natural question if we go to the regime that's not housedorf. um this theorem added some junk here to account for for this for things being more clustered and it's a natural question is there any scenario where this junk is is exactly sharp um and I wondered about that when I was working on this lecture but I don't know the answer yet so if anybody wants to try that's also a nice little project. Cool. Okay. So, that was the meat of the class and that was the the the the thing that um you know my my my discussion that I planned about the 4A method in the real case. So, it's another good moment to um see if see if you have questions to digest and we'll start something a little different. >> Yeah. Um for the the maximum term, could you explain why only like it has to be a maximum and it's like the part of the proof that requires taking maximum over R instead of any given R. >> Um so I think the question is why do we have a maximum over R instead of maybe like a sum over R? >> Yeah. >> Where does maximum come from? >> Yeah. Um so you you could put sum over little r and the difference isn't very important because the number of terms is only log of r and the log of r is is got absorbed here. But where did this come from at all? Well, we had this um function that's the sum of all these tubes which describes our projection situation. And then we are the key thing is that we applied the main lema to this function. And the main lema said you could break up this function into a few. Yeah. >> Yeah. And so one of those pieces is sort of the important one and that's the one that appears in the maximum. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Wondering. So in the proof we have to keep track of all the Rs. Um in the hos spacing case it seems like we just there's only two cases. So I'm wondering if if you do have positive spacing is it really necessary? Is it still important to do the static division? >> Okay. So the question is in the house dorf spacing case it turned out at the end of the day that only two values of little r mattered in the final inequality namely one and capital r and the question was would it be possible to write the proof so that only those two appeared and we didn't have all this you know rather complicated business of keeping track of all the intermediate little rs. Um I don't know any way to do that. I I think the only way I understand it is to keep track of all the little Rs and then notice that under these hypotheses, the intermediate Rs uh are bounded by the extreme ones. Okay. Okay. So, I thought I would say a a little bit about the history of these ideas. I did haven't been putting names next to the theorems and the reason is that these theorems are small variations of theorems from the literature and there are many kind of related theorems from the literature but so but but let me tell you a little bit about the history I think it's interesting I think these are kind of fundamental ideas and they were discovered uh independently or somewhat independently by different people working on different problems Um so the thing that we have been calling the forier method. So let's call this history. The thing that we are calling the forier method appears in a bunch places including the following. Um the earliest that I am aware of is Linux work in civ theory which I will introduce civ theory and tell you what this work was uh in the today. So that was in the 1940s. uh a second place the second place I'm aware of is Roth's work on the Hybrron triangle problem which at some point in the class probably we'll talk about a little bit in the 70s. Um Roth was uh he he he knew civ theory he knew Linux work well and he'd worked on it but in in this problem he did something similar that's in uklidian space and the setup is kind of different and any so I put it on the list then it was something like this was done by falconer in geometric measure theory so falconer essentially proved um uh the correlary that I just erosed and that was around 1980. Um, and then it was done by Van in the setting of finite fields. So, lines in FQ2 and I'm not positive about this, but I think that many of these people were not fully aware of others of these people. Okay. Um, we also mentioned the double counting method. and the double counting method um that that we did. So is it was done by Calfman in the context of geometric measure theory in the 1960s. Um and it was done by Gallagher in the context of civ theory I think also in the 1960s. I'm pretty sure that these two people did not know what the other one was doing. Um, and I guess it was probably also done in the setting of lines and finite fields in the 60s or 70s, but I don't know. I don't quite have I don't have a reference. And those people probably didn't know about either of these. Okay. Um, so now let me tell you what civ theory is and how it is analogous to what we have been doing. So cif theory takes place over the integers and the main character in civ theory is taking the integers and reducing it modulo q for different bases q um okay so z of course is the integers I'm going to write zq for some people write z mod qz this is the the integers modulo q and there's a basic map pi subq z 2 Z cub which takes an integer and reduces it modulo Q. Okay, this map is going to play the role of our projections. So let me mention what is analogous. So we've been talking about maps pi theta that go from R2 to R or a one-dimensional subspace or from FQ2 to FQ. Um, and now we're talking about the map pi Q that goes from Z to Z mod Q. Um, what do all these things have in common? They are all group homorphisms between a billion groups. Okay. Um so so what we're going to do in civ theory is take a take a set which is going to be now a set of integers and think about all the different projections of its integer of the set and think about how they're all related to each other and how they're all related to the original set. Um so I have another little piece of notation. So this thing is the numbers from one up to n which is a subset of the integers. Um and let me illustrate projection theory. Let me illustrate civ theory with an interesting example of a set whose projections behave in kind of a funny way. Okay. So do an example. Our example is going to be basically the set of square numbers. It's going to be the set of little n^ squ where little n goes from one up to big n to the 1/2. So it's a subset of the integers from 1 to n and the cardality is about the square root of n. What happens when I reduce this set modulo p? Um so if p is prime when I take pi p of x I get the quadratic residues and the number of quadratic residues is p + 1 over two. So about half of that. So that's kind of an interesting and surprising fact. Um, of course if P is bigger than square root of N, obviously the size of this projection is smaller than X. Um, so I might not even hit all the quadratic residues if I take a big P. Uh, that's not surprising. But I could take P significantly less than the square root of N. And then um I when I do this projection I only hit half of the elements in Z my P and I hit each of those many times. That's you know it's not something that's likely to happen randomly. It's kind of striking. So one sample question from civ theory is um uh how big could a set X be and have all of its projections be small like this? And uh what examples are there? How many sets like this can you find? All right. Um so using the using his ideas about civ theory, one of the things that Linick did was to answer this answer some of this question. So theorem of lin in the 1940s uh it says um if I have a subset of the integers from 1 to n and if pi p of x is at most p + 1 / 2 for every p. Um so there's nothing so special about this. We could put other things here but I'm just using this to compare with the squares. Um then the conclusion is that the size of x is at most around n^ the 1/2. So it says that the square numbers are just about the biggest set with this property. Cool. So we will give two proofs of this. We'll give a proof using double counting and we'll give a proof using the 4A method. Um there are lots of hard open problems in civ theory and one of them is to understand uh what the examples are. So the only known examples only known examples where where this theorem is roughly tight are the square numbers and close cousins. So sorry it's messy the square numbers and close cousins of the square numbers like you can you could replace this with another degree 2 polinomial in little n and it's not hard to see it's it's kind of equivalent and those are all the examples okay but people know basically nothing in about classifying the examples. Cool. Okay. So, um, so we'll give two proofs of this. One based on double counting and one based on the 4A method. Double counting I think we can do today and the 4A method we'll do next time, next week. And first of all, I think that these results are pretty cool. But I also hope that you see that they're really extremely parallel to the results in geometric measure theory that we've just been talking. Okay, let me make a little remark before we start. Um, so, so I'm going to focus on projections mod p where p is a prime. You could also reduce mod q where q is not a prime. And all of the ideas still work. It's a little bit more complicated because if you take two numbers Q1 and Q2 that share a common factor, then reducing mod Q1 and reducing mod Q2 are kind of related to each other. And so if you write everything down, you have to keep track of that. That's just an extra thing to keep track of. And not so difficult, but it it uh it makes everything a little longer and more complicated. Sometimes you might want to do that, but uh in applications, but just to show the ideas, I'm going to focus on my P. All right. So, here's the double counting method. U so I'll call it theorem 1 s. Um so it says if x is a subset of the numbers from 1 to n and d is a set of primes uh less than or equal to n. Um and for every p in our set of primes, pi subp of x is less than equal to s. Um then we get a conclusion. Um either x is bounded by 2s or the number of directions is bounded roughly by us. So I guess this is most interesting if the number of directions is significantly bigger than s. So if we look at the squares uh so suppose I know that pi p of x is bounded by uh p + 1 / 2. So that's my s um and I need to do this. Yeah, that's um Oh, this may not quite work for this. Actually, I'm not sure if this will imply Linux theorem. Lin proved his theorem with the forier method. Um, let's come back to that next time. I think we have just enough time to do the nice double counting argument and uh and then do the the for the next. Okay. Um so proof we're going to count uh coincidences. That's the set of x1 and x2 and x and p in our set of directions or set of primes. So that pi p of x1 equals pi p of x2. Okay. So we'll count this two different ways. One is a lower bound. So star is at least for every direction. When I do this projection, there are only s images. So a typical image has x over s pre-im images. square that for my choice of x1 and x2 and then multiply by s for the number of choices of the projection. So that's um x^2 d s of okay now what's our upper bound? So now I going to fix imagine fixing x1 and x2 and think about how many ps can satisfy this. Oh um so so if I have pi p of x1 is equal to pi p of x2 that tells us that p divides x2 - x1 and there can't be that many different primes that divide x2 - x1. x2 - x1 has size uh n. So it could be at most log of n that do this. Um so star is upperbounded by um okay so so there is a case where x1 equals x2. So that gives me x times the number of directions. And then if x1 is not equal to x2, I have x squar choices for x1 and x2. But I have only log of n choices for the direction. Okay. And now I'll compare these to each other. Okay. So I have uh x^2 * d * s inverse is less than x * d plus uh x^2 * log. So there are two cases. If this one dominates um then I would have that x is bounded by 2s or if this one dominates then the x's disappear and I get that d is bounded by log of n * s and and that's the that's the theorem. Okay. So let me give you an example of this and argue that this is uh well let me give you an example flavor of what this is telling us. So suppose that pi p of x is bounded by n^ the 2/3 for um 10 log n * n^ 2/3 different p um so if that's true then the theorem tells us that x is bounded by n^ X. So these primes might have size around this big or a bit bigger. So these primes are much less than n. So each projection the fact that each projection one at a time is small, it's not that convincing in terms of x being small. But knowing that all of these projections are this large number of projections is small. It means that x is really that small.