Today today we're going to talk about stochcastic processes uh the second set of lectures and we're going to begin with a discussion of brownie in motion. Uh, brownie in motion is a process that I'm sure most of you have heard of. And it was named after Robert Brown, an English botonist. And this is an interesting case where a scientist observes some dynamics in nature and then is concerned about what mathematical model uh might describe that behavior. Turns out that it was I guess Albert Einstein who uh formalized this brownie in motion model mathematically and Norbert Weiner, our MIT uh hero. Uh those of you familiar with the math department know about the Norbert Weiner uh room that we have. and he developed the mathematical foundation for Brownie in motion. Now let's take a look at a simulation of Brownie in motion in two dimensions. So this is the kind of dynamics that Brown was observing. And so in these slides, we're going to start the process at the origin of the space where the red dot is and then move around in two dimensions where each step is a random move in the x direction and a random move in the y direction. And for this simulation uh we use Gaussian uh distributions. But as I page through these graphs, one can see how a particle moving according to these dynamics will start at the origin and evolve to the final red dot. And if we hold down the graphs and see where it goes, you can see that basically there's purely random dynamics. but um of a very special kind. And so uh the special kind is that the movements are jagged and uh unpredictable in terms of their direction. Something that's really quite interesting when you just look at this and page through the dynamics here sort of animating the process. The movements in fact have no uh trend in them to move left or up or down. And so the movements we see uh basically are movements that are symmetrical in their dynamics. And so that's a very interesting property that we would like to uh characterize mathematically. So let's look at how we define Brownian motion in one dimension. So in one dimension we are simply looking at a graph. Let me find the eraser here. Okay. In one dimension we have time t. And we're going to think of a process BT um which will start at zero and then it's going to evolve over time in such a way that the increments of the process from t to t plus delta t. So if we have t and t plus delta t here and we look at b of t here and b of t plus deltat t, this vertical increment is going to be normally distributed for any increment of time delta t. And the normal distribution for the magnitude of that increment will be a normal random variable with mean zero and a variance that is proportional to the length of the interval. So as we consider increments delta t that are larger, we'll have greater variation in the vertical increment that's normally distributed. Now in addition to normal increments we have independent disjoint increments. So if we have different time points like t1, t2 and then T3, T4 if these increments are separate or disjoint from each other then the change from t1 to t2 and the change from T3 to T4 those will be independent random variables. Finally, uh, B of T turns out to be a continuous function of time if it satisfies these properties. And so this is a very simple model in terms of a continuous time stochcastic process. Now uh the properties of Brownian motion and we are that um it's a marov process. So if we're looking at the value at b of t plus delta t at this time point um that is equal to the value at any prior time point well at b of t plus the increment. And so given the information set up to time little t, the conditional distribution simply um is equal to that starting point b of t plus the random increment. So displacements uh are independent of the past apart from the last value of the past. Okay. mean and variance of B of T. Well, because the increments are normally distributed with mean zero, then the expected value of B of T into the future will stay at zero, but the variance of B of T will increase with time. And so the standard deviation of b of t will be proportional or will be sigma times the square root of t. So if we think of drawing curves which correspond to sigma square root of t this corresponds to one standard deviation above the zero mean for the process. Okay. The covariance function of Brownian motion. If we want to look at the co-variance between two times s and t. So suppose here is time s and here is time t. Then the process paths to time t include the process paths up to time s but then have this independent increment beyond time s. And so when we look at the co-variance of the process at times s and t, it's equal to the expected value of the product. But we can split B of T into B of S plus the increment and we simply get sigma^ 2 S for the co-variance. So the degree to which the process is correlated with other values of the process it depends on how much overlap there is in the time intervals uh corresponding to those two values. Now this process that starts at zero B of 0 or B sub0 or B of 0 equal to zero. We could start it at any other level and have a process that has similar properties but just has a different mean level from time zero. So we can talk about starting the Brownian motion at any given point. And so uh in order to work with these models um we'll find it convenient to introduce the notation for normal random variables. And so if we have Z be a standard normal that is a normal distribution with mean zero and standard deviation one then the probability density function is given by this formula. I'm sure everyone is comfortable with that. And the cumulative distribution function is simply the integral of the density from minus infinity up to C for f of c. And this notation of smallcase f and uppercase v are standard for referring to gaussian or normal densities and cdfs. Well, if we have a normal with non-mean nonzero mean meu and variance to squar or standard deviation toao, then we have uh the density of this normal y is a simple function of the density of the standard normal. uh we simply subtract the mean mu and divide by toao inside fee and we have a toao denominator factor in front and what's particularly uh convenient at times is that if we want to calculate the cdf of y then this cdf of y is actually the cdf of the of under the standard normal of C minus mu over towo. So um we basically have you know y is equal to mu plus uh sigma or toao z. And so um z is equal to y minus mu over towo. And so we're just substituting in this equation for y in terms of z. Now uh the probability model of the whole Brownian motion process is given by or we can represent it by saying the conditional distribution of the time t value given the time s value is normally distributed with mean equal to the time s value x and variance sigma squar times the length of the increment. So its PDF has this form. So the notation here is the density of y at time t given x the value at time s. We have this Gaussian density that's centered at x. And the variance of y depends on the increment from s to t multiplied by the sigma squ. Now with this probability model um it turns out this density function satisfies the diffusion equation and the diffusion equation is going to arise again and again in this course um especially when we get into the valuation of derivatives. And so for now let's just understand this diffusion equation. It says that the partial derivative of P with respect to time T is equal to a multiple of the second partial derivative of P with respect to Y. So this is easy to verify for s= 0 and sigma= 1. And if we look at this set of graphs, here's the density of x um the given uh or let's see here's the essentially the density of y uh represented by x. So the notation symbol here is we're using x now instead of y and we're considering the initial value of the uh brownian motion being zero. Um and if we increase time then this normal density drops in the middle and it increases far from the middle. And so the change in the density is negative near the middle and positive outside. And that's because if we look at the second derivative of this density function, it's positive. Then it's negative. For the second derivative, the curvature is negative. And then it switches from being a negative curvature to a positive curvature. And those points of inflection with the normal density are actually at plus and minus one standard deviation. So if we increase the time from uh one to two to three or two and a half here you can see how it's basically um dropping in the middle of the distribution and it's rising on the other side. So, so this kind of motion or dynamics um satisfies the diffusion equation and uh so what's I think important is just to have a good sense of what it means when a function such as the density satisfies this uh diffusion equation. Now um let's see this diffusion equation relates to sort of a conservation of probability for every x. So regardless of what the sort of starting value is, we have the probability density integrating to one always and the uh it turns out that this density is a unique solution to this diffusion equation. So an important issue in the mathematical uh development framework for models is our solutions to our equations. Do they exist? Are they unique? In fact, for this diffusion equation, we get uh a unique solution satisfying uh properties. Okay. um in other disciplines well in physics there's a heat equation in uh let's see in uh the dynamics of sort of populations there's the fauler plank equation and cole mcgor forward equation these these uh arise um outside of uh mathematical brownie motion as well now um the interesting question perhaps or at least the interesting question to mathematicians is um how do we really define Brownian motion a formally as a stochastic process? And so it turns out that brownie in motion can be defined as the limiting stochastic process corresponding to a random walk. So let's consider random variables x indexed by integers that are independent and identically distributed. And let's assume that those X's have mean zero and standard deviation one. Then if we look at the random walk with steps X1 to Xn for the nth uh position of the random walk. then the limiting distribution of the normalized random walk is actually a standard normal distribution. So um f of c is our standard normal cumulative distribution function. The standardized random walk uh will the limit as n grows large have a Gaussian distribution with So what we can do is consider normalizing the random walk process by having the sort of partial sums of the steps uh divided by root n. But rather than focusing just on those increments, those integer increments, we consider for times say between zero and one. uh we can consider values for time t between say integer k /n and integer k / n + 1 /n to define a continuous path of bn of t given s of n and t. And so what we then can do is say let's consider the limit as the number of increments uh number of steps increases arbitrarily let's consider the limiting process and that turns out to be a brownie in motion process. So with this normalized random uh walk process, it turns out that this limiting distribution is or this limiting process is invariant to the distribution of the x's. So if we have random walks with independent steps that have mean zero, standard deviation one, then regardless of what that distribution is, the limiting normalized random walk will be the diffusion process. So let's take a look at two cases for the steps. Bernoli X's and Gaussian X's which of course will be uh Gaussian and so here is a accumulation or a random walk with with 10 steps. The top panel corresponds to unit plus one or minus one steps and the bottom panel corresponds to Gaussian steps. And if we increase the number of steps and normalize them by dividing by root t, we end up getting these different paths tracing out. And so what's important in this display is that as we let n get arbitrarily large, the process will be equivalent to brownie in motion. So we're going to go up to 2,000 steps here. And one can see how this normalized random walk process evolves. And when we get to the end of the simulation here of 2,000 steps, this is what we have. Um, and so the key takeaway is that the limiting process will be a brownie in motion and it doesn't matter what the step distribution is in the limit. And so this implies that this model may be useful in a variety of contexts where underlying steps of the process increments may have some distribution that's non- Gaussian um and but the distribution of increments over long periods of time uh will then follow the the diffusion. So um so the key properties of Brownian motion are independent increments and the variance of those increments are proportional to the time period between the measures. Now there's a reflection principle in working with Brownie in motion that is very powerful. Um this is an example where the mathematical theory is uh a bit tricky but if you're clever at solving the problem you may find an elegant simple solution to the problem. So let's just understand what it means to be reflecting Brownian motion first. we consider brownie in motion to be the process B of T. And so this will be one realization of the path perhaps. And then if we consider the first time the process hits x and define toao um equal to the first time b of t is equal to x. Then okay this is the first time it hits that level x. If we consider reflecting this path about the level at time x going into the future. So this would be sort of going like this and then up like that. Okay. This is the mathematical formula for doing a reflection of B about X. And we'll see some examples of this uh in a minute. But what is important in these reflected paths is that the probability model for the original process and the reflected process those are identical. So let's take a look at this reflected brownie in motion simulation. So, what I'm doing here is simulating brownie in motion over 10,000 steps and looking at an original process in red and then reflecting that in green. And because of overlapping colors, I guess the beginning process at time zero is the original and the reflected path. So, it appears as the reflected. So once it hits this level X in red, the green reflects about X the value and it continues reflecting uh across the remaining path of the original series. Now, here's another realization of reflected brownie in motion. Has the same property. And here's a third, you know, basically with different realizations of brownie in motion, we'll get different paths. Uh, and the reflected paths have these same properties. Now um the interesting question is um well it's actually let me go back to the notes here and the interesting question is to ask what the maximum of a brownie in motion up to time t. So we can define m of t to be what is the maximum value that the brownie in motion has realized between time zero and t. Well, the probability of the maximum exceeding X some level will actually be twice the probability that the ending value of the process exceeds X. So let's take a look again at the reflected paths. Um so if we look at the reflected paths about X then the red and the green paths have the same probabilities of occurring. the uh if the let's see if the uh if we look at whether the ending value of the original Brownian motion sorry or the ending value of a Brownian motion is exceeds uh a given level then there will be twice that number twice twice those realizations for which the maximum exceeded that level. So for both of these reflected paths the maximum um let's see the maximum of the path exceeded x and um so looking here um the probability of uh the maximum exceeding x. Well, we can just look at the probability of a path exceeding x at the end point and the reflected intervals will match those one for one. And so we basically have the formula that we have twice the final value of the process exceeding X is equal to the probability that the maximum exceeds X. And we can write out what that probability is in terms of the standard normal CDF. Um now from this result we can differentiate this probability with respect to x and get the density of the uh maximum and um so let's see here. So here is a graph of the sort of cumulative probability of the maximum exceeding a level x. And this is uh basically um we're interested in what's the probability of exceeding x before time t. And with lower values of x like one, the probability is quite high. If the uh let's see if x is is very let's see or sorry is that x there right okay so so so the maximum level at the maximum is three the probability of exceeding three is much lower the probability of exceeding two is is in the midway there um and what's also Also very interesting is that uh we can use these results to calculate the density function for the first hitting time of a given level. And so importantly we have the probability of the max up to time t exceeding x is twice the probability that the ending value exceeds x. And we can differentiate this with respect to t and we get this density function for the density of the stopping time for hitting a given level uh x. So let's see here if we have that. So here's the hitting time densities. Um so with standard Brownian motion if we're looking at the time to hit the level one starting at zero then there's this nice unimodal distribution for that time which is relatively short. But if we're looking at hitting times for higher levels like two or three then that hitting time distribution spreads out. So now um let's say we can talk about some extensions of brownie in motion. Um one is just reflected brownie motion around zero. So if we have the process bouncing off zero level um we can think of that process being a positive stochastic process and it's fairly easy to show that the expected value of this reflected brownie in motion is a multiple of roo t of 2 over pi And the variance is 1 - 2 over pi t. And we can also consider absorbed brownie in motion. Um if we consider toao being the first time zero is the level zero uh or a level x is hit then um we can define our process being um equal to the original brownie in motion b of t or being zero for t greater than toao. And so with absorbed brownie in motion um these kinds of processes are useful for example when we have a brownie in motion like process for a stock price which um is generally positive so long as the company is viable but if the company goes bankrupt then it gets the price gets absorbed at zero. Now um we have another extension um of Brownian motion which is called the Brownian bridge. And so if we consider a Brownie in motion process starting at zero and it goes up to let's say time one starting at zero um we can define we can define the procedure X which is equal to B of T uh let's see B of T minus T B of one let's see is that right minus T * B of 1 so if we consider Um let's see looking at well let's see this process so x of 1 is equal to b of 1 - 1 * b of 1 which is equal to zero. Um if we basically sort of draw a line to if we consider this line as one and this has slope B of one then um if we subtract TB of one we're looking at sort of pinning down the brownie in motion. um and looking at the distance from sort of a constant slope t b of 1 and b of t. And this particular uh process actually arises in a very interesting context of normalized empirical distribution functions. So what do we want to uh highlight here? If we have a sequence of random variables that are uniformly distributed between zero and one and we calculate their empirical distribution function. So it's the count of the u's less than or equal to t / n. Then this empirical distribution function will have expectation equal to t and variance equal to t * 1 - t / n. So if we think of these u so we have ui is distributed uniform from 0 to one we have the scale from 0 to one and we consider a value ui as a realization then the probability that ui is less than or equal to t um is equal to t and the uh variance of the indicator of ui being less than or equal to t. This is a Berni outcome which has variance equal to the probability of occurring times the complement of that. So we get this um t * 1 minus t being the variance of the indicator of the ui being less than or equal to t. And then if we consider the empirical distribution function which is summing over these indicators then we get a process which has a limiting value which is uh basically the deviation from its mean times scaled up by root root n is normal with mean 0 and variance t * 1 minus t and this is actually the brownian bridge uh process. Now um with the uh let's see with these examples where we use uniform random variables and properties of functions of those uniforms. Um it's important to note that for any continuous distribution say um y uh distributed with some this is the cdf of y. Um if we calculate f of y this happens to be a uniform distribution. So this is the probability integral transform of any random variable. And so when we have this property for the empirical distribution function of uniforms well of uniforms um if we replace the u's which are uniform 01 by assumption with a distribution function f of y where we have y1 to yn iid with this uh cdf f suby. Then um the u i equal to f of yi f suby of y these will be iid uniform. So uh that's that's a really nice result. Um and it leads to issues involved with uh modeling model selection. Uh if we want to know whether a given an assumed probability model for y's is true or not, we can do this transformation and test whether the transformed series or transformed sample is consistent with being a uniform or not. All right. Well, um, with simple brownie in motion, standard brownie in motion, we can consider an extension of that to brownie in motion with drift mu. So, we can consider a drift parameter and a volatility parameter. Um and uh such a process will have independent increments with variances um of differences proportional to the time interval between S and T. And we can um work with the Brownian motion with drift um using a uh one-step analysis and in considering this X process. So x is equal to t mu plus sigma b of t. So this is x of t. Um if we look at the increment ahead deltat t from little t then expanding out the representation of this brownian motion with drift we get that it's equal to the brownian motion at time little t plus mu deltat t plus sigma times the increment of the brownie motion process from t to t plus delta t. And so increments of x correspond to increments of time plus times the drift rate mu plus sigma the volatility parameter times the increment of the standard brownie motion. So our process X brownie in motion with drift will have nonzero mean increments and increments variances that are proportional to the change in time. And this increment will have an exact normal distribution uh with these properties. And what's particularly uh important is that as we let um deltat t the length of our increments get infinite then the expected squared increment of x ends up being equal to well it's exactly equal to the variance of that increment plus the square of the mean. But this square of the mean uh is a term that is small order of deltat t. So our expected squared increments will be uh to order deltat t equal to sigma squar deltat t and then a small order of delta t uh term after that. Also if we consider powers of delta x so our increments to a power then when our power c is greater than two it's equal to two here when it's greater than two then this will also be of small order delta t. Now the reason why uh we're interested in these properties is because um we're going to be working ultimately with um say a value of some derivative that depends upon x of t. So there's basically a uh derivative value which depends upon the uh underlying underlying uh I'll just say the underlying asset price. And so the dynamics of this of the derivative prices can be written as a tailaylor series. And so we'll want to be able to deal with increments of x and powers of increments of x as our valuation function uh may be expressed if it has a tailaylor series representation. Okay. Um all right. So so let's consider a brownie the problem of uh brownie in motion uh underlying a gamblers's ruin problem. So let's let x of t be brownie in motion with drift mu and variance sigma squared. And we'll consider a level an initial level equal to x that's between two levels a and b. And we want to consider the uh stopping time being hitting A or B and ask what's the probability that we hit B first. So over time t we have basically uh levels a and b and an initial level x at time zero and we're interested in hitting a or b. So toao is equal to the hit time of A or B. And we're interested in what's the probability of hitting B first before A. And um this generalizes our uh problem in the first lecture on stochastic process where we had a random walk with unit steps with drift and um or so there was a bias of maybe a plus one versus a minus one occurring and we wanted to solve for what's the likelihood of hitting a level B before level A. So with this um we use an infiniteesmal one-step analysis and this solution approach is illustrative of how many uh problems are solved with uh stochcastic processes. We can define U of X to be the probability function which is the probability that the stopped process equals B given that it starts at X. And so if we consider u of x and write it as the expected value of u of x plus delta x. Then if our deltat t time increment is very very short then this expectation will equal u of x. So the likelihood of hitting B first will be the expectation of U of X a very short increment into the future. And so if we take the expectation with respect to the delta X variable, well delta X is X of T plus delta T minus X of T. Then if we assume that our function u this probability twice differentiable then the tailaylor series about the center x will equal u of x plus delta x * the first derivative plus a half delta x^2* the second derivative plus small order terms of delta x squared. And so if we take an expectation of that first tailaylor series on both sides, well the u of x is a constant and then we have u prime of x a constant times the expected value of delta x and then plus a half the expected value of delta x^2 time u prime. And we have mu deltat t is the expectation of delta x. Sigma squar deltat t plus little o of delta t is the uh expectation of delta x^2. So we have this expansion from the tailaylor series. And from what we said before, this expected value of u evaluated at x plus delta x should simply equal u of x. And if that's true, then we get this equation for U prime and UP prime. And if we take that equation in U prime and UP prime, we get and we divide by deltat T. We then get 0 is equal to mu u u prime of x plus a half sigma^ 2 up prime of x and to be really precise you know a little low uh factor to make it an an equation. Now this equation here is a second order differential equation. And so what are solutions to this second order differential equation? This is sort of an interesting challenge. Um, let me just get some more chalk here. It's maybe been a number of years since people have taken uh differential equations, right? Um but let's uh let's consider um let's see u prime over u prime is equal to let's see have I done this right u prime / u prime is equal to - 2 mu / sigma^ 2 And so this is the derivative is equal to the derivative of the log of u prime. Um and so if we integrate this um we basically get log of u prime is equal to sort of - 2 mu / sigma^ 2 x plus a constant. And this is true if mu is not equal to zero. And so we basically get that u prime is equal to e minus 2 mu x over sigma^ 2 times a constant. and what if we integrate both sides of this? We then get u. So what function has a derivative equal to an exponential? just the exponential. Yeah. So, so we get u is just going to equal a constant time eus 2 m u over sigma^ 2 x. and if mu is equal to zero then uh we have the log of u prime is equal to zero. or the derivative. Yeah, we or we have yeah we we basically have the derivative of the log of u prime is equal to zero. So um we end up getting uh let's see basically a linear function for the solution. So let let me go to the notes here. Well, we basically get u um is equal to ax plus b if mu is equal to zero and it's equal to this a constant a * e - 2 mux over sigma^ 2. All right. Well, this general solution has to satisfy the initial conditions. U of a is going to equal zero and u of b is going to equal one. So if we start at a where the uh basically we we stop at a if we start at a so u of 0 is going to equal zero and if we start at b um it's equal to one we end up getting this formula for what u is and so what's interesting to ask is how Does this probability vary with different drifts and volatilities? Okay, so here's the uh graph of these probabilities of hitting B before A when X well when A is zero. So if we have zero here and b is equal to three um then here's the uh initial value x between zero and three and we have the probabilities of hitting b before a. Okay. And if our mu is very high, so the trend is up in the brownian motion. So basically if if mu is greater than zero, then we basically have sort of an upward trending path on average and we get high probabilities of hitting B first. And as we decrease the drift from three down to 0.5, we get this brown curve. And the limiting case where mu is equal to zero. So there's no drift at all corresponds to um the probability given by this line. And so given the starting value X, the closer you are to B, the more likely you will be to hit B first and vice versa with with A. So these probabilities um vary with the different model parameters. Here is the corresponding graph when there's a negative drift. So the likelihood of sort of hitting B first is sort of proportional when the drift term is zero uh basically to how close you are to be. But um as we increase the magnitude of the negative drift we basically get lower and lower probabilities coming out. So that's that solution. Okay. So uh see the next comment about brownie in motion is a very important property that the brownie in motion process is not differentiable. So when you look at a brownie emotion path, it looks very jagged. And in fact, that jaggedness is characteristic of there not being a smooth derivative or or it's not being smooth enough to compute a derivative. And so if we look at the increment of the Brownian motion from t to t plus delta t and have that being normal with mean zero and variance delta t the length of that increment. If we normalize the increment by deltat t. So we're basically trying to look at the approximate or the slope between t and t plus delta t. then that has a normal distribution with mean zero but variance 1 over delta t. So this normalized increment is going to not be well defined in in the limit. It's basically going to be equivalent to or the limiting value basically doesn't exist. It's basically becomes an explosive distribution. So, so that's a very important property of Brownian motion. Something that is a a sort of a positive property of Brownian motion is the issue of quadratic variation. And so to define quadratic variation um we consider looking at partitions of the time. So we have pi which is what a partition of the interval from 0 to t say where zero to capital t. So we have a time scale finishing at t starting at zero and we can just draw arbitrary points tj j equaling one up to n say um or one to n minus one that are inside this uh interval and they're ordered If we consider the partition corresponding to these time points, we can define sort of this a magnitude of the partition equal to the maximum of uh TJ minus TJ minus one over Okay. Um and then we can talk about the quadratic variation of the process which is to look at increments of B over these intervals from between TJ minus one and TJ. Square those and sum the squared of those values. Um this is a sort of an appropriate term for quadratic variation. Um and if we uh consider the uh limit as the partition width gets narrower and narrower then we'll define this limiting value to be the quadratic variation of the Brownian motion process. So we can define the quadratic variation corresponding to a given partition and then the quadratic variation overall if we take the limit over partitions that are getting uh infinitismally small. And the claim is that this quadratic variation is going to equal capital t the length of the period with probability one. So what does that mean? That means that for every realization of the process or almost every realization, this quadratic variation is going to equal a constant. So here I'm looking at examples of random walks that are uh normalized to be sort of uh between time zero and one. So these are the normalized random walks which are effectively brownian or whose limits are brownie in motion. And in the top panel I'm drawing the path of the uh random walk with Gaussian steps. And in the bottom I'm drawing the cumulative So this is up to 20 30 40 steps. Now as we increase to 100 steps um this cumulative quadratic variation is getting pretty close to the uh time t of over which we're accumulating the quadratic variation. And as we increase the number of steps from 200 to many more, a thousand and then 2,000. You can see that basically the quadratic variation of the process is accumulates basically to the time period over which that's being accumulated. So this property is a really nice property. What it highlights is that there there are some significant regularities to Brownian motion and the regularity here is that the variation of the increments um normalizes basically to the length of the period over which they're accumulated. So the quadratic variation is proportional to the time period. Now this idea or this property of Brownian motion is one that can be sort of explored with time series that we might think are well modeled by Brownian motion. So if we were to take um if we were to look at um a time series of the log of PT divided by P 0 for PT equal to 01 up to capital N. the uh basically this for prices of assets in equity markets. This corresponds to the log return from time zero to t. And that log return from zero to t might follow a brownie in motion process um with drift positive return. And so you know we basically can have this process evolving. If we were to calculate the quadratic variation of this process, then if it followed if it followed a Brownian motion process, it would tend to grow according to a straight line with slope equal to uh sigma squared. And in empirical modeling, if we look at this quadratic variation of an asset and see that it's not a straight line, there may be periods where the slope is low and periods where the slope is higher and it curves around. a way of trying to model the dynamic volatility could be um suggested by studying these plots and and using them. So it it's a very interesting uh property. Now um let's see I want to uh let's see there's one last note in the uh slide in the notes but before doing that I wanted to um highlight a connection of Brownian motion to uh the lelass distribution. And so if we if we have um let's see if we have B of T um which is Brownian motion and we observe uh it at uh let's see if we if we look at um basically X of Okay, if we observe it at at times t = 012 sort of discrete times. Um then um the delta b of t are distributed as normal with mean I guess it's mu t and variance sigma squar time 1 which is delta t and these are iid if so we have basically time points 0 1 2 and so forth. If instead of observing the process at equal increments of time, let's consider the possibility that the time increments are random. So we have um let's consider b of t for t equal to um t1 t2 up to tn where the deltat t's the increments of time are distributed as an exponential random variable with some mean lambda Okay. So, we're not observing the process at regular intervals. We're observing it at at random intervals. It turns out then that the Brownian motion process has increments that are lelass distributed. So the delta b of t then will in fact have what's called a lelass distribution. And so instead of having a bell-shaped curve, which is a Gaussian distribution, it'll be sort of a bilateral exponential distribution about the mean. And it turns out that with standard and pores 500 returns, this lelass model seems to fit the data much better which leads to the consideration of what are called uh subordinated stochastic processes where the time scale is different than our sort of clock time. All right. Well, let's see. The final uh slide here for today addresses what are called adapted processes. And so in financial modeling, um we can think of there being a stochastic process X of T characterizing relevant dynamics in the system. And we can think of X representing the prices of a single asset or a collection of assets as it varies over time. Then as we let time increase, there are events that relate to what has happened so far. And we can think of these f script f subt to be the information on realizations up to time little t. And if we consider script f subt prime with t greater t prime greater than t then that's corresponds to information about all realizations from t up until t prime. So it's giving us more information about uh what's happened with the process. Well, if we want to look at the stochcastic modeling of a process Y that depends on trading on assets with dynamics X. Then we want our process Y to be adapted to X which essentially means we can't see the future in trading. And so our Y of T which is perhaps the value of trading up until time t um is a function only of the values of the process prior to time t. And so we consider transformations of our original process to the process of say trading gains and losses according to some trading strategy and these will be well defined if the process is adapted. So um with that the topics connect with what we had in our previous lecture which was we can have martinales defined on x and then we can define martingales relating to y if when we combine sort of adapted fun adaptive uh functions to X. And so the martingale theory sort of extends to modeling trading strategies effectively. And what's interesting with those techniques is that you end up transforming the process to have a constant mean. You know, martingales are processes with a constant mean. And uh so those arguments um are applied again and again uh in solving for their properties. And these uh option pricing you know can be expressed um in this in this uh context as well. All right, we'll finish there for today and uh