Okay. So let's so assume that again that we have a so this here is a sequence then we can form from a sequence we can find we can form another sequence. So from from a end we can form another sequence. uh at least if um at least if a end is bounded from above. So we can form another sequence and that's what we we take uh bn is going to be the soup of the set of a starting at n. So this here is is oops this here is the the sequence bn. Okay. And so right again implicitly here we are assuming so assume that uh that there exist some c so that for all n uh a n is less than c in other words c are bounded from above right so if we If we if the sequence a n is bounded from above then this here gives us a real number uh and we see and we see that since if you're looking at uh bn + one this is now soup of a n + one a n + 2 and this here is soup over a smaller set. So this here is less than the soup where we do it over where we take soup over a larger set. Right? And that here is BN. So we have that if you take any sequence then you can and let's say that that sequence is bounded from above then you can find another you can form another sequence BN and BN here is mono decreasing right if if also if the sequence BN is bound from below then uh then the BN here in the sequence here converge and it converts to the infam right this is this uh with mono convergent sequences it's converging to the infimum of the BI like that. Now, um and and likewise, so likewise, although we won't really use this here. So, likewise, but likewise, Um again if you take if a n is any sequence any sequence this time I want it to be bounded from below then you can find a sequence then you can form from a n you can form a sequence uh cn and cn is just where you're taking the infam one starting at a end, right? And you see that if you're looking at CN + one, then you take the infom over a smaller set. So this is a smaller set and so this here is bigger than where you're taking the info from a end and that's CN. So the sequence CN is therefore monotone increasing and if it is bounded. So if CN is bounded from above is bounded from above. Then the sequence CN converge to some C. And that sea is just a soup of the of the seas, right? And so and we talked a little bit about this earlier, right? And the thing is that but now we will use it in just a second. The thing is so that in the first case here we call B here B is written as a lem soup of of the of the an and in the second case it's called the lem in uh of of the a okay now so why is this relevant here for us so what we were looking at last time So last time and I'm only going to use the lem soup. So last time we had a sequence. So a n is a sequence or was a sequence and we looked we defined what we call a power series. And again power series think about that x as being just some fixed number and you have the sequence a n x is some fixed number and then you form the sequence a n xn right and so for each x fixed this gives you some number maybe if it converge I mean you can ask for each x you can ask does this sequence converge or And this here is called a power series. So you're suming from zero to whatever or you're signing from one or whatever you're starting with up to infinity. So this here is a power series. And so now it for power says the the the question is how serious is the question is what about for which for which X does it converge. Okay, so that's what we're interested in and what we looked at last time. So just let me remind you because we're going to use that anyway in a minute last time. So example from last time Well, the example we looked at last time was we're looking at xn. I mean, we looked at some other examples too, but this was the one we focused on. So, this here is a power series. The a n in this case here are one over n factorial, right? So now uh and we and for each fixed x so for for x fixed we looked at whether or not this sequence converge and so we defined we think about this thing here we thought this here we thought about it as just a sequence like this sum of of a sequence so this is as a series like is where the dn here is now x to the n / n factorial right and so in order to determine for which x it converge so just think about x as being fixed we use the ratio test so we use the ratio test and the ratio test um said that If you're looking at dn + 1 / dn, this here is well dn is just x to the n + 1 / n + 1 factorial divided by x to the n / n factorial. And that's the same, right? So when you divide by a fraction, you just switch, right? So this is the same as x to the n + 1 / n + 1 factorial * n factorial * x to the n. And you just think about this the top here as x n * x * n factorial. And the denominator you think about as n +1 * n factorial * x. You see that this here and this here cancel with those two and so you get x / n +1 and this here converts to zero right so therefore the power series is convergent for all x now so that was a particular example of a power series right but so uh and and and it worked uh well with ratio test, but but the root test actually is better. And this was related to a point somebody raised uh last time. And the point was like you know like for the ratio test it was you know implicitly somehow in the ratio test was something about that from a some stage on the next element is smaller than the previous one and you don't really need to have that uh uh you know I mean you certainly don't need it for a series to converge but but it's not even necessary if you apply the right test right and so so this come this this this bring us to what's called the radius of convergence so so this is a a crucial concept and why it is crucial concept because you see appro what you could imagine so suppose you just take suppose you just write down a power shares like this appro maybe like that it's convergent for at when x is equal to 5 it's divergent when x is equal to 10 and maybe it's convergent again if x is equal to 20 right that's not actually going to be the case so there's something called radius of convergence and the radius of convergence And the thing is that what you get out of this radius of convergence is that a power series like this is convergent on some interval and then outside this interval it's divergent. So it's not like you have some that is convergent here it's divergent there and then it's like converging again. Right? That's not what's going to happen. Okay, part of this is also we already saw this in the different test that there is at the boundary of this interval it's it's not it's it's the test is inconclusive. So you have to check the boundary separately. Okay. And so so the idea is that you take so you you have a power series like this and you think about again you're thinking about dn as x to the n x again is is thought of being fixed and now you apply the root test. So apply the root test but I'm going to apply it in a in a better form than what we did last time. Maybe I'll just state first first the better form of the root test. So here's the sort of um here's the the real version of the root test. So suppose you take a series. Suppose you have some serious here. This is let's call it the end. Suppose you take a series like this if you're looking at so now you the root test right you took dn you took the absolute value and you took the nth root right when I looked at the root test last time we looked at whether this is convergent or not right so we said if it was converging to something, right? But you could just take you could form this thing here. So you could form from from this here you could form this. This is now a sequence and you could look at lim soup of this. This these here are all non- negative numbers. Right? So um so uh and this le soup here is now going to be either infinite or it's going to be some real non- negative number right this here is going to be infinite usually we don't talk about that it's converging if it's infinite or it's it's some number um let's call it let's call it d I guess but Okay. And the thing is that if you're looking at if you set r equal to 1 /d right sorry no if you're setting uh if so so so this is just the root test the sort of adult version of the root test because this apply to all sequences right for any sequence you have this for any sequence dn if you're looking at this series you can look at this right and it's either infinity or d and then if d here is less than one then the series is convergent. If d is bigger than one, the series is divergent. And if d is equal to one, it's inconclusion, right? The difference between this and what we talked about last time was that last time we assume that this thing here converge here I'm not assuming it but I'm then I'm looking at the lem soup instead. Right? So this is does give us a number. Okay. And it's just a matter of whether the slim soup is smaller than one and then it's convergent or bigger than one then it's divergent. Okay. Now I'll come back to to the proof but the proof is really kind of the same as the one we gave. the one we gave really, you know, the if you kind of mimic what we did uh in the special case last time, then the proof would still apply to this case here and give this result. Okay. So now, but let's let's take this this more fancy version of uh the root test. Let's take that for granted. And so so now so now I have a power shares like this. I just for for you know for for clarity I define dn to be just a n time xn and I'm interested in is for what x for what x does it converge does the power series convert Okay. Now, so now you see that so lem soup. So you you were looking at lim soup of the nth root of d n is a n * xn and you take the absolute value of that right that's that's what you're looking at and you asking is this smaller than one or bigger than one but this thing here right this is the same as sou right if you're looking at this thing here let's do a side calculation. If you're looking at the nth root of uh a n * xn, this thing here is the same as the nth root of this product here. Absolute value is the same as this times x absolute value to the n. And when you take the nth root, you may as well take the nth root of each of those two factors individually. So this is what you get. But this thing here, you see this thing here, the end root, this here is whatever it is. Can't do much about that. But this thing here, that's just the norm of x, right? The norm of x has the property that when you raise it to the n power you're getting this right. So this is the end. Okay. So this means that this thing here is the same as the norm of x limb soup of the nth root of a n. Right? Often you do it like this. You don't have to do this. It's usually clear anyway. But it off you write like that. Okay. So now what you do is so you you want you asking when is this number here smaller than one when is it bigger than one right? And so you have that you see now you define something that's called the radius of convergence. And so this is the following. So the radius of convergence is oops radius of convergence is so this is just radius of convergent. The radius of convergence is just a number and that number is radius of convergence and we have to just interpret it a little bit. So it's one over lim super of of the nth root. This thing here could of course be infinite. If this here is infinite then the radius by definition this here would be zero. Right? Right? Where this here is equal to zero. If there's lean soup uh is infinite and otherwise right it's a it's always a right otherwise yeah there's one other case you have to define that if uh it's infinite if the lem soup sorry this should be absolute value if this lem soup is true and otherwise otherwise it's a you know otherwise there's nothing to you know it's a well you know that's the only thing you have to comment right because otherwise it's it's it's always a non- negative number but it could be zero or it could be infinity but if it's any other number then it is just what you think it should be is one over that okay so this gives you this is this here r here is the radius of convergence okay and Now the the thing is that now we have the following symbol picture. So now we have that. So you have this power series again it doesn't matter what you start with the sum matters what you start with but not the convergence. So you have this power series you are forming a This is the radius of convergence. And then the claim is and again this could be zero it could be infinity but often it's just a a real number non- negative real positive real number and so it say that if you take the interval here around zero in the interval from minus r to r then inside this interval here inside here when x is in here then the Power series is convergent and when X is here or here power series is divergent and then when X's is here or here at those two points then it's and clear and further test is needed. Further test is needed. Test are needed. >> Okay. >> Yeah. less than one. >> Yeah. So that's right. So so let's come to the proof. Yeah. So this is what you're talking about. So So this is this is the the radius of convergence, right? And so as you say um all we need to do is right but we know from this from the more fancy version of the ratio test that is in terms of leap soup we know that so so prove here power series is convergent by the ratio test by the by the ratio test, not a ratio test. Sorry, the root test by the root test. So again, the version the version the lem soup version, not the one I talked about last time, but this one we just talked about, but the lem soup version of the ratio root test, then the power series is converging. If this thing here, so this means that this thing here. So if this thing here li of a nth root if this thing here is less than one, it's divergent. If this thing here is bigger than one and it's inconclusive and it's and it's inconclusive if this thing here is equal to one here it's inconclusive. But now you see that this here this here just means that the norm of X should be smaller than one over that. Right? So this here is is is the same as saying that the norm of X is smaller than R the radius of convergence. Right? This here is saying this is equivalent to saying that the norm of x is bigger than uh than r right and this here is equivalent to saying that the norm of x is equal to r. Okay. So so that is the that is the so that's a radius of convergence. So you see so this is like you know a pure this is not at all clear that it couldn't be that a power series couldn't be convergent for like you know some sort of discrete set of of x but that's not the case right it's it's convergent on some interval it's unclear at the at the end of that interval but it is convergence on an interval and divergent outside that interval now that interval could be just zero Or it could be all of R. Right. But it is also symmetric around zero. Yeah. >> Right. So it's so it's one over this here. But remember how R was defined. R is up there. >> Yeah. Okay. Now um let me just say a word about why does the proof from last time why does it really prove this more you know I mean the sort of argument we gave last time why does it give you this much more sat I mean it's much more satisfying this version of the root test because it apply to any series right the because otherwise we talk about whether some ratio was convergent but it may not converge right so this is much more satisfying so suppose again you have a series like this and so now you form you're looking at lem soup so this here is again this is the root test root test version, let's call it version 2.0, right? And so it take um series like this and it's it's looking at le soup and then the nth root of the absolute value of dn and again it say that if this thing here is e is less than one it's convergent. If it's bigger than one, it's diverging and if it's equal to one, it's inconclusion. Okay. Now let's let's try to see why this here why this here is the case. So proof of of root test version 2.0. So now may maybe I won't do all of it but let's just say let's just look at because you see in a minute you see that it's really kind of super similar to last time. So suppose that this limit suppose that this limb soup of the nth root here of dn suppos supposed that this thing here is equal to some d which is strictly less than one. Okay. So this means that there exist uh they exist. So choose if you will choose uh d bar will uh d less than d bar strictly less than strictly less than one. Right? So I can choose it like this. But now you see that if I choose it like this then there exist that so remember that let's just remind ourselves that how was the lim soup defined the limb soup was defined to be that you take this new sequence so you're taking this sequence here to You're taking these guys here. So you're looking at now these guys here and you are taking a you define a sequence that is like the soup starting at the nth guy and like this here. Sorry this here is n plus one etc. Right. Right. This is the soup of the tail, right? And so this was this was that it was soup on as you're going further out, you're taking soup over a smaller set. So these this sequence going down, right? So now if this limit here is some D which is strictly less than D bar then it means that there exist so there exist capital N. So that if little n is bigger than capital n then all of these guys here is less than d bar. Right? So this here is so that so if this here then all of these guys here is less or equal to d bar this is if little n if you starting that far out right but so now you see that so you have that when n is bigger than this you have that this so you have that for all these guys here dn the nth root is less then d bar less or equal to d bar. But now you take the nth root the nth power on both sides. So you have that dn absolute value is less than d bar the n power. This here is d is is and n is this is even actually not negative. So you don't even need this absolute value sign. So you're having this but this is a number that is strictly less than one. So this here is a geometric series right geometric series with where where where d bar is less than one. So it's is a convergent geometric series. Right? So this is you see that it was it's basically the same proof we did last time but last time we were assuming that some ratio was convert you know or some we were consuming assuming that this this here converge to something but you don't need it to converge you just need that this soup is is um is is less than one and so likewise if you examine what this case here say then just like last time it's going to say that if this here is bigger than one then the ordinary element doesn't even go to zero. Okay. So it it fails the most basic test for being convergent. Okay. So and that was just like last time also and and again the advantage is saying you were the one that was asking yesterday. Yeah. I mean like last time this with a ratio test and the root test and and like in the ratio test it's something about that the next element is some you know is going down with some fraction right and here and you very much see that like this here works for all series right and it's really just because you don't compare the element to the next but you're comparing it to this fixed um series which is a geometric is okay. So that's that's like the uh that's the the the the real version uh so to speak of the of the boot test. So now let's let's talk a little bit more about power series. So and I want to talk about so like there's one function that is particular important and I mean like all of these sort of basic functions are of course important but they are somewhat similar and uh the one I want to talk about is the exponential function And and there's various way that you could define so what is the exponential function? There's various ways that you could define the exponential function. You can define it, you know, like two that comes to mind, but there's others too. One is that you could define it to be a function that's satisfying a certain differential equation and that would be a good way of defining it. Another way of defining it which is more relevant to what we're doing here is defining it as a power series. So I'm looking at but at e to the x and um and I'm looking at e to the x. So I define e capital e of x as this power series that we looked at before. Okay. Now I want to prove that this here is really what you should think of this. This here is the exponential function. So so I want to show but what does it mean that it is expon want to show that this is the exponential function. So what do I mean by I mean of course I could you know I could define any function to be the exponential function but there are certain properties of the exponential function that you would want right and so um well the first thing I observe is that e of zero is equal to if if all of these if x is zero then all of these are zero except when n is equal to zero and then x to the zero this here is by definition one okay and this here is is zero factorial is by definition one so this here is is one by definition and we know already by the way that this here we have already seen that the radius of convergence for this power series of convergence is equal to infinity right we have already seen that right so it's a well- definfined function for all x okay now I'm later going to prove so next time we will show that if you define it like that that that that this function here defined like that has a property that x e to x + y is equal to this product here. Now uh using this well the first thing I can observe is I haven't really gotten to the property yet but I'm just at the moment I'm just examining that particular function you know some properties that it has and so the first thing I will observe is that if x here is positive or non- negative right then all of these numbers are non- negative so you're summing non- negative numbers so the sum is non- negative So if x is bigger equal to zero then it implies that e of x is big is actually strictly positive right in fact the smallest one is where you x was equal to zero but in that case you got one right now if x here is negative then it's not super clear right if x is negative you know some of these numbers that you'll be summing are positive and some of them are negative. So it's not at all clear what happened to the sum. But if if you grant me this for the for the moment this relationship here then we would have that e to the x minus e to minus sorry e in x - x. So that's the same as let me just make a little more space here. So e of zero which I already know is one. This here can think about that as x - x or if you will you could think about it as x + - x. And now if you grant me this this thing here that we prove next time then I can write this here as e of x * e of minus x right uh yeah sorry yeah okay and now if x here is negative then of course minus x is positive So this thing here. So now I know by this thing here that this here is positive. And so since the product of these two things is one, this here must be strictly positive as well. Right? So this imply that e to the x is also strictly positive. Okay? So this is just a couple of observation. Now, of course, I'm using that relationship that I haven't established yet, but I will establish that next time. The next thing is that I want to define the number E. And so I define this. So E that is 2.7 whatever I don't remember. Uh but so E we define so little E. So I define it as this function here evaluated in one. Okay. Now I want to define so I have my function capital E but I want to define a second function that is E. So, so want to define a second function and that is e to the x like this, right? And that should have the kind of properties that you uh that you think it should have. Okay? So but first before I do that let me just think if if you take e to the power m m here m is let's say that m here uh let's say that m is a is a integer if if um this here this here should just be e * E M*s right note that this here is this here I can of course write as E this is what E is so I can write it as this here M times but now I can use this hair that I will prove next time again. So if I take E of 1 * E of 1 then that's E of two. And if I take E here three times then it's E of three. Right? So this thing here is actually the same as capital E of M. Right? So I have that. I also by definition so e to the zero this here I'm setting equal to one but I already have that one was equal to this capital e in in in zero right okay now what about if m here is a negative integer So suppose that m here is a negative integer. Suppose that m here is negative. So sorry what should e to the m here be? This here is just one over e to the minus uh m. Okay, minus m is a positive integer, right? So this so this makes sense. Now if you're looking at E to the again using this relationship here E the one and in fact the one we just did. So this is on integers um this here is now equal to E of zero which is equal to one. And so this imply and this is by this by that relationship over there. It's E of M * E of minus M. And so you see that this implies that E of minus M is equal to 1 / E of M by just dividing this on both sides. So you have this and this thing here. But this thing here, sorry, this is not what I wanted. Uh, if I take M negative, I just use the other one. Sorry, e of M is equal to 1 / E of minus M like that, right? M is M was supposed to be negative. So, this means that minus M is a positive integer. And this one here is then this one. I know that this here already agree with uh with um with uh this little function of e. So you see that this thing here is agrees with e to the power m. Right. Right. Because we we defined it like this. And now just checking that also on the negative integer this function here and this function here agree. Okay. So, so I now have these two different functions. Well, one I haven't really defined yet. I've only defined it now on all integers. But, but so far these two functions agree. Now what I also should have is that I should have so suppose you're looking at a rational number. So suppose you take a rational number. Remember we usually write a rational number. So suppose that Q here is a rational number. We usually write a rational number as a as an element in set. So it could be negative, it could be zero and n here is a positive integer. So fraction like this. Now what should E of Q be? Right? Well, E of Q um this here should be right how you would think about it is that it really should be something it should be something this here should be a number should be a number alpha and this should have the property that is positive and it should have the property so let's just write it so so E of Q this is m / n. It should have the property that if you raise it alpha here suppose you were raising it to the power n then you should get this number that we have already defined right. So should have it should be positive and when you raise it like this um then it should give you that and just like with square root of two it's just one element with this property okay so that's defined uh what it so so this way you see this way we have now defined this function e on all rational numbers but now we need to check right we need to check that this thing here need to check. So that that EQ is equal like that. Right? So I need to check that. Okay? So I want to say that that E to the Q is that alpha, right? So this means that I want to show so I need to show two things E to Q is positive. Well, I've already checked that right because you check at at E capital E at anything is positive. So this is okay. The second thing I need to check is that it has the property that if you raise it to the n power then you're getting uh then you're getting e um e to the to the m right now e to the m that's an integer. It could be negative but e to any negative integer whether it's ne positive or or negative we already checked that this is equal to capital e of m. Okay. So now I need to so this here is so now what is this? So what do I need to check? So I need to check that e to the m / n. This thing here raised to the power n is equal to this. But but what is this here? This here is just e to the m / n time multiply itself n times. So this is now n times. But now I can use again this thing that I proved next time that when I do it like here I'm just doing it two times and here I'm just doing it for I'm doing it for different x and y. But if I do it n times with the same x then I'm just adding that x together n times. Right? And so this thing here is the same as e by that rule over there n * m / n but this is just e of m as it should be right. So you see that these two functions here. So the conclusion so far is the conclusion now is that this function here is equal to this function here for all Q for all rational numbers. Okay. Now what other property should this exponential? So this here you know so far this is kind of the property that you want of the exponential function right but what other property should the exponential function have it should have one other property and that's enough to determine it and that is it should be continuous. So one more property is that this function e to the x when x is defined like this this function should be continuous and we'll talk a little bit more about continuous function in just a second. Okay. Now, now then I have a theorem that we prove next time one of the next times and and that is that suppose you take two functions. So so we then can appeal to the following theorem. If f and g are two continuous functions on a that agree on all of do. So if you have two continuous functions and they if you restrict it to the rational number then the two functions are the same. If they're both continuous then the function has to be the same. So this implies that f is equal to g everywhere not just on the rational function rational numbers. Okay. So we'll prove that either next time or the following time. Let me just go back and remind you about what it means for a function to be continuous. Uh so so this is the fine so continuous. So suppose you take a function and the function uh is it doesn't even need to be defined on an interval. Um I but you may as well assume that it's interval but it doesn't need to be defined on the interval. So a function here f is set to be continuous be continuous at x here in the domain where it's defined. If for all epsilon greater than zero there exist delta greater than zero such that if x - x0 is smaller than delta then the images are epsilon close to each And so again this delta typically depends not just on epsilon but also on x0 right and so the function so this is so it's continuous at a point x0 if this here is the case and the function f here is set to be continuous If it is continuous at all points. Okay. Now let's just let's let's look at two simple examples and and and and then once we have those uh then together with some algebraic rules that are similar to the algebraic rules that we had for sequences then we get a huge number of examples of you get a large uh collection of examples of continuous functions. So the first example is like the simplest of all example where f here is is the constant function. So I'm thinking about f here is to be defined from r into r and for each x in r it's equal to the same constant. Okay. So that's f. I want to show that this f is that a constant function is continuous. So given so proof of continuity. So given epsilon given epsilon greater than zero in this part says you can pick any delta you want. I'm just picking let delta be equal to one but you could pick anything you want. It has to be positive but you can pick anything you want. Then you have that if x minus x0 is less than one. Well then of course f ofx minus f of x0 both of these numbers is c. So the difference so this is c minus c. So this is zero. So this is surely less than epsilon. Right? So they show that it's the function is continuous at all point. And you see that you could pick delta anything you want. And of course in particular it's it's doesn't even depend on x0. It doesn't depend on epsilon and it doesn't depend on x0. Okay. So the constant functions are for continuous. What about then next simple the next simplest function would be the linear function or just x function x. So suppose you take because you're looking at at the function f on r to r where f of x is equal to x. So this is also continuous and the proof of that given epsilon set delta equal to epsilon then you see that if x - x0 is less than epsilon then uh f ofx minus f of x0 but f of x is equal to x and f of x0 is equal to x0 so this thing here is of course less than epsilon not right so this is so so so that's kind of trivial okay now the next thing is that we have uh the algebraic uh property of continuous functions. So we have some as a break property. properties of continuous function and I will prove a couple of these and but the proofs you see in just a second that the proof is like I mean the properties is is is and There's good reasons for that. They're very similar to the property we had for for limits of sequences and the proofs are are very similar to those proofs. So the first one is that if f and g are continuous then the sum of these two functions is also continuous. The next one is that if um f is continuous and and c is a constant then c * f is continuous. The third property is that again if uh f comma g are continuous then the product then the product f * d is continuous. The fourth property is that if f is continuous and and uh and f is never equal to zero then 1 / f is continuous. And the fifth property that's a little bit different and we didn't have that for sequences. The fifth property is that if you take a map f of take a function f. Let's think about it as a function from R to R. And then you have another function G from R to R. And now you could look at where you take first. You could look at the composition. So you could look at the function H of X which is where you first apply F of X F to X and then you apply G to it. Right? So if both f so if this here and the function g are continuous then the composition here is also continuous. When you have a composition of function you always have to be careful that it makes sense. So to make sense means that the function g the one that the second function that you apply is that the image of when you use the first function you have to make sure that what you get here is uh at some point where G is defined. Right? So I just for simplicity I just uh looked at maps into um functions into R where G also was defined on all of our but of course it doesn't have to be defined but you just have to make sure that G is defined where F and X end up right okay I'll talk a little bit about you know these uh how to prove these but it's very similar to what we did for sequences let me just apply apply it. So let me look at an example where I apply it. So suppose you take x2 + one. Suppose you take this function here. I'll take look at two examples. Suppose you take this function here. I claim that this here is continuous. I'm not going to go through the proof because because we already actually so if this here prove at least some of these properties but once you have that then you see that well you have that g of x equal to x this here is continuous. This is what we proved just a little while ago. And if you take the function that is constant and in this case constant one, we already proved that that's continuous. Right? Now this means that if you take a continuous function by by by whatever root three or something like that over there uh and you take the function where it's like multiply by itself this function here right because g is continuous this function here is also continuous and then once you have that you can add another. So you can look at G ^2 plus H. This is you now have established this is continuous. This here is a constant function. So we already proven that this is continuous. So the sum by rule one over there this here is continuous. Okay. So this means that so okay. So this show that this function here this quadratic function is continuous. But in fact of course this argument gives you that any polomium any polomial is continuous right so this here proves that any polomium right so this the you know like the similar argument right so if you're using so if you're using one two and three then just starting at the constant function and the function x you can get to any polomium and and and using these operations and so it means that any polomial is continuous right so so you have the following theorem all polomials are continuous Okay. And in fact, so this is just using one, two, and three over here. If you now also bring in four then you have then so so this is this is proof, right? So it follows it uses the two examples that we gave and then in addition to that it follows from the algebraic rules one through uh one through three. If you bring in ALT four, five is something slightly different. But if you bring in four here, then you you get that what's called any rational function uh any all rational function are continuous. So what is a a rational function? A rational function is just where you're taking a polomial and then you're dividing by another polinomial. Right? So we know that any polomial is continuous. If you take another polomium and let's look at the that other polinomial away from the roots away from where it is zero away from it where it's zero this is I mean it's of course even continuous where it's zero but you can't divide by it right so away from it this function here is not zero and it's continuous this is continuous rule four so this is proved Uh the theorem above plus rule four, right? Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. In that case, exactly. In that case, I chose delta to be simply epsilon. Yeah. Yeah. >> Anything with that first? >> That's not a problem, right? But it's just like if you give me an epsilon, then I have to pick a a delta. And typically the delta will depend on epsilon. Typically, it also depends on x. Let me give you an example of the last. I don't think I I I might not get to to proving this, but that's fine. I mean they actually the proof I'm not even sure I would go through it but the proof is if maybe maybe if I have a minutes I will talk about one of them. So let me give you an example also where so typically typically it's it's highly unusual in the first example with a constant function that it doesn't really matter you could pick delta anything. Okay. Now suppose you're looking at the function f ofx = 1 /x. This is a rational function because it's a polomial. In that case the polomial in the denominator is the constant function one and then the denominator is is is x. If you're looking at this function let's just look at this function where it's pos strictly positive. Right? And then you see now the graphs looks basically like this. So in particular if you go close to zero it's not defined as zero but if you go close to zero then the image varies a lot right. So if you take some fixed thing here suppose you take suppose you take suppose you take you want to prove that it's continuous at some extreme. So this means that you have to pick some delta. So given an epsilon you have to pick a delta. So that if you are in this little interval then image lie in that little interval. But you see that as x0 becomes very close to zero then in any small interval the function varies a lot. So this means that that if if you take some fixed epsilon then you expect that if the x0 was close to zero then the delta had to be really really really small right for this to work right so typically delta depends not just on epsilon which it's I mean it's highly unusual it doesn't it also depends on x and in fact if it doesn't depend on x or extra then it has a particular name. We'll get to that later. It's called uniform continuity. Uniform continuity have some nice extra properties and and and and you will see later on that there's a good reason why the domain here was did not include zero. If somehow this is would have been a continuous function defined on an interval that included the end point then actually it would automatically be uniform continuous. So so it was the good reason this example here it didn't include the the the point zero. Okay. Now let me just so I have like three minutes left. Let me just talk about one particular of these like the first one and the second one super easy and the third one is also easy but and it uses exactly the same trick that we looked at before. So let me just talk about that for a minute just because it's it's it's a little bit more interesting than one and two is is barely interesting. So suppose I'm looking at the product of these two functions and you know so remember that you give me an epsilon I had to find a delta so I have to find a delta so that this difference here is smaller I want to find a delta so that if x minus x0 is smaller if it's smaller than delta then this difference here is smaller than epsilon right that's what I'm supposed to do just knowing that f and g are continuous right and so I do so this just like when we had this for sequences the similar thing for sequences it's too much it's too complicated if you just look at like this. So what you do is that you take f ofx times g of x. You insert something and so you insert. It doesn't really matter which way you do it, but this is like halfway between this and that where you take one point to be x0 the other two x. Of course you didn't have that. So you have to add it again. But now the thing is that what you've done here is you sort of have split the difference if you will. And so now when you want to estimate this you estimate this thing here first. So this is g of x * f ofx - f of x0 and you take the absolute value of this plus and then this here here you can factor out f of x0 uh g of x minus g of x0. And now you see now you can sort of do like we did before. This here is now fixed. So you just you can you can also take the absolute value sign like that. And now this here is like just x here is fixed. So this is just some fixed number. So this means that this thing here has to be maybe even smaller depending on what this constant is. But that's easy to achieve with some delta. Right? Here it's a little bit more complicated because this one here is not fixed. Right? But you have to then say that once you are close to x0 then this here there's a bound for this. You see it's sort of like what we did before. So we are out of time so I just leave it there. So next time we'll talk more about this with exponential function. Yeah. So a rational function said to be continuous or do we not call it continuous? No, a rational function any rational function is continuous. It's defined at points where the where the polinomial in the denominator away from the roots of the of the polomial in the denominator. >> It's continuous. What >> are they said to be continu one what yeah I mean any rational function is continuous. It's just not defined at the roots. Okay. Now for some polomium you could some rational functions if you were sort of silly and you wrote a if you wrote this thing here right this is a polomial that's a polomial this one have a root as zero but really this function here you would probably think about as being the constant function one right so it's still right but it's not a pure it's it's continuous away from the root. It doesn't say whether it's continuous at the root. It's just not defined at the root of the denominator. >> Yep. >> Yeah, that's right. That's right. So that's right. So if you have a polomial in the denominator, right, there's there's like finite many points where where where you have roots and at those point it's appro defined. You might be able to extend it in a continuous way to those points, but typically it's not defined in those points.