Okay. So last time we were looking at a metric space. So this is a metric space. um and we looked at um what we called uh open subsets. So open subsets and so an open subset is so over here is now a subset of x is set to be open. If for all x in O there exist are greater than zero. So that the entire ball around x is contained in in O. Right? And so the picture is that here you have uh x here you have some open subset O. And so if for each point X in O there is an entire ball here that is contained in O then O is set to be open. Right? What the one of the a few things that we proved is so one thing we proved is that uh that that's uh so again XD is a metric space then we defined sorry I should say we defined the ball uh B X B R of X. So here x is in x r is some positive number and then this thing here is then the y in x such that uh the distance from x to y is strictly less than r. And we showed that uh uh P R of X is open. Right? That P R we say also that P R X is a ball of radius R centered at X. Okay. Now there's a few other things that we discussed. So one thing is that so uh on sets on subsets we have three operations. uh one is intersection. So this is that if you have if u alpha um is a family of subsets. Then we look at the intersection of all these subsets. And so X is in this intersection just means that that X is in U alpha for all alpha. The second operation we looked at was union. And so again u alpha is a family of subsets. Then we say that x here is in the union of the u alpha. This is the same as saying that there exist alpha such that x is in u alpha. And the third thing we the third operation we have is that if you have a subset capital u then uh we have the complement. So the complement of u uh is the x such that x is not in in you right that's a compliment and so there was these three operations uh on subsets right and why this is relevant Here this is relevant because if uh if u alpha so we have the following uh lema again we have a matrix space here and we have o alpha is a family of open subset of X then then the union is also open. Okay. Now why is this the case? Well, it's it's a the case because if so if X here is in the union of the O alpha then this means that there exist X here is in O alpha right but since O that O alpha is open this means that there exist. So not only is X in that but there exist Rh that depends on X and alpha uh R positive so that the whole ball here such that the whole ball centered at X is contained in U alpha O alpha sorry right but if it's contained in O alpha then this imply If it's contained in O alpha then we have that then this imply that it's of course this ball here is contained in the union of of these guys. Right? But that's exactly what it means that to say that the union is open. Right? The other lema, the other lema uh related to this is well and there you have to be careful uh that if you have uh finitely many. So again you have a metric space and and O1 up to O N finally many uh open subsets. If you have finitely many open subsets then the intersection of these is also open. Okay. Now why is that the case? This is uh this is the case because if you have so if x here is in the intersection of these guys then it means that this is equivalent to saying that x here is in o i for all i right i = 1 up to n But then for each but this means but since oi is open then for for oi there exist a r i. So this means that since OI is open, there exist a R I. So that such that the ball here with radius X but sorry with radius R but center X. This one here is contained in OI. Right? This is for each eye. Right? But now if we take there's only finally many I. So you can let R be the minimum of these guys. Right? If R is the minimum of these guys then the ball of radius R around X. These are the points where the distance is strictly less than R to X. Right? But that is of course contained in BR I of X. This is for each I you have this. But this one here was supposed to be contained in OI, right? And so you see that this ball here, okay, this ball here is contained in this for each for each eye. So this means that this ball must be contained in the intersection of these guys. And I'll just write it out again just emphasizing that I'm only doing this for finitely many oaks. Okay. So by and that's exactly what it means that the intersection is open. And again you know you could draw a little picture here. It might be helpful to draw a little picture. You have you know this here is 01. Here you have O2 and here you have 03. You have a point in the intersection. There's a ball here that is contained in this. There's a ball, another ball here. So that's contained in this. And there's a third ball, this ball here. So that's contained in that. Right? And then you kind of look at the smallest ball, you know, you look at the smallest radi uh and and that ball is then contained in in in the intersection of the tree. And the intersection of the tree is this. Yeah. Okay. Now, why why do we have to be careful? Let me just remind you. Why do we have to be careful here? And so the examples example that we looked at last time was that if you take if you are on so the example from last time is that if x here is a real number and you're looking at O N here is a natural number and you're looking at that this is this interval here from min -1 / n to n. Well, then if you're looking at the intersection of all of these, right, the intersection well that's just that's just a one point zero, right? And of course zero is not an open subset, right? Because if it was an open subset, a whole ball and a ball here on the line is like a little open little interval that doesn't have the two end points, right? So this here is so note that uh in this example each OI or each O is open but the intersection of the OS uh is not open and the problem again is that there are infinitely many Os right okay now again one of the things we proved was and maybe I was just here uh on that board uh uh one of the things we proved last time was that if you take a ball then it is actually an open Let me let me prove a variation of that. So suppose you're looking at so let's have a lema here that if you have again a metric space here and r here is bigger than zero. Now let's look at the X and then take away. But now I'm looking at the set. So let me look at the set Y here. So X X X is some fixed point in this metric space and you're looking at the Y in X. So that the distance to X from Y is strictly bigger than R. Okay. So in other words, if this here is X, this is the space X. Here you have the point X. Then you have here this here including this the circle here are the points that have distance at most r from little x. Then this is this set here outside this this disc where the boundary is included. So outside. Okay. And so what I want to prove here is that this here is this here is an open substring. And the proof is very similar to how we proved that a ball is open. Again the key ingredient is the triangle inequality. And so right so let's try to prove that. So, so we take um we take Y here in this let's call this set something let's call it E. So suppose you have X here Y here in E. So this means that the distance from Y to X is strictly bigger than R. I want to prove right. So I have here I have my picture here. This is X. This is this ball here and then I have a Y that lie outside it. And I want to find a little ball here around Y that is entirely contained in the complement of this ball. And so I do the same that I did last time. I we set I mean you know almost the same not exactly the same but so we set s here equal to right. So the idea is that you're looking at this distance here. This distance is dx y. This part of it is r, right? And so you it seems reasonable. this here, if this picture was right, then this thing here would be uh s and this s here would be dx y - r. So that's what I'm setting uh s equal to. And the first thing I notice that because this is strictly bigger than r, this thing here is strictly positive. And then I take set here in that ball. Now it's centered at Y. It's have radius S. And then I want to look at the distance to and I want to estimate. So one to estimate to estimate from below uh the distance from X to set right well the triangle inequality if you just think about the triangle that's something like bounding a distance from above right so if I want to estimate something below Oh, then basically the this thing I want to estimate from below have to be on the other side of the inequality, right? And so so how does that work? So I have so let's again draw a little picture to so I have let me do it little bit on the side. So I have this ball here and I have this Y here and then I have the C here and I now want to say I want to estimate so I'm saying that the distance from uh so so this is what I want to bound from below And what I know is that this set here is I know something about the distance to y, right? So this here I know, right? And so you see this thing here by the triangle inequality is now bounded by by the distance from x to y, right? And I know that this thing here is less or equal to this here is the one I want to estimate. So I'm just leaving that. This one here, it's because set is in the ball of radius s around y. So this thing here is actually strictly less than s like that. Right? And so now you can just move this one here over on the other side and you have that dx y - s is strictly less than d uh x comma z. Now we have to fill in what s is s is up there. So this thing here is this this this this thing here is equal to this is dx. I'm just copying that. But I fill in what s is and s is d xy minus r. But you see those two cancel and you're left with a r. And so you have that r is strictly less than this which is exactly what we wanted to prove. And so again, you know, the the you know, it was it was almost exactly the same proof that we had to prove that the ball was open. Um we're just using here, you know, the thing is what we're using here is that again we're using that the triangle inequality is like you're bounding some distance from above and so you kind of have to use it the other way, right? with having the sinks that you want to bound from below on the other side of the inner corner. Okay. So the next thing is then and we talked a little bit about that uh last time. The next thing is closed subsets. So this may seem like a triviality because it's defined sort of in a way trivially. So what is a clo but it's actually a really useful notion and yeah uh and so this is so a subset C is set to be closed again X is a metric space to be closed if the complime element is open. So that's how you define a closed subset. And so again as we observed right since since the empty set and x are both uh open. The complement of the empty set is the whole set. So it means that X and the complement of the whole set is the empty set. It means that those sets are both open are also both closed. Okay. Now um right so now there is a another way you could have defined a close subset another way and this is because you have the following statement here. So a subset You have a following theorem that again you have a metric space and C here subset of X is closed if and only if if and only if for all sequences in CN in C. Sorry. If if and only if for all sequences XN where where XN is in C. If you have all sequences all let's say convergent sequences so all convergence sequence where the sequence lie in a in in in C then the limit X is also in C. Okay. So we want so I claim that if you want to check that a set is closed instead of checking that a complement is open you could check that and and this seems like if you were literally going to check it right on any given example explicit example you would never do it this way but it's very useful for proving things okay and so the thing is that instead of proving that a complement is open. Instead, you could just prove that whenever you have a sequence in that set, then then is the limit also in that set? If that's the case for all sequences, then the set is closed, right? And so, so we need to so let's try to prove that. And again, it's useful. It's sort of useful, you know, theoretically, but in practice, this would be totally useless. But it is useful to proving things. And so now why? So we need to there's two things we need to prove. And so there's two directions. So assume first that um that C is closed and and let and let Xn in C be a convergence. in sequence. We want to show want to show the limit x is also Okay. Now if um right if since um xn converts to x um then for all r greater than zero there exist uh x n in the ball here of radius uh r around x right because it's converging right so this means that that for each uh r you must have this but now you see that um If if X here if X was not in C, right? If X is not in C, since C is closed, the complement is open. And so this means that now X here is is assumed to be in a compliment. But it means that there exists some R. So that the ball here of radius of that R would be contained in the complement, right? But the complement but this means that there is no XN in that ball, right? Because all of the XN's are in C, right? And this here is entirely contained in the complement. Right? So you see that. So this is the contradiction right. So if we if it is closed and you have a convergence sequence that sequence is lying in this closed set then the limit must be um must be also contained in the set right because otherwise there would be like the limit would lie outside and there would be a little ball centered at that. So there was no element in the sequence that was in that ball but then that sequence couldn't converge to the center right and the other thing so this is one direction the other direction that we need to prove is that um is that if and this is again you know it's useless you would never go about to prove that a set is closed in an example But it is useful sort of more theoretically. So suppose you have a set and you knew that whenever you have a sequence in that set then the limit that is convergent then the limit is also in the set. So, so the next thing, so we also need also need to show the Converse and again the Converse. So we need to show that if that if uh that if for all sequences xn which line see n is convergent Then the limit x is also in C. C is in fact closed, right? So that would be the converse, right? So we prove if and only if it has this property. Okay? So now let's assume that so so so suppose we have this property that all convergent sequences that uh the limit convergence sequence in the set then the limit was also in the set. Now let's prove that the set is closed. So to prove the set is closed, we need to show that the complement is open. Right? that the complement here is open. So take X here in the complement if if for all are greater than zero. Right? So we need to prove we need to prove that. Sorry. So let me say it like this. So we take some x and we need to show that there exist some are bigger than strictly bigger than zero. So that this ball here is contained in the complement. Right? That's what we need to prove. We need to prove this for each x in the complement. Now suppose that this was if this was not the case. Then I can look at for each n then for each each natural number here. You can look at the ball. It's always going to be centered at this x. But I'm looking at it with a radi that is smaller and smaller. Right? If for each n natural number if that ball was not contained in a complement so this means that for each n you could pick so pick xn in that set so just you just choose right because we are assuming that the complement is not closed is not open so it means that there would be exist a x so that No ball here would be entirely in the complement. So this means that you would that this one here would not be entirely contained in complement. So this means that there would be some XN and this XN here would actually be in the set C. Right? But now of course the distance here from xn to x this distance here is strictly less than 1 / n. So this means that so this imply that the xn converts to x right and now the assumption was that whenever you have a sequence that was converging these guys lie in c then the limit here also lie in c. So then you have from the assumption that X here is in C. But this is the contradiction. You were assuming that X was not in C. Okay. And again this here is is really really useful but it's only useful kind of as a tool to proving things. It's not useful for checking whether an example is open or closed. Um like let me just quickly give you a couple of examples. Uh probably should have done that already. Uh that if you're looking at you know so what are closed subsets right? So closed subset could be you know so here are some examples closed subsets. So if you are if it's an R a closed subset is like some interval from let's say from 0 to one where both these points both zero and one is included. This here is closed and why is it closed? because the complement here is open. It's easy to see that the complement is open. Um uh something like if you include one of the endpoint but not the other, this is neither closed nor open, right? And and also if you're looking at like the complement say from zero the complement of so if you're looking sorry if you're looking at this thing here uh union with say from two to three this is also is also closed. Okay. Now uh and and a and uh maybe one more example is if you just take a single point this is closed right and again you just check that the complement is open. Uh now so now uh the next thing we talked I think we talked very briefly about that last time also because we talked a little bit about closed subset but but so if you take so you have the following theorem. So if you have a metric space here and you have a family C alpha of closed subset then the intersection of these closed this here is also closed. And if you you have just finally many closed subset then the union of finitely many closed is also closed. Right? And so here it's exactly the opposite thing as for open sets that you can take any intersection and is still closed. But if you take union you can only do it for finite many. So this exactly the opposite. Why is it exactly the opposite? It's because that in order to prove that something is closed it means that the complement is open. So and then we have these basic relations for right. So the proof of this again. So the proof of this and so these were these operations on set that we went through that if you take X here and you take the complement of intersections of subsets right this thing here is the same as the union of the complements like that Right? And you see that since this is closed, this means that the complement is open and you can take any union of open sets and is still open. So that's why you could take any intersection, right? And so the other thing is that if you're looking at the you to prove that this thing here is closed, then you're looking at the complement of this union here. But this thing here is now the intersection the complement of the intersection of uh the C1 uh up to um sorry this is the complement of the this is the this is the Um, intersection of these guys like this, right? And you see here since C one up to CN since they're closed, these guys here are open. And so you're looking at finite intersections of open sets and that's open. Right? So again for closed sets it's like the in terms of taking intersection and union it's exactly the opposite. Okay. Um now the next thing I want to talk about is a cover. Um so uh so so you have a metric space. So the separation is so we have a matrix space here and we have a subset a here is a subset of x and then we have a collection and then u alpha is a family of subset of subsets. of of x. And we say that that uh that uh u alpha is a cover of a if um if a here is contained in the union of the u alphas. Sorry. This is what it means to cover. That's it by a family name. Um, a subco is right. So if you take imagine that you have the like a whole bunch of sets and together they cover a a subco means that you don't need to take all of the u alphas if you can just take some of them and they will still cover it. So is so a cover is a a subf family of the given family you alpha such that the union of those of those still cover. Okay. So let's look at a couple of examples. I mean, you know, for if you take a family that cover something, then the family itself is a subco, but that's a kind of trivial subco, right? And so, um, you could look at so just here as an example. Suppose that the metric space is is x with the usual as sorry with the usual metric. And suppose now that the u alpha is actually u ns and those are interval from minus n. Uh let me just make them open. It doesn't matter you know for a copper there's no assertion whether they're open or closed or on either. So if you're looking at those sets well if you take the union of all of those sets that gives you everything. So this family is a cover of of the real line right? Of course, if you take a proper sub cover, right? Meaning, right? I mean, you well, you could take a So, this here cover all of it. But you see that this particular cover have the property that you n + one, right? This is contains the previous one, right? So, you don't really need all of them to cover R. You could start if you wanted to. You could start with at some very large N and then you could go on from there, right? But you can't have there wouldn't be finite many of the UN that would cover, right? You would you need infinite many to cover, right? Because otherwise, you know, there would be some sort of last point in both both in. Okay. So that's a cover and a subco and um an open cover open is then where each uh u alpha is an open subset. It's not usually I mean you it's really this diff that's Yeah. Um it uh so that's a open cover. So each of the sets that is in the covering has to be open. And and the last definition we need is a finite subco is a cover is a subco consisting of finer many sets. F. Okay. So that's a finite circle. And so now this leads to uh the and again you know in this example here u an R where this here is a cover there is no finite. So, so it's a note that this this particular this this copper does not have a finer subco, Right? If you just take finitely many of these, they are not going to cover all of R. Right? But actually in this example, you see also that the cover is an open cover. Right? Okay. So this now leads to uh the definition of compactness. So you have a metric space So x comma d is a metric space. A here is a subset and we say that a is compact. If for all copper for every sorry let me see if for every of for every open cover. So if for for every open cover of a there is there is a finite sub cover. Okay, that's that's uh right now uh and the thing that is really useful is uh and we won't prove this today but I'll prove it next time. So this is the following result. So so why why is this notion useful? Right? So one of the key one of the key property when you're thinking about sequences one of the key property uh was for sequences on the line was the the cushy convergence theorem and the cus convergence theorem again said that whenever you have a cus sequence then it was automatically convergent and it was often much easier to check that a sequence was a cus sequence than to actually find the limit and prove that it's converging. to that the but to prove the kushi convergent theorem we needed the balsano via stress theorem right and uh so so this is because so why is it useful this notion of compactness so it's useful because the there's a metric version uh version of the bzano vas I assume uh for matrix bases and so this is the following theorem um and again I won't prove it now but I'll prove it next time that if you take a matrix case and a here is uh a is a subset and uh a is compact. Then any any sequence in A has a convergent subsequence that's that's right. So remember that the bulano vis again said that if you take a bounded uh bounded sequence uh in in I then there is a subsequence that converge. Okay. Um so now um uh let's prove a few things about um um uh right let me also look at a couple of more examples. So, so the first thing I want to just discuss is that so this is like the key this is our key application of compactness that you have this metric version of the balsano vio and so um and now um but let's prove a couple compact subsets. So, so we have a metric space here and I have a here is a is is compact. Then I want to show that this implies this implies two things. One is that a is bounded. And the second one is that a is closed. Okay. Let's prove first that a is bounded. Well, you could Yeah. No. Uh, you could look at So, you could look at a very trivial cover of A. So, so you have here A. Well, obviously if you take all balls, let's say with radius one and you take all balls, but now the center here is could be anything in A, right? For each element in A, you take a ball of radius one around that point. But that's first of all these balls are all open and of course this thing here the union of these guys well the union contained in particular all the centers but the centers is already a so you trivially have this right now since a is compact this means that a must be That's these are this is an open cover. So it means that's finitely many of them already cover a. So you have finally many like this. Okay. But now I claim that this automatically implies that A is bounded because you see you have all these balls here and A is somehow contained in the union of these guys, right? So this means that for any element. So this means that for any x. So if x here is in um is in a then there exist one of these finitely many i where i is one of these finitely many. So that the distance to this x i is smaller than one. Right? We would like to say that a is contained in a large ball. Right? So now and that right. So, and now now you just take the, you know, you pick one of these X eyes. Let's pick the first one. And let's look at the um let's look at the maximum of these uh the from the first one to the other one and let's add one to that right that you take maximum over finite many numbers. So this is a nice finite not many numbers and this here is you call this here R. Now you look at the ball of radius R around X1 and I want to show that any X. So want to show that. So want to show that for any x in a then we have that x is in this bowl like that. Okay. So um right so now we know that so since since x here is we know that x is contained in the union of these ball. So we know that x is contained in this ball here for some i. where where it's one of these little n many mini eyes, right? So this means now that the distance and so you know that the distance to this little i is at most one, right? And so now if you're looking at the distance from x to the first one then this here is less than the distance from uh this to x i plus the distance this is the triangle inequality again x i maybe let me just make very clear that this is the first one to the first one right this is the triangle inequality right But these distances here are right this here plus this uh is um right so this here is so sorry this thing here is bounded by one right it's actually strictly less than one so this here is less than one plus this thing here and you see this thing here is of course this is how we define R. This is strictly uh this is actually uh less or equal to r and so you have that this thing here is strictly less than r and that's what we wanted to prove. Okay so this prove that if you take a again a metric space and you have a compact subset then it's automatically bounded. What about the second one? Suppose you take a a subset is it closed? Now let's use the theorem that we just proved. So we need to prove Okay. So let's prove that that this A here is closed. Okay. So now if A is closed. So to prove that A is closed by the theorem we've just we proved just a little while ago. Theorem we proved earlier. We showed earlier. uh we need to show that if xn is a sequence sequence in a and xn is converging to some x we need to show need to show that x is also in a Fine. Suppose not. Suppose not. We want to show that this leads to a contradiction. We want to get a contradiction. So you have you have this x here and you're assuming that x is not in a but you yet you have a sequence in in a that somehow tend to tend to this um this is the sequence xn and it's tending to this element Well, we saw earlier that we've defined something called we def e here which is the x the y in x. So that the distance from X to Y is strictly bigger than R. Then we saw that this here is an open set. Right? We show that this here is open. This is for each R. So I'm going to now find a cover of of A. I'm going to find an open cover. And the open comma is that for each integer, for each n here, I'm going to look at e 1 / n. So this means that I'm looking at the set at the y. So that the distance from y to this this x here that I want to show is in a that these things here is bigger. than 1 / n. Okay. But now I claim that a here is contained in the union of these guys, right? Because you see these guys actually these these guys here if you have something that is not in any of these right this means that the that this inequality fails with each n but this means that so if x here if sorry it's set is is not is in the complement of the union of these Nice. Then actually then you have that this thing here is less or equal to 1 / n for all n right you have that that's a complement right of the union but if it's less than one n for all n it means that it must be zero right so it must be so it means that this distance here so you conclude that this distance is zero. But this means that this set here is actually your x, right? So the complement of these guys, the complement of this union here is simply just the point x. But you were assuming that x was not in your set a, right? The complement here, the union of these guys. We have proved now that the union cover everything but x. So in particular it cover a because we're assuming that little x was not in a right. Okay. So so this is a nice open cover of a but a was supposed to be compact. It means that finally many of these cover, right? But now this family has this property family has this property that you see these guys here. If you're looking at E 1 / N, this thing here is contained in E 1 / N + one. Right? If this number here is smaller, then it means that this set here is larger. Right? So you have this. And so you see that if finitely many if a here was contained in finitely many of these guys here. If it was containing a union of finally many then you just take the one of these ni that is the largest right. So this means that a here would be contained in some one over of some n some for some i right because there's one of these numbers these nis that would be the largest right but this means that this means now that a right that there is some lower bound for the distance to x in A right it doesn't there's no elements that is so this means that that this means that there exist there does not exist let me say for all for all y in a then the distance here from y to x is strictly bigger than one over this n I right this is just some fixed number right this is obviously you know right but this means that you can't have a sequence in a that is converging to x right because they they all stay away from from x right they stay a certain positive distance away from from x so this means And so this is the desired contradiction. Therefore there is no sequence no sequence except that converts to X and the XN RNA. But that's what we assumed in the beginning, right? We assume we just we wanted to check that whenever you have a sequence in in a n that is converging then the limit was also right. So so that was supposed to have been such a sequence. So that's a desired contradiction. So this prove this proof that if you take a compact metric space then if you take a a a metric space and if you take a compact subset the compact subset could of course be all of X that's fine. Um but if you take but I want to allow more generally that just to say that just having a subset that is compact this means that it's bounded and closed. If you are in Rn so you have a theorem and we'll talk about that next time also that there's a theorem that say the converse is the case but that is not actually that does not generalize to metric spaces. So it's a theorem here. Well, I mean it does generalize but not like this. It's not that this particular statement is does not hold. So uh so in Rn with the usual metric say the usual ukidian metric if you will you can just think about R. If a here is comp is closed and bounded then a is is compact. Okay. uh and uh I wanted to talk about an example but I don't think I I have enough time to uh to to actually talk about that. Let's talk about this. Return to this next time uh because we only have four minutes left. uh and and um and so instead let's prove a theorem here that if we take the theorem if you have a metric space a here is a subset of x is compact Suppose that C here is a subset of A and C here is right. So this is of course in X. So C is also a subset of X and C is closed. Then the claim is that then C is also compact. Right? And we have three minutes and we don't need three minutes because it's actually very quick. Um and so the thing is so proof of this so C here is assumed to be uh closed. So so this means that since C is closed this means that the complement of C is open. Right? So now uh so now let's let u that o alpha be a copper of c then we can so o alpha is a copper of c and now you can add the complement of c to it. So if you're looking at C, so C here is now of course uh you C here. So in fact a here you can think about a as so a is clearly contained in c uh union with the complement of c and so this means that a here the o alpha cover c. So this is contained in a union of O alpha union with this last set right. These guys are assumed to be open. This here is open because c is closed. So this means that you have now a is contained in this is an open cover of a. So this means that finitely many of these right. So this means that A is contained in like O1 union up to some O N. And then quite possibly you would also need this one here. But now you see but C here is contained in here. So this means that C is contained in this. This here was not part of the cover. But it's not needed if you just want to cover C because none of these elements cover anything in C. Right? So this implies that C actually must be contained in O1 union up to O N because this here does not cover anything in C. So this proved right that C there was a finite subco that cover C.