Okay, Tar has just joined us, I believe. >> Hey, everyone. >> Hey, TK. Well, welcome. Uh and just as a a brief introduction, um I'm really very proud to introduce Tar Mansour to everyone. uh he graduated from MIT about six years ago or seven years ago and he was actually in this class and so uh we're really very pleased that he has come as a guest lecturer and his background he left when he left MIT he joined really the giants of Wall Street um Goldman Sachs, Citadel and Bridgewwater. daughter. I'm sure most of you are very familiar with those names. And three years ago, he uh started Khi with uh Luana Lopez Laura uh another MIT student uh and I think it's been a phenomenal success especially in the last month. So let me hand it over to Tar to share his experiences and details on Kelshi. >> Well yeah well first of all thanks for having me Peter um you know really really excited to be back in the class. I know the one I did last year um and I think I did the year before that um and uh maybe I'll talk a little about background uh uh you know sort of leading time. So, the way I'm thinking about doing this is just I'll talk a little about the story of Cali, how we decide to do it, what is the long-term vision, what we're trying to achieve. Um, and then we'll do a little bit of Q&A. Um, uh, and then basically we see how it goes from there. >> Excuse me, T. Just a quick question. Um, your your video isn't uh on for us. I don't know if you can turn it on. That would be great. >> It should be on, but let me check. It's on for me, so it's on on Zoom. So, let me check. Let me double check. One sec. Oh, that's great. We can see you now. >> Oh, great. Great. Sorry about that. I think I'm in a little bit of a unstable uh uh unstable Wi-Fi. Um so, yeah, I mean I I um maybe I'll talk a little bit about my my background. I I really like going back to to to this class because a lot of sort of the interest um in financial markets and math um I think stem from the class. So I I was born in California. I grew up in Lebanon. I think one of the things that I basically really enjoyed doing in in in middle middle school and high school is I I actually really love math. I I really really like math and um I think felt like MIT was the right place to go. Um if for someone who basically really loves math and and so got into MIT and the thing I realized is the best application of math is is finance. Um so started working in in a number of um whether it was like sell side or buy side. So so banks like Goldman Sachs, I worked at Citadel, I worked at small prop a few small prop shops. Um and then the thing I realized is like I would say like I realized two things. I mean one I like trading. I really like enjoy trading but I I I I realized I prefer sort of building more. I I I like I like the sort of notion of building new products, building something new that is sort of tangible and two um when I was at Goldman I mean I think a lot of the things um that we've sort of seen is that like you know financial instruments do get developed over time they take a long period of time but there is a lot of opportunities to basically develop new things and there's always needs for a lot of new things. One example in 2016 is that a lot of people were actually trying to get a hedge or an exposure to Brexit um and they didn't really there weren't really like the right instruments for that. People use traditional financial instruments like stocks and options and others to get that sort of binary exposure that people were looking for. U and um it was just not perfect. it was not as it was was a proxy was indirect and and it was super expensive um because it was what we call over the counter OTC traded um and so what we thought you know and it was kind of really early at the time like well what if we have a financial market so we have a financial market for equities so that prices equities one that prices credit like bonds and so on one that prices commodities and we have financial markets for currencies what if we had a financial market that prices basically any question about the future any event that is in the horizon that that is meaningful economically or socially or culturally. And I think the the thing that became very apparent is one if if such a market were to exist, it could it has the potential to be the biggest financial market of all. Um mostly because it's just broader than anything else that came before it. And two, um there were a lot of regulatory issues with that with that type of market. Basically, historically, US has made these uh illegal or unregulated. They haven't let anyone do it. And you know, at the time, we were very naive. Um we we thought, well, that sounds like a problem we could solve. Um and uh we just got into it. So, we decided to start a company. Uh I didn't go back to Citadel and and uh um and so we just decided to start Koshi. And the premise is really like it's like you know how about what if we build sort of the first large scale operation market and we want to do it as a financial exchange a regulated financial exchange. Um so that this can become an asset class that's traded one day by the large hedge funds and institutions and and brokers and so on and so forth. Um and you know when we first started it was it was tough. So I think that the the the the the well well any company is really tough to start but I think this was particularly tough because like we it was kind of funny story was like we called pretty much every single securities derivatives lawyer in the country and asked them like hey we're trying to do this like what what you know can you help us um and the answer was basically like everybody sort of like the range was like either being laughed out of the room all the way to sort of like hey this is this is just not going to work like the the CFTC and the regulators just like never wanted to do anything like this. And the reason we kind of kept going is because none of the answers are actually intellectually satisfying. Like there wasn't a kind of a clear answer like okay why they're like well because of you know there's they could be manipulated like okay but like that's solvable same it was solve with the stock market. Um and then the other one is like well it could be gambling. I was like, well, why is it gambling and you know something like uh you know a grain futures not I mean you know some people are specking on on grain futures and sure some people are hedging on great future but it's the same thing for Brexit like a lot of people are exposed to Brexit and um we kept going we basically got the company uh regulated uh we took three years so we took two years and a half to three to basically get it reg regulated and we basically launched the first legal exchange or legal prediction market in the US after that um it took us a very long time was it was very long journey. Uh but we got the exchange, we got the clearing house. Uh well, we got the exchange at the time and we got up and running. Um and you know um I think Peter has seen the sort of journey of the company. Um we um we we started running and then we we we grew a lot and then we had a bunch of sort of like I would say like issues and and and um and and infighting between us and the federal government, the CFTC uh especially this kind of prior administration which was kind of really tough on financial financial services and financial innovation. Um and the big thing that happened is they didn't let us list the election market uh which we always believe is kind of one of the biggest markets uh of all basically we uh it was a you know we took a very long time to make that decision. It was very tough one uh but we ended up suing the federal government. So we were really one of those sort of first you know uh I would say examples of a of a of a regulated company suing its own regulator. Um is very tough and painful decision to make at the time. Obviously it was the right one now. uh looking at looking back in retrospect um and we won earlier this fall and and so that win was actually the first time in a hundred years that you can actually trade legally on the election in the US and that opens up a lot of opportunities beyond the election. Uh because what the lawsuit was about is like you know it's really expanding the universe of of things that are considered financial instruments now. Um, and so where Kashi is at now, um, you know, we've grown a lot over the last few years, but definitely the last month. Um, we have, um, um, we've done over a billion of volume in the last in the last month alone. And, um, uh, you know, now kind of as we think about our future expansion plans, um, we're getting into a number of different categories. Um, you know, financial services, like just just basically like financial markets, sports. We want to basically have a market for every single piece of news that's out there in the world. And uh we want to over time what we're doing is like we're integrating some of the large brokerages where we're going to have um um you know people can come to cash.com to trade the asset but also if you want to trade the asset from your own brokerage account like 041k in your stocks you'll be able to do that on Schwab, Robin Hood, Fidelity and so on. um we'll talk a little bit about sort of um you know kind of finishing the narrative of arc and then I'll talk some of sort of personal stuff going from being a student to starting a company and so on but one of the things that um you know was interesting throughout the journey is uh a lot of what it basically ends up taking is is just perseverance um uh around um uh basically perseverance towards the goal that you're trying to achieve. Um, we, you know, you know, I mentioned in the beginning that we were naive when we first started and in retrospect, I think that was actually one of the best things that or I'd say one of the best tools that we had actually being naive. Uh, because a lot of the people that like if if we knew how hard it would be, we probably just wouldn't have done it. Um, and there's something to be said about, you know, when you climb a mountain, people tell you um just look at the next step, one step at a time. uh don't look at the at the summit just because you know when you look at summit you get tired. Um and I think there's a lot to be said. I think this applies to pretty much anything meaningful in life. I think just doing anything meaningful basically requires a lot of perseverance. Um the company has raised um u more than $100 million from a few investors. Sequoia um KKR Schwab itself uh YC and a bunch of others in Silicon Valley. Um, and um, I think that's about it. I think I covered most things. Um, Peter, I was thinking we could do a little bit of Q&A and then we can sort of orient the conversation some of the places that the students want to hear about. >> Yes. Great. Thank you, T. And let's see, with questions just uh, so Tar can hear you, we'll hand you a microphone or we'll pass a microphone to you. >> One, two. >> Okay. I don't know where you can see me from. Um this so yeah this is um like really fascinating. I I I um I'm just I have a question which is like what what is the difference between like this and like a betting market? Like um to me it sounds like the same like you're you're betting on an event. Um because surely like if someone wanted to hedge against Brexit, they could just go onto a bet betting market and bet you know a certain quantity of money on on whether Brexit happens. Um, a few things. So, there's a lot of similarities. I mean, and I would say there's a lot of similarities between betting markets and just any traditional financial market. There's a lot of people that like are speculating or betting or gambling on a lot really a lot of markets including crypto and stocks and really anything. But I think like it's it's a bit more of a structural difference. Like first of all, this is an exchange. People are trading against each other. We're not there's no book there's no bookie. There's no concept of bookie. And actually any institution that wants to hedge against Brexit would never do it in a vetting market. Um just because you know the prices are set by the bookie. Uh they would do it probably with an investment bank which is what they're doing right now. Uh but the prices are kind of bad at the investment bank. It's like over the counter you know you negotiate bilaterally with the investment bank instead of just basically doing it on on exchange where like there's other people that are independently pricing the events uh uh so that you can basically know what the right price is to basically make the transaction at. Um I I I think like there are a lot of similarities and frankly like I I I haven't you know we we don't really discern them quite quite much. I I think like over time the two are converging and they're going to be end up being one and the same. Uh the fundamental difference I would say like from a regulatory or legal perspective but also like sort of like why is it the financial instrument is like are you trading on natural risks or are you trading on artificial risks? Right? Right. So, like when you go to casino and you roll a dice, um that's like a risk that you're creating for the purpose of entertainment. Whereas, you know, um Brexit, that's that's not a purpose of entertainment. That's a risk that exists that some people have and they're exposed to and they may want to basically transfer it to someone else and and so that's sort of the delineation of why this is a financial market and why um you know uh uh having it on a on a financial market is appropriate. Um but yeah, I mean I think the two main difference like it is an exchange like we have an order book people are trading it the same way as a stock market the same way they trade in a stock market and then two um it's it's it's risk that exists and so people can basically do what they want with that risk whether they want to get exposed to it more by speculating or they want to expose get exposed to it less by hedging. >> It's a great question. >> Thanks. Can I just ask a quick followup which is like is and this has just come to my mind so it may be a silly question but is there any like has there been any like arbitrage opportunities between like the betting markets and and this exchange? >> Yeah. I mean well well we're the only legal one in the US. So there there's kind of I mean in terms of there more there's more arbitrage between us and traditional financial assets. So with the election for example, people were arbitrage like a lot of hedge funds were arbitrageing um the election market with um uh other assets like crypto or or like S&P and so on and that we see we see a lot of that. >> Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. That's fascinating. Thank you. I think Stephen, I don't know if you can give him uh I don't know if you can unmute yourself or >> question. >> Can you hear me? >> Yep. Yep. >> Yeah. Um I'm also like interested in careers in in trading as well and I find it fascinating as well. So it's good to hear that you were um interested in that um and did that as a career. I was just wondering how did your experiences working um in trading kind of help you to um or if if those skills helped you with um like what you pursued at Pulse or >> um I I would say like um maybe like a few things. So, so, so one, I mean, it's always good to get firsthand exposure into how things are done in a market that you're you're like trying to be trying to to to disrupt. It's like good like you have to have a reasonably good understanding of how things work. And the thing I'd say is like it's interesting like if you stay in an industry for too long, it actually gets a bit harder to disrupt it. you get too conditioned for to how things are done and and uh you you maybe you get maybe you it gets harder for you to become to to have any degree of of diabete which I so I think it's not a very good thing but I think some degree of experience is good so that you have b like based on understanding of what your end customer how your end customer basically thinks about the world and how they use different products and adopt them. Um, the second thing I think is I would say I learned a lot from the from the Citadel culture. Maybe less from Goldman and some of the others, but Citadel u I really enjoyed working at Citadel. Um, I I really like a lot of the aspects of the culture and the way that things are done. And I would say like it it was interesting because I think had sort of this like ultimate version of um um let's call it like sort of like performance-driven culture but but but and what I mean by that is like it's a full meritocracy is very little sort of like management layers even if you're young they will give you a lot of ability to sort of take risks and and do big things. Um, and they're uniquely fit to do that because in trading that something that's very unique to trading is that you you have a P&L. It's undeniable whether you're doing well versus not. Uh, you know, if you make money, you're doing well. If you're not, you're not. Uh, whereas in a lot of like in tech and others like there's a lot of politics like you know, the boss likes you versus not. I mean, there's just like a lot lot of noise and and I think we try to kind of bring that to to to the culture of the company as much as we can. We're very flat as a company. like we have a lot of people, you know, they're a few years out of college, a lot of them are from MIT, you know, they're they're running huge huge chunks of the company already and with teams and so on. Um, and and and just because like, you know, for us it's very similar like if you do well, you basically grow extremely fast within a few months of the company and if not then um and and so and that comes a bit from the trading culture, I would say. >> Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. Thank you. Uh I can feel in a question. Uh hey, good to see you back in the class. >> Um >> good seeing you. >> Good to see you. So uh can you talk a little bit about uh your margin requirement and also maybe uh central clearing I guess uh you know you have two parties right taking the opposite side of a contract. I mean the payout let's say is 100%. They they may have paid you know a percentage of that total payout. When the market moves do you require them to post a variation margin or how do you how do you monitor that? >> Yeah. So we we are fully cash collarized right now. So what it means like people put the money up front for their positions um and then we basically mark to market every day. Actually mark to market on a real-time basis. So we we we do it real time. Um we are going to introduce leverage next year I think and that's going to be pretty interesting. We're thinking about you know kind of our margin model is going to be um and maybe for the class to explain. So so in a lot of financial markets you what what people consider kind of margin or leverage is like when you buy when hedge funds basically buy let's say you know um an interest rate future or like S&P future uh let's say they want to buy like a million dollar worth of S&P future. They don't put up a million dollars with the clearing house and the exchange. They put up, let's say, $100,000 or $10,000, which would be 10% 1% margin. And then as the thing moves over time, you know, the clearing house asks you to, you know, if you if you made a little bit of money, the clearing house pays you. And if you lost, the clearing house asks you to put up a bit more margin to cover your losses. And it goes like that over time. Uh, Gaus is a simpler model where like we actually ask for 100% upfront. We tell everyone like, "Hey, give us all the money up front so that there's no risk in the system." And you're always sure that anything you lose is like what you lose up front, like what you put up front. You cannot lose more than that. Um, over time, we're going to start introducing leverage, which is like we don't take 100% up front. Um, and that's what Jake was asking about. And I think it's a complicated that's a complicated thing because regulators are becoming very strict about how we do this and we have to be very we need to make sure that nothing like 20 2008 can happen again. Um and so there's a lot of like requirements around how this needs to be done. Um and uh um you know so we expect to basically increase maybe margin like end of next year potentially um uh and you know we'll see how that goes. We do have some products where for example if there's a lot of strong correlation between two products we return some collateral to the participant um and we've already started doing some of that. Um but you know over time we'll do more and more. Yes it's a great question. Yeah. So I I have a question on like kind of how the projections for the company have changed since the election. Like I assume there's a lot more volume going through Koshi during that election period. Have you guys been able to retain a lot of that trading volume or did you see a huge falloff and like how did just the election general change where you see the company going? >> Yeah, I mean I think I think it's like the election. So, it's obviously it's super huge, but it's interesting because our volume right now is actually higher than it was um in the days leading up to the election. So, and I think that's how exchanges work like once you kind of acquire a lot of like acquire and on board and open accounts for customers, they kind of retain they stick they do other products. Now, we're seeing a lot of uptake in crypto um we're seeing a lot of optics in our economics product. We're seeing uptake on a lot of the politics like who's going to be in the cabinet, who's gonna there's kind of all these questions about like what what's government going to look like in the next year. Um and then you have a lot of like you know crazy categories like weather people like come and are very active on sort of daily weather markets and then entertainment markets and so on. So we see a lot of opportunities across all these categories. Um and uh yeah I mean I don't think like so you know it's not going to be the same levels that what we've seen in the kind of two days leading up to the election but I think we're we're we're you know at a much higher level than what we were prior to the election. Now it was a huge think of it as like a huge marketing marketing moment for the company. Um and sort of and that enabled sort of the product to go mainstream. It's >> yeah good to see you. Yeah. Um >> seeing you. >> Yeah. Um a a question. So uh can you uh reveal how what's the percentage between institutional clients and and individuals uh on culture at the moment >> right now I say the breakdown of volume is like 30 40% institutional uh and the rest is retail um um and I expect it to basically go towards 50/50 um over time um it's interesting like institutions do a lot more volume But you can charge them less whereas retail like you know individual customers they do less volume but they can be charged much more and you know historically you know people have seen the business model of being kind of institutional first like the large exchanges like you know NASDAQ or CME they're mostly institutional um uh but I think it was kind of a strategic mistake and I think they're waking up to it. They're realizing like, oh god, like people on Reddit and Twitter and and average people now hold a lot of the power, right? Like, you know, they can decide that a company like Nvidia is going to be worth, you know, a few trillion dollars like and and and that wasn't possible before. Like people are richer now. People are more involved in the financial market. Um, and they're less price sensitive. And so you see companies like Coinbase are doing incredibly well. And yes, they have much less like Coinbase volume on a yearly basis is around like I think like 50 to 60 billion. Um, CME's volume is like a quadrillion, right? Like it's like not even comparable. Um, but Coinbase charges a lot more, right? They they charge you a lot more per per dollar traded. Um, and and I think we see that same balance and and I think that the you know, it's interesting like the thing that we see and I see this trend sort of continuing in the next few years, especially with the Trump administration. um like there's a very strong appetite for new like new financial markets and new media like there's a lot of distrust in the system both in the sort of Wall Street and financial markets but also media people just don't don't really believe the kind of pundits and traditional social authorities and and I think like prediction markets are very uniquely suited to be at the intersection of both and that's a fun like that's a like that's a retail first market. It's like a retail first and then the institutions follow rather than institution first and then figure out how to get the retail to adopt essentially. Um and and we're seeing that. We're seeing that. >> Right. Very interesting. Thank you, >> Stephen. Yeah. I had a question about because you said that you were trying to also get into sports as well, right? Uh, so I was wondering if you like plan on offering like or similar things to like other sports books and stuff like traditional bets like money lines and and stuff like that or would it be more of like the more more like a broader prediction type sports bets? >> We um um that's a good question. Uh both basically is the way I put it. Uh I I you know I think uh both um you know the the the prediction stuff is the one that's more interesting because that's the one that like people and news thinks about like what are some of the kind of big things that are going to happen in the next few few few months or years and then the money line is just like very retentive like people come back and they do it over and over and then they engage with the product meaningfully in a very consistent way. So I think that yeah I think that the answer is both. We have some regulatory work to do on that front, but the the next administration is gonna be very favorable. I mean, Trump himself has been coding our markets a lot. He loves the market. He loves the company. He's I think it's gonna see a big shift from, you know, um an administration that was somewhat anti- financial innovation to admission is going to be very very pro financial innovation and prediction market specifically. >> Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. >> So, Tar, I feeling another question. Uh I don't know if you can talk about the revenue of the company. Is the company profitable so far or the revenue model is from a commission model just to kind of give students some idea how uh why you know the investors are interested in owning the company. >> Um the company can be profitable if you want to but uh we don't right now. Um and you know it's you know often times it's a little bit of a counterintuitive thing but I think you know increasing the like growth at this stage is more important than profitability in a lot of cases. Um and because and the reason why exchanges like exchanges are very popular businesses. They're very hard to set up. It's unbelievably hard to get an exchange up and running. It's just really really difficult. But when it's up and running and you have liquidity it's actually one of the best form of businesses. It's some of the most profitable businesses are exchanges actually. Um uh and so right now the strategy is basically like hardcore expansion just grow grow go mainstream get people used to the asset. um we're making revenue but it's just like we're reinvesting it all into marketing and growth and then over time we're basically like you know as we deserve taper taper and as we get to even larger scale basically like you know turn on the the profit machine and the source of revenue it's interesting like we make money on um uh on tra trading fees like like CME or New York Stock Exchange you take you take a fee of every transaction like if you put $100 on cash we take one to $2 and then uh on market making so we have a separate arm it's a bit like Citadel market making on this product and they're already kind the one of the prime market makers. They have competition so they compete a lot against SIG which was one of our major partners and then there's a few other uh prop shops or like market making like like a hedge fund in the in the the firm and then three over time right now we make it all free and open source but the data is very valuable. We have a lot of very valuable data about like trends and where where the word is going um and and and and there's a lot of demand to kind of like get the data but for now we're just like making it open source. Anyone can use it. Anyone can make use of it over time. We can basically capture value at that as well. Just a follow up on that. Uh you know you mentioned Citadel SIG those market makers. Uh how do you incentivize them to uh you know come to uh Koshi and uh are there any requirements of how tight the bid offer the spread they need to make um when they make market on certain contracts? >> Yeah. So no there definitely requirements. So, so you know, I'll give you an example. In the election market, there had to be one cent spread with a million dollar on each side, uh, at least. Um, and it was funny because Jeff Yas, the founder of SIG, actually texted Elon and asked him if he wanted to do a $100 million trade on Koshi uh during the the election, but then Elon was too concerned of conflict of interest and uh, and a bunch of things, but and they could have done it with one cent. So, the spreads were very very tight. I'm saying this because like they could have done they could do up to $100 million within like one cent slippage uh which was which is really awesome and so yes there are requirements around spread and and and u and and depth. I think the way we think about like the ecosystem needs to be or the way that it's structured um um um uh you know you give some incentives at the beginning of market so that after that you basically let let it do and their incentives basically they they're getting flow they're trading against a bunch of other people and then they hope to make money market making and doing like getting better ass spread essentially and so that's a sort of like it I would say like the structure and it's pretty common structure in in in in the traditional markets I think your question is good Because the stock exchanges, they do a lot of incentive because stocks, there's a lot of stock markets. There's like a lot of stock exchanges. They're very competitive with each other because of the way that the SEC has set up rules. In the CMC world, there's not a lot of competition. It's actually very monopolistic in nature. Like each one has their like CME has interest rate swaps and and S&P. ICE has all the energy stuff. And I think we may be able I think looks like we're going to be able to dominate anything that's event related over time. Uh, so um I'm just intrigued as to how you've gone from like just like working in like um a company like Citadel or Goldman to just having this idea of this um exchange and like actually just being able to make it because to me it seems like even if I had like an idea of like oh this would be a great thing to turn in into an exchange like just the idea of actually making that happen seemed really um like hard to achieve. So, like how from like like from the idea to actually like getting it into a reasonable um like uh product, how did how did you like what did you have to do? Did you just like have to literally start emailing people in the industry and then start like working your way up? How did that work? >> Yeah. >> So, yes. Yes. That's it. I mean, that's literally it. like I there's one of the um I I'll say a few things about this and because I thought about this a lot. So, um, it was a tough decision to leave Citadel like when I and I I don't I think Peter you and I had a conversation about this as well. Like I I think at the time like we um you know Citadel pays a lot of money, you know, like like even as a first-time it's like crazy and and so like you know I didn't come from a very privileged background. So like I remember I had a conversation with my parents like like hey I wanted to start this company like oh what is it about? I was like oh this thing called prediction. viously they had no idea, you know, what what what I was talking about and I was like, "Yeah, yeah, I mean, there's another problem." So, it's like illegal in the US now. And and you know, and I want to do this and and they're like, "Okay." And and so like you have to leave your job. I was like, "Yeah." And then they obviously got inflamed. They were like, "Well, what are you talking about? Like these guys are paying all this money. Like what doesn't make any sense?" And and I think like the thing that pushed us to do it is like I I think I kind of like, you know, some people make decisions based on regret minimization. It's like in 10 years, what part would I regret mo most? And I just thought I would regret if I hadn't done it. I just thought like I would be very regretful if I didn't do this or at least try or give it a shot. And so I I I just had to do it. And then I really like the idea. I just like really love like I love the idea of basically creating a market where you can price anything and making the world just smarter about the future. Um so then like okay like what did we actually do? uh the the simplest way to describe like like what it takes to build a company. So, so Mark Anderson has this code, I forgot if it's Mark Anderson or Ben Harwoods, one of the 286C guys, um, about how like when he talks about to a lot of CEOs, he basically has this kind of whole thing about like all the, you know, the the the pretty like the good CEOs usually respond with like, okay, like when he asked them, "How did you do it?" They say, you know, it was like a great strategy, uh, you know, great sort of execution, we had all these great decisions, blah blah blah blah blah. And then he says, "The absolute great CEOs um usually their answer is um is we didn't give up. We just we just pushed harder than anyone else." And and I I think there's a lot of truth to that. I I really do. Like because like when you're young, like people say, "Well, when you're young, you have to wait and get experience to build a company." And there's pros and cons to both. When you're too experienced, I think it's harder to be to be a little crazier and do like bolder, crazier ideas. Uh but when you're younger, you kind of don't know much about anything really. Like you don't know how to manage people. you don't know how to uh you know raise money. you don't do any and you just have to stumble like you just have to kind of like run and and fall and then stand back and run and fall again and stand back and then you do it enough times then you get used to falling and then getting used to falling is actually one of the best superpowers you can ever have literally like I think the the capacity to kind of fall and stand back up I think is the single best determinant of the entrepreneurs that go furthest really and and you can look at it even you don't need to look at small private companies like or big private companies you can look at public like massive large companies like you know just look at the stock price of Meta and Tesla and see how it goes. It's never it's just not straight to the right. It's you know goes to the for a few years then goes back up and then it it repeats and and every cycle it goes higher than the prior cycle and they keep going. So, so I I think that's really what it is. And I I you know kind of when I think about sort of my younger self like what is the type of advice I would give you know I I think take more risks and this one of the things I learned a lot from my co-founder Lana like she's always she's always been risk loving. She never really really worried about much. I I was more of like a person that would think about optimizing my career and what's the highest expected value path and like you know how how and what I learned over time from the company from earlier is like actually you just need to take more risks just taking risks is a very good is a is a very good way to live a life because like what's the worst case you fail and then you do it again um and um I I would say number two is like um pick something and just stick with it like just try to pick something. If you don't know what it is yet, that's okay. Like, take a few years to figure that out. But once you feel like you really like and enjoy working on something, you just pick pick something and just stick with it. Like, just go for it and, you know, have conviction. Um, and usually the results the results end up being pretty positive. It's a very very tough road. I mean, Professor Gaming can tell you about all a lot of the stuff we had to go through to get here. It's a very tough road, but if you have conviction, you're excited about what you're working on, I think you can get very very far. >> That's great. So, did did you ever set in your mind like um essentially like a stop loss where you thought like right well if this person like you know I've asked I've asked this many people if this person says no maybe it's not actually possible or did you just never have that in your mind you just kept going >> you know what I' what I've learned um not really basically I mean like definitely not like a people driven thing like like what I've learned is like also a lot is like don't don't really listen to authority figures. Like you'd be surprised by the extent to which like people just don't really know what they're doing. And and by people I mean like not like average I'm talking like like the president of the United States like the the the Supreme Court judge, the you know Elon Musk, like like Mark Zuckerberg, like people don't really know what they're doing really like everyone is figuring it out on the fly. And it's interesting because like if anyone had the answer of whether something is going to be a multi-billion dollar company, sorry about the noise by the way. Um if anyone had the answer of if anything was going to be a multi-billion dollar company, they would just do it like why like you know why why didn't they just do it? So so in a lot of cases like you cannot really get the answer from outside. Like it's it's interesting like you really can't you just have to have it have it inside you and you may be wrong. That's a risk. You may be wrong and you may fail and it might suck but that's a risk that you're taking and um um but it has to come from within you. It's like do you have a conviction in this thing and do you believe it it can work one day and if you do then you know go for it. >> That's amazing. Thank you so much. >> So Tar, if I could just chime in there. I think what uh Tar um has is passion, um persistence and energy and you know knowing how hard he worked and how inspiring he was um that inspiration you know led to significant investments from top people in finance and so you know I think it's you know a testament to those characteristic He mentioned also um it's a great uh benefit to have a good partner and Lana Lopez Laura really I think is a great uh partner with Tar and they've uh helped each other achieve this. though. >> Yeah. No, I really appreciate I mean maybe like my last few kind of parting words unless there's any other questions. I mean I think like um you know kind of I was still at MIT and I don't know how many of you are sophomores, freshman, juniors, seniors. But here's all the stuff I would tell myself if I was still at MIT. Like um I would take more classes like Peter's class and less classes that are sort of purely theoretical and like far removed from from practical many practical things. Um I would probably study a little less and have a little bit more fun. Um, and I would worry a little bit less about the opt optimal career paths and just sort of explore what interests me more. Um, it's it's crazy the extent to which a lot of these things matter, much less than you think. And um uh uh and a lot of life is just actually trying things out and seeing what works and just making sure you're excited about the things that you're working on. Um, but yeah, if you guys have any questions, reach reach me. Just please don't share the email, but it's tarcy.com. my first name at the name of the company.com. Um, happy to help in any way, shape or form. Um, but yeah, you know, congrats to to you guys making it to MIT and hopefully get out of MIT. Um, and really excited to to be here. Thank you for having me. >> T, before you go, I have to ask you this question. Uh, what was the most memorable thing you learned from this class when you took it? And do you recall anything, you know, interesting you heard from this class? advice to the students. Yeah, >> I I I I think I think there was like I really like that every mathematical concept had an application towards finance and and I think there was like a very probable thing essentially like it was a very very probable thing was like okay well you know you kind of learning this mathematical concept it's pretty cool in of itself but then when you apply it to finance you see there's likeual real practicalities to the whole thing um and um I think that stuck with me like I I that that because a lot of the other classes I was taking was basically mostly pure math or like you know kind of very removed from industry whereas here like I remember one of the projects we had to do was um there was this paper we had to write u um and I think the one I wrote it's been a while it's been like I don't know now like six years seven years but the paper I had to write was um we were running some form of regression it's kind of complicated form of regression on on Now I remember I wrote a paper that was trying to kind of use reinforcement learning to predict the stock market. Um and it was like I think our final paper of the class and that was pretty hard. I I don't think our model worked as you would expect. Uh but it was really interesting just trying like I think that was very useful after when I got went into trading like you know people would be talking about like markup chains and like how they wanted to apply them at Citadel and I kind of had already done that in the past and and had already applied them and when I used it at Citadel you know um the P like holy this guy's a genius I'm like you don't know anything like that people do this every day you know um and that was the next MIT guy by the way who's now you should Google him John Termas he's one of the most successful portfolio managers on on on Wall Street um you know like one he's he's a G like totally this this desk is one of the best performing desks at Citadel um the reports is that apparently they made $2 billion in 2022 alone and they've been making more since then and then they were impressed by some of the stuff that I learned in this class that I was applying on the desk so um and I think this goes to kind of the broader thing that I was I was mentioning like I think it's just good to be practical just just very good to be practical like get very very smart but also be practical because a lot of the world is and you see it left like like the people that have run the largest company, even the largest hedge funds are not exactly the smartest. Maybe Jim Simons is like an exception, but they're not exactly the smartest. LTCM blew up and those were the smartest guys. Um, you know, um, a lot of the others like Steve Cohen and and some of the others, they're pretty smart, but they're more well-rounded. They're just more much more wellrounded than just being the best at math. and and and I think there's a lot of learning to that. >> Great. Thank you. >> Well, great. Well, thanks thanks so much for having me everyone and hopefully we'll catch up soon. >> Great. Thank you very much, TK. >> Thank you. But um but I think his his comments about um basically having passion and persistence and energy you know you can really achieve many things and achieve your dreams. So uh I do want to you know encourage you all to you know take stock of that. Um and just as a general comment about my career, um I started off in academics and then found consulting projects to be very stimulating and engaging and I decided to leave academics and start my own company and ended up uh starting a couple of hedge funds and then doing investment management for 20 years. Um then uh 10 years ago I uh had the opportunity to come back to MIT and teach and I've been savoring that uh experience as well. So um don't be afraid of changes in your life and you know changing your paths and uh you know taking risks you know leads to great opportunities. So hopefully you'll all benefit uh from that kind of uh perspective. All right.