We're going to continue our discussion today of Medicare. Remember, we're talking about the fact that Medicare's costs rose very rapidly and the government was trying to find ways to control them in the early 1980s and they took two routes. One route was to stay within the existing Medicare structure but to move towards a prospective reimbursement system which as we said worked somewhat but only partially because of the hazards of partial reform. The other approach was to actually lean into managed care as a tool of Medicare. This is the elusive Medicare part C which [snorts] is now called Medicare advantage. It's had many various names along the way. The basic idea was to say that enrolles instead of signing up for Medicare would sign up for a Medicare HMO, what's called now Medicare Advantage plan. The way that works is you as the enroy agree that you will get your healthcare delivered by this Medicare HMO. Say they're it's they're run by folks like Etna, Human, etc. big insurance companies. [snorts] Uh including any limitations on their doctor networks. Okay, so it's an HMO. In return uh the HMO gets a fixed reimbursement from the government. It's a capitated arrangement. The government pays the HMO a fixed amount which depends on your age initially uh dependent on your age. So you know 75 year olds the government paid more than 65 year olds. Um and uh in and what you what do you get? So what does the government get? The government sheds the risk. The government says I'm going to pay a fixed amount and this managed care is going to bear the risk. I'm out of the business. For enrolles, there's a trade-off. On the one hand, you have a limited doctor network. On the other hand, these Medicare Advantage plans typically cover all the cost sharing that's in that's in Medicare. Remember last time, if you look back at table um if you look back at table uh 162, you see Medicare has a lot of cost sharing. in particular the uncapped doctor co- insurance that all goes away under Medicare advantage. So the idea is you basically save a lot in out-of- pocket costs in return for a more restrictive doctor network and more basically management of your care. So couple of things I want to talk about this. The first is well first of all what was the effect of this on enrolles? There's now been a number of studies including by myself. Um, and the bottom line is that Medicare Advantage appears to deliver much less costly care to deliver much less expensive care than does traditional Medicare free for service, which is what we'd expect from the managed care evidence. In other words, the what we talked about managed care, which is managed care saves money uh is true as well for Medicare Advantage. It seems to save money without a significant without a meaningful effect on patient outcomes. That is once again Medicare was operating the flat of the curve and so we move people to these Medicare advantage plans. They are able to operate more efficiently to lower costs without uh without uh worsening outcomes. Now worsening outcomes, let me be clear along the dimensions we care about most like things like mortality and hospitalizations. They may make life less pleasant. You have to shop around for a doctor. Your weight times could be longer. People [\h__\h] about them constantly. But the bottom line is in terms of the outcomes we care most about, things like mortality, they appear to be no worse and they save money. The interesting question here is how much should the government pay them? I said the government was just going to pay them a fixed amount. Well, how do you set that amount? Well, the government said we've got a good idea. We want to save money. That's the whole idea we set these things up. We will pay them 95% of what their enroll of what a typical Medicare enrolly would cost of that age. Okay. So, if you get a 70-y old, we'll give you the average cost to 75 year olds on Medicare. We'll pay you 5% less. And woohoo, the government makes money. Except it doesn't. In fact, the government lost massive amounts of money. Why? Why did the government lose money by setting up this new program people could enroll in and paying 5% less than the average cost of people on Medicare? Yeah. the average cost. >> Yeah, because the people who signed up are who who's going to sign up for a program that limits the number of doctors? The healthiest people and the government paid the average. We can see this illustrated. An example is in figure 164. So imagine there's three types of people, okay? People who cost on average a,000, 2,000, and 3,000. Imagine there's a hundred of each of these people in a group. And imagine that they're all on traditional Medicare. Then on average the government spends $2,000. This is the lefth hand column of figure 164. On average the government spends $2,000 and total costs are $600,000. Now the government says we're going to introduce Medicare Advantage and we're going to pay the Medicare Advantage plan 95% of what the average person costs on Medicare. Well, the a what what happens when you do that? Well, the cheapest people 30% of them move over because the healthiest people like these plans. Let's assume the middle in the middle people 15% move over and none of the six people move over. What's the new average cost of Medicare? It's 2118. So you pay the HMOs 95% of 2118. But what's it actually costing them? A ton less. It's actually cost them 1333 because they're get the health they're getting the healthiest enroles. So the government loses money. This is a classic example of how adverse selection plays out. The government thought it was saving money, but since it was paying on the average and only the healthiest signed up, it actually lost money. Okay. So, the government saw this and they said we even Yeah. >> Every year the average for that age. >> Okay. And that would be the average across both. >> No, only those in traditional Medicare. But that would also >> Yes, exactly. >> Is that which of those two effects? >> Uh the bigger effect is is just the fact the healthiest people are moving over um at least initially because this was still a minority of the population. So if you look at figure 163, you can see Medicare Advantage really started growing popularity. Then what happened? Well, in 1999, the government said, "Look, we're losing money on this. We know how to do that. We'll cut the 95% to 90%. that'll solve the problem. Well, to some extent it did slow the growth of Medicare managed care. You can see that number drop then into early 2000s. Did that mean the government saved money? No. What happened was in some parts of the country they could still make money at 90%. So those parts of the country the Medicare Advantage plan stayed. In other parts they couldn't make money anymore at 90% so they dropped out. that is the selection wasn't enough to offset the drop to 90%. Now, you might think, okay, well, that's all well and good. Clearly, you know, there's clearly, you know, we can't save money everyone for Medicare Advantage, but we still got, you know, it was something like, you know, 10%. That shouldn't be a one. That should be a 10. 10%. Um, uh, Valerie, could you send me an email reminding me to fix that? That's a there's a typo on figure 163. That should be a 10, not a one. So, 10% we're in. That's cool. The problem is people lost sight of the point of this program. The point of the program was to save Medicare money. People said, "Oh no, all these people aren't aren't able to access this new benefit. That's bad. We've got to raise what we pay them." So under the same bill that they include the Part D plan, they started paying Medicare Advantage plans 120%. Traditional Medicare. Now here, you don't need average selection. See, that's going to be money loser. when you average after average selection that's a huge money loser okay and what happened well enrollment took off okay because this was a massive money maker indeed for most of the major health insurance companies in America this became their major profit center okay under the Affordable Care Act this this graph ends early you know if you look at recent data this growth under the Affordable Care Act they cut that 120% but only down to about 105% %. Okay. Uh, so a church club is still making money. Medicare advantage still growing. At this point about half of all enrollies in Medicare are Medicare advantage. And now as Stephen said that could lead to this cost spiral in this calculation uh uh over time. So we've got a situation where in some sense we've gone away from the actual motivation for Medicare for managed care which was to save money towards a goal of actually having people in those managed care programs. And um uh that is good for many seniors because this gives seniors a chance to cover those high out-of- pocket costs in Medicare, but it just means the government's spending more money on a program where this originally designed to spend less. Okay. Now, what can we do about that? Well, one thing we can do about that is we can say, look, we don't know what the right number is. 95 90 we don't know what it is. Let's just go ahead and let competition between the plans determine what the right number is. That is basically we could say we're going to set a we're going to let's move to a full system what we call premium support. A premium support system be literally we just literally send you a brochure with your choices. Here's social Medicare. Here's a bunch of plans. Here's here's we're going to send you a check. It's like vouchers for schools. We're going to send you Medicare recipient a voucher. You can trade that in. If that covers the cost of your plan, then you then you might even get money back. If it covers it exactly, you get nothing. If it's more than the cost of plan, you get money back. If it's less, you pay in. So, the idea is to basically give people a certain amount and let them shop. Essentially, give people a certain amount and let them shop. So, how would a system like that work? Well, if you look at um uh oh, here you go. Yeah. Table 163. Okay. So, now imagine that you had a system with three plans. Okay. One cost 1,800 a person, one cost 2,000 a person, and one cost 22,500 a person. And let's say you gave every senior a voucher and you said, "Look, we're going to spend 2,000 a senior." And that amount, that amount can be anything. That's then pegged down by politics or something else. It's not a function of average cost anywhere. It's literally just say, "Here's the amount of money we want to spend in this program." So, it gives us cost. The government gets cost certainty. The government says, "We have a budget such that we can give every senior $2,000. Here's your $2,000 voucher. Go shop." Well, in this case, if you sign up for plan A, you get 200 bucks back from the managed care plan. You get 200 bucks. You get 200 bucks back. So then for plan C, you have to pay an extra 500. And you shop and then the government gets out of the business of figuring out what the right voucher is. The right voucher just turn what the government's budget wants to be. Okay? You just say this is how much you want to spend the program. Then you can say we could raise it by x% a year. The problem with that is it gets rid of this problem of sort of the base of the cost being itself determined by selection but doesn't get rid of selection. So what happens if you do that and then what happens and people sort themselves. So the healthiest people go in the cheap plan cheapest plan and the sickest people go in the most expensive plan. Well, then you could end up with a situation like the second panel where suddenly um after adverse selection, plan A is cheaper because it's getting the healthiest people. Plan C is more expensive because it's getting the sickest people. Plan B is about the same, maybe a little more expensive. Okay. What happens is, well then the healthiest save more and the sickest pay more. Now, this is not inherently a problem. from efficiency perspective. Okay. The problem here is equity which is that basically end up with a system where by allowing choice you screw the sick. They end up having to pay more because they get stuck in expensive plans. It could end up being a problem if you end up with what I described a few lectures ago of the death spiral. if it ends up being that the top plan becomes so expensive almost no one ends up in it. It becomes unaffordable. So there's two possible problems with adverse selection here. The first problem is literally the market could fail in the sense the most generous option could become unaffordable and could go out of business. That's an explicit market failure. That's an efficiency loss. We talked about that with death spirals. The second problem is just redistribution that you move to the system and now you're with given average selection you're essentially redistributing from the sick to the healthy and people don't people might find that unattractive. So more generally this ties to the fascinating issue of choice in the context of health mark health insurance markets. We think about choice in the context of goods markets. There is a common that has two big advantages, right? Why do we like choice in 1401? Because people can shop. So they can match their tastes and because it induces competition which brings which gets us the first fundamental theorem of welfare economics gets us to efficiency. In the context of health insurance there is two counterveiling problems that offset that. The first is adverse selection that shopping leads to these inefficient these potential market failures or at least redistribution from sick to healthy. That's the first problem. Okay. The second problem is that choosing health insurance plans is really [\h__\h] hard. Okay. Have anyone ever had to choose a health insurance plan from a range of menu for a menu of options? Couple of you. It's hard. It's really complicated. And in fact, I have a whole research agenda showing what a bad job people do choosing their health insurance plans in a variety of contexts. I mentioned this last time, research with Jason Abalock at Yale University. We showed that only about 12% of seniors choose the lowest cost plan available. We've shown in many, many contexts. It's a really hard decision because you've got to anticipate where your medical spending is going to be. If you know for sure you're going to spend nothing, then you should buy a low premium, high deductible plan. But if you know for sure you're going to spend a lot, you may want to buy a high premium, low deductible plan. But you don't know what you're going to spend and it's hard to figure that out. It's an incredibly complicated decision. So the trade-off with choice, we have the standard benefits of choice, which is it matches consumer sovereignty and it induces competition. But now we have these interesting trade-offs which is choice leads to adverse selection and choice can lead to confusion. Okay, the adverse selection, by the way, just a side note, there's two types of adverse selection here. We talked about the we talked about what you might call passive adverse selection. That's when people only sign up for the plan that's best for them. There's also active adverse selection, which is when plans do things to get the healthiest people. Okay, so there was the old saying was the first HMOs were third floor walk-ups. If you could make it up three floor three flights of stairs, you're in. The idea being they wanted to only have the healthiest people. Now, that's a joke, but actually in reality, plans did many things. Plans would advertise, not that their cancer doctors were good, but they offer free gym membership. Okay? They basically tilt their advertising, their and you know, and their focus towards things which would attract healthy enroles and dissuade less healthy enroles. Okay. And this comes to a head with one of the most significant changes we've seen in healthcare markets in the US which is the growth of what we call narrow network plans. Plans with a very restrictive set of doctors and hospitals you can go to. The idea of that is much of your caller discussion of PPOs. It allows for tough negotiating. If you only let people go to a couple of hospitals then you can negotiate hard with those hospitals to get their prices down. But at the same time, if you're a plan that only wants to have healthy people, what do you do? You don't negot you don't include the cancer hospital. So, I mean, every hospital treats cancer, but like if you cancer, you want to go to the cancer hospital. So, you just say, "I'm sorry, my network doesn't include the cancer hospital." Oh, you have cancer. That's too bad. You might consider this other insurance plan. They cover cancer really well. Okay. So there's both passive selection, which is the six people sign up for the most generous plans, and adverse and active selection, which is plans gear themselves to select out the sickest and selecting the healthiest through the way they set up their benefits and their networks of providers. Okay. Yeah. >> To What does that look like? >> At open enrollment you can change. >> So you have to wait. >> Yeah, you have to wait basically. You have to wait till open enrollment. You can change. >> Yeah, it's it's runs like late fall and then the year start January start with the new plan. >> Yep. You're screwed. >> Now you can go out of network. Remember HMOs cover certain number of things. You can always pay out of pocket and go wherever you want. But if you can't afford it, if you have cancer in February and you're locked in a plan without a cancer hospital, once again, it doesn't mean you get no care. All hospitals treat cancers, just you might not get to go to the one you want. Okay, so that's now here's what's I find most fascinating about this from an MIT perspective. Both of these problems, adverse selection and difficulty in making choices have technical solutions. Okay, let's talk about the second one first. How do we solve the fact people have a bad time making decisions? We give them tools to make decisions easier. We use AI and other things to guide them through the decision to make it easier. So technically we can solve that problem. In practice we haven't figured out how. And part of the reason is because you give people these tools, they don't use them. There are a bunch of tools like this. People just say, "Nah, I'm just going to choose this plan. It looks good to me." So part of the problem is you don't have to provide the tools. you need to get people to use them. But in principle, that's solvable. With good decision support, you could solve that problem. What about adverse selection? Well, that's also solvable in principle by what we call risk adjustment. That is, instead of paying the managed care plans a fixed amount based on the age of someone, you pay them based on how unhealthy that person is. So if you if you if your managed care plan signs up someone who's diabetic, you get paid more than if they're not diabetic or with cancer, you get paid more. As a result, there's no incentive to avoid the guy with cancer because now you're going to get paid more. That voucher you get is higher if you're a cancer patient and therefore managed care plans don't have an incentive to avoid the sickest patients. So in principle, you can solve the average selection problem by actually tying the amount plans are reimbursed to the underlying health level of the people who are choosing. In practice, it's super hard. It's hard because people's health is not easily predictable. If you run a regression, a statistical model that tries to predict people's medical care spending on everything you know about them, everything, you can explain at most about 20% of the variation in healthcare spending. Basically, healthcare spending is very very unpredictable. Uh, moreover, the plans are very good at gaming the system. So, for example, the government set up a system where it paid more for diabetics, for example. What the plans did is they said, "Well, within diabetics, some are sicker diabetics and some are healthier diabetics." So, they avoided the sicker diabetics, just like the healthier diabetics and made even more money. So, it turns out, once again, this is hard to carry out. So, this is why I find it's a fascinating topic. I've worked a lot for a lot of years. I still haven't cracked this nut, which is we have these two problems. We love competition choice in economics. I wish we could make that work in this context, but we haven't figured out how to solve the two fundamental problems, which is how do we solve this average selection problem, which can destroy markets or at least cause bad redistribution, and how do we solve the fact that this is a people aren't good at making these choices? Okay, questions about that? Yeah, Eno. Um, so you mentioned like assuming like we are like chronic illnesses and just like I don't know they couldffect their health in the future. with the idea of paying healthier people and charging sicker people more like address that. >> Um well yeah I mean basically there's a there's essentially the same trade-off and the tradeoff is to to the extent that you are in control of your future healthcare expenditures then we should basically use financial incentives to get you to where you need to be. To the extent you're not then you're discriminating. So if if for example a plan says I'm going to charge you more if you're overweight, is that an incentive or discriminatory? Well, it depends on why people are overweight, how you feel about that. So that's that's a very tricky ethical line between incentivizing discriminating. That gets hard. >> Yeah. >> Right. basically the same insurance. >> Exactly. So, it's just a it's basically saying it's it's as if we're allowing insurers to charge sicker people more, but it's it's the government's paying the insurers more than insurers and the people paying more. So, it's not discriminatory in that sense. It's just the government is trying to offset this adverse selection with this risk adjustment. So this is look this is in the weeds but it's very important just like we talked about with PPS this whole point of the end of this lecture and this lecture is there's lots of smart productive directions to go when dealing with these problems but they're all hard and they all raise new issues and it means we need there's always room to keep improving things like how do we reimburse providers in a way which gets their incentives right? How do we protect against adverse selection destroying markets? There's constant work on improving that. Okay, questions about that. All right. Um, I have some other stuff I want to talk about, but let's I want to make sure we have time. So, why don't we talk why don't we talk about healthcare reform? So, why don't we talk why don't let me sort of talk big picture about healthcare reform. This will be pretty boring if you guys don't ask questions. So, please along the way, you know, buy your way. Okay, let's set the stage. Okay, let's set the stage. Basically in 2009 America you have or let's go back further early 2000s America you have a system with basically three groups you got about 60% of people with employer sponsored insurance you get about 20% of people with government insurance Medicare for the >> and Medicaid for the >> okay and then you about 20% of people who to put it in strict economic terms are [\h__\h] Okay, why is that? Because those people if you don't get insurance from the government of your employer, the only option was the non-group insurance market. And as I said in those days, the non-group insurance market was a market where insurers were free to discriminate and not cover you. So once you got cancer, you were out or they could raise your premiums a million%. Or whatever. As a result, most of that remaining 20%, most of them were uninsured. We had about a fif about a 16% uninsurance rate. A few people did enter that market but most were uninsured. Okay. And that's the situation as it stood. Now at that for many decades we'd have this problem of the uninsured. And the world was divided into two types of solutions. The solution on the right was too much government, more market that will solve the problem. We need we need freer competition, freer choice in healthcare. I think I've been clear enough that that's just not going to I think I've explained enough of this market going back to Kenneth Arrow in 1963 that wasn't going to solve the problem. More freedom would not allow insurers to the insurers would still discriminate against the uninsured. Uh that wasn't going to get them health that was against the sick that was going to get them health insurance. On the left the answer was singlepayer healthcare. Let's do what the rest of the world does. Let's just have one go national government insurer and that has two huge advantages. First of all, everyone's insured from birth. No adverse selection about insurance, no signing up, none of this stuff. You're just insured from birth. Zero on insurance. Second of all, lower costs because think about why US healthcare costs are higher. Like we talked about two lectures ago, administrative costs are much lower. Administrative costs in Canadian national health insurance are like 2%. Get rid of 15% in the US. Um, and it's easier to regulate and control health care prices in a singlepayer system. One payer, they set the prices. You have full market power to set the prices and regulate the system. Now, there's there are economic arguments against this approach. Primarily, the fundamental economic argument goes back to what I talked about the first lecture, which is just because a government can make something better doesn't mean it will. that once the government's running the whole health care system, the problem is the care system and the government makes a lot of mistakes on a lot of things. So there's those challenges. In particular, the challenge you face is you want to set prices high enough so people still want to be doctors and still want to invent drugs, but also low enough that the government can afford the healthcare. And that's a tough spot to hit. Okay. But in some sense, that's irrelevant because the fundamental problem with singlepayer is political. And the reason that singlepayer never made any headway is because supporters of singlepayer never have found a way to get past three fundamental barriers to singlepayer healthcare in America. Okay. The first barrier is the fact that most people get their insurance from their employer and they pay for it with what you might call a hidden tax. What do I mean by that? Remember I said MIT pays MIT gives me health insurance. I pay about 6K a year. MIT pays about 18K a year for my family. MIT doesn't just do that at the goodness of their heart. They do that because they're in a competitive labor market. I wouldn't work here without health insurance. And in a competitive labor market, they make me pay for that with a lower wage. Okay? Indeed, there's lots of evidence that higher costs of health insurance are reflected in lower wages. So, I pay for my health. My health insurance isn't free. The 18k doesn't come to me free. I pay for it in lower wages. Let's say we got rid of that system, moved to a singlepayer system where now we all have government insurance provided by the government paid for by a tax. Now, roughly speaking, what that would mean is that would just shift from my paying getting 18,000 lower wages to my getting 18,000 higher wages and paying $18,000 in taxes and I'd be in the same spot roughly speaking. There's a lot of little bits, but you get the idea. So, from a social efficiency perspective wouldn't really matter. It's just who I'm paying. Either way, I'm paying 18K for my insurance plus this plus plus 6K I pay out of pocket. Okay. The problem is that is hard to explain to people. People say, "Wait a second. You're going to tax me 18K and my employer's going to make all this extra money by dropping the health insurance? That's crazy. Just a big win for employers." You try to explain, "Well, no, employers will shift that to lower and they tune you out." So, basically, the problem is it is politically very challenging to replace a hidden tax with an overt tax. That's the first problem. The second problem highlights why it's so important when you set up government policy to get it right the first time, which is that it is very hard to change an existing system. Once you've gotten it wrong for long enough, it's hard to fix it. What do I mean by that? Which is well, 80% of people have insurance and it largely works for them. People don't like aspects of it, but they like it enough that it come to them and say, "Do you want to give up your insurance for some unknown thing? We'll call it Bernie Care." Okay, they're going to say no. And you're not going to win with a policy 80% of people oppose. Now, I lived through this personally because in the Affordable Care Act, which I'll describe in a few minutes, one of the things we did is recognize that many people had insurance which was not real insurance. There are many insurance policies being sold out there that for example would say um we will insure you uh but we won't cover the hospital. They say it in small print on page 16 or we'll insure you but if you spend more than $5,000 a year we're not paying anything more. Those aren't real insurance plans. Okay. We banned them as a result on the order of about three million Americans had to change their insurance plans. Okay. And President Obama had planned I promised you wouldn't have to give up your insurance. They were very upset. Now, they didn't really have insurance before, but they were still upset. In fact, they all emailed me, every single one of them, okay? Like, it was my fault, okay? And it was a big political drag on the ACA. Imagine that now with 250 million people, not three million people, okay? It's just not going to that's just a nightmare. So, that's the second problem. The third problem is related to the entrenched political interest issue, which is we now have a $1.2 trillion insurance industry in America. and it's not just going to go say, you know, it's been a good run. We don't need to make any more money. We're going to all quit now. It's not going to happen. They're going to fight and that's a fight that the government is not going to win. So, the bottom line is I'm not saying singlepayer won't happen. You know, it goes to an old joke that's told that I learned many years ago when I started as a health economist, which is the health economist, the American health economist who dies and goes to heaven and gets there and God says, "You can ask me one question." And the health economist says, "Will we ever have singlepayer healthcare in America?" and God says yes, but not in my lifetime. So basically, it's not saying that it can happen. It's just saying that I'm not saying it's not a good idea. I don't waste any time thinking it's a good idea because I don't see how it's going to happen. And until someone convinced me they've solved all three of those seemingly intractable political problems, I don't see how we get there. So we were stuck. We had one side on the right which basically didn't want to do anything. They couched it in. Oh, we want free market healthcare. Basically were like, we like the system as it is. and one side which wanted to rip it up and start over and every 18 years on average we try to reform health care in the US and the fight between those two sides. >> Yeah. No, because the over if healthare costs go up, the overt tax will have to go up, too. >> No, that that's right. That's right. You could make that argument >> that look, but it but imagine the following political argument. Um, well, don't worry. Um, now you pay 18,000, but in our system, you'll pay taxes of 14,000. They'll be like, I don't care. That's 14,000 in taxes. No, no, you don't understand. You get $18,000 raise. My employer won't give me a raise. What are you talking about? Employer's an [\h__\h] So, that's the problem is even if it's 14,000 18,000 doesn't solve the problem. It's still a tax. >> Yeah. >> What if you just tax the employers? >> Well, that was actually um uh Elizabeth Warren's solution was to basically try to essentially do it through employers. The problem is what do you want employers that now don't offer health insurance. So that's a new tax on employers. Oh my god, you're crushing US business. Awesome. We're gonna talk about that in chapter in chapter 18. Chapter 20. So, let me get to that later. >> Chapter 20. Man, I I don't want you to not come to class later. I don't want to give you the answer now. I can't give the answer out before drop date because then who knows? Um, okay. So, that's where we're stuck. Yeah. prices. >> Well, clearly we haven't we know drug prices will go down. [snorts] They're lower every else in the world. Uh see the key thing is singlepayer confounds two pieces and it's important to separate in your mind. One is the coverage piece and one is the cost piece. The coverage piece is sort of easy to think about. It's just everyone's just on one plan. The cost piece is separable and we could do without singlepayer. That's just price regulation. Anybody can do price regulation. You do it in our current system. Okay, the question there is do you regulate? You want to how do you choose that sweet spot where prices don't go so low we don't invent any new drugs but we actually but we're not making excessive profits that they don't need that they're spending on ads. Okay. Yeah. >> Are there any other countries in the US? Oh, I I think once again, um, so there's two answers to that. The first answer is I don't really care because we can't ever get there. So, it's not really worth a lot of not that I don't care, but it's not really worth a lot of my intellectual effort to figure that out. Second is there's lots of countries that do it right that do it, I I believe have features of the system which are more attractive than ours. And though, and typically what you see in other countries is um we have in the US essentially an implicit two-tier healthcare system. What do I mean by that? I mean, if you're in the system, you're getting good care. If you're out of the system, you're getting bad care. Other countries have a different two-tier system. Everyone gets a base level of care. Then rich people buy up on top of that. That to me is better because at least it's explicit. Now, the rich are still getting more and but that's the American way. I don't think we're going to fight that. But basically, at least it's explicit. At least everyone gets a minimum. If the rich want to top up, they can. And that's more typical around the world. That would be a system I'd advocate for more. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah, there's definitely a relationship. There's no doubt that if we lowered the costs, if we there's there's no doubt, well, I won't say there's no doubt is very very likely that if we significantly lower the prices that pharmaceutical companies can charge, they will spend less on R&D. I believe I believe it's an elastic margin. Um the question you have to then ask is the interesting question then is what is the welfare cost that relative to revenues you raise. So the welfare cost is we get fewer drugs. But let's be clear what drugs do we get fewer of? What is the innovation on the margin that we're not having? A lot of the innovation is inventing really expensive cancer drugs so you live a week longer and does it doesn't bother me so much if those drugs don't get invented. Okay, so the question is what is the actual impact on life quality that we're getting from this lack of innovation? That's a much harder question. Once again, I think the direction is clear. There's no doubt the more the more money the drug companies make, the more they'll innovate and some of it will be very very valuable. No doubt the direction is clear. The magnitude is unclear. And what is also clear is that you are raising in the meantime you're getting a lot of money which can be used for other purposes in particular that money can be used to invest directly in pharmaceutical R&D. So if you think way pharmaceutical R&D works in America today did I talk about this? Okay sorry I hate to repeat it myself. This is sort of the argument laid out in my book Jumpstarting America with Nobel Prize winner Simon Johnson. Um uh um so basically it didn't really boost my book sales. It was very sad. I was like woo my co-author won the Nobel Prize. Didn't really do anything. Um so basically the argument we lay out is that essentially if you think about the way our country is the most innovative country in the world. Okay. It's ironic. The two most countries in the world are the US and China which are two very extremes of economic freedom. But ours is still the most innovative at least traditionally. Okay. that really that really came from a marriage of a public investment in basic science and a private investment in applied science. And we what we show in this book is that in what happened in the decades after World War II when America was great was that basically the government invested massively in science in 1965 2% of the entire US economy was government funded R&D. One in every $50 was the government spending money on NASA or department or energy or department of defense or health and human services research. That's now about 0.5%. We're about 14th in the world now. Okay. That innovation set the base for everything. Everything on your phone, every drug we take all came from that original public investment. So if you think about how drugs are invested, there isn't a single drug that's invented that doesn't rely at some stent on NIH research. NH the National Institute of Health. They do the basic science research. So we did the following calculations of co-authors and I editorial. We did the following calculation which is we said imagine you regulated the top 250 most expensive drugs. There was a bill that would have done that and the estimates were that if you did that the congressional budget estimated pretty heroically but as good an estimate as anyone could that if you did that that the lower price would cause 10 fewer drugs to be invented every decade. Okay. So that's bad. Now once again, how bad depends on what drugs, but clearly bad. However, if you took one quarter of that savings and gave it to the NIH, by estimates based on economists here at MIT, you would get 80 new drugs a decade. So basically, you have to remember we're not just reguling drugs and burning that money. We're doing stuff with that money and that other stuff may have value. So the proper analysis of a government intervention is a full analysis of both the impact of the t of of the where you get the money and the impact of where you spend the money. And I think that's sort of missed. There's this sort of there's this tendency in healthcare to in everything but particularly healthare think very black and white terms. We can't raise drug prices. There'll be less innovation. That's not right. There's a trade-off between how tightly we've lowered the how much we lower the price and how much innovation there is. And that depends on what else we do with the money. And let's say we didn't put the money age. Let's say we gave the money to very poor people. Maybe that would do a lot more for US life expectancy than a few new cancer drugs. Maybe that's a better thing to do. I don't know. But the point is we have to constantly evaluate that tradeoff. The other thing is let me make one other point while I'm on my soap box on this. The other point is most of healthcare spending is not in pharmaceuticals. It's on doctors and hospitals. In that case, it's not quite clear how much innovation we're getting. Okay, clearly pharmaceuticals there's a pharmaceuticals it's one of the most amazed doctors and hospitals they do cool stuff but kind of because they want to learn and do cool stuff not because it's making them a lot of make you know it's not necessarily a lot there's not it's not obvious that paying them higher prices is causing a lot of productive innovation and that's where most of the savings would come from regulating might causing some but once again we need to learn that and understand that and evaluate the trade-off. Yeah. >> Well, it's it's not more costefficient. It's that basically they complement each other. That the reason that spending age would cost so much more is because then it would be picked up by private companies that would then invest themselves and create the drugs. But you're asking a question, why don't we have more of it? you know, chapter nine. Uh, basically, um, we had we had 2% of GDP. What happened? Three things happened. The first is the scientists got too big for their britches. In 1960, the Time magazine man of the year was the only man back then. Time magazine man of the year was the scientist. Can you imagine that today? Okay. Scientists were like [\h__\h] studs. Okay. And they got a little bit too full themselves. So when people would say, "Gee, shouldn't we worry like this nuclear energy thing might kind of have some bad effects on us?" They're like, "No, no, no, don't worry about it." They tried to invent a nuclear pen. Okay. And so scientists could have lost became a little too big for the bridges was problem one. Problem two was that basically scientists and politicians started disagreeing. The whole reason this consensus grew, it was a bipartisan consensus, Republican, Democrat, from R&D, was because we're all trying to win World War II, get to the moon, do common things. Then the Vietnam War happened and the scientists didn't necessarily like what the government was doing and they got mad about it. As the saying goes, if you speak truth to power, power will cut your funding. And so that was another problem. The third problem was the US government started spending money on a lot of other stuff. The Vietnam War and in particular programs like Medicare and Medicaid grew rapidly and it put pressure on the budget. And as we learned in chapter 4, there's two types of budgetary categories. There's mandatory spending and discretionary spending. Mandatory spending is stuff you have to spend every year. So if someone's on Medicare, you got to pay their bills every year. Discretionary is other stuff including R&D wherever you have to appropriate it. You have to decide how much you're going to spend. So what happens when there's fights over the government? No one wants to touch social security and Medicare. We can't touch that. So what's left is this relatively small share of government spending called discretionary which includes public R&D. Now pre President Biden did pass the chips plus science act. I helped work help work on that act and that did put a lot of new money allocated for science funding. Unfortunately that money's not yet been appropriated because these same kind of budget fights. Yeah. Well, Medic Medicare for all is literally just a version of a singlepayer. It's just trying to tap into the what what that answer is doing is trying to solve problem two. I said there's three problems. There's the hidden explicit tax problem was one. Three was the powerful insurance companies. Problem two is people not wanting to give up something they like. The reason Medicare for all is attractive is like don't worry, you're giving up for Medicare. Everybody likes Medicare. So that's an effort to solve problem two is by calling it Medicare for all. Okay. Yeah. >> Great great great question. Something I'm also working on. It's an enormous challenge. So, basically, um, here's what's very challenging. We know how we know in theory how to regulate health care prices. We calculate what an intervention is worth and we say it won't pay more than that. So there's something you can calculate called qualies. Quality adjusted life years. This goes back to chapter eight. Okay. Qualisted life years are literally a measure of take a given drug. How many years of life does it save adjusted for the quality of those years of life? So if it saves life and you're comeomaosse, that's worth less than it saves a year of life and you're robustly healthy. Okay? So we can calculate for every intervention like a drug what its quality benefit is. We have a number based on chapter 8 of what a year of life is worth in full health. It's about $150,000 our best estimate. So we can say for every quality of one the drug should is worth $150,000. That's what the world does in terms of regulating its drug prices. And that's why they're much lower than us because we pay way more than what drugs are actually worth in terms of their value. So that's the easy part of drug price regulation which is you calculate qualities and you pay up to that amount done. The problem is that doesn't help when you have a new drug that's miraculous and miraculously expensive which is these new cell and gene therapies. So take there's a disease called spinal muscular atrophy. Horrible disease birth defect disease. You're born with it. You live a horrible life. You're dead by age two. I mean nothing worse as a parent you can imagine. Okay. They've cured it. They invented this thing. They inject in a virus in your body. It replaces your cells and they've cured. I mean, it's a miracle. Literally, it's the definition of miracle. And it's $2.1 million. Now, if you look at our essence of value of life, that's almost certainly worth it. And indeed, when they brought that bug to that drug to England, it became the first ever US expensive drug where they allowed at the same price in England they did in the US because they said, "Yeah, it's worth it." So all of a sudden now our regular regulatory framework it's hard enough to regulate when you have a qual when when you have a basis for doing it. What do you do when in fact it's worth it and what do you do when we start avent right now get these drugs for very rare diseases as they start to get for more and more common diseases. So this this is really where ethics ethics meets economics which is if if in 10 years one of you guys invents a therapy that can literally cure cancer. Okay, that therapy will be worth millions of dollars a shot, but the US would go bankrupt paying for it. This is a in some sense much bigger version. We're seeing a modest version of this with these GOP ones like like OMPic, okay, which are miraculous drugs that are doing incredible things for people's health but are expensive and you we can't afford to pay them for every for for everybody. What do you do? What governments do now is they limit who can get them. limit them to probably people many fewer people than who could actually benefit from them. So we're limiting them too much because we just can't afford it. So that becomes an enormous challenge going forward. Okay. So that's sort of the lay of the land pre you know early 2000s. Then enters the hero of our story, Mitt Romney. Okay. Mitt Romney was the governor of Massachusetts. Mitt Romney said, "Look, we've got this problem. We've got this classic free rider problem in healthcare in Massachusetts, which is that healthy people don't buy insurance. When they get sick, when they get by a car, they go to the hospital and we all pay their costs." Indeed, in Massachusetts, remember I talked about uncompensated care. Massachusetts, we literally had what we called an uncompensated care pool. What that was was every hospital paid a little tax into a pool and that pool was used to pay for the cost of uninsured people that got treated. So he's like, "Look, we've got this classic free writer problem. I'm sort of an upstanding moral Mormon guy. I don't think that's right. I think we ought to make people get health insurance." Okay? And indeed, there was um the previous round of healthcare reform in the 1990s under Bill Clinton, Bill and Hillary Clinton, one the centerpiece of that round of healthcare reform is what was called the employer mandate. Mandating employers provide health insurance. Conservatives didn't like that. They said, "We shouldn't do that. We should have instead an individual mandate. We should mandate individuals buy health insurance." Mitt Romney said, "Look, that would be great. Why don't we mandate people buy health insurance and then that way we can make sure we solve this free rider problem?" Now, that's when he brought me in and I sort of worked to do the help him understand sort of what that would cost the state and what it would do. And what I pointed out is that in fact this would have other benefits that he wasn't appreciating because Massachusetts was one of six states that had actually tried to ban discrimination insurance markets. I don't he probably appreciate this point but I help him put numbers on it. Okay. What does that mean? Others masters passed a law which said in the non-group insurance market you cannot discriminate. You cannot charge a sick one the healthy. You have to impose what's called community rating, which is everyone at the same age in the same location pays the same price regardless of how sick or healthy they are. Okay? And their gender and things like that. Same age, same location, same price. Well, what do you think happened in these seven states when they put in a law saying insurers couldn't discriminate? Yeah. >> Yeah. The insurers all left. They're like, screw that. We're making money by selecting. You tell us we can't select, we're not going to make any money. We're worried that, you know, John Gruber's going to walk in sick as a dog and we're going to have to give him health insurance the average price. We're going to lose money. Classic ac lemons problem and the insurance markets collapsed in all seven states including Massachusetts. So by having the mandate, the other benefit of the mandate in Massachusetts was that we could bring healthy people into the pool and bring the price down and essentially strike a deal. We said to insurers, look, you're going to charge the average fair price, but we're going to promise you there won't be average selection because everyone will buy. And what and so basically the idea was we already got rid of discrimination. Let's have a mandate so we can solve that. We'll bring premiums down and solve the problem, bring people in. But then we had another problem which is that basically you can't mandate something people can't afford. At this time in Massachusetts, a family living at the poverty line had an income of about $20,000. The typical family insurance plan at that point cost $12,000. You couldn't mandate they spend 60% of their income on health insurance. That wasn't going to work morally and politically. So that's why we need to also subsidize the cost of insurance. So we did is we set up a new program where for people who lived who were below average income, we would help offset the cost of their insurance so they could afford to meet this mandate. We'd have them, it was a sliding scale where if you were very poor, you paid nothing all the way up to paying I forget what it was uh six or seven% of your income. It's a sliding scale based on your income. Okay. So basically what we did so what we did is we created an so I I wrote a comic book to try to explain how it's a graphic novel uh try to explain healthcare reform um and uh in that comic book I call this sort of I label this a three-legged stool the idea is you want to end discrimination okay so you ban discrimination the problem you ban discrimination surely the states you put in the mandate so they don't go out of business but you can't do that because people can't afford it so you put in the subsidies and the three things together, hold up the stool. Funny story with the graphic novel, they called me up to ask me to do this. And I said, "Thanks." and hung up. And then they called me back and said, "No, wait. This is a really good idea because actually people learn very well from cartoon imagery." He said, "Look, if you're on a plane, you're about to go down, they'll give you three paragraphs to read." They give you a cartoon, right? People learn very well, though. I said, "That's really interesting." And hung up. And then my kids were like, "No, no, you got to do this. This is cool." So I said, "I'd do it." And they said, "So we want you to be like the avatar in the book." So, like the guide through the book. Okay. And I said, "That's great as long as you make me look like Brad Pitt." And they said, "Funny story," which is that they had the and remember this is 2011 when you hear this story. They had the um contract for the movie and Glorious Bastards to do a graphic novel, which Brad Pitt was in. And Brad Pitt's agent killed it. And remember, this is 2011, not today, because he said they made Brad Pitt look too gay. Now I said I will take gay Brad Pitt any minute over me like but they didn't do it so they put me in as the guide through the book. Um so we did the book and it was fun. It was a fun thing to do. Um anyway so have a bunch of graphic images. I just like to think in that sense. Anyway, we set up this we set up this three-legged stool in Massachusetts. We'd already banned insurance discrimination. We mandated people by health insurance. Now you start to get the details. What does a mandate mean? Are you going to throw them in jail to have health insurance? Are you going to cut off their arm? that sort of defeat the purpose. Okay. So, we did we put a large penalty on people. If they didn't have health insurance, we put in place a large penalty and then we set up a system where we made health insurance affordable for low-income people. We put them together. It passed almost unanimously in the Massachusetts legislature and was incredibly popular. It never had less than about 60% popular support and it was been as high as 80% popular support in Massachusetts. incredibly popular law and successful successful in the in the sense of what it accomplished. First of all, insurance premiums came way down because we brought healthy people into the pool. So, insurance premiums came way down. Second of all, we covered twothirds of the uninsured in Massachusetts getting our uninsurance rate down to about 3% which is comparable to many European nations. And third of all, we did it with broad public support. In fact, it was so successful that other states wanted to do it. In particular, states that were governed by moderate Republicans like Arnold Schwarzenegger. So, one of the highlights of my career was I got to fly out and meet with Schwarzenegger to talk about this plan. Now, I'm you know, it's not as meaningful to you as to me because I'm a child of 80s action movies. Actually, in the anti room before you meet Schwarzenegger, you can actually hold the sword from Conan and the Barbarian, which was really cool. I got a picture holding the sword. That was cool. And I met with Schwarzenegger and it really is like he's like a cartoon guy. He's like, "We would cover everyone in California with health insurance." that really was like okay. Um but the problem was and it wasn't just him was a number of states were like we want to copy this Massachusetts model. They brought me in to help them. The problem was over and over again ran into the same problem which is Massachusetts had a unique set of advantages. Advantage one was we had a very low baseline uninsurance rate. While the country was at 20% we were at 10%. So it was a lot cheaper to do. Advantage two was we already had this uncompensated care pool. So you're already collecting essentially a bunch of tax revenues. we could just rededicate to finance the program. Other states didn't have that. So, so in California, I literally worked, we had the entire legislature and the governor on board for a plan until the cost came out and they said, "We can't afford this and killed it." And state after state said that. And that's why it became a big issue in the 2008 election. President Obama actually initially campaigned against the Massachusetts plan. Hillary Clinton was for the the Massachusetts plan. Obama was not. But then once he got elected, he realized to his credit this is a plan that was really working and decided he tried to influence to the national level and brought me down to help work on it which was super fun and helped sort of figure out how we could do this at the national level. And after a lot of fighting back and forth and scars and other things that we can talk about sometime um we ended up in 2010 passing the Affordable Care Act. Now what is the Affordable Care Act? The Affordable Care Act is basically at its core the Massachusetts Act plus three zeros. It's basically the same three-legged stool. First leg banning insure discrimination. Let me stop. Pause there because this is fundamental to the law. We were the only country in the world where literally insurers could tell sick people to go take a hike. Okay? They couldn't do that anymore. That was a fundamental accomplishment. The second was an individual mandate with a penalty if you didn't buy health insurance. And the third was making health insurance cheaper through two mechanisms. One was expanding the Medicaid program. we've talked about that already to 133% of the poverty line. The second was setting up a bunch of what's called state exchanges which were marketplace to go buy health insurance where you could get a tax credit to offset the cost of your health insurance if you're below average income. Say it was below 133% of poverty. So think about that's about like 30k for a family insurance was free. From 133 to three times poverty, you got no 133 to four times poverty, you got subsidies. So that's up to sort of about median income. So from very poor to median income, the government gave you subsidies to offset the cost of your private insurance. You bought private insurance. The government offset that. And then above median income, you were on your own. Okay? So that was the third leg of the stool. And so the same three-legged stool structure banners discrimination individual mandate subsidies was set up same three-legged stool was set up and put in place the law passed in 2010 and took place and took was enacted in 2014. Now the question is did it work? Well the answer did it work depends on what your perspective is. If your perspective is 1441 that is policy then yes it did work. If you expect 1441 abs in chapter nine then yes it did work. Okay, which is that we covered about almost half the uninsured within two years of it being implemented by 2016. We covered about half the uninsured in America with insurance coverage. We done so actually below government budget estimates at a cost that was below estimates. And we fix this broken non-group insurance market. That was the good news. If your answer is chapter nine, it was bad news, which is the law was incredibly unpopular. Deeply unpopular, well below 50% support. Now, many words have been spilled on why this is, and there's lots of theories. I will give you my two leading contenders for what what happened, and they're interacted. The first thing is the law was passed in 2010, but did not take place until 2014. That gave four years for opponents of the law to beat up on it while supporters had nothing to show for it. That's a long time to have bad press and opponents beating up on it with nothing to show. Moreover, and this is important for MIT, the first thing that people with this law was the website, which blew up and didn't work when it first started. Now, it got fixed within four weeks, but that didn't matter. It was too late. For four years, opponents have been saying this law is going to be a disaster. The first thing that happens, the website blows up and no one can get on it. They're like, "See, we told you." Okay. Yeah. >> Well, that that is that is the second piece. >> That's the second piece. >> So, The whole idea of healthc care reform before Romney and then Obama was let's rip up the system and start over. Romney's brilliant insight was, you know what, the system's working for 80% of people, 90% in Massachusetts. Let's leave them alone. Let's just fix who for whom it's not working. So three-legged stool was designed to leave 80% of the people alone. It was designed to say, look, let's fix what's wrong for this uninsured market. But if you have employer insurance, we're not touching it. you have government insurance, we're not touching. We're just making it bigger. The idea was then people won't oppose it because they won't be worried about losing their insurance. Okay. What did this miss? This missed an important this politically missed an important point, which is that that did not that did not make the 80% of people automatically opposed, but it also not make them automatic supporters. It made them weary. So, you've passed this law all about Obamacare. And what's happening? Health care costs are going up. Now turn healthare costs were actually going up at the slowest rate in measured history but still up. There's only two things that are always true in life. Okay, baseball games take too long and healthare costs go up. Okay, health costs were still going up. So all the opponents said, "See this Obamacare's fault." And I could go on TV and say, "Look, actually they're going up at a slower rate. Shut me down." You know, basically it didn't matter that actually we we're actually I'll talk about cost control in a little bit. We'd actually done very good things on cost control. Didn't matter. So suddenly everything you know I went to meeting at the White House and Obama's advisor said we now own the whole US healthcare system. Whatever happens is our fault and the costs kept going up because they always do and so there was a lot of reason to plus misinformation etc. We live in that world. So there's a lot of reason people were wary of this and so you in some sense think about a basically what the law did that it made about about 80% people were unaffected about 17% were winners and about 3% were losers. Who were the losers? Well, there were two groups of losers. There were people who were benefiting from the discriminatory insurance system. After all, if insurers can kick out sick people, they can offer a really good deal to healthy people. In California, if you were healthy, you get insurance for like a hundred bucks a month. Well, that went away. It was now like 300 bucks a month. Because now we weren't just offer we weren't allowing insurance to discriminate anymore. I mean, it's kind of, you know, basically, I'm sure that, you know, racist or not, white people who got to have the front of the bus to themselves were upset when they had to share it. Well, [\h__\h] them. That's life. You share the front of the bus. Likewise, the idea is basically we as a society feel like insurance should be fair and we should basically everyone should have a fair access to insurance. The problem is that did raise costs for several million people. They were mad. There was also the group as I said that had to give up policies even though they weren't real policies. They had to give them up and they were upset. And then finally there was one big difference from Massachusetts which is in Massachusetts we didn't have to pay for it because we already had this uncompensated care pool. The federal level had to pay for it and one way we paid for it was a large tax increase on the wealthy. Indeed probably the largest tax increase on the wealthy we'd seen in decades. And they were mad because they didn't get anything for it. That group really truly lost. Right? they already had good insurance and we're taxing them more. So for that reason you had about and those and the problem was the 80% were like wary on the fence. The 70% were like this is good like as I've said 3% where I rate and they sort of drove the conversation. So you combine that with no normal political opposition you end up with the situation we're in. Yeah. >> Why? Oh. Um, that was, um, once again, that's a classic political economy. That's a big government intervention. Other states didn't want to do it. Massachusetts is a liberal state. They were able to do it. Yeah. >> Uh, that this comes, someone asked this, I want to come ask someone asked this question last time about why something took a while. This is a fascinating issue which I not appreciate at the time. I don't think many people did, which is a trade-off. You want to need long enough to get it right, but not so long that people that you allow a bad narrative to be built up. The idea was this was going to be a radical change to our healthare system. We wanted to leave time to figure it out. Now obviously it didn't matter because health the IT system blew up the first day anyway. So four years clearly wasn't enough probably. You know in Massachusetts we did it very differently. We passed the law in March or April. We had to have open enrollment by October that same year. And the team doing it was the director of the of the of this board I was on, me, one other person, and a halftime RA. And we had to have a system up and running by October. Okay. Now, it worked out pretty well, but life went a lot better if we had a year or two. But there's a trade-off, which is then that's room for bad vibes to get bad vibes to get in the conversation. And so I think that's a really interesting trade-off of how do you because the truth is if Obama had rushed it and the IT had blown up would have been like oh my god he rushed it too much. He should have waited. So that you can see the obvious trade-off. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> So this is fascinating. So what happened was there was a lawsuit claiming the mandate was unconstitutional. Um um let's be clear this is the other you know the I would say there's a third reason for the political difficulties of the law that's important to recognize which is that it was very complicated. I mean, super complicated the law, the Affordable Care Act. And the mandate was not popular because who likes to be told what to do? In my comic book, I describe the mandate is a spinach you have to eat to get the dessert, which is fair insurance pricing. But people don't like spinach. So, people started attacking the mandate as a piece of it and saying, "Look, we this is this lost terrible because there's mandate without saying, oh, but you need the mandate as three-legged stool." Okay. So, basically the problem was the mandate was very unpopular uh for for for that reason. Now um the other thing that was so the man is unpopular was a lawsuit to get rid of it. The lawsuit failed but as part of that lawsuit the Supreme Court said by the way the original affordable care act told states they had to expand Medicaid to 133 33% of poverty with the med with the federal government paying 100% for three years and 90% thereafter. The Supreme Court said you can't do that. You just have to offer states the deal that they can. Now I remember the morning that decision came down. I was like, "Well, BFD, like what state would turn down this deal? It's an incredible deal." Turned out 25 states did now down to about 11 states. Now, let's be clear. This is true political malpractice. I mean, this is as close to a parade to improvement as you can get as a state because basically what the federal government is saying is we will cover your low-income citizens and we will pay for it, injecting massive dollars into your economy. Indeed, most estimates are even with states paying 10% of the cost, they'd be way better off because this the the multiplier effect of having 90% of those costs being paid by the federal government. Okay, so basically they um so it's really just political malpractice, but it's just it's a fascinating thing about what do you do when politicians don't serve their voters interests and here clearly they were not and the reasons were just polit you know just partisanship. Now that's gotten better over time. states have realized their self-interest over time, but there's still about 11 states uh that don't have these expansions and it's not clear what you can do. I mean, you've already made you've already sort of said we're going to pay we're going to pay the whole cost. You're not going to pay them 110% like the Medicare Advantage plans. Like, that doesn't really seem very sensible. So, it's not clear what we can do. Yeah. >> 3% what? >> Yeah. So seriously because that's the only share of and once again that's you know 3 4% a small share that's because that is most people were left alone that gets 80% out. So you got the remaining 20 of the remaining 20 people either were uninsured they're getting new insurance or they were low income so they're getting subsidies. The only people who were hurt were high income people. The only people were hurt were high income people who were benefiting from a discriminatory insurance market. Those folks got hurt because right now they got cheap insurance. We replaced that with expensive insurance and didn't give them subsidies because they're above average income. That's a pretty small share of the of the of the pie. >> No, because they get employer insurance. We didn't touch employer insurance. They get government insurance. We didn't touch that. It was just a non-group. That was the idea was to basically say, let's leave that mass of people is what's killed previous reform efforts. Let's leave them alone so that they don't get opposed to it. Yeah, >> they were they were in the existing non-group insurance market. >> Yeah. >> Um so you know we have a Medicare payroll tax. Okay, which is the social security FICA tax is capped. The Medicare payroll tax is uncapped. What they did is they said if for family's incomes above $250,000 we're going to increase the Medicare payroll tax and so that was a large tax increase on wealthy people. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, I mean the view well this is why what see the other thing I you know my list of reasons keeps growing for the political difficulties. The other thing is we didn't anticipate the way political battles traditionally worked during my youth was you'd fight fight fight one side would win you move on to the next fight. What happened? It's like I think within a year of the Affordable Care Act, something like 40% of Americans didn't actually know it had passed because the fight hadn't changed at all. It was just as vicious after it passed and that was unusual. And so basically you have the situation where the I'm sorry I'm losing track of your question. Your question was political longevity. So why was the fight so fierce? The fight was so fierce because of what happened after 2016. What happened? The law was incredibly popular and it was a major factor in the election of both President Trump and the Republican Congress. All of whom campaigned on repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act. Now it turned out there was no replace. Why was there no replace? Because the Affordable Care Act was a Republican plan. Remember it came from Mitt Romney. It's an individual mandate. It's conservative. There was actually nothing you could do that could cover as many people without moving to the left. There's no way to move to the right without creating more on insurance. So, repeal and replace got got repealed to just be repeal. Now, once again, Obamacare was unpopular. So, big deal. You repeal it. Well, it turned out if you repeal it 20 by the time they have these conversations, it been in place three years. People were like, "Wait a second. 24 million people are getting this insurance. They kind of like it. We're not sure we want to go away." And so it started getting popular once it started getting threatened. And by the time that the votes came, repeal is close to 50%. And it barely survived. Now popular at 60%. Okay, that's why they that's why we didn't worry about longevity because because the feature of the American system is an enormous status quo bias. Once people like something, it doesn't go away. Okay, you may remember the famous during the debates, you were too young, but during the debates over the Affordable Care Act, um opponents uh were were very worried that the Affordable Care would hurt the existing remember, we're going to leave existing insured people alone, but people were worried we'd affect them. Particular people on Medicare were told it's going to hurt Medicare. So, people would carry on a sign saying, "Keep the government's hands off my Medicare." Okay, so Medicare is a government provided singlepayer program. Okay, so basically the point is the point of that is even the most conservative people love Medicare and the idea of political longevity is once it's in place it'll there's self-determined longevity. That's why the fighting was so fierce early on because opponents knew that once we got to this point of 2024 it's not going away because political longevity is sort of in America once you have a popular program in place it's very hard to get rid of it. >> Yeah. Well, okay. So, let me Did you have a question about >> sort of right? Yeah. I mean, so, so basically what happened was approval was pretty flat. Um, and then starting around 2016, 2017 started going up because people had had the program for a couple years started to realize the benefits. That was during the repeal debates. Now, repeal almost happened. I mean, it was one vote that stopped it from happening. Okay, it almost happened. But, uh, it wasn't quite that close because remember, there were probably other people who would have vote against it if they know McCain was going to vote against it. Like, it was more than one vote, but it was close. But, within a year, it started to get popular and now it's 60% approval. So what's happened since then? So Trump comes in, tries to repeal it, they can't repeal it, but they significantly weaken the law. In particular, they got rid of the individual mandate. Now this shows the difficulty of people like me for predicting things. I would have predicted that would have been a complete disaster for the law. It wasn't. It was bad. Probably got rid of the mandate. Probably about four million or five million people lost health insurance and premiums went up a lot. But there was no death spiral there. And the reason is because it turns out the subsidies were so generous and some people were already in the system that it didn't unravel. In substance the mandate may have only been needed at the start to kickstart things. Maybe it needed a long run just enough to kickstart things. But it did weaken it. Trump did a lot of other things like basically um allowing people to sell sham insurance plans and things like that and weaken the law. Biden comes in, Biden strengthens the law. In particular, what Biden did was increase the generosity of the t of the credit of the subsidies you get to buy health insurance on the exchanges. Okay, it used to be that if you you got subsidies up to 400% of poverty line, which is sort of above average income, but there were still many many people who couldn't afford insurance. Biden's got rid of that limit and said every American who buys insurance on the exchange should get health insurance for 8% of their income or less. So, a guarantee that no one has to pay more than 8% of their income for health insurance, which is incredible and amazing. Um, but expires after next year. So, it's not clear. The big question, that's the number one question. The healthcare has not been a big topic in this debate because Trump has basically backed off saying he's going to repeal the ACA and Harris doesn't really have a lot of great ideas for improving it because it's doing pretty well. I think the big part of the debate is um the big part of the debate on the ACA part is about the extending these subsidies. The debate is instead and unfortunately a few minutes left but those are great questions. Thank you. The debate has instead turned its focus and this is where Harris is being more innovative to cost control. Now the ACA did some things for cost control. I don't have time to go through them. You can read about them in the book. The ACA did some things for cost control but and it's unclear how big an effect they had. What is true is that starting in about 2010, healthcare costs in the US grew at the slowest rate they ever have. How much the ACA gets credit for that is unclear. We also had a recession and other things. But um the ACA did some things. The question is what else do we need to do? And that's really the focus now is on things like price regulation and on things like uh the big term that was a big term to the ACA which we've gone away from is comparative effectiveness which is thinking about these qualies thinking about how do you actually decide whether healthcare spending is worth it or not. And this is once again I want to come back to this I want to conclude with this because the ethics here are really tricky. Let me talk about one of the tricky issues here. Um, qualies say that a year of life is worth less if you're disabled than if you're not. So, take two people who you take two treatments. One fixes you except you remain in a wheelchair. One fixes you when you're mobile, no wheelchair. The qualric would say that the second treatment is worth more. Disability advocates say that's discriminatory because you're basically saying lives of people outside wheelchairs are worth more than lives of people in wheelchairs, which is true. you are. That's a pretty and in subsets that's so we stop and think about it's like wow they've got a point we're saying that it's not clear we shouldn't I mean probably um I would guess the vast vast majority of people would be happier without being restricted wheelchair than in a wheelchair but it is true it equivalates to a statement that a life year of someone in a wheelchair is worth less than a life year of someone out of a wheelchair which feels a little morally squishy so these are the kind of really really difficult and interesting issues that economists have not worked nearly enough on which is how do we think about as we get to and this is going to become increasingly important because there's this huge wave of these incredibly innovative incredibly expensive new drugs and treatments coming along. We're going to have to tackle this issue or we'll be bankrupt as a country. Okay, I wrote an editorial in the New York Times saying that if everyone in America got OMPic who could benefit from it, it would cost the US government a trillion dollars. Okay, we're going to have to deal with these issues. We're going to have to say how much are we willing to pay for health? How much you pay to pay for health? You have to deal with ethical issues of what is a healthy life worth and how do we think about things that extend life versus things that don't in life in different circumstances. So this is you know we're not you know this kind of ethical stuff is not a strength of the MIT curriculum I think but this is something which is really really really important to be thinking about and important to be thinking about as you go out and are invent creating this new science and creating these new incredible things to be thinking about the ethical issues that they raise and how we think about ultimately paying for them. All right um I'm going to stop there. I wish we had more time but we will come back and start chapter 17 uh on Monday.