So, choose and options. So if you have um so how do we go about choosing okay things from 10 objects? That's an easy way to do it. Choose them one at a time. So N ways to first because once you choose the first thing you can't choose again and two third actually k. So this gives us n - 2 n - k + 1. So I guess this should be plus. So is this correct? [clears throat] No. Why not? >> Yeah. >> You want to like divide their order? >> Yeah. It's basically because we've you know we've over counted. I mean if you had a set of one two three four five we could choose three and four we could also choose four and three and these two ways will give us the same set. So what we need to do is we need to divide by the number of ways of getting each of these objects and that's k factorial because we could have gotten them in any order. So we divide by m. So this is m k is equal to now there's another expression for this which is actually maybe a little simpler certainly a little bit more. We can multiply the top and we see that this is equal to now one of the really nice techniques in proving I guess theorems about binomial coefficients and other counting things is to count things in two different ways. Count the same set of things in two different ways. These two um expressions have to be the same. So what can we do? Well, let's let's count um ways. [applause] Okay, things. Well, either the last [clears throat] thing is in the set or it's not in the set. If it's in the set, we have in the set. We have n minus one things here and the last things in the set. And then also um I guess k minus one things and the first n minus one things in the set. And if the last thing is not in the set, then we'll color it white rather than blue. And you get things in the set. So um so what's the number of ways of choosing k minus one things out of n minus one [clears throat] things? >> Yeah. choose. >> Yeah, exactly. So, we get n -1 k here and we get n choose k way of choosing these things here. So, that shows us that n choose k= n -1 choose k - 1 + n - k So see, so we got this expression by counting the number of ways of choosing K things out of n in two different ways. First we uh colored one of them and then did the you know used induction and the other way is we just prove the binomial coefficient and choose 10. So having things in two different ways can give you a theorem and um in fact it can give you very deep theorems which as well as [clears throat] relatively easy theorems and you know there's this beautiful proof of Kayle's tree theorem and then don't which depends on counting things in two different ways and I will eventually get to it. Probably not until next class. So, what do I want to say now? Yeah, this is um this formula gives us Pascal's triangle near um I'm going to say 1 you know if this row is n. [clears throat] So n = 1, n= 0, n = 1, n = 2, etc. And this is k = 0, k = 1, k = 2. Well, you get this number from adding the two numbers above it and that follows from this identity. And from Pascal's triangle you can see that n choose kus k because pascal's triangle is symmetric. You know the ways of getting this number is exactly the same. The ways of computing this number is exactly the same way we comput this number because each row is a Hello. But you can also see this by the formula n factorial k n minus k factorial. Okay. So, if a + b c = 10, n choose a b c is equal to And this is the number of ways. Number of ways of choosing a set of size sets of size sets of size. A B Crow and X and these sets are labeled and but the things within the sets are um I mean things within the sets are interchangeable. So, and how do you prove this? Well, there's two ways of proving this. First, you can um use this to n c n - one choose a b - c a c. So that's one way to prove it because you just ask which set was the last n and then the n minus one remaining things. you know what the sizes of the sets are or you can prove it and sorry n= n choose a * n a b + b. So here you first choose the set first set which has size a and now you choose the second set for the remaining n minus one a minus things and that has size b and this is equal to the coefficient n factorial a factorial nusal times I guess n minus a is b + c. So b + c over factorial c. And now remember that b + c plus n minus a. So these two terms cancel and you get n factorial a factorial bal. And of course, there's no reason that you would need to stop with three sets. We get noose a1 a2 through a k is equal to n factorial over the product [applause] 1 through k a sub a1 + [applause] a2 plus a k. So this is um multial coefficients. >> [snorts] >> So now I want to talk about bjections which is another way of counting things and um you know common and tourists really like finding bjective proofs by although So these are not necessarily the easiest groups. So um but often they are bjection function is bjection is injective and surjective. >> [applause] [clears throat] >> I guess a B or A sets of things means A1 is not equal to F A2 A1 is not equal to A2. So you don't get that mapping two things onto the same object and subjective is if B is on B then there exists an A. So subjective means that everything in B is in the range of also f is um only F as [applause] an inverse f. Now for inverse we use f of g of a g of f of b. I guess I will prove one of these directions. F has an inverse. [snorts] It is a function. So what we need to prove is that it's injective and it's surgic. half of A1 = half of A2. G of half of A1 = G of A2 just because G is a function. But this has to a2 and this has to equal a1. So this implies a1. So f is injective. E is in the range of f of g of pals. So there's this element that maps to b. So it's subjective. And we've proven that f has an inverse that has a bjection. And a nice thing about bjections is that the size of a is and so if we counted the things in A then we will also have counted things B and we'll see seeing several examples of this today. And the first one I want to show you is another thing with bal coefficients. Um let's see. Oh, many different ways. Oh, coloring. Okay. [snorts] and balls with J and I should tell you what I mean different here. So um so let's do an example n= [applause] 4 and J. Well, we could color them all the same color. I want to claim that there's only one way of doing that. for each color. If there's only one way of doing that, so there are three ways TO color one of them one color and the other three one of them one color and the other three another color. And I want to claim there are three ways of doing this because or six ways of doing this because you choose one color for the first one and three colors for the other one. So there are three ways to choose the first color and two ways to choose the second color. So there are six ways. So note that we're not distinguishing the coloring red blue from the color blue red blue. So these we're just asking for the total number of balls we colored. And you could also color two of them one color and two of them another color. And I want to claim there are three ways of doing this because there are three colors you don't use. And once you've decided which color you're not going to use, the rest of them are given. So that's 12 so far. And I'm Is there another color? Another way I missed? Yeah, like 211. Yeah, 211. Okay, so we could have red, blue, green, green. So, how many ways are there doing this? Yeah, >> there are three ways to just choose which color. >> Yeah, there are three ways because once you've chosen which color you're going make two balls then the rest is set. So there are three and if we up we get 15 and 15 just happens to be equal to choose 2. And you know just from this one example it might be a coincidence but you can try a whole bunch of other examples and it always works out to be a binomial coefficient. So it turned out not to be a coincidence and a theorem that would like to prove and find two is a number of ways of choosing two things out of five things. So, how can we take these colorings of balls and turn it into finding a subset of two things out of five things? And this is actually a fairly clever digestion. I'm not going to ask you to figure it out. You'll notice I'm going to do this all. So, let's um pick one of these. Um okay, we should pick two of them. green. So first step step order balls with some fixed ordering and in this case it'll be red green. Okay. Second step is insert the So we're going to put a divider between actually you know what would have caught my mistake 15 is 6 choose 2 and not 5 choose two. So because it's 6 * 5 / 2 that's 15. 5 choose 2 is 10. So I should warn you that I cannot do elementary arithmetic when I'm so um so the second step is insert dividers. So what we're going to do is we're going to take this and dividers between the So okay now I want to claim the third step is the base. Okay. So now we have two dividers and six things because we had four balls and two bers. Okay. And I want to claim that this is a righteous. Why? because we can reverse it. If we know where the divisors are, what we do is we color everything before the first divider red, everything between the first second divider blue, and everything after the second divider green. And if we don't have any red balls, we just put the first divider at the beginning. So, um, this can be reversed and this can be reversed. So that means if this function that maps from colored balls to [clears throat] balls and dividers is reversal is invertible. So that means that it's a bjection. Okay. Okay. So that means that the number of [clears throat] Maybe I Good morning. >> [clears throat] >> Um involves the jars. So how many dividers do you use that we have J colors? How many dividers this? >> Yeah. >> J minus one. J minus one because we put the fire between all the pairs of colors and we have N + J minus one things. These are the total dividers of the colors and we're choosing Jers. Okay, so that was a really and so this shows proofs djection and this is not a completely real and I want to claim that there are other ways you could do it. done this. So now I want to shift gears and talk about thick walls which are capital which are really very nice um very nice example and we will see them again when we do. First, let's And so is up 49 0 2 2n z and I guess I should call that a path of length 2n and each step is - one sorry each step is 1us one and it's always above X axis and that's and for the numbers length 2 N is C subn the and Cadillac. Okay. So for Yes. >> So the first step is not legal to have like oneus. >> The first step always goes up. Yes. And the last step always goes down because it has to come back to zero. And if you have a big path, the reverse is also what I'm going to do is I'm going to um give you some examples. C1 is equal to Well, how many paths are there? The first step has to go up and the second step has to go down. So is what? Now let's figure out two. Well, you could either go up down up down or you could go up up down. So C2 = 2, C3 = 5. And let's um Okay, so we have that one. We could use this one. So we go up twice. Twice and one more. And we could do the same thing. And >> [clears throat] >> We could also go up three and there's one I'm missing. Anyone want to tell me what it is? >> Yeah. Up, down, up, down, down. >> Yeah, there we go. Down up down. So number five or like six, I should say. Okay, I did not write these Okay. And let's numbers down here. Catalan numbers. One 2 um And we do not have to memorize this. Maybe you should memorize. I mean, we're going to be doing a lot of stuff with Cadillac number. So, maybe you should memorize the first three or four in the series. Okay. So, Richard Stanley was a professor at MIT before he retired. He was a cominator tourist and he came up with something like 200 things that are counted by the capitalist. So there are really a lot of I mean they really appear all over mathematics and um >> is there a pattern relating them to the end? >> Yes, there is and we will get to that eventually. But the first thing I want to do is tell you two more things that are counted by. So there are plain trees and n groups n= 1 have a tree Only one way you can draw a tree really and two draws. So that's one, two, just like that. And let's draw a tree. This tree looks like this. looks like this. We draw a tree just like this. And there's one there. And you'll notice that these um left and right count when you're talking about. So this is the mirror image of this but they count as two different trees. So which leaf or which vertex something is attached to matters. And the next one has 14 but we're not going to draw that. Oh, let's let's do it up here. I don't know what to say. [applause] Last thing were every node two. So, so n= one binary tree on I guess three bird seeds, two leaves. We can either add two either develop this node or develop this node. and three. Okay. See if I can not And that is supposed to be all although it's not immediately clear. You know, you get one of these by taking one of these and adding a pair of leaves to the bricks and a pair of leaves to a leaf. And there are only well you could pair to anything here to any vertices but you do it to this vertex and this vertex you get the same tree. So this is fine. >> Yes. letters. >> N is counting um and is number of non less than weakness. And you can prove that every tree has one more leaf node and interior node because now this is true for n= one. At n= two, you replace a leaf with an interior node and two more leaves. So you preserve the number of leaf nodes minus non leaf nodes. So for binary trees the number of non is one fewer than the number of okay number of edges or n is the number of edges. Yeah. And there's one equals number. Oh no, a number of vertices. And you can similarly prove that a tree always has one more vertex than action. Okay. So we have three things which counted by they pass and I think what I'm going to do is first I'm going to give you the formula for the catal number and this is a really nice well this is a really nice proof of the formula for capital number although it's a little bit complicated and we will this is one of those proofs that it's not clearly help anyone come up with it. So C is equal to + 2. So that's the formula for the numbers. So let's try it for n= 3. >> [cough] [clears throat] >> So that's 6 choose 3 * 1 4 1 and actually there's four And we're going to cancel these out. The fours cancel, threes cancel the two and we get five. So it works at least for one case in that we'll prove it in general. So how are we going to prove it? Okay, let zero be the number of PS 0. So this is all paths from 0 0 to 2 Z. E false. And let's go R Pus. So everything that's notable. And what we're going to do is we will count the number of things in the end. All right. And now to get the number of dick walls, we just take the number of paths and subtract the bar and we get to the end. So can someone tell me what the number of paths is from 0 0 to 20? Yeah. >> 2 n because we need n steps up and n steps down and we don't care whether it goes below the x-axis or not. Okay. So, what is dx? Well, let B - 2 N B from 0 0 to 2 n - 2 and we don't care which way they go. So you should So a path from 2n from 0 0 to 2 n minus 2 is going to have to have one two more down steps in upstal. And I'm going to claim that the number of non paths is equal to the number of and that will give us the catal when we subtract. I show you that first. That's pretty. So, a path from P nus 2 is equal to 2 to n - 1. P subn 0 + 2 ch - 2 is 2 n factorial over n factorial n factorial - 2 n factorial over n + 1 factorial n is equal to well this is just 2n choose n and this if we take 2 n choose n and multiply in the [snorts] denominator by n + one and the numerator by n we get this thing that's minus n / n + one that you see when we multiply by n + 1 n in the numerator will turn n factorial the denominator one factorial when we n + one in the denominator turns an n factorial factorial So to get from here to here, we multip and this is just equal to 10 / [applause] n +. So what we have to do now is show that every nondict path show a djection between non path and paths from 2 to from 0 to 2. And this I think the best way of doing it is um best way is by drawing a picture. I'm not going to be able to describe it [clears throat] in words. Okay. So we have here and it goes starts at zero and it goes up down down up down maybe at some point it has to go below the x-axis because it has to end up at minus two and um which is why it's not this I believe is minus two. So this is AI guess we are six any difference. Okay. What are we going to do? What we're going to do is we're going to take the x = x. I'm going to reflect this path around x=us1 from every point after the first time it hits minus one from let's say x [applause] - I guess x= - well it's going to end up on zero and Okay. So now I would claim this is a nondict path. So why is it a nondict path? Well, I mean we have a point x that is x=us one. So it has to be a nonic path. because it goes below the x-axis and it is a path from zero to to n every step up either up or down. So it is in p 0 and I'm going to claim this is a bjection between two paths Stro Zus. Now why is that? Right? And if you have a path from here, well, you have a path from to n minus 2, you take this point, which is the first point that hits you around this axis and you get a unique path. On the other hand, if you have a path from x= 0 to x = 2n that goes below the x ais, you can take the first time it has the x= -1 line and you've undone this function. So it's a function f which has an inverse ga by junction. Okay. And the number of paths from x= 0us [clears throat] 2 indeed factorial. So this shows that the number of nonps is the right number. So that shows the number of big pads number. So that's our that's our proof that big pads are number. So I want to say how would you ever find this proof? I really don't know. However, if you wait a couple weeks, we will be doing generating functions. And generating functions is a completely straightforward way of figuring out the formula for the although it's actually not as nice and easy as this. It involves some calculations. Okay. And now the next thing I want to show is a djection between binary trees and thick paths. And that will show you that binary trees are also counted by >> [clears throat] >> Okay. So, how does this work? Well, let's do an example. So, Okay. So this is a LIBRARY and what we're going to do is we're going to traverse the nodes in that first order. And what does that mean? Well, What it means in this case is we're going to just run around the outside and the first visit. This one is the second we visit. This is the third we go down up and we visit. So we're only counting the first time we visit this node. This is five six. Okay. Now we go down back down and up here. This is the seventh note, eighth node, ninth node, 10th node. So what do we do with these things? What we're going to do is we're going to associate each of the nose um INTERIOR call plus and we will call. [clears throat] So what is this? This is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and one and two are both pluses because they're internal notes. Three is a minus. Four is a plus. Five is a minus and six is a minus. Seven is a plus. 8 is a minus. 9 is a plus. 10 and 11 are minus. And what we do is we use this path. We go up with plus and down when it's a minus. So what does our path look like? Well, it starts out twice. And now we go down and up and down and down. And we go up. - plus - plus - [clears throat] one more interior one more loop interior. So this always ends up but the last step has to be a leaf. So the last has to be down. So we just ignore this last step. and the path is here. So we have to prove this is a d path and we also have to prove that every path corresponds to Okay. So why is this? Well, [clears throat] how many upsteps does it have and how many down steps does it have? So, there are 2 n + one leaves. All right. N plus one leaves and n interior nodes. [clears throat] But we're ignoring the last step. So there are n steps up and n steps down. And why does it never go the x axis? >> So suppose it went below the xaxis. Look at the tree. and and just well just the nodes up to the point where it goes to minus one. I guess 2 k. Well, this sub must have. Oh, one more leaf then interior. Okay. So, it has one more leaf and interior node. It's a full binary TREE because you know basically if you take a tree and you remove some part of it before um let's stop when I get to this thing some part of Then I want to claim this part always has at least as many leaves as interpret. Why? Wow. If you remove some part of it, there's always uh no degree one. It's because if you have every node has degree two, it's a complete binary tree and you can't add anything more to it. So that means that you traverse the whole tree. So there's a node of degree one and that well there's either an inter tree. So if you move if you stop at this note and move these two leaves, you either have this guy Or you could stop here and this leaf. Then you have this guy which is just has degree one. So if you um stop early you'll always have more interior doses than leaves. That leaves and that means you haven't actually got to yet. So if you take a tree, if you take a binary tree and you stop really do not get [clears throat] that little bit, but you can go and figure it out if you want. And um every will give you a tree because you know you just go through this and you put a plus one. If it's a plus one two goes on. So minus one leaves on and eventually you'll get to the We'll get the tree cut out. Suppose you label this one this one. Well, either this is a plus one or it's a minus one case and you end. And um now there's always something to do. I mean as long as this tree does not have more interior nodes does not have one more leaf than the interior. You can always add to it and as soon as you get to the end of the path and it has as many one more interior One more leaf in the interior node, then it's a full binary tree and we're done. Okay, so that is more or less what I wanted to tell you today. I also wanted to tell you what Sterling's formula was, but um well, I'll just give it to you. We can next time. Okay, I have time. So n factorial is equal to approximately 2 m over the >> [applause] >> And from this you can get 2 n um I squared 2 n / b 2 n / b n [clears throat] because we're just taking n factorial. We're taking this approximation for 2n factorial and dividing it by approximation for n factorial. And you can see that most of these things cancel out. This e cancels the c. This cancels this time and this more or less cancels and we get And that tells us that C7. Okay, so we have an approximation. We know roughly how fast C goes. Okay, so next time I will do more examples of counting. Any questions? Okay, we're not going to give proof of Sterling's formula, but I want to say the only hard part about proof of Sterling's formula is this square of pi. Everything else I guess the square root of 2 pi everything else is can be done with elementary calculus or elementary probability but the root pi this con is tricky. Okay, thanks