So, it's my pleasure to uh to introduce Andrew Garson uh who I had honor and pleasure to work with for for a long while at Morgan Stanley. Um and Andrew is uh actually a MIT alum. uh he got his PhD uh from in geo physics uh from MIT. Uh and uh after that uh he worked in a variety of uh uh roles in financial senior quantitative roles in financial industry and now Andrew uh is head of quantitative strategies at Mizukho in New York. So Andrew, welcome and please take it away. >> Okay. Uh thanks everyone. So I'm going to have a quick talk today about sort of linear uh models and rates in particular which is area I work in. Um we'll just have a quick overview. We're going to talk a little bit about some basic markets. Uh interest rates, what are they? Um what are some of the more liquid rates products, yield curves, you know, a little bit about hedging, how do you hedge your positions, uh P&L attribution, and then end with a little bit on E-rading and bonds. Uh I'm going to caveat this is going to be a very non-mathy presentation probably for this class. So um that's probably my personal bias is I don't find math necessarily uh that illuminating in some of these problems versus what problems are you actually solving. As I told Peter, you know, if I was you were talking about, you know, how to build a house, we wouldn't spend, you know, 80% of the time talking about hammers. You know, we're talking about how big you want your rooms and how the connectivity is. Uh I would highly encourage you to ask questions. I'm going to ask Peter if nobody else does if he can pipe in a couple just because I'd like to keep the discussion going and I'm generally happy to yak on and on about any particular topic that anyone uh is interested in. So, so please uh talk away. Okay. So, start with the basics. What are linear products? You know, they're things that are not nonlinear. Uh nothing too surprises there. Um you know, some of the major categories are things like bonds, high interest rate swaps, interest rate future, CDs. These are sort of the more traditional relatively simple products. These are not you know codo squared or colable spread range acrals or any of the super exotic stuff that has uh been around for a while and still continues to be done. You know the modeling is in some sense relatively simpler here. These are not you know huge you know multiffactor scastic calculus models you have to do in term structure models and things. It's relatively straightforward you know. So the question then is you know why do we care you know as quants? Why is this interesting? You know anybody want to hazard a guess as to why the stuff is still relevant today? Somebody take a guess. Look, you look like you're thinking. >> I was going to say it's still related to important stuff like interest rates. >> It is it's it's an important thing. It's the core underlying. What is what are some other reasons? Maybe you might care about this. >> It's traded a lot. >> It's a very big market and a very liquid market. True. A couple other ones are it's also generally used for hedging of the more complicated stuff and it's also an input to all the more complicated models which generally you start from the simple stuff and you build your models up. Um you know these are very large these are the largest markets on the planet. Um just a couple of statistics in the last few years. Equities is is you know getting close now particularly with the sort of run up in global equities last couple years. Um bonds have something north of $120 trillion outstanding. uh interest rate swaps are more like you know 500 plus trillion dollars outstanding you know just the main futures contract more than 10 trillion you know these are very large numbers um you don't need to have a huge profit margin and when a market this size to you know do very well in a market of this size that's very actively it trades a lot um you know the daily volumes treasuries approaching a trillion dollars a day uh interest rate swaps you know comparable uh again futures something like four million contracts a day and the sofur futures which are the main uh short-term interest rate contracts. And then I think some some a lot of the more complicated models start with the simple stuff and then sort of build up on top of that. And again, I have a tendency to talk faster and faster and faster if nobody comes back. So I'm going to apologize in advance and if you find me doing that, somebody just uh tell me to stop. um you know and again I as said they mentioned they're sort of uh based to the compllets and uh inputs to the more complicated model you know previously I think they were thought quite simple uh I think the global financial crisis in 2008 sort of brought a number of factors to the four that people hadn't considered before uh in particular around things like funding uh and what was previously say a very simple product so you know I'll pay you a dollar in 10 years how to value that became quite difficult and and subject to a a lot of uh thinking and discussion and um and interesting there's not a unique answer to that um which is also interesting. Couple of the other things that came in there was a lot of regulation that came in after uh 2008. Um you know some sense somebody said the regulators wanted to make banking boring. Um and you know it's not boring but they've changed where the interest is in it. um and sort of the super complicated exotic products that were really uh very much in vogue in the early knots and midnots really those things uh ended poorly for a lot of people. uh you sort of think about the causes of the financial crisis at least on on the market side a lot of it ultimately uh boiled down to US residential real estate uh which had a huge runup and then an enormous crash but off of that they'd been issued you know a lot of very complicated securization products uh very highly levered and multi-layered uh and things were you know very opaque and hard to value you know this was not uh financial modeling's finest hour uh so I think there was a lot of regulation that came in on top of that in terms of model risk management and that that really um sort of ended that little that section of the business. So, uh people went back a little bit to basics and and started thinking a little more about some of the fundamentals. Um which I think was a good thing because I think things were kind of silly there. Uh and I remember talking to some of my friends at a soccer game or something our kids were playing and he was mentioning they just done a mortgage securization issue which I believe defaulted without making a single payment. So, this stuff was just so, you know, so poorly supported and thought out. Um, but because it was so opaque, you know, you know, smiling fast talkinging sales guy could push a lot of the stuff to areas that really probably should not have been involved in this area. Uh, and you find little like municipalities in Norway having declared bankruptcy because they bought a whole bunch of CDOS's from Iowa, you know, strip malls or something crazy like that and you sort of think, you know, how did that happen? Um so I think there was quite a lot of uh regulation came in really to you put a little bit of fences around some of this stuff which is is uh you know it's quite powerful but you know could be used for good or bad in some sense. So okay so let's talk a little bit about what is an interest rate. You know an interest rate at its most basic um is a rate at which you can you know either borrow or lend money uh on a principal amount. So in this case, I'm going to have, you know, my interest I payment will be N, which is a notional typically times the rate R acrewed over whatever time I'm borrowing it for. So I have, you know, I'm borrowing $1,000 at 5% for a year. In a year, I'll have to pay back $1,000 plus 5% uh times a year times $1,000, $50 of interest. Um, relatively straightforward. You know, how do I value that in terms of what I'm willing to pay for that today? you know, I'm not willing to pay $1,000 for it because uh well, let me reverse that. So, if I get $1,000 in a year, how much am I willing to pay for that today? And whatever I'm willing to pay for today, I can invest. And if you work out arithmetic, it works out to be one over one plus the rate times the time. So, at a 5% rate, I'll pay something like $950 odd dollars for that. Uh and then in a year get $1,000. Now, this depends a lot on the discounting rate. for example. So, what rate am I going to discount at? Um, you know, that's hard to observe. Rates I can get for investing are easy to observe. You know, you walk into a bank and you look at the signs on the front door, IRCDs, four and a half% rates for a year. Uh, whatever. How much a discount is is hard. Um, typically, you know, in our world, we're going to assume one of the, you know, institutional rates, which is something like a sofa rate or an OS rate, which we'll talk more about in a little bit in the future. Um but these are sort of a standard uh assumption. Now one of the interesting things practically you find every person has a slightly different rate that they should be discating out because it depends on where they can borrow money and that that depends on your creditworthiness. So you know you may have a good credit rating and you can borrow money at 4%. You know you no offense I'm not picking you. You may have a terrible credit rating so you have to pay 8% to borrow money. You may have a medium one so you're borrowing at 6%. So uh and you know it all depends on the particular issues of the issuer. So this this makes it uh interesting because at this point you know the uh a contract for you guys to pay me a thousand bucks in a year has different prices depending on who you are. So there's no single price here makes it interesting. Uh a lot of the banks will deal with this because you know it's kind of a pain in the ass for a trading desk to have to manage you know a thousand different counterparty relationships each with their own funding. So usually you'll centralize that on a central funding desk of some sort. They will then assume all of the uh individual traders can fund at a relatively generic rate and the funding desk will deal with all these horrible little uh funding bases uh and small collateral exposures and things like that. Okay, going back a little bit in history. Um you may or may not have heard of Liebore. Uh probably not because it now is gone. But this was one of the first really common use rates. Stands for London interbank offered rate. Uh it was developed I believe by a Greek guy in the 60s uh as a method of standardizing syndicated lending in London. Most bank lending to corporates is floating rate lending. So you won't you won't do a fixed rate loan for 10 years. You'll do a rate that resets every month, every three months at the then current rate. And the question then was what rate should we be using to set the interest payments on these loans at? So what he came up with is a notion we're going to pull the banks as to where they lend money shortterm and we'll take the average of that you know kick out the highs and lows and then that'll be a standard rate everyone can use as a reference index you know was a very great very good idea incredibly successful first interest rate swaps which are really synthetic versions of those came out in the early 80s uh first swap I believe was 1980 or 81 which is a crosscurrency swap with IBM uh and then the first pure single currency swap came out the next here. Uh these products had you know phenomenal growth in the 90s and knots. Uh currently there's something about 350 or 400 trillion of them outstanding as of uh labor cessation and still continue to grow a little more than that. Um so you know very pro very popular product very liquid uh very actively traded. You know, liberate though, you know, again, another one of the fallouts from the financial crisis showed that it had some issues. You know, liber was set by polling banks. So, you'd go ask the funding department at each of the big banks. I think there's 20 odd people in the LIBOR pool, were you going to lend and borrow? Were you going to borrow money from they would come up with a number, they'd quote it. Note that it's not based on actual transactions. So, they're just making a number up. They're trying to in theory if they're all good players hitting it where they would actually do the trades. But this is not actually observable trades and I think in the sort of late knots early teens um group of traders of uh less than honorable intent realized that this is and this was a manipulatable rate. Now you may have for example you know every day you're going to look at how much money you know these rates set every day and based on your portfolio you'll have some impact on that. Some of them you can have millions of dollars a basis point. A basis point being a hundth of a percent. So if you can get that rate up or down just a little bit uh in your favor it can end up making you a lot of money. So what they did was they essentially all you know chatted with each other and they were chatting with whoever the people at their banks were responsible for setting these rates and convincing them look I need you to make this a high rate today or I need you to make this a lower rate today. Um and they could you know you can move this thing a little bit because it's not observable because nothing trades. And they, you know, they were doing that for a while to their advantage. Um, this was discovered. Number of them were in jail for some time. There was very substantial multi-billion dollar fines to the banks doing this. But I think the realization came that this rate didn't have any support. You know, one of the things is Liebore is a um, you know, it's an unsecured rate, if you will. It's it doesn't have anything backing it like a repo or a collateral rate. Um, and there's just not a lot of transactions. Post 2008, nobody wanted to lend unsecured because you know you had a number of bankruptcies. People like Leman's gone out and you just you don't want to lend to money who's nothing backing it. So uh people weren't happy with that. And you know some of the things in some of the teners and markets I think had you know three transactions in a six-month period. That's not enough but you have to quote this rate every day. So there's just nothing fixing it. So that was a real issue. So the Fed set up uh or the Fed plus the other regulators uh I guess it came out of London originally was the big driver for this. the FSA there um because L being uh London and Liber really decided you know you needed a new rate that was going to be defensible backing up based on actual transactions and a number of other criteria to make it hard to manipulate so that you know this would be a genuine real observed rate and not something that was just being made up uh by banks to favor their trading desks. >> See Andrew just a comment li sound a bit esoteric at this point, but at the time uh mortgages mortgage interest rates were often quoted as LIBOR plus a spread. And my experience was during the the time of the knots and the teams, you know, looking at >> possibly refinancing my mortgage to a lower rate because rates were coming down and the lie board did not move much at all during that period which was rather frustrating to watch if anyone understood why it was not moving. Well, it was partly that and partly um the libore to treasury spread which is the difference between libore rates which are the the bank rates and the treasury rates which are government rates uh blew out in that period around 20112 uh the fine institution I was at at that point wrote off 8.4 four billion dollars in structured notes because of that for example um because they were hedging their structured notes with LIBOR products and assuming the two would stay together and they just went uh most of it came back in the next couple years but it was quite unpleasant for a while there and and uh made them want to change how they were doing that. um you know when we went through sort of the liebore retirement you know when you look at how much of what kind of products are out there there's all sorts of weird stuff you know swaps are the biggest piece but then as you have floating rate mortgages uh you have a fair amount of corporate bonds out there um you have some really bizarre slightly esoteric stuff that is like you know I don't know how you redo that when you're going to go knock on somebody's door and tell my mother that you know her library plus 100 mortgage is now a sofa plus 150 I don't know what she's going to do with that other than be confused and call me and ask for help. I think but um so you know so they really the labor had to go because it was it was not not a good rate anymore. Um and this is also true of the equivalent libs in at least Japan, Canada, US, Switzerland, Europe and uh the UK I think all have uh replaced their rates with something a little more uh defensible. In the US, it's called the sofa rate, which is the securitized overnight funding rate. Um, which is essentially the average of overnight repo trades. So, a repo uh rate is, you know, if I have a bond, I can just buy it outright if I want to, but it's not usually the, you know, an efficient way to do. I can borrow money against the bond. So, if I have I buy 100 million US treasuries, I can then lend that to somebody, you know, post that to somebody and borrow say $98 million of cash. He he'll hold my bond. uh and then if we want we can swap it back in again but the rate at which you're going to pay in that borrowing is known as the repo rate or reverse repo rate depending which direction you're going uh and that's at yeah a real rate real money changes hands um US has about 800 billion of that a day of the main uh repo facilities so that's something that there's a lot of transaction data behind you can you know look at it measure it you know add it all up average it uh and come up with the rate so that's what they Um, you know, uh, so far does have some features that are not so fabulous. You know, first of all, it's a daily rate. Uh, nobody wants to have a loan where you have to pay interest every day. It's just a pain in the ass operationally and and not good. You want to pay every three months or six months or annually, for example. That just makes it just easier mechanically to deal with. Um, you know, you can compound it into term rates. So, we'll talk about that in a slide or two. Uh another thing if you do compound it into term rates so you do like the average so for over threemonth period and then pay that rate you don't know the rate until the end of the period because you haven't finished doing all your daily uh features. That's a bit annoying for uh people because a lot of people want to know the rate up front so they can just arrange you know guess operationally set all their payment systems make sure the payments get there schedule that have enough time to sort out make sure they're doing the right rate. Uh and the other interesting thing is it's sofur is a secured rate. Banks actually prefer to lend unsecured. Uh so I think when a bank when a bank makes a loan so it'll do a floating rate lend to a corporate they'll give them $100 million. Corporate will pay them the floating rate say Libbor plus you know spread or whatever. Now if you think about what happens when um bank credit goes bad. So if there's a crisis, typically the bank spreads will blow out, which means LIBOR will blow out. And if the majority of the income is coming from LIBOR products because that's what you've loaned at, you're now making more money. So you loan money at Liber plus 50, LIBOR's now 100, you got an extra 50 basis points of income because your credit's deteriorating. So it's sort of a rightway risk kind of feature. um that is you know I don't know if it's worth you know a whole lot of the bank but it's a nice feature to have that if bank credit goes bad you end up making more income so people like that said Libbor has mostly been phased out in the last few years um US ended lieore last June so June 2023 they're one of the biggies sterling went earlier um Canada went two months ago Mexico is going into this year uh and then there's a couple features in yen that are also happening I think uh early next year. You know this was an enormous migration and and uh you know you should hope in your careers you never deal with this kind of stuff because it is just painful and tedious. Yes. >> Do you mind introduced lending the relationship between uh bank credit and um the funding rate? >> Okay. So I'm I'm a bank. My my majority of my corporate lending portfolio is floating rate loans which are going to pay me an interest of liber plus a spread fixed spread. So it it's going to float. If LIBOR's higher, I make more money. If LIBO is lower, I make less money. I'm going to fund myself as something that's typically not, you know, less less uh floating than the rat. So bank credit goes bad. So banks get into trouble or somebody perceives that there's a a systematic issue out there with banking allot 2008 or a couple other episodes, the liber spreads are going to increase because, you know, larger spreads, higher rates, lower quality generally. So what that means is the spreads are going to increase. So my interest I'm going to earn on my loans has now gone up which helps me because I get more income. Make sense? Or >> sorry. >> Okay. Yeah. No, please again please. I'm talking fast on a big range of topics. So please jump right in. You're looking confused or anything? No questions? >> No. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um you know again you hope in your career you don't have to deal with this because it's a pain in the ass. It's just an enormous mechanical process. Uh there's been a few of them around. Euro conversion was another one in the late 90s we did where you know all of the European currencies converted to euros. Um yeah I remember sitting in Canary Warf at that one at like three in the morning because we'd screwed something up and it was like oh dear. Um but it all happened in Y2K is another classic one. There's been a bunch of other ones like that and but it all happened and fine. So no more library. Okay. So as I mentioned sulfur is a daily rate. you know, you don't want to pay daily. So, you know, you can compound it up. Two standard ways. I'm going to do daily compounding. So, each day I'll, you know, work out my discount factor for that day, which is one plus the rate over 360. And you just compound those up. Uh, and then subtract one off the end, and that'll convert it to an equivalent term rate. Fine. And you can pay the term rate. Or I can just do a simple average. So, just average um the sofur or average the daily sofers. In this case, the little d's are the number of days it applies for. So a rate setting in Friday will apply for three days over the weekend. A rate setting in Monday only applies for one day. Excuse that. You add it all up, pay that rate. Um the majority of products in the dollar market go on the compounding uh sofa because it's just it's a simpler rate to calorie. Uh it also doesn't have the average and you need to make a slight correction due to volatility which is just annoying. You know, it's a few basis points running so most people won't care. But um if you're trading this a lot as a market maker, you want to get all this stuff right because the bid offers are couple ten of a basis point. So uh if you have something that pushes you outside of that, you're going to lose money. You know, there's lots of other rates out there. Uh term sofer is one that CME created a couple years ago. Uh use they actually fit something. They have a little model. They do a best fit to all the futures prices which are again are very liquid, well traded stuff. and they work out one month, three months, six month rates and then publish those. It's a set in advance rate. So I set it now and it applies for the next three months say so I'll fix a term so for now pay in three months at that rate plus whatever. Uh this one is is quite common in corporate loans. Uh and again corporate lending you know um the banks in generally have much better systems than the users. not always the case, but they've been at this for a while where if I'm a corporate, I don't necessarily want to deal with a lot of the complexities uh and sort of nuances of this stuff. I just want to have something fairly simple. Every 3 months, I'll look a rate up on a screen. I'll put that on my loan and I'll pay that three months later. Yep. I don't know if this is like if I'm not understanding this correctly, but like let's assume like we go back to like um when rates were kind of now, but like when rates were there was more of a risk of rates um going above 6%. >> That like would directly influence how like the duration of the the futures contracts. >> Is that my >> sure I'm understanding like the cheapest deliver for the the futures contract changes because um like the price at 6%. >> Sure. So at 6% your futures contract will hit at 94 because the 100 minus the price is generally the rate. Fine. Yep. So then for in terms of thinking about how in terms of think about how that affects the term sofur like theoretically um >> like that would change the duration of the like the cheapest deliver which means that your term sofer represents a different rate >> term so it it is a slightly different rate. Um, so okay. So let let me doodle here for a little bit if you don't mind. Okay. So that's time that's rate. So what it is, the futures will each set a block of say three-month futures. We'll set an average over a three-month rate. So I might have a rate that does that. Another future that does that and that might have a little stub period in here which you know can go back to that future. So each future will be set and it's essentially the average over the term of the future. So what CME then did was they did a fit of this model to the futures contracts and they then interpolate the daily rate say for six months which will run from here to about here. So they look at that and they'll work out what the equivalent six-month term rate is based on these rates to compute that. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think I think I'm not asking this question. Oh, sorry. I think for a second. >> Anyway, so you know, CMA came up with that. The loan guys like it. Again, you know, end user corporates don't want to deal with all the mechanics of daily sets and operational stuff. It's just a pain in the ass for them. Um, so they're happy to let somebody else do that. Um, you know, it's the usual set in advance, pay six months or three months from now, fine. that makes everyone happier. Um the Fed however doesn't want this to become a de facto new LIBORE rate. So they actually have quite severe restrictions on how much the dealers can trade in it. Essentially dealers are only allowed to trade it to hedge their loan portfolio. Uh which also is an interesting feature which means it's an entirely one-way market because you know banks issue loans. They have to hedge it. It's all in the same direction. So there's a very substantial basis between sort of regular vanilla sofer swaps and the term sofer swaps. you know, something around four or five basis points, which again, in a market context where that's 20 or 30 times a bid offer, it's way outside the bid offer range. Um, there's another sort of older version of sofur called Fed funds, which is really average of of slightly different Fed funds drawing similar to sofur at still in wide use. And there's a whole lot of other crazy rates, prime, disco, you know, municipal or military housing rates and all sorts of other stuff. Disco is my favorite rate. Not for any reason other than I like the name but which is a Fanny made discount rate. Okay. Okay. So now discounting rates. One of the questions is how do you work out what the discounting rate is going to be? For example, what rate should you use to discount you know a future payment? So let's assume we have you know a simple case of a fixed payment f for fixed at a time t. We're assume some discounting rate and we'll value the payment today. give a present value of P. Now we have to fund this rate. So we have you know we generally in in this world you assume that you are not just you know spending money out of your back pocket. You're going to go borrow money from somewhere and use it to purchase this thing. So we'll buy P and we're going to buy at whatever our funding rate is. So whatever we can borrow money at that's what we will do to fund it. And now just think a little bit about from one day to the next day. What are the cash flows involved here? You have two of them essentially. you have you're going to have to pay money to borrow in your you will have to pay interest on your borrowing. So whatever interest rate you've done for one day you're going to pay that and then your underlying asset which is the fixed cash flow in the future will increase in value a little bit because you're getting one day closer to its payment. Okay. So the interest paid you know the interest is just going to be whatever the present value of that is be it t not times the borrowing rate um over 360. So that's how much you're paying to fund this. And the increase in value, it's going to go up by yesterday's value times 1 plus r over 360. That's sort of the the compounded rate occurral factor or the change in that is you know again the uh value times r over 360. Notice that the first and the third equation have very similar forms here. The only thing different are the two rates. So this is actually going to imply those rates have to be the same or there's an arbitrage here. So that means that your discounting rate that you should be using to discount un you know future cash flows is whatever your funding rate is. So whatever you can borrow money at that's the appropriate rate to discount future flows at. Now if those rates are different you know there's a trade. You can either borrow cheaper than you can invest or you can invest cheaper than you can borrow and you do one or the other and that'll come back. This actually this is a very you know if you only pick one thing away from the hour and a half we're spending here remember this because this is you know funding and discounting are the same. Okay let's talk a little bit about some of the products just going to talk about the vanilla ones. So the question is how do I compute what I think um forward rates should be and what projections of those should be. So what I'm going to do essentially is build a curve uh to do that I'm going to start with by thinking what are the easily observable instruments in the market. What can I see out there that I can think I you know whatever my pricing uh model is going to be these are the things it needs to hit because I can trade these things. Some of the common ones we're talking about are CDs which are certificate of deposits. These are very short-term uh bank lending borrowing. You know, you can walk into a bank and buy a one-mon CD at four and a half% if you want. Maybe a three-month one, six-month one. Doesn't go much beyond that. Maybe a year, you know, again, fairly liquid, quite common. Interest rate futures, very liquid products, uh, can do that. And finally, interest rate swaps. Now, so for each of these, we're going to work out what is the price of this as a function of my discounting curve. So, and then given that the cash rates, I can invert that to find what my discounting implied curve is. that prices all these instruments back to market. So CDs, you know, nothing too hard here. You know, I buy a CD, I get the amount I invested plus the rate accured over the time. The value of that is that forward uh interest amount plus the forward return of my principal discounted back or inverted. I just get, you know, Z is one over one plus R delta T. That's again, that's a thing you're going to see all over the place. These rates are well observable. They're a little little bit tricky because a swaps test typically can't necessarily trade them because these CDs are funded products. I have to actually, you know, buy them. I want a 100 million CD. I need to give somebody $100 million. I have to get that. Swap desks don't like that. They, you know, they prefer derivative instruments which are not unfunded instruments because you just have to put less cash up front and everybody likes less cash up front because it means you can do more, leverage yourself up more, uh, and so on. Okay. Second one is interest rate futures. Uh again, very liquid contracts. Uh US ones trade on the CME exchange in Chicago. Uh every country generally has, you know, a relatively active short-term rate. Canada trades on Montreal. Um the UK contracts trade on, I believe, the LME. The Euro contracts trade on the Euroex. Japan contracts trade on um Tokyo, I think, stock exchange. So, um two main contractors, a one-month contracts and a three-month contracts. They're slightly different, which is a bit annoying. Three-month contract trades on a compounded rate. One-month contract trades uh on a average rate. Three-month contract goes from ImMate to Imm. IMM is international monetary market, which was an old market in Chicago that sort of set the standards here, which is the third weddednesday of every March, June, September, December. Uh it's just when the contracts settle and that's fine. The one month contracts trade on a calendar month. So today's contract started in September 1st, we'll settle on October 1st. I think maybe off by a day there. The futures settle at 100 minus uh the rate. So you know, if I have a interest rate of 5% when I'm settling a future, that'll be a 95 price. And so and again, people just did it that way because they like to know markets rallying, contracts go up, markets selling off, contracts go down. For bonds, price and yield move in opposite directions. So yields go up, prices go down and so on. So that's why they set the uh 100 minus that line. There's a small convexity adjustment here as well dealing with futures margining and I'm going to just wave my hands and gloss over, but it's something you have to be conscious of. Uh futures do daily margining. It's a standard part of a futures contract. So if I have an interest rate futures contract and I you know I enter in into it and generally you'll enter into a futures contract at no upfront cost aside from some initial margin perhaps market moves up you know futures contract goes from 90 to 91 they'll give me one back in margin if it goes from 90 to 89 I have to pay one to remar it so at the end of every day you settle up the net move on that day and they do this to sort of minimize credit exposure between that but if I think if I have an interest rate contract you When the price of the contract goes up, I'm getting money back. But the the fact that the price went up implies rates have gone down. So that means I can reinvest my money and now at a lower rate or if the contract goes down in value, uh I have to fund that more because I need to anti up more margin to the exchange, but I'm having to do that at a higher interest rate. So this sort of correlation between the uh flows of money and what it's going to cost me to borrow or lend that introduces a small uh valuation impact. Okay, so let's talk about interest rate swaps, which are probably the biggest single uh product on the planet. Uh this is basically an agreement, a custom agreement between two counterparties to exchange two sets of cash flows. In the most uh simple case, one of these is a fixed rate. So I'm going to pay you 5% a year for 10 years. And the other one is a floating rate. I'm going to pay you in um compounded so far. I'll pay you annually every 10 years. We'll do that for 10 years. Uh and then we'll call it a day. Uh there many many variations of these structures. There's all sorts of crazy stuff and you you know imagination is the limit here. As long as you convin somebody else to do the other side of it. They're a tremendously useful instrument. Um they're great if you know if I need to hedge something or change my risk profile. It's a very efficient way to do it. These are all derivative products means they generally don't use balance sheet. They don't take a lot of upfront capital. They're cheap to fund. So they're quite popular uh for those reasons and I said they are the most liquid uh interest rate product out there. They're one of these things that you know there's a lot of mechanics to get it right. Um in particular you know if you if you enter you know you work in this field you will get very good at data arithmetic which is sort of a stupid thing but um I mean I remember once I was interviewing a guy and he just done a PhD in numerical methods I think and one of the questions he asked me which was a great question so you know keep this in mind when you're interviewing he said if I come and work for you a year from now what will I know now what will I know then that I don't know now and I said you will know how to do data arithmetic he looked at me kind of funny but went away and they actually gave a job and he took it and he's fabulous guy and he came back a year from now and said you know you were right you know I know how to tell you know between my birthday and today how many days are there it's not a unique answer to that one by the way just to make it come depends on your conventions um and I'm also going to guess in interest rate swaps at least 90% of all problems are date related that's the first thing you want to look at do I have the dates correct because you know am I using the right holiday calendars uh and holiday calendars again it's another one of these things that's occasionally annoying you They're they change. We had Junth added a couple years ago, for example. We had the Queen's funeral added. Every time a president or ex-president dies, there's a holiday and just these, you know, Canada had truth and reconciliation day added recently. So, you know, you have to make sure you build your models to account for, you know, the fact that holidays may be dynamic. So, I just put on there a simple sort of standard dollar swap roll out and you there's a half dozen different steps to actually get what are the acral periods and the cash flows and the payment dates and the reset dates. You know, you start with today, you go to the trade date. It's a forward starting date. From that, you typically add two days. You go to the effective date. You then add the tenor of the swap to get the maturity date, unjusted maturity date. You then roll that back in increments of the payment frequency. Get the unadjusted roll dates. And then you adjust everything based on a holiday calendar, which typically be New York banking or something. Um, and again, you got to be really precise on the calendars. Another one of the questions I like to ask people is how many distinct dollar calendars do you think exist in terms of swaps monitor which is a standard source for all calendar data. How many dollar calendars do you think they have? Any want to take a guess? So I have New York banking for example. I might have New York Fed. I might have somebody guess no penalties for getting it wrong. Okay, Peter, what's your guess? You've been around for longer. >> Let's see. Um, I would guess maybe 150. >> You're in the right ballpark. Last time I checked, there was 294. And they're all, you know, every exchange has got its own calendar and they're all different. Every major business center has its own calendar. And it's just, you know, if you get the wrong calendar, you're going to price stuff on the wrong date and you're going to mispric things. Uh, and then winner's curse rule says if you price something wrong, you only get the trade when it hurts you. So, um, and again, dates are just an enormous pain. Okay, value of the swap, we're going to do it in two pieces. We'll start with, um, the fixed side. So, fixed side is relative forward. We roll out all the cash flows. We work out how much we're paying on what dates we're paying. We then, you know, from our curve, get the uh, uh, discount factors there. Sum it all up. So in this case I've just got C which is the coupon rate. Delta is the acrual fraction. So if it's an annual swap that'll be our round one notional and then times the discount factor. Sum it up. That's a present value of the fixed side. Floating side's a little harder but same idea but instead of the um coupon rate I've got the forward rates uh which are little F. So I have to work out what the forward rates are but you know we'll get to that in the next slide. uh you know some mechanics are about what is the u what are the particular specifications is it set at the beginning at the end is it forward maybe a spread in there but you end up with there sort of two different uh curves you here I need one curve to generate the forward rates from and another curve to generate the discounting factors from in the vanilla swap those are both the sofur curve so they're actually only one curve okay so what do you want to do here there's another bit of magic here that I can actually generate an employee floating rate from fixed flows only. So if I assume I can borrow fixed rate bonds, I can borrow one at a given at a first date, invest it and pay it back at a later date, invest it at the unknown floating rate and then pay it back at the end. Uh and I'm assume I'm going to invest at a rate that's a fair trade. So PV of that is zero. So I end up here with, you know, the initial term there is me borrowing the money. I have time t0 me getting the interest rate at time one and me getting the principal back at time one. So given all that sums to zero I can work out what the implied forward rates from this discounting curve are. So I use that plug it through the swaps uh and now I've got a uh swap market. So for an implied swap markets you know generally when you do a swap it's usually done at a zero PV or something pretty close to a zero PV. So when I look at the two legs and sum them up, I'm making zero. I've got, you know, the fixed side plus the float side. You know, both just the sum of the fixed rates times the discounting factors. Uh and then, you know, subtracting the float side giving factors, do some arithmetic, and I get the uh what the implied swap rate coupon is. Now, this is useful because swap rates are observed. I go to my favorite Bloomberg screen, I can see all sorts of swap rates. So that's what I have to work out my zero curve to fit those. Any questions? I feel like I'm just motoring through this here right now. So, yep. >> Can we get these these slides? This is a question. This is a question. >> Sorry. What was the question? >> I was going to ask if we'd get the slides. I don't know if they posted. >> I can certainly send them. I don't think I have them, but >> we don't have them. >> There is there is nothing too top secret in any of this. Um that's how you do. >> See Andrew, one comment. Um I'm not a fixed income expert, but um the zero sort of present value at trade initiation is quite an important uh feature I think where it um encourages people interested in either side of the swap to be comfortable with uh making the trade. Yeah, that's sort of the so-called par rate, which is the rate that prices it at par, aka for a swap, that's zero. Um, you could price it at something other than that. And, you know, again, bid offers in this market are usually a tenth of a basis point, two ten of the basis point. So, it's around zero. Um, you know, some of the structured transactions will have swaps that are way off market and then, you know, that may get accounted for elsewhere or that just may be where you're taking your P&L out of. Just another comment that the a long time ago, this is like the late 80s, um I was at the Sloan School and uh swaps were becoming very popular. And one of the reasons they were becoming very popular was that certain corporations could access sort of fixed rates at very low rates and less uh creditw worthy companies could not have access to such good rates for borrowing but did have access to floating rates and so these corporations would sort of pair up uh with a swap. I don't know to what extent the swap market now is >> it's I think it's well past that but >> but at the time if I'm a lower rated guy and I can maybe borrow short term but nobody's going to l lend me money long term because they don't trust you know I'll be around in 20 years but maybe they're they're comfortable that I'll be here in three months and have another guy who can then fund for 20 years because he's a high credit rating. We can both bore in respective countries then do a swap. So I now have fixed rate swaps and he has floating rate swaps and depending how they want to manage their treasuries that may be a great trade for all sides. So yeah, again swaps are very flexible. They let you move the risk around in quite a flexible way and quite a customizable way. Okay. So let's talk now about the core sort of uh valuation model really in uh interest rate swaps which is the yield curve. So we're going to parameterize the yield curve. And a yield curve is used to it's just to get a function of the discounting as a function of time which then feeds all of the other valuation models. So, we're going to parameterize it by a set of times and zero uh zero coupon bond prices. You can parameterize it in a number of different ways, but this is one of the easy ones. I also need to choose a method to figure out what is my uh zero um disease if I'm in between not points. So, maybe I have annual knot points. So, I'll do a 1, two, three, four, five up to 10 years for my times and I'll have disease at each of that. But suppose I need a four and a half year discount factor. How do I do that? lots of p lots of possibilities here. Um first of all I'll talk about in the not points you know how do you choose which times to use to your interpolate that simplest one which is the most common one is you just use the maturity dates of all your instruments so I'm going to build it with say one two three you know five seven 10 years swaps I have not points 1 2 3 5 7 10 years use that that's easy one uh there's other possibilities like FOMC dates which we'll talk about in a minute um you also have to be a little careful on picking your knot points to work well with your interpolation method because some of them there's some you can make bad choices here which will give you unstable hedging. We then are going to fit a set of market observables here to get the Z's. So given that we've chosen an interpolation on knots, you know, we have hopefully n knots and n points we can solve. Let's talk a little bit about CDF spline. This is a constant daily forwards. This is one of the easy ones which you assume that between your knot points your daily forward rates are constant. So you end up with a curve that looks like sort of a skyline or a stair step or something. Just an example there simple one where you know in this case you can see what my uh not points are. I think I have six months a year uh two years, three years, 5 years, 7, 10 and 20 I believe and 30 and the forward rates are just flat in between them. This perfectly good this is really fast. Um this is a local interpolation method which is one of the key features. And what I mean by that is if I'm looking at you know I want to find a discount factor say there it only depends on the value there and the value there. It doesn't depend on anything here or anything there. So I'm just going to interpolate between those two. >> Why do you not choose the not purity based on minimizing error? >> No on what? >> On minimizing error. >> How are you going to do that? >> Like chubby chef. you could um what you want to do the thing in on the simple case is you want to maintain a connection between your not point and your calibration instruments. So in this case I'm choosing be maturities. You can do lots of other stuff but you could for example let's suppose you had this set of uh not instruments to the not points here you know if I choose uh say not points at 5 10 15 20 25 30 I'm oversp specified here and I'm underspecified there. So you need to choose it with regards to how you're going to calibrate u particularly uh and the other thing that comes out is when I work out the simplest cases what my hedges are. It's in terms of my yield curve input instruments. So I want to choose a good set of liquid observable stuff that I can actually transact in to do the hedging. There's a zillion ways to do this and that's still you know 30 years in that's still a very active area of research and discussion. So um lots of stuff and and you know some of the areas like some of the um uh computer graphics for example has a lot of advanced interpolation stuff you know beastplines and beyond and all of those are likely entirely uh relevant here just haven't looked at it anyway so this one gets you your very characteristic shape so this is you know probably the least smooth simplest fast method so it's got popularities for that on the other side the most smooth little slower cubic splines. So in this case I'm just going to fit a peiewise cubic polomial here. So I'll work out all what my little parameters are and then I'm just going to you know sum it up. I have four terms you know cubic in each interval. I impose constraints at the edge of the intervals on continuity and smoothness and do that. Again this is still a reasonably fast method is a very smooth curve. Now this curve is not local. This is a global curve and you know if any of you go into interest rate quant space you need to make up little laminated cards saying I can have fast local hedges or I can have smooth global hedges and it can be anywhere in between. But you know I've had this argument for 30 years with traders. Um traders always want you know if I'm going to do a hedge of eightear instrument they want it to be only seven and 10 year hedges. They don't like it when the hedges sort of spill over to five years or 15 years. But you know smoothness is a global property. So if this is my curve and I'm you know I have a point you know somewhere instrument in this area and I'm um you know pricing it you know it's affected obviously by these two but if this point here was down here I would have a different shape through that area because I'm maintaining smoothness again global so what the global thing implies is that I'm sensitive to points much farther out from my maturity point and again this is an argument you know we've had for decades um some of the smooth methods are better than others. Cubic spine is probably the worst um because it is the most smooth. I guess you could do a quintic spine or something if you really wanted to be uh sort of pathologic, but uh that would be a weird thing to do. Okay, so then how do I calibrate? You know, I can write my error function. I'm going to price each instrument as a function of my my uh proposed curve. I'm going to, you know, from that take the difference between that and what the actual observed price is. So if I can then just if I have uh you know n knots and n calibration instrument I just solve that exactly you know pick your favorite numerical solver and off you go or in some cases you can actually bootstrap it and be fast or if I want to relax that constraint that I have to have the same number of calibration instruments as points. Maybe I'm going to do a le squares fit. I can just pick my favorite minimizer and uh let it go and see what we come up with. Now you can also include lots of other stuff in your objective function other than just the errors. So you know one of the stuff we built with for example are I want smoothness constraints. So I'm going to underspecify a curve but then I'm going to impose additional smoothness constraints because I want my curve to be smooth. That's fine. Uh I can also drop the exact fit uh requirement a little bit. You know there is no single price on it. There's always a bid offer. So maybe I'm happy with my curve prices things to within a bid offer. That's close enough. I can't distinguish that from an exact fit and any a number of other uh extra constraints you can add here. Okay. Now just one of the other ones and actually you know when we take a look at rates so this is uh sofer rates over the last I think three or four years. This doesn't look very smooth. All right. This in fact looks very stairsteppy. And what you'll notice here is the rates are this is a little this is an interesting spike cause for tax uh receipt issues which caused a lot of concernation in the industry at the time but we'll ignore that for now. Um you know it's generally flat and then it goes up. It stays flat. It goes up. These are the central bank meeting dates. So these are when the FOMC gets together and decides we're increasing rates. The rate the daily rates will generally stay constant until the next FOMC rate change. Um, you can tell this graph actually needs A-50 basis point drop off of the right side of that because they just cut rates last week. Um, so this is this looks very sort of like the CDF function for example. So there's another curve model that I think is probably pretty much uh pretty widely used at this point in the industry which is I'm going to build my not points um based on the central bank meeting dates because those are the only dates that rates are going to change in general or going to change materially and I'll assume it's flat in between. Uh so that's one again I think that started six or seven years ago and it's pretty far as I know almost everybody uses this methodology now where you have generally the central bank will publish the next two years meeting calendar if you really want to you can apply beyond that but two years is about the stuff you know uh and then we'll assume say a spline beyond that um you end up with a little bit of issues on how do you choose your instruments there's eight meeting dates eight central bank meeting dates a year four quarterly futures a year so you have a slight under constraint raint issue here. So you need to fill that in somehow. You can include the one year sorry one month futures smoothness constraint. You have to do something else but that's fine. Um also recently in the last couple years um actual swaps between meeting dates have started to trade. So basically this is a bet on the implied rate you know after this meeting date. So if you think the Fed is going to cut it the next uh meeting, which I think is early November, you can buy a swap from November through I think middle or late December at this rate. And that's essentially the implied rate after the meeting. So I don't know what they're think probably thinking is they're going to drop 25 basis points. Fine. They surprise people a little bit by dropping 50. Fine. But there's there's instruments that will directly uh uh probe that and reflect that rate. So that's also something you can do. Okay. Um, yep. So I said we can make a hybrid curve and this works pretty well. Lots of other stuff in curves and this is still very active area of research. There's other features that you sometimes want to account to. For example, turns um there's an interesting feature where there's dates that are significant accounting dates year ends. For example, generally corporates will post their earnings and their balance sheets return in assets on December 31st or you know quarterly. So what that does is puts a premium to borrow money over that rate. If I'm a bank, I want to minimize my balance sheet when I'm reporting what it is because I'm going to be judged uh by the investor community and things like return on assets on total assets and things like that. So I don't want my assets to spike over year end. On the other hand, money is money and if somebody wants to borrow money over year end for some other reason, I'll do it. But I'm going to charge them a premium for that. So you find the curves actually you know if I actually look at a curve it might be like but then I'll have a big spike you know every year so maybe that's one year where this essentially is the premium for borrowing over year end so those you can include in curves as well and you'll find um some of the hedge funds in particular are slightly nasty. So they'll do a trade where they want to do one swap to this date and the second swap opposite direction to that date. So they're really just picking out uh whatever you know curve building you're doing over year end and you know it's very easy to get that wrong and you know you do it enough size and it's real money. So and the other way there al also other sort of approaches you can do for example do a PCA method you know one of the things on the curve is I may build a curve typically it's about 50 inputs for a dollar curve you know there's widely varying liquidity among all those 50 typically there's going to be about a half dozen that are the super liquid points and then the rest of the stuff will slowly uh become less liquid so you can if you want say look at historical data work out what my factors are pick the first half dozen factors which represent sort of shapes of curve moves have those driven by my most liquid stuff and use that for a curve. Um that works quite well in bond world for example. So lots of other possibilities. Okay, talk briefly about hedging. So one of the things you want to do if you're running a trading book of some sort or asset management or something, you want to know what is my risk? um you know and risk generally in in the sort of trading desk view of the world is how much do I make or lose if my say rates go up or down. So I'm going to use just simple PV1 is my main risk measure which is just a sensitiv basis point increase you know nothing too I've got a two-sided difference here just PV at rates plus a bit minus PV at rates down a bit normalized by two times the size of that do this parameter and I get a delta strip and that's typically what I'm going to use for hedging that's what I'm going to have limits put on me former management you know it's what I'm going to use and an assortment of other things uh very standard approach and you can do that for you any parameter you want. You work out just what is my sensitivity, but generally a brute force bump and reval, change a parameter, repric, take the difference. You can get a bit cleverer than that if you want to go to sort of analytical hedge computations and things like that, but the Gore method is still the same. So that's first order. I can also, you know, depending on my product, you know, everything has got a little bit of convexity and depending on what my trading style is, may or may not matter. So I might want to do a gamma which is my second order uh risk. Generally the change in PV uh squared by D rate squared. Many definitions of gamma and at least in in equity world it's a little simpler. In interest rate world it's a little more annoying because interest rates I said you have a say a yield curve that might have 50 inputs on it. So my delta will have 50 computations. Gamma is going to be that squared because I need to bump each of them in pairs. 2500 computations is very expensive. So you probably don't want to do that. So again, you can do a parallel gamma or factory gamma, a number of other approaches, or just use scenario analysis. Lots of ways to get your higher order terms uh in there. Okay. Um as soon as you start actually hedging in practice, you hit a whole lot of uh practical issues that you had to be aware of. Um you know, how much is the uh higher order terms contribute? You can have third order terms, fourth order terms, cross terms, and so on. All sorts of weird convexities. How do I choose my bump size? You know, the standard is a basis point, but that's really just for reporting. And this depends a little bit on your numerical method and what you're doing. So, if I'm in a Monte Carlo world, for example, I have a Monte Carlo pricing engine, I probably want to bump a little bigger because there's Monte Carlo noise because it's, you know, it's random numbers, it's a little noisy. So, my bumps are too small. My difference is going to be quite small. some of the other methods for example some of the PTE based methods if I'm doing a large bump I can see grid effects starting to hit it so there's a lot of numerical issues here and everyone's a little bit different said there's some sequential bumps there's all sorts of little convexities come in and I said you're exposed to your interpolation method if I'm doing a local interpolation my hedges are concentrated around my maturity if I'm doing a global one they're going to be more distributed so this was something that again you get into lots of arguments with people about pretty quickly One of the other things to do depending on your jurisdiction maybe a regulatory requirement is to do your P&L attribution. So, you know, I, you know, come in in the morning, I've got a set of positions, set of whatever market is, whatever. At the end of the day, I go home, I've made or lost some amount of money. So, one of the key questions is why? Where did that come from? Am I a genius trader? Did I get the market right? that I just have a lot of client flow that I you know took a bit offer on what happened. Uh it's also a very good check on how well your model's working. Uh which is interesting. So you know the P&L I said from you know yesterday close to today's close because you can value everything. So how did you get that? You know generally there's three main components and this is also something that you will have arguments about till the heat death of the universe on particularly on the theta component. You have a change due to the portfolio. So did I buy and sell trades? Did I do unwinds? Did things get assigned to me? Do I have resets? Did I exercise options? All of that will have an impact. Uh there's the passage of time. That's the complicated one. So I went home, you know, yesterday and I came in today. Market hasn't moved. But what does market not move actually mean? Um it's a very subtle effect. Um because interest rate curves are a function of you know time versus this. So when I move this date to that date, what do I hold constant and what do I let change? And there there's more than one intellectually defensible answer to do this. Um so anytime I tell people you just be very precise, make sure you know exactly what you're doing. And again, there's lots of defensible answers, but you all have to agree on your notation. And then finally, there's the more common one that people think about, which is move. So you know, I'm long a billion bonds. I got a, you know, a PV1 of what is that? $10 million in 01 or whatever. Rates moved five basis points, I made $50 million. Well done me. Rates went down three basis points, I lost $30 million plus well done me. Um, so market impacts easily. Uh, and I said the portfolio change is also one of these ones. It's mechanically just a pain in the ass. You know, you get introduced to booking systems and all your operational flows and things like that which are uh can confuse things a lot. Okay. Finally, you know, just still bouncing between subjects. So, we still got a few more minutes. Um, you know, clearing is another thing that came in post 2008. One of the features in uh 2008 is people became acutely aware of their counterparty exposure. So, I do a trade with you and you know, we do it at zero PV initially. Time passes, now it's worth $10 million to you. Great. You know, this is not realized money. This is money I owe you in the future. If I go bankrupt, you lose 10 million bucks. So, people become very aware of and if you go bankrupt, I get a $10 million freebie. So, you know, assuming I can argue with your bankruptcy judge. Uh, fine. So, there's a, you know, people have been very acutely aware and Lehman really brought that home because they were a huge uh dealer. You know, they had many, many billions, hundreds of billions of dollars of derivatives with people. Um, it by the way is why JP Morgan is doing so well now because they were the only bank still standing in the fall of eight. So people had to replace an enormous amount of Lehman hedges and JP was the only one still actively trading. Goldman's was in trouble. Stanley was in trouble. Bank America where I was just bought Merryill. Merryill went bust. Um you know all the City Group was having all sorts of issues with guaranteed uh credit exposures and things. So JP Morgan just made out, you know, the bid offers went up by about a factor of 20 for a month or two there. And you know, they just raked it all in. You know, good for them, I guess. not good for anybody else. So, um, so one of the things the regulators decided after that was people would have to use clearing for vanilla swaps. The clearing is a concept that's been around in futures forever, but in in swaps it's relatively new. So, what that means is say I'll do a trade with you and we'll do a trade fine. You guys, we agree in the terms. We will then both assign our side of the trade to a central clearing house. Say CM CME and LCH London clearing house and the CME are the two big ones. So then both of us now face say the CME and you and I are now separated and we don't care what happens to each other. You can go bust and you know I'll be sad but I'm not losing money. So um so that came in and clearing houses are are generally big. Um you know one of the worries is we've traded off sort of small and large potential disasters for a very small number of enormous disasters. you know, if LCH goes bust, you know, it's time to get, you know, guns and ammo and head for the hills because it it's going to be just a complete disaster in the financial world. They are so big and so integrated with everything. And all the members post various margins to them and membership fees. So, no, they're pretty robust, but if something did weird happen, you know, it would be quite uh unpleasant there. Okay. Now, one of the things about the clearing houses is the dealers are required, but you you end up with this now situation where a dollar I'm paying to LCH is not the same as a dollar I'm paying to the CME. You know, these are these are not fungeable amounts even though they're both dollars. So, it's quite interesting because I can't, you know, if I have a swap with LCH and I swap with CME, I can't offset these two. Um, I can in my books, but not in terms of operationally and collateral and everything. So what happened uh probably eight or nine years ago is quite a significant spread opened up between these two. So this is you know from 2017 I guess the tradition is one of the big uh brokers. You know this is the difference between if I want to pay fixed on CME versus pay fix and LCH. So again if I'm doing a 30-year swap it's now three and a half basis points between them. And again this is a market where the bid offer is 0.2 of a basis point. So you know the question is why did this you know this persisted for a long time. It's actually a flipped sign recently, but this was around for years. Anybody want to guess why this kind of new? Why can't I just arbitrage this soy? I'll go receive fix and CME. I'll pay fix and LCH and I'll collect three and a half basis points and, you know, go by my island in the Caribbean. Why can I not do that? Or why did nobody do that? Anybody want to hazard a guess even? It's quite interesting and it's it's one of the pretty core things in a post08 world which makes things a lot harder. No guesses there. Yeah. >> Like is there a spread? >> Pardon? >> Like is there a spread like when you're long something that like you receive versus when you're short that's like different? >> But why does that persist? Why can't I just Well, you know, there's enough people out there that are happy to make money. Why can't they just take that out? If you told me I can make three and a half basis points running for 30 years, I'll do that all day and that'll make me a ton of money. Anyway, there's a couple reasons the you have to post margin on both sides. The clearing houses as part of doing clearing require you post for a swap. It's typically a percent or 2% of the notional. So, you have to post money to them on both sides. You're now double posting margin that costs you and that's the main driver of it. Some of the other features are other products trade on these these clearing houses and you can net them. For example, CME is the big futures uh counterparty. So if I'm long a ton of of interest rate futures and short a ton of swaps, I get at least partial netting of my margin between the two. Then there's a couple sort of non- less economic things. Um this thing was largely driven by some very large US asset managers, people like PIMCO who was ginormous that wanted to pay fixed all day uh to hedge their loan portfolio. They are a little you know less trusting of the LCH because the LCH is owned by a consortium of dealers. CME is owned a private company. So they their thought was the LCH is going to be more favorable to dealers because the dealers own them. So if it comes down to a juris a legal issue or something you're they're going to be biased. Um the other one is they want it to be in US jurisdiction. LCH is in London L being in London. Uh and they just want you know they want to deal with the legal issues in the US because that's where they have their expertise and where they're based. So a couple things again it's quite interesting but one of the things this introduces the fundamental thing is that because of the margining requirements there's a spread here that can exist between things that would formally be arbitrageable and it can persist FX has all sorts of these too and this is sort of coming to the point that actually to correctly and completely calculate the prices and stuff you need to include a lot of things outside of the core pricing of the instrument how are you going to margin it what capital do you have to post it or is there any other kind of things like this that are going to cost you money that have not traditionally been accounted for. And I would say one of the huge sort of quant efforts over the last 15 years is to been work out what are all these extra costs and how do I push them back into the upfront pricing. You know, if I if I do a swap for a very small P&L with a counterparty and then it turns out I have to post an enormous margin. It's going to cost me way more than that. I've just done a money losing trade. So I don't want to do that. That you can't do too many of those or you're not trading anymore. Um so you have to correctly account for all of these extra costs and that's quite non-trivial um just both mechanically in your system side as well as sort of conceptually and a lot of these things are portfolio effects. So how do I then allocate that to individual trades is not necessarily super obvious. Okay, good. Coming to the end at about the right time. quick quick uh blurb about electronic trading which is uh you know if any of you guys get into this area in your careers this is one of the very uh sort of quite interesting very hot areas. Um electronic trading has been around in equities for quite a while. Um my sort of standard metric is equities is probably 10 years ahead of foreign exchange which is 10 years ahead of fixed income. And one of the graphs there is from one of the data providers. Um sort of the percentage of markets in some of the fixed income products that are traded electronically. You know two basic. There's electronic trading which I sit on my keyboard and I go all computer does everything or I can pick up the phone and I can call somebody voice trading. Um so again there's a sort of a spectrum here. On the right, I've got the very liquid stuff, you know, US equity products, cash equities, those are all 90% plus FX spot, all traded electronically basically. And then I start to get less and less European governments, US governments, both predominantly electronic, but you know, we're talking, you know, 60 to 80% of the market here. What you tend to see is a lot of the smaller trades will go through electronically for a couple of reasons. You know, these are not market moving trades, so people are happy to let the machine do its thing. you know, if I'm buying a million dollars of a treasury, you know, that's not going to affect a market that trades a trillion dollars a day. If I'm buying, you know, hund00 million, maybe if I'm buying $500 million, I need to be careful because that is going to move the market and it's going to market against me and I'm going to end up paying more than I would otherwise do that. And the other thing as I get down there, so I sort of have some of the investment grade corporates, high yield bonds, and I get down to the left, which is really not electronic, is things like emerging market bonds and municipals. Um again munis is one of these ones quite an interesting market. Um uh before I was at Missou I was at TD Toronto Dominion. Um we acquired a MUN bond electronic trading firm from Chicago which was just tremendously successful. Uh and they have about half of the electronic market in munis. So munis is something that there are huge number of bonds. There's something like three and a half million issuers in the country, which is the states, um the towns, you know, bridge projects, school boards, all sorts of things that issue municipal bonds. They're all a little different. So, there's a lot of non-standardization in the actual bond structures. And the other thing, there's a tax advantage. I don't know if you guys any of you guys, you know, have a PA at this point or hopefully in the future, not too much longer. um you know muni bonds you don't pay federal income tax on them which means they're you know typically the yields are about 70% of a taxable issue because you get the same net after tax yield this means it's a retail market you know institutional investors don't get the tax break so they are less interested in unis retail investors typically are not buying things in blocks of 100 million they're buying things in blocks of 5,000 or $10,000 something like that so the average trade size is very small at TD they did you know something like5 to10 10,000 trades a day, but the average trade size I think was $28,000, which in a government market is is absurd. That's not even an oddlot, but something, you know, the janitor picks up at the end of the day and just does something with um so it's it's quite interesting, but on the other hand, you do enough of it, you can still make good money. You know, emerging markets is another one where the bonds are very idiosyncratic and there's a lot of sort of very special stuff. There's not really a generic Chilean bond. you know, you have to know exactly what it is, how is it paid, what's the credit support, all of that. So, these things are generally done over the phone with somebody because, you know, not not for the faint of heart there, I would say. Um, but, you know, as time goes on, you know, things are slowly moving up here and, you know, things are becoming more electronic. You know, electronic is just it's faster, it's cheaper, uh, it's it's you're less sensitive to, you know, people taking advantage of, but you have markets, you can see where the market is. They're doing quite a variety of participants here. Um, you sort of have the trading shops. There's people like XDX or Jane Street or Hudson River Trading or folks like that. You know, they don't have customers. They just trade on their own account. They're very good. They're very fast. You know, they generally make markets in a lot of this. Telling Peter a story I had at some point. Um I was at a Thanksgiving dinner or something with a big group of people and one of the other people there had just graduated from college with a PhD in physics in microwave guides and he'd been employed I think by jump trading uh to work out the optimal microwave transmission to reduce Chicago New York latency because Chicago's where the exchanges are New York where the customers are and I just remember talking to that guy and thinking Jesus you know I think I was at Bank of America at the time we are never getting in front of this you know these guys are just there are so advanced in this stuff that you have to be very careful to pick what you're doing. Um, so you know, these guys are are super fast, super good. This is a high frequency traders, people like that. Then you have the dealers, um, which are people like the Bank of Americas or or, um, you know, TDs, Morgan Stanley's. They generally are trading, um, they're pretty good. They're fast. They're not building their own microwave towers. So, they're doing that. They have customers, you know, uh, customers are good. Customers want to trade with you. The customers will pay you a bit offer to do trade with you. So you know I like that and they're they're sort of you know low latency but you know microsconds and not nanconds and then there's the customers who just want efficient execution and to get sense that they're not being taken advantage of and they're seeing a full market and you know they're able to decide what they want to do and there's a bunch of other guys but those are sort of some of the main uh market participants here. So pricemaking here it's it's you know at least on on the dealer side which is what I'm familiar with. I've never worked at a prop shop, so I don't know uh if those guys are much different. We start by getting a good mid-market price u either from liquidity providers if it's a something that trades actively or from a model if it's something that's a little uh you know, a little off the run. You're then going to sort of skew the mid-market price to what you're actually going to offer the guy based on a whole lot of stuff. Maybe risk, you know, what is your current position on this product? If this is a risk reducing trade, you're willing to be more aggressive just to get it off your books. If this is a risk increasing trade, you're generally going to want to be a little more conservative because it's going to cost you to manage it. You know, who's the client? You know, is this a good client that it's important um you know, for you to keep good relations with? You have other other transactions as the firm which case you're willing to be a little little more aggressive with him. Is this a toxic client? It's quite an interesting study of how do you evaluate client toxicity? And the classic toxic client is again is some sort of fast money guy will put out 10 requests to 10 different dealers for the same trade at the same time. So if you execute that, you'll then find nine other guys have executed the same. So your hedge is moved away from you. So it's going to cost you more money to hedge and you're probably losing money on the trade. But how do you determine if that's likely to happen or not? So a lot of market microstructure things. Uh also volatility. Um you know if the market's in a particularly volatile period, you're going to want to be a little more conservative in your pricing. widen out your bid offer because the market might move away from you before you can hedge. And then there's a whole world of sort of prediction models and um you know how do you look at that and and you know what's your estimate of where the next tick is up or down and things like that and there's all sorts of market micro structure there. There's quite an interesting area you can do. Um in general the trading requires uh very good integrated systems. You need to have everything talking everything super fast. you can't have, you know, one of the bins of our existence at a previous firm was the credit check. So, I had to get a request from somebody to do a trade. I had to determine if we had open credit lines with them. By the time that answer came back from our credit systems, the deal had gone away. So, that was a bit annoying. So, um, okay, I think I'll end there and just open it up for any more questions. I think we got a couple minutes still, so I'm happy to yak about anything as I said. So, um, otherwise, I think we'll call it a day there. go skip through some >> I guess like one of the main things that people have been talking about recently is just interest rates and like the recent CL what is your like opinion on the implications that changes in u just kind of understand like what type of considerations that we can make >> you know the biggest one from the guys actually managing interest rate policy is really inflation you know, we've had a burst of inflation here driven by things like the COVID funds. You know, we pumped an enormous amount of money into the economy um to stop things collapsing in COVID and that, you know, one of the ways that showed up was inflation. Um Russia invading Ukraine also popped energy prices. So, that also popped inflation. That's one of the big ones, you know. Now, the downside is the Fed's trying to balance that with employment. You know, generally if rates are high, people are not willing to borrow money because it costs you more. you know, if I'm going to start a business or something, I'm going to want to um quite often borrow money. The other huge connected thing in that is home prices. Um you know, when you look at, you know, in my lifetime, what have I spent money on? You know, my house is overwhelmingly the most expensive thing I've bought. And then also, every time you move, you know, you buy furniture and paint and a new roof and this so that's also a huge driver of economic things. So, so I think in terms of we've just I think just kicked into an interest rate cutting cycle. U said a few weeks ago they dropped it. Um, you know, there's some arguments that they kept the rates too high for too long, but I think they started to cut. So, I think the kind of things that you would look to see is things like mortgages, uh, home sales activity, business startups, stuff like that. There's it's quite pervasive in terms of how much, how expensive is money is a huge driver of a lot of activity. I don't know if I answered your question or not, but okay. So, anything else? >> Just one question with fixed income. uh modeling y >> uh I would guess that forecasting and predicting rate changes would sort of take a real backseat to sort of hedging >> well again that's a subtly >> it's a there's a subtly a subtly difference here there's sort of two kinds of fixed income research there is the economics client-f facing research which is a lot about that stuff here's my prediction for the economy here's if the rates cut this is what I think you should do here's the positions and And there's the internal area which is IM which is more about pricing and hedging of transactions which you know we don't make any prediction. We don't care. We just want to know how to hedge it under that point. Uh we're good. So they're sort of they're quite different in outlook even though they're both sort of fixed income research. And I have no opinion of where rates are going. If I did I wouldn't be standing in front of you here. I'd be sitting on my Caribbean island the pin coladas. >> Could you could you also comment on the municipal bond sort of what the analytical uh challenges are there? A couple of the challenges there are again there's there's sort of a set of bonds that are very idiosyncratic maybe the project bond. So this is a bond where the um the revenues come off of say you know toll tolls on the Pennsylvania turn bike they'll bond supported by that. You know I don't know about you I have no idea on the traffic in the Pennsylvania turnbike and what that's likely to be. So you know a lot of these things got a big whack in COVID for example because nobody went anywhere for a year so there was no revenues to support them. So they all got them. Um a lot of the other munis um it's about what do you think future tax policy is? So let's suppose the average federal rate is I don't know 30% right now. So that means I'm willing to take 70% of the treasury rate for a mun bond. When I look forward I think tax rates are going up or down. I have no idea. I would suspect up but you never know just given the deficit situation but who knows. So there's that kind of issue. Um, a lot of the other issues when we're on the trading and the quant side is, you know, how do you figure out who's got them? You know, so I want some I have somebody who wants to buy a bunch of, you know, double A New Jersey bonds. How do I source those? So that's a lot of data. That's one one of the reasons mun are still very voice driven is the sales guys know where the bonds are, so they can get them out for you, you know, whereas the machines just have no idea who's got the bonds right now. So it's hard to source the product at that point. So that's some of the complexities and Thank you very much.