Uh so in my part of the first lecture I will before I get into the introduction of some financial concepts and the investment strategies give you some basics uh and background information for this class. I will tell you uh three things first before that. First is bit introduction of myself. Second I tell you how this class was actually formed. Why we had this idea why we have decided to have this class. Uh third is before you actually do the assignment zero submit your information. I'm going to survey the class a little bit just get some idea of your background of the knowledge of financial markets and math so we know you know what level we should target uh you at okay so first about me uh so my connection with MIT as Vasili said also quite similar so I have a PhD from core six electrical engineering and computer science and uh I worked in the engineering field uh as a researcher for a few years. Um then switched to Wall Street as a quant means using mathematics building trading models. Uh back then I joined uh Solomon Brothers. So that tells you about my age because probably how many of you have heard about Solomon Brothers? Oh, good for you. Okay. Is now part of uh city group. uh but Solomon Brothers back then was the pioneer of uh using quantitative trading strategies and also hiring mathematicians of doing those so-called arbitrage models finding uh one stock or bond versus another uh you know basically uh finding relative value. So I worked there for a couple of years as a quant then Morgan Stanley recruited me away uh to be a trader. Uh I ended up staying there for over 17 years. Worked as a various uh trading and trading management roles globally got sent around the globe. Uh that's where I worked with uh uh Vasili. Uh and uh in 2013, that was the year when we first recorded our open courseware uh video for this class. I actually switched uh my job from Morgan Stanley to uh Harvard management company which is uh the entity manages Harvard University's endowment. I joined as uh as the chief risk officer to oversee risk management and also capital allocation. That's when uh back then we had uh many internal uh fund managers doing various strategies. We since then uh changed our model about seven years ago, seven eight years ago to focus on investing with external funds. I subsequently also switched my focus uh full-time focusing on uh investing and finding the right funds and managers. I'll tell you a bit more about that but I will save that for later. Uh so that's basically uh about me. So I tell you a bit about the class. So back I want to say maybe uh 14 15 years ago when uh Vasilia and I were working together at Morgan Stanley, we came to MIT to recruit quite often and Vasilia was from the math department. I was from core six. So we met a lot of uh really bright uh students with quantitative background but they don't really know much about finance and uh they ask many good questions. So we just felt like in a half an hour or one hour interview time slot it's simply not enough for us to answer all the questions or get to know the students. So may we figure maybe the best way is to have a seminar to tell the students more about how math is used in finance. So one seminar lecture actually got expanded to the whole term and uh so we invited the different practitioners talking about how math is being applied in different fields solving different problems that the class actually got very uh popular. I mean one of the first classes we got students sit on the floor everywhere they want to know about you know should they pursue a career in quantitative finance. So the math department uh was very uh supportive and so we teamed up with uh Peter the following year to offer half of the lectures in actually math to fill up all the background knowledge and then kept the half of the class uh talking about application cases. We even had a field trips taking all the students to New York touring the trading floor of Morgan Stanley. We did that for a few years and uh we had uh various uh you know fun and some students really ended up working uh in New York. Some of them are still there uh in various jobs. So that's how this class came about. So, let me turn the table around asking you a few quick questions. You don't have to state your name. Just raise your hands. It's fine. How many of you have watched our open courseware recording from 2013? Oh, great. Yeah. See five, six hands. So, you you have you knew something about this class. How many of you have done internship jobs at the financial firm? A third. Okay. How many of you are mass majors? Most of you. How many of you are graduate students? Okay. A few. Uh how many of you actually are outside MIT? Because we have Okay, great. I want to welcome all the students came you know cross from cross registration or sitting from other schools. We always had a feel uh from other schools. So you're very welcome. If you are unfamiliar with some of the MIT uh systems, please feel free to uh seek for help. So that's all about the introduction. So let me get into the actual content for this lecture. So as I said, the purpose of this first lectures give you some background information. I realize some of you already have done intern uh jobs so you know quite a bit but I but I want to also uh be sensitive to the students who have actually not done the internship uh positions and I can give you some basic knowledge and uh I I give you one example in one of the first years when we had this uh class uh so there are some students didn't even know what a stock is what the stock was. Okay, so you shouldn't feel bad if you have no knowledge about the financial markets. We'll make sure you have plenty of the knowledge when you finish the class at the in December. Okay. So what is you know finance or financial markets about right? It's really about there is a market of exchanges in the original form. people come to the market you know at the village exchanging goods you know you have something I don't have something I need something you know so let's exchange so the stock exchange was formed with the same idea right so some buyers want to own equity of a company I explain what equity is equity is basically ownership of a company uh meaning stocks and uh they centralize all the trading of these stocks at a particular place. These are exchanges, right? Many cities, large financial centers have different exchanges. And in the last few decades, that also has changed. It's no longer that centralized. So people do a lot of over-the-counter OTC trading. So it's trade by appointment, trade by arrangement, trade by contract, right? So you don't have to go to a centralized exchange to finish a trade or there are electronic communication networks or ECNS. You can do that simply electronically. I mean they also act as distributed exchanges. So these are kind of the major uh platforms of markets. So what are the products people actually are trading or exchanging hands? first is simply money, right? So Peter mentioned bitcoins. Bitcoin is actually kind of form of money, you know, not the fiat form but you know different forms but you know originally gold or metal or paper money or coins but or now different currencies issued by different governments. Those were basically uh first way of first essential product to to trade with. Then you always hear about the stock market. Stock market represents ownerships of companies, right? Peter mentioned uh Nvidia stock going up rapidly you know because people bet on oh AI applications the demand for GPU chips and so on data centers. So to get ownership of a company you buy stocks I mean also you can buy equity indices meaning a basket of stocks. So you probably have heard S&P 500, right? So standard pool 500 is essentially five largest companies uh you know here. So you can you can get exposure not to just simply one company, you can get exposure to many of them at the same time. These are the ideas of index or uh you know they can have uh different forms of that traded in ETF exchange traded funds also representing often basket of different stocks and uh there are also uh two kind of tiers of markets. So the ex the exchange traded stocks is called the listed stocks. So they have to go through a process called IPO initial public offering to become listed on the exchange. So but that's called the primary ser uh process to go from a private company become a public company have stocks freely traded. There are also private companies which I'll get into later. But after it it become listed is traded by many other people. So it's called the secondary market. So after primary getting listed is a secondary market. So besides the large category of equity market, there's also a big category of bond or fixed income market. So bond is essentially a loan where it's a securitized loan. So it become listed and tradable. So the most uh commonly uh known bond is the US treasury bond, right? US government borrows money from the investors. You know us or institutions they pay interest periodically either quarterly or semiannually. And uh so the bond issuer has obligation to pay back the whole principal amount or the notional amount at the end of the maturity but they can also default on that payment on both the principal or the interest. So bond has a credit risk meaning that the issuer may not always pay back right. So, so that involves the exposure of the credit of the issuer. So, that's basically uh related to a whole bunch of credit related products. And uh 2008 global financial uh crisis is really a credit crisis because that started in the mortgage uh market. people borrow money to buy houses but couldn't pay back and also these mortgages were restructured into different kind of derivative products and uh we'll get into that later. So related to bonds there's a interest rate curve which is also very important right depends on maturity of the bonds the interest payment is or the coupon is actually different if you only borrow for three months you pay certain interest you borrow for 30 years you pay another interest rate every year depends on the curve shape of the interest rate and as well as the supply demand and many other factors. The Federal Reserve Bank which is the policy bank of the United States is responsible of setting the short term the the front end interest rate to affect the whole interest rate curve. I mean right now as many of you know the interest rate curve is actually inverted. the front end interest rate is higher than the longer maturity which is not often the case. Okay, we can also get into that later. uh so related to interest rates there are you know uh real estate uh products as I mentioned the mortgage and the asset back securities and another whole category is commodities you know I mentioned gold but there's also crude oil Peter's example of the futures dipping down below zero and uh agriculture products right I mean now we're in the era of electrifying everything electric vehicles uses a lot of uh copper right or lithium uh for batteries. So those commodities were trading uh rapidly higher and also follows the cycle. So I I'm just giving you some ideas of the basic products. But on top of all these products, you can also have derivative products meaning you can derive a other contracts of trading. So you can have options. So I don't just buy the stock. I want to buy the right to own the stock in the future. That is the option. So it's a right but not the obligation. I can also say I don't want to buy it now. I just want to buy it a year from now. So that's a forward contract. So I just want to buy the stock index futures which is a very liquid and standardized contract. So you can also say I want to do a swap. I don't want to really buy things. I want to say I buy it from you now but a month later I sold it back to you. So it's a swap contract. And so there are many different ways of uh structuring a product for different purposes and the needs. So once you actually land on a job like that you you become an expert. Your math will be very useful. Okay. So who are the players in the market? So typically they are the banks you deposit money with, right? Bank of America, Chase, uh they take deposits, they also lend out the money uh to uh home builders or other commercial uh projects. There are the investment banks where you interview, they come to MIT to recruit, right? So the Morgan Stanley's, the Goldman Sachs and others, the JP Morgans's uh JP Morgan was actually a a commercial bank, but since uh the termination of glass deagle law in 1999 999, they turned themselves into a investment bank. in terms so back into investment bank because many years ago uh before 1930 they were they were Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan were one company uh so they have essentially three main uh divisions in the investment banking business one is called equity so you when you go interview if you're interviewing with the equity department you should know that that's to do with stocks Okay. When you interview with the fixed income department, you're going to deal with bonds, interest rate curves, currencies, uh possibly commodities and other derivatives. You can also join the so-called IBD investment banking division which is more about corporate finance or raising money taking a company from private to be listed public company or issuing bonds or some other ways. So they are doing more services and the client uh uh relationship uh planning and other type of uh uh uh investment banking services. So beyond the investment banking business of these banks, they usually have asset management division. So they produce products such as funds, right? mutual funds or other type of uh higher return funds. They also provide wealth management services helping uh the individual or wealthy uh families to manage their wealth. Uh so outside the banks there are hedge funds. So some of the internship must be with some hedge funds. Hedge funds are essentially trading entities, right? So they use their capital or their investors capital try to generate returns. So by the way at the end of this I'm I'm going to play a assign a game to all of you which is related to uh investing and trading. Okay. So retail investors. So they just simply open a brokerage account and uh uh you probably have and and your parents have and trade central banks. They involve uh they guiding the markets you know usually uh providing liquidity or intervening the currencies or whatever they are policy driven. They are corporates. So corporates come in mostly for hedging purposes. They want to reduce the exposure from their exports or inputs. What is the objective of all these players involved uh in the markets? In one sentence, they try to maximize uh the gain. Why minimize the losses? Okay, because financial markets are uncertain, right? So you don't know when you initiate a trade you will end up making money or losing money. So investors have the money they seeking returns. The borrowers or you can think about them as a managers they actually they need the money they can take the risk. Okay. So the trade between lender and the borrower is essentially the main driving force of all the financial relationships. You can always pair them up this way. And uh another example right I just quickly mentioned you probably heard the terms LP versus GP. LP means limited partners, GP means general partners or in a simple words is the investor versus hedge fund manager. is that relationship. If you one day want to raise a hedge fund, right? You need to deal with your investors. So, you need to uh sort out these kind of relationships. So, the trader types that we can categorize into the three. One is the hedgers, right? Like corporates, they want to reduce risk. I mean, second is the market maker like a lot of the banking uh the bank trading desks, they make buying a price, a selling price or bid or an offer. Their objective is to earn that spread but not to take risk. Every time they try to earn that spread then quickly flatten out the position. The last category are the risk seekers, the proprietary traders or the fund managers. So they use their own capital to uh initiate risk and hopefully they are betting right to make a return. So how is this all related to math right? Why why you need to know all these things? I assume you are in this class because you have some interest of finding out how math can be used uh in the financial markets. So the math is used also in the three different ways. One is to uh come up with a pricing model because these instruments especially the derivatives the options the forwards the swaps is actually quite complicated. In one of the guest lectures later on in the term you will hear from John Hall. He wrote a textbook many years ago on how to price options. you know, Vasilia and I probably will back then all the, you know, uh, hungry readers of those books to figure out, uh, how differential equations can be used. I mean, he was a pioneer in this field and MIT actually is at the was at was at the frontier of all these innovations back in the 70s, right? So you probably heard the Nobel Prize given in the 90s to the black shows merin model. So that was a model using mathematics to price options right. So they won uh economic prize uh Nobel Nobel prize in economics. So that's the pricing model side. The second part is also very important is risk management. I mean when you take on a risk take on a position you first question you have to decide is how big the position should be right so you have certain amount of money do you want to put all in all your chips on one stock or you want to diversify put them into different stocks once you put your investment in when do you change your mind when do you sell when do you take profit when do you cut losses Right? So all the things you know your greed your emotions will drive you and on one hand your fear will also drive you on in other situations. So risk management is actually a very quantitative process. You should let math uh speak for that uh process. The last one is I think most people are interested in especially sitting in your seats. You say if you can make a trading strategy perpetual moneymaking machine using some kind of a hidden mathematics wouldn't that be so cool right you just go to the beach and let the machine make money for you. I mean that's the dream of uh many quantitative managers and I would say some of them are very successful some of the funds out there they have achieved amazing outcomes using mathematics but the problem is once they found those secrets they would never disclose it and if you join them they'll ask you to sign a lifetime non-compete meaning when you leave the shop you cannot say a word of what you learned yeah go ahead If you sign a lifetime long-term fee, don't they have to pay seven is where they fire you ultimately? >> Yes. >> For a lifetime. >> Not not a lifetime unfortunately. Yeah. So, we're not going to get into that uh for this. Yeah. But I first step you have to find those secrets. Okay. Uh so how do you find those secrets? Right. So people say okay why don't you just look at the data, right? learn from the historical patterns then extrapolate them. Right? The efficient market theory says that's not possible. If is there such thing you know $100 bills lying on the ground there will have already have been picked up long time ago. Why would that secret waiting for you to uncover, right? There are many smart people before you. The behavioral finance theory says, "Oh, wait a second." You know, because people are not totally rational under certain situations. We're not thinking rationally. That's why we're providing these opportunities for others to explore. Is this a zero sum game? So, I'm getting into now investment strategies. Okay? I'm not of course telling you all the secrets, but I'm laying all the steps for you to think about what you should focus on. So you first you should focus on do you want to do this by yourself or you want to hire other people to do it for you, right? So this is the direct versus investing in other people's funds or fund of funds. Do you want to focus on publicly traded markets? As I said, all these things, stock, bonds, currencies, or you probably interviewed or heard venture capital, private equity, buyouts, uh, re real estate funds, natural resource funds. I mean, they're not so transparent, but they seem to make a lot of returns too, right? You need to pick. These are very two very different markets. Also, passive versus active. Do you want to do the stock picking, selecting the stocks, or you just want to buy the index? Buying S&P 500 in the last 10 years would have done very well and beating most of the fund managers, right? So why shouldn't you just, you know, do the passive also systematic versus discretionary? Do you want to make decisions based on some systematic or quantitative rules, models or every time you want to make a decision by yourself using your human brain? Do you want to even you want to follow the quantitative model using math? Do you want look for statistical patterns or some deterministic relationships? deterministic relationships like like a lot of physics right if A plus B you know you will get C but in statistics you'll have a probability of getting C right so I would say nowadays finding deterministic arbitrage or trading strategies very hot those those $100 bills are definitely have picked up but sometimes they still show up do you want to trend following or mean reversion. That means when market goes up, do you want to buy more or market goes up, you want to sell, you play the contrarian or you buy at the dip? Do you want to focus on shortterm or you focus on long-term? short term you're trading very fast and uh you're trading in the liquid very you can change your mind easily or you you make your decisions very slowly you take your time I mean the uh startup companies you invest with your venture capital may take 10 years to find out if it's successful or not do you want to be a Warren Buffett like value investor right you look at the current price should be much lower than its value or you focus on the growth of the company. You project Nvidia's future income for the next 10 years. As long as the future value is going to be greater than the current value, you you can you can invest in it. I would say in the last few years more and more people are focusing growth rather than value. You need to figure out why. Okay. and history versus future, right? Do you want do you believe history will repeat itself? So you follow the patterns or you actually don't simply extrapolate into the future. The key is you need to understand your own objectives. So your objective is to maximize your gain, right? Versus minimizing your loss. But that's not all of it, right? You need to understand why do you need the money? What's it for? How much can you afford to lose? How much you going to spend every year and your life horizon of income versus spending. Uh this is a whole set of investment objectives you need to understand about yourself. Then you need to pick an area you are the best. You are the best. you have an edge over the rest of the market, right? You need to understand why you are you should make money, other people should give you the money and uh you need to find suitable strategy for you. Ultimately, if math is your strength, you need to make math your edge. Okay, for that uh I'm going to quickly talk about the uh trading game, then I will pass on to Vasili. So this game is about for every single one of you to pick a stock or ETF exchange traded funds just traded like stock or bonds or whatever only to buy. Okay. So I know some of you are more sophisticated say can I short? If you want to go short you buy the short uh related ETF. Okay. So, pick one stock. You are hypothetically given $10,000. Everyone has $10,000. Each one of you, you need to let us know, email us your selection. You you pick only one thing. You let us know before September 14th. We're going to we're going to give you the slide on the website. So, don't worry. Uh the price you buy is at the close of Friday of September 13. The price you sell is automatically set on Friday, November 15th. So about two month period. So you need to track on the spreadsheet how many shares you have bought. That's easy. $10,000, right? You know, you just convert into shares uh divided by per share price and uh your daily profit and loss in dollar and percentage. That gives you a practice of how to track your position. Okay. Every day there's a P&L profit and loss. At the end of the close on November 15th, calculate the total loss or or profit and also why I want you to do one calculation to sum up all the daily gains on one side called G and sum up all the daily losses called L in dollar terms. So G minus L should be your net profit and loss. But I want you to calculate that ratio G minus L divid by G plus L. That gives you the quality of your trading strategy. A bonus, you're giving one time chance to change your mind on October 11th close. You email us your decision if you want to switch on before October 12th. You can switch to one other uh position. You can decide not to switch. But when you switch, you carry the balance whatever is left your $10,000 maybe 1,000 left or become five uh 50 grand whatever roll into a new position. So at the end of the term we will announce the top three leaders. Okay, for that I pass on to Vasili.