Today we're going to continue our tax discussion uh talking about chapter 20. Uh remember the first three chapters of tax are really about tax theory. Chapter 18 was about thinking about how we define the tax base. Chapter 19 which we went through rather quickly was about tax fairness and the topic of what economists call tax incidents. Now we turn to the topic of tax efficiency. Tax efficiency is in some sense the more fun topic because it really is the ultimate place we see the difference between intended and unintended effects that we discussed in chapter one. And to see that, there's no better place to start than uh about halfway through your packet, figure 20-3. Uh let's talk about the window tax. What is the window tax? So in 1696, English King William III needed to finance a war with France. He wanted to tax people who had the ability to pay taxes in order to raise money. So how do you measure that in 1696? We don't have W2 forms in 1696. Well, King William decided that a good sign of who was wealthy was how many windows they had in their house. That the more windows you had in your house, the wealthy you were, glass was actually really expensive back then. If you go tour ancient Europe, you'll see windows were often made of the bottom bottom of wine wine bottles because it was so hard to make glass to get glass. So, if you had windows, that meant you were wealthy. So, basically, he said, um, we're going to tax people based on how many windows they have in their house. The problem is that is an easy tax to avoid by either boarding up your windows or building houses with no windows. So it's an easy when he tax people on based on how many windows they had. He set up a tax was rather easy easy avoid. Moreover, the problem is when you avoid that tax by boarding up your windows in 1696, it's incredibly unhealthy because basically you uh don't have fresh air coming into your house. Indeed, Charles Dickens wrote about this. Um, there was a typhus epidemic um in 1781 in Carlile which was traced to an house inhabited by 64 families. In order to reduce the window tax, every window was built up and the source of ventilation was thus removed. The smell in this house was overwhelming and offensive to an unbearable extent and 52 people died from typhus starting in this house. So we have here is an example of what we call the inefficiency of tax avoidance of people trying to avoid taxes based on by undertaking other activities that could be inefficient. Now how do we know people responded? Well, this is a very clever empirical study. There's a study where this these economists actually collected data on the number of windows in every house in a large section of England in the 1700s. And they looked at the data on how many windows houses had houses had. And they noticed that the way the window tax worked was if there was fewer than 10 windows in the house, there was a tax of six pence per window. But once you got to the 10th window, the tax went to nine pence per window, including the first nine. So the the ninth window was taxed at 6 p. The 10th window was taxed at 100 p because you paid you or or no 40 36 46 p because you paid an extra 4 cents on all the previous nine windows plus the 10 cents for the 10th window. And if you look at the data in figure 20-3, what do you see? A huge spike in the number of windows and houses at nine windows. Indeed, there was another notch at the 15th window. The tax went up higher. What do you see? Another spike in number of windows at 14 windows. So basically, this is evidence of people avoiding the tax. Indeed, what's really cool is they then changed the tax where later there was a the big jump in taxes started at the eighth window and so flipped to figure 20-4. There became a huge spike at seven windows. This is not unusual. There is a history of people doing things to avoid taxes. Any of you ever heard of Tuscin bread? Tuscan bread is saltless bread. Okay, it's a term for saltless bread. Why is that called Tuscan bread? It's called Tuscan bread because in um I got to get the year right. In uh in the papal state of Tuskin, I don't have the year. Uh the Pope imposed a tax on salt. So they started making bread without salt. If you visit many developing countries, you will see what looks like an unreasonable number of unfinished buildings. If you develop countries, you'll notice buildings often look like the top floor is unfinished. That's because many countries have taxes on finished buildings. So they do is they just build buildings with an extra full that's unfinished and avoid the tax on finished buildings. Um uh and there's the one of my favorite examples is there's a tax on shoes in the US that's 40%. The tax on slippers is 3%. What is interesting shoes and slippers? It's basically how the bottom what the bottom looks like. So actually Chuck Taylor sneakers by Converse have a thin layer of felt on the bottom that wear away after use them a few times, but because of that they can be classified as slippers, not sneakers, and pay lower tax. The point of these fun examples is that basically people can do lots of things to avoid taxation. And the fundamental point of this chapter is that those efforts they take to avoid taxation impose efficiency costs on society. So to see this, let's start. Let's go back in figure 20-1. About halfway through your packet. Let's go back to figure 20-1 to our tax on gasoline. We had last time we talked about tax fairness. Remember, we were in initial equilibrium with a 100red billion gallons of gas being sold at a$150 a gallon. The government comes in and taxes the suppliers of gas 50 cents a gallon. What did that do? That shifted the supply curve up by 50 cents, moving a new equilibrium from point A to point B with a new price of A$180, which meant that producers avoided much of the incidence of the tax and that's we focused on last time, but also new quantity of 90 billion. Now, we're going to turn our focus to quantity. Tax fairness is about prices. Tax efficiency is about quantities. What we see here is what we learned about in 1401 that this tax causes a dead weight loss. The dead weight loss is the units that were efficiently traded before the tax that are no longer traded. So before the tax, the 99 billionth gallon of gas was something where the consumer surplus from consuming that gallon exceeded the producer surplus exceeded um the consumer value. I'm sorry, of consuming that unit exceeded the marginal cost of producing that unit. As a result, producing that unit delivered both consumer surplus and producer surplus. When we tax and therefore reduce the number of gallons sold to 90 billion, we cause dead weight loss. We destroy productive trades. Trades that are being made that were delivering surplus society are now destroyed. That creates our classic dead weight loss triangle. Remember the deadway loss triangle, we talked about this in chapter six. It points to the efficient outcome. So the efficient outcome is point A. The dead weight loss triangle points there and then spreads out from there. So the further you get from the efficient outcome, the bigger the dead weight loss. Yeah, Alec was completely vertical. >> Hold on. Let me hold on. Hold on. Hold on. There. We'll get there. Come on. You got to leave me a little mystery here. Okay. So basically this is our fundamental inefficiency caused by taxation. Okay. Question about the basic analysis. This should be pretty familiar. You saw this in 1401. We know about dead weight loss. But the key thing is to remember the intuition of dead weight loss. It is trades that deliver social surplus that are destroyed by these taxation. And this is our first hint about why we can't just spend all that money in the first twothirds of the book without thinking about how you raise the money. Because when you raise the money, you create an efficiency. And that's going to matter. This is the other leak in Oaken's bucket. Remember we talked about Oakan's leaky bucket and we talked about three source of leakage. One was the person has to carry the bucket. One was distorted labor supply among the people getting the transfers. This is the third source of leakage. A distortion in economic activity by raising the money. Now as Al's question pointed out, let's go to the next figure. You can see that dead weight loss is fundamentally determined by elasticities. Remember incidence was determined by elasticities so is dead weight loss. Okay. When demand is very inelastic as Alec pointed out there's a very small dead weight loss. Why Alec? Why why is that weight loss so small when the demand's very inelastic? >> Yeah. Basically it's perfectly inelastic. There's no inefficiency because nothing's happens. When you tax insulin there's no inefficiency. Everyone just keeps buying insulin. Okay. But when you tax McDonald's but not Burger King, there's massive inefficiency because everyone just switches over. It's perfectly last. Everyone switches over. Yeah. >> Is consumer surplus still lost though due to the higher prices? >> Consu um consumer surplus is lost due to the higher prices. Absolutely. Well, the thing is what's tricky about that is with perfectly inelastic demand, consumer surplus is infinite technically. So infinity minus x is still infinity. So yes, it's small. It's not really smaller because in this completely madeup world of perfectly inelastic demand, there's infinite consumer surplus. But it is true in general if demand's very very inelastic. You won't get a lot of distortion, but you'll get a big loss of consumer surplus. >> You you will get Let me back up a second. >> No, I'm sorry. You won't You're right. You're absolutely right. No, you're right. I Let me Let me track that. you will not get a change in consumer surplus because consumer surplus remember is the area um uh basically if the demand curve is vertical then there's always infinite consumer surplus it's a weird case so it can't fall okay so basically at the end of the day you get some so I I guess the point is that if you look at figure 22A to come to Alex's question there's a tiny dead weight loss most of it is lost consumer surplus This is I guess the better answer to your question, Alec. With very inelastic but not perfectly inelastic demand, most of the loss in surplus is consumer surplus. Okay, but it's not perfectly consumer surplus. And it's not a lot because you didn't change your behavior that much. When demand's very inelastic, very elastic, you see a much loger loss loss in surplus. Um and once again when demand's fairly el if demand was perfectly elastic you would see a loss in surplus but it all be on producers. So it' be a measurable loss of surplus you'd see a loss in producer surplus. Okay. Yeah. >> I think what I meant was like the consumers were consuming either way they lose surplus. No, but they would don't. No, no, they No, because the point is that technically consumer surplus is the area above the demand curve. Above the price, but below the demand curve, but there's no below the demand curve. If it's perfectly elastic, perfectly inelastic. >> When it's not perfectly elastic, yes, they lose some. That's the top gray part. >> What about the people like >> pass which way? down to the original price. >> Right. That's that upper gray triangle. >> But now I'm sorry. So basically the price has gone up from P1 to P2. >> Consumer surplus that has been lost is the area below the demand curve above the price. So it's the gray triangle uh above the P1 line. We can talk about it afterwards. So basically um uh essentially elasticity is determinant. In fact more generally we can write the formula for dead weight loss. This is derived let me try this try just wander over here. Uh this is uh this is derived in the appendix. So we can write the formula for dead weight loss as deb weight loss. At least we know my handwriting can't get any worse, right? Is minus A to S A to D over * A S minus A to D times to squ time Q over P. A very very important formula you need to know cold. And let me explain why you need to know this code. Because this formula is not only mathematically relevant but intuitively relevant. Okay, this formula shows that the dead weight loss of taxation depends on two things. Incident dependent elasticities. Dis depends on two things. First of all, it depends on elasticities because this is multiplicative and this is additive. If either elasticity gets bigger, deadway loss gets bigger. Okay. So basically dead weight loss is larger the larger either supply or demand elasticities and that's intuitive from the graph. But there's a second feature of this formula which is very very important which is the toss squared term. Here's another way to think about this. Here's another we we we could write this that might be helpful. Differentiate this with respect to tax. We get that the marginal dead weight loss from an increase in tax is minus A to S A to D over two * A to S minus A to D. Okay. Um uh actually this goes away times to times Q over P. The marginal dead weight loss depends on the tax. The higher is the initial level of tax, the more is the dead weight loss from additionally increasing tax. And that's why we call this the toss squared rule. The toss squared rule is taxes cause more inefficiency. A if things are more elastic or b if there's the further they take you from the efficient outcome. To see this go to figure 20-5 and this will show you graphically that's after the window tax figures. This will show you graphically what why this this will give you the intuition. We start at point A with P1 and Q1. We then impose imagine a first tax. Let's say we tax 10 cents. Okay, that causes dead weight loss ABC. Okay, questions about that? Now, let's say I want to tax a second 10 cents. That raises the dead weight loss from ABC to AD. You add the trapezoid BCDE to your dead weight loss. You see that? Notice BCDE is much larger than ABC even though both taxes are 10 cents. Why? Why do you get this much larger trapezoid even though both taxes are the same size? What's the intuition? Come on. You guys know by now bite. Let's go, Stephen. >> Yeah. In particular, which trades produce the most loss surplus? >> Yeah. The further away you get, the more lost surplus. Think about it. Think about the trade at point A. Literally, the trade right at point A, the 100 billionth gallon of gas. People are indifferent between the 99.9999999 billion however you have billionth gallon of gas and the 100red billionth gallon of gas at that price they're roughly indifferent. So there's not a great sadness if that one last gallon doesn't get sold because that gallon was one delivered effectively only epsilon surplus. But if you think about the 81st billion gallon of gas or whatever, you know, if you think about one that's slightly to the right of Q3, that's delivering a lot of surplus. That's a gallon that people really want and they're happy to pay way more than it costs to produce, but we're destroying it through this tax. So the basic intuition, the toss squared rule is you're getting further from the equilibrium. So you're destroying more and more valuable trades and that's why tax that's why you get this um you get this second effect of taxes. Not only do elasticities matter but you have this toss squared effect. The base of taxation matters. Okay questions about that. Okay this rule is going to come to become going to become second nature for you because we're going to use it a lot. Let's start with two interest with three interesting implications of this rule. The first implication is that a t remember how we talked about how the incidence of taxes would was affected by whether the whe there was a minimum wage. The efficiency of taxes is also affected by how competitive the market is. Let's look at figure 20-6. And let's consider a tax in two markets. On the left hand side is a tax in a perfectly competitive market. In this perfectly competitive market, we tax and we lower the quantity from Q1 to Q2 and we create a dead weight loss triangle ABC. Now imagine that was a now imagine a market with a positive production externality. a market or alternatively could have been market power either way but imagine a market with a positive production externality the implication of positive production externality is what that we were already underproducing we often was Q1 that's where social marginal benefit equals social marginal cost remember this is a hint here this example of how when we write the final we're going to use all sorts of chapters at the same time okay here I'm bringing back stuff back from chapter five and six into the tax chapter okay this is remember this is if this intuition If you're like I remind yourself of the intuition of externalities. Remind yourself how this all relates. Okay, remember in a um in a market with a positive production externality, we are already underproducing. We're producing Q2 instead of Q1. So we add a tax to that market, it's extra inefficient because instead of adding a triangle, it's adding a trapezoid because we've already given up the triangle because we're already not producing enough. This is the flip side. Remember in chapter six we chapter five we talked about corrective taxes. When there were negative externalities a tax should get you to efficiency. Well when there's positive externalities a tax will get you farther from efficiency. Okay. So that's one kind of implication of the toss squared rule. What's another implication? Well here is the implication which is you know this is a hard one. Hard one for we lefties. But the another implication is that progressive taxes are more inefficient than flat taxes. Taxes where the margin rate rises are more inefficient than flat taxes. I'm going to work through an example with you to show you why this is. Okay. So, let's imagine that basically uh there's a society with two individuals. You have to I'm not going to write this on the board because it's too hard for me, but you just write this down. There's two individuals. One has a wage of $10 an hour. One has a wage of $20 an hour. So there's a high skill and a low-skll individual. They both have an elasticity of labor supply of of one. For each of them, a 10% rise in the wage leads to 10% more labor. Okay? And moreover, we're gonna assume that they both face a m a elasticity of demand for labor of minus one. They both work for employers where a 10% rise in the wage leads to 10% drop in demand for labor. Okay. So both supply and demand elicities are one. Okay. In figure 20-7, we show the initial equilibriums in this market. On the left is a figure for the lowwage worker. On the right is the figure for the highwage worker. Okay. So the lowwage lurker and the highwage worker we're going to say are initially in equilibrium working a thousand a thousand hours a year. So the low wage workers at point A working a,000 hours a year at a wage of $10. The high wage workers at point D on the right hand side working a th000 an hour each year $20 an hour. This is a complicated example. Please stop me if at any point if it's not clear. Okay. Now, we're going to roll in and levy a tax. We're going to levy a tax of 20% on all labor earnings. 20% tax. What does that do? Well, we know that lowers labor supply by 20%. Right? We know the elasticity of labor supply is one. So, that's going to be a shift from S1 to S2. That is going to you could underlying math here. You can do basin elastices. You should be able to do underlying math. You can find that that lowers the hours worked from a,000 hours to 894 hours. Okay? And that that raises the equilibrium wage because there's fewer people working to 1118. It creates a dead weight loss of ABC. So the 20% tax on low lowskilled workers has created a dead weight loss. workers who are productively willing to work are no longer able to. Okay. The same tax on high-skilled workers does exactly the same thing. It creates a triangle DEF. Why is DEF the X-axis is the same? Change. Why is DEF bigger than ABC? They both lower the labor supply by the same amount. 1,000 hours 894. Why does that create a bigger dead weight loss for the $20 an hour worker? Why is the triangle DEF bigger than ABC? I mean, graphically you can see it, but intuitively. Yeah. Wage. In a competitive labor market, your wages are marginal product. They're producing more valuable That's why they're getting paid more. Your wage is a value m marginal product. Therefore, you're being paid $20. You're producing something that's worth twice as much as someone being paid $10 an hour. Or your labor is worth twice as much. Therefore, distorting it is twice as costly. Okay. So, that's why Yeah. >> Exactly. The reduction hours will be the same, but the hours are more valuable. Once again, like really, you know, I talked earlier today with with with someone about uh you know, the the the bad economics, the dismal science. Sometimes we have to draw conclusions we don't like. One conclusion is in perfectly competitive labor market, the rich guys producing stuff that's more the higher paid guys produce stuff that's more valuable than lower paid guy. Okay, you may not believe that and that's because labor markets aren't perfectly competitive. But if they are, that's the implication. Okay, now so if you look at the table below, if you look at the table, unfortunately the tables uh yeah, I'm sorry. So if you look at So I'm now on figure 27. Look at the table on the next page, the top table with no tax. So what we have is we have the low the tax rate, the low wage workers hours and dead weight loss, and the high wage workers hours dead weight loss. You see that when you go from a zero tax rate to 20% tax rate, they each go to 894 hours. You get a dead weight loss for the rich, which is twice as big as the poor, and a total dead weight loss of 34713 cents. Okay, questions about that? Now, let's say I replace that with a system that in equilibrium will be revenue neutral, but I want a progressive tax system. In other words, I want to not tax people below $10,000 a year, but tax people earn more than $10,000 a year. I want to be progressive. Well, in equilibrium to raise the same amount of money, that implies a tax rate of zero below 10,000 and 60 above 10,000. The reason it's not just 40 is you only tax the amount above 10,000. Even for the rich guy, you exclude the first 10,000. Okay? So, it's not like the poor guy gets tax zero and the rich guy gets taxed 60. The poor guy gets tax zero and the rich guy gets taxed 60 above the first 10,000. Zero on the first 10,000. It's a marginal tax rate. Okay, that's a progressive tax system. What does that do? Well, let's go back to figure 20-7. For the poor guy, dead weight loss is zero. You've gotten rid of the tax. They're back to point A. For the rich guy, they lower their labor supply in response to this tax all the way to 837 hours of labor, creating a much bigger dead weight loss by adding the the the trapezoid EFIG. So if you go back to the table, it's a zero dead weight loss. The last row, $0 low wage worker, but now a $566 dead weight loss on the high wage worker. Meaning the total social dead weight loss is higher. Total social dead weight loss is higher for two important reasons. First, the first is what we said before. It's mechanical. If you distort labor supply among a higher earning guy, you're costing society more because they're producing more. But the second is because of this to squared effect that basically there's a tradeoff. The more you shrink the tax base while raising the same amount of revenues, the more you have to tax another group even more. And that's a bad deal. That the extra revenues by taxing the rich high are much more inefficient. Why? Because you're already farther from that initial equilibrium. Question. What? Why do we have progressive taxes? Because we talked about in chap because progressive taxs are fairer. So basically, if you think essentially remember if you go back to our utilitarian social welfare function, what are we trading off? We're trading off the size of the pie and the distribution of the pi. If all you cared about was the size of the pi, you would all you would only want proportional tax. Okay. But we don't. We care about the distribution of the pie as well. And we trade those things off. And that depends on our social welfare function. >> Yeah. That is that is absolutely right and we will we will come to that. We'll come to the only time the Wall Street Journal's ever praised me. Keep that in mind. We'll come back to that. Okay. But basically uh that's absolutely right. we will basically proportional tax system is going to be much fairer redistribution to to progressive taxation imposes extra debt weight loss and that imposes the trade-off that we can evaluate our social welfare function which is we do more for the poor but we create more inefficiency and that's why Steve Steven implied it may better to not do distribution through taxes but through spending okay so that's a second implication there's a third implication which is quite interesting which is Governments should actually consider the time path of tax rates, not just the tax rate at a point in time when deciding on how to finance spending and do what we often call tax smoothing. So here's an example to make the point. Imagine that a nation has to raise 20% of GDP in taxes to finance its everyday operations and then there's a one-year war. And that one-year war will at one time cost 20% of GDP to fight. Should the government raise taxes to 40% of GDP for one year, then drop them back down to 20 or should it raise taxes by say 1% for the next 20 years or half a percent for 40 years or or by epsilon for infinity? Okay. And basically um do you guys ever call your parents except when you're in the car? My kid only calls when he's in the car. I swear to God. Uh anyway, um so basically um the essentially tax smoothing is saying the trade-off between financing and things right away and smoothing it over time. And we want to smooth it over time. Why? Because the deadway loss goes up with the square of the tax rate. If I go up to 40 in one year, I'm causing huge dead weight loss that year. Whereas if I just have an epsilon up every year, I'm a small debt we lost it every year and it will add up to less. So you want to smooth taxes over time. Now this actually is something which is quite interesting because many policies we'll talk about affect both cost squared and elasticities. There's a second reason why you wouldn't want to jack taxes up than take them down. Okay, which is that people might be more elastic to that. If you raise a tax rate half a percent forever, people may not respond. If you go to 40% more point back 20, people may then quit their jobs for a year or do something that's dramatic. So oftentimes policies can affect both the elasticity or it could go the other way. It could go if you for one year nobody can quit but forever they'll take a lower paying job. It's not clear which way it goes. But the point is often policies will affect both the tax squared and the elasticity terms. Okay. So I find this an incredibly exciting and important intuition about how you think about elasticities and uh and uh tax base sizes and thinking about optimal and thinking about tax tax efficiency. Okay. Now in fact just one side note all this presumes people understand the tax code. In fact there's a really interesting literature showing how badly people understand the tax code that in fact most people make two common mistakes. First of all, first of all, people people assume that the tax schedule's flatter than it is. Most people assume that rich people don't pay nearly as much more than poor people as they do. Second of all, most people tend to assume their average rate is their marginal rate. They tend to just sort of conflate the two. It turns out in that world with those mistakes that delivers lower dead weight loss from taxation. Basically, people are making mistakes since they think rates are lower than they really are. Debt loss of taxation is actually lower than it really is. So mistakes can maybe help government efficiency is sort of an interesting interesting implication of that. Just sort of a side note. Okay. But with that in mind, now let's come to policy. With this background, let's go to policy and let's talk about how many of you guys know James Dean is. James Dean going once, going twice. Jesus, you're young. Okay. James Dean, we got one. James Dean was a very famous movie actor from the 40 from the 50s who was like the young Brad Pitt. Think Brad Pitt made made two unbelievably important movies and then died in a car crash. The James Dean of economists was a guy named Frank Ramsay. Frank Ramsay was economist in England in the 1920s who wrote two of the most important articles in economic history and then died in a car crash at a very young age. and he um and basically one of those articles was the foundation of economic growth. The canonical growth model we use was based on Frank Ramsay's initial insights. The other is the model of how we think about optimal taxation. And what Ramsay said was he said look he asked the question very simply. He said how he said imagine a world where we raise taxes by taxing commodities. Let's forget income tax. This is 1920s. We didn't really have very good income tax system back then. Most taxes were raised by taxing commodities, tariffs, excise taxes, sales taxes. They were raised by taxing different goods. And often those goods were taxed at different rates. Some goods will be taxed at higher rates than other goods. And Ramsay asked, well, what is the right way to set taxes across goods? Imagine you have a commodity tax system. What is the optimal set of commodity tax rates? And the way he posed the question was quite good. He said look what is the way to minimize the inefficiency of taxation while raising acquired number of acquired amount of revenues and this is formalized in the appendex to the chapter but Ramsay's question he posed as let's minimize the dead weight loss across all the goods we tax subject to raising a given amount of revenues and he solved that problem and what he got was Ramsay's was what we call the Ramsy rule which is that actually I'll leave this here. He got the Ramsy rule which is that we should set commodity taxes across goods I to the point where the marginal dead weight loss of taxing good eye of the next increment to taxation. So the dead weight loss of increasing tax by epsilon on good eye over the marginal revenue raised by an epsilon tax and good eye. So once again if I increase tax I raise some money I cause some dead weight loss that should be equal to a constant across all I that you should change you should set tax across all goods such that this ratio is a constant not such that they're tax are equal but rather that such that this relationship holds let's think about the intuition first of all what is lambda lambda is a constant that represents the value of additional government revenues. Think about lambda being how much the government needs the next dollar. If the government really needs the next dollar a lot, lambda is high. If it needs doesn't need the next dollar much, lambda is low. So it's just this level shifter that represents the marginal value of the next dollar of taxes to the government. That's what lambda is. But the important thing is not what lambda represents. It's that this ratio equals a constant. What does that mean? So basically um let's recall that um let's recall that marginal debt weight loss is a positive function of the tax rate. Remember marginal loss is a positive function of the tax rate. So the more you tax a good the higher the marginal debt weight loss is. Okay. So basically and marginal revenue let's just assume marginal revenue is linear. Let's ignore the marginal revenue term for a second. Okay. So what this says is the more you tax a good higher this ratio becomes. So think about think about one intuition. If a good is already taxed very highly and another one's good tax is not taxed at all then what does this imply? Let's say you got two goods. One has no tax on it has a very high tax on it. What does this imply about where should you put the next tax? Well, you want to set both these ratios. And let's say in both case you raise a dollar. Where do you want to put? You want to raise the next dollar of taxation. Yeah. >> The sale of the commodity, not a commodity like you want doing commodity exchanges. You're in finance world. I'm like mean like an apple. Okay. An apple. Buying an apple, buying a banana, buying a loaf of bread, buying a cigarette, buying a gallon of gas. Yeah. Because >> right right so you want to put on the one hand there's that you want to put the good on the tax on the good that's taxed le you want to sort of basically that would say if that was all that existed if that was the only issue you'd want to basically do what with taxes you want to set them equal you want all the any tax that goes above it's like the consumption smoothing argument, right? Once one tax is higher, remember with consumption smoothing, if you give a dollar a rich to the dollar a rich guy and take it away from a poor guy, that's a bad deal because the rich guy has a lower margin utility of income. It's a similar thing here. Adding any dollar of taxes to which takes one above, it'll take one below, but going above causes more inefficiency because this term. So that's one argument, but there's another thing which is why taxes shouldn't always be equal, which is what else goes into marginal debt weight loss? Yeah, >> elasticities. And elasticities also turn off the commodity taxes. So for example, what what does the Ramsy tax imply? What does the Ramsy model imply about taxing luxuries versus taxing necessities? >> Yeah. tax luxuries less than necessities because necessities are more inelastic than luxuries. The Ramsay tax has some pretty nasty equity implications. It says basically things that are more elastic should get taxed less. So essentially when you put these two things together that's the tension that creates the optimal tax. You want to put taxes on inelastic goods but not so much that you've that you that the toss squared term comes to dominate. Essentially what the Randy rule does is trading off these two pieces. Trading off this piece versus this piece. It's saying put tax on more elastic goods, but remember the more tax you put on one good, the higher the marginal dead weight loss will be. And at some point it' be efficient to take it off and put it on a less elastic good tax on the least elastic goods. I'm sorry. Some point put it on a more elastic good. Okay. So Ramsay would say if you got a bunch of commodities lined up, let's say the world consists of apples and watches. say the first dollar of tax ought to go on apples because it's a lower elasticity of demand. Let's assume the elasticity supply is the same. Lower elasticity of demand, you're therefore going to um uh essentially create less dead weight loss. But should the hundth dollar of taxes go on apples or maybe at that point you want to keep apples on 90 a dollar on watches. Well, that you might want to because once you have $199 of taxes, there's a big dead weight loss that 100th tax whereas the first incremental tax on watches doesn't cause much dead weight loss. Another way to see this is to make a set of assumptions and with a set of assumptions we lay out in the appendix, we generally summarize the Ramsy rule as saying that the optimal commodity tax is minus1 over AI times lambda. that that is the formula for the optimal commodity tax on good eye. We call this the inverse elasticity rule. This is basically making some assumptions like um a perfectly elac a perfectly elastic supply side stuff like that and they're laid out in the appendix but you really need to know those. This is just sort of a shorthand that you can generally use. Basically it's a way of summarizing it say look we want more taxes on elast on inelastic goods but don't put all the tax on elastic goods. You want to basically share the burden. So tax on inelastic goods should be higher than elastic goods but not shouldn't have all the tax on inelastic goods because the toss squared rule. Okay. So it's basically elasticity rule against I also like to another way think of toss square rule is the broad base rule that broad bases of taxation um reduce inefficiency because of the toss square rule and this goes back to hake simons. This is why economists like Hake Simons. Hake Simons isn't just good for fairness, it's good for efficiency. When you tax everything, the rate can be lower. So the idea of optimal tax theory is the broader the base, the lower the rate can be. And the lower the rate, the less damage from taxation because the toss square rule. On the other hand, if the broad base means taxing a bunch of really elastic you don't want to do that. And that's the trade-off inherent in optimal commodity taxation. Okay. Yeah. >> No, this is all perfect market stuff. >> Yeah. >> You go to the next thing. >> I mean, you do it all simultaneously because L Yeah. Right? So, so then basically this leads to the equity question which is as always is a trade-off. How do economists model that? Well, they model a simple way. They to every good they add an equity weight. So they say look yes the Ramsay rule implies taxing inelastic things more or poor people consume inelastic things. So let's let goods have literally a welfare weight. Okay, where the goods consumed by the poor are worth more to society. Then in that case that would offset this. Not fully depends what welfare weight you put on it. But for example, if you said like insulin, you could put an infinite welfare weight in insulin and then insulin would never be taxed because it' be infinite inefficiency from taxing it. So you can always around with this model by just changing the weights on the goods, right? Yeah. >> Well, it wouldn't defeat the purpose. Depends what your purpose is. It's a social welfare function. Okay. If if putting an infinite weight in insulin means watches have to be taxed epsilon more, who cares? That wouldn't defeat the purpose. Yeah. Be a little more in efficiency, but guys wouldn't die. So maybe you're willing to make that trade-off. Yeah. >> No, you want to reduce the dead weight loss and collecting that revenue or or or as they say, you want to pluck the goose while inducing the least squawking. Okay. So basically the optimization function is minimize dead weight loss to raise revenue. Lambda is literally actually the lrange multiplier on the revenue constraint if you do the if you do the formal math. Lambda is the lrange multiplier. That's why we use lambda. Okay. But you don't need the formal math. You just need the intuition which is that basically lambda is the shifter which tells you how you are. You want your levels. But Ramsay isn't about that. Ramsey couldn't care about this. He's about this. Ramsay's about at a given level, how do I want to set the tax across goods? Okay, let me do an example of this a very famous example um which comes to work by the Nobel Prize winning economist Angus Deon. Angus Deon was hired as a consultant by the country of Pakistan to help them figure out how to set their commodity taxes. Okay. In 1984, the Pakistani government had three goods it was focused on. um it was focused on uh wheat, rice, and oils and fats. Okay. So, let's go to figure 20-8. This is a complicated example, so I want to try to go through this slowly. Three markets, wheat, rice, and oils and fats. The existing system was system which taxed oils and fats to subsidize wheat and rice. So look at table 20-1. You see that with the three goods and what the existing government policy was a 40% subsidy to wheat and rice and a 5% tax on oil and fat. Deon went in and estimated the elasticity of demands for these goods. And what did he found? He found that wheat was very was inelastic but that rice and oil and fat were both fairly elastically demanded. So now if you go back to your figure figure 20-8 you can see that that you have fairly inelastic demand curve for wheat but a more elastic demand curve for rice and for oils and fats. Okay, questions so far. Now the initial government equilibrium the government had put in policies such that we were at point C in the market for wheat because of a 40% subsidy. We're at point C in the market for rice because there was a 40% subsidy and at point B in the market for oils and fats because there was a 5% tax. Therefore we were getting remember subsidies create dead weight loss too. Anything which deviates from the perfect market equilibrium creates dead weight loss. Let's ignore all the pre-existing externalities in these markets. Okay. So, this is creating these three dead weight losses. And they asked Deon, how should we change our tax system? One nice thing about that question, it is way easier to figure out how to change a system than how to design a system. Changing system means I can just look at this. And De looked at said, well, wait a second. you've got a situation the subsidy um that basically you are taxing oil and fat to pay for these subsidies. Well, imagine if you reduce the subsidy on wheat some. That's not going to cause that much since wheat is fairly inelastically demanded. That's not going to cause that's not going if you reduce the subsidy on wheat. Okay? If uh if you reduce the subsidy of wheat, you don't get much social benefit. But if you reduce the subsidy on rice you get a lot because that's elastically demanded. So but and at the same time if you reduce the tax on oil and fats you also get a lot of benefit because that's elastically demanded. So he said basically what you ought to do is you ought to really reduce the tax on rice and reduce the subsidies to reduce the tax on fat and reduce the subsidies to rice and also to wheat. But that is as big a deal. the welfare gain is not as big. The real action is why are we taxing this very elastic thing to subsidize this other very elastic thing. And he recommended that on the margin they could reduce the tax on oil and reduce the subsidy to rice and that overall Pakistan be better off. The Pakistani government said that's great economist but here's the problem. We also care about equity. What are we consume these goods? Well, Deon said fine, I will go and measure the con the income distribution of people who consume these things. And what he found was that the people who consume the wheat were the poorest whereas the people who consume rice were were higher income. Yeah. So basically the bottom line is wheat and oil and fat were consumed the most by lower inome people and rice more by middle inome people. So what he said is well when you put distributional concerns in what that says is that further says we shouldn't reduce the subsidy of wheat because that's poor people but we should reduce even further the subsidy to rice that's not the poorest people and we should uh reduce the tax further on oil and fat because that's poor people. So that's how you put equity considerations into the model. This is not I don't mean you to remember this example. I want you this is an illustration of how this abstract theory can be put in place in the real world. He can literally help the people of Pakistan through this simple Ramsay intuition by actually getting the data estimating these demand curves and income distributions and advising the government on what to do. Yeah. >> No. Okay. I'm talking taxing and subsidies. We should So we should if there's multiple goods we're taxing, we should tax things that are more inelastic. But this is the this is a different example. Now we're not taxing multiple goods. We're taxing one and subsidizing two. So it's a different example. >> Well, no, it's it's it's just a small tax is why it's a small deadway loss. It's a 40% subsidy in the first two and a 5% tax. Yeah. All right. So, bas Yeah. >> Oh, there's no objectivity zero. I mean, basically, it's all that's why the economists like focusing on efficiency. Efficiency is in some sense where I is is a little more judgment free units. Not necessarily because I have to make judgments on how perfect the market is. Okay. So, there's still judgment involved in efficiency calculations, but a lot equity is all judgment. Okay. All right. So that's sort of an example of how you apply this method. Now, of course, in the world today, most revenue or in the US especially, most revenue is not raised by commodity taxes, raised by income taxes. So how can we take the uh intuition from Ramsey and apply to income taxes? Well, let's let's let's consider the following example. Imagine the following assumptions. First of all, everyone in society is identical. Assumption one, everyone in society is identical. Assumption two, there's diminishing margin utility of income. Okay, which we always assume. Okay. Assumption three, there's a utilitarian social welfare function. So we just care about the sum of utilities. And assumption four is that income is not elastic. That people just sort of what they earn is fixed. It doesn't depend on things like taxes. Okay. Identical individuals, diminishing margin utility of income, utilitarian social welfare function, fixed income. What's the optimal tax system? You can tell me based on those four facts, you can tell what the optimal tax system is in this society. Yeah. 100% tax rate above some point. basically say, "Look, everybody gets X. If you're above that, you get 100%. If you're below that, we're going to bring you up to that level." Basically, equal distribution of income. Why? Why should there be an equal distribution of income? Yeah. Because basically, if I give if if you and Alec are identity of income. Okay. So the key point is a natural starting point if you're utilitarian utilitarian is not a crazy leftwing utilitarian saying we care about everybody equally. That's not exactly leftwing. Okay. If you start with utilitarian social welfare function you actually get that a natural starting point is a perfectly distribution of income in society which is about the leftiest outcome you can imagine. Okay. So what's wrong with this? What's wrong with it is the fourth assumption which that incomes are not fixed. Then we tax individuals, we will create a leak in the bucket. Well, let's remember that there's also the issue that of course individuals aren't identical. So there's two things that are wrong with this. One, individuals aren't identical. Okay, remember economics expresses preferences. Okay, I didn't describe with James Dean. How about Scrooge McDuck? We got any Anybody know Scrooge McDuck is? Geez, you guys. Okay, we got four at least four times, five times many people. Scrooge McDuck is this Disney character who loves money so much he has a swimming pool full of money he swims in. Okay, Scrooge McDuck might not actually exhibit diminishing margin utility of consumption. He just likes more and more and more. We should respect that as economists because remember utility social welfare function doesn't judge the structural utility just adds it up. So in that case it might be efficient enough Scrooge McDuck have a lot more money because he actually loves money. Okay. So the bottom line is PE we our starting points an equal distribution of income society but if people are different i.e different marginalities of consumption and if income is endogenous i.e. taxes affect how much resources there are in society then we don't want equal distribution of income. Okay. So now we want to say how do we think about setting tax rates in a world where people the amount they earn depends on the tax rate. Well this leads to the famous LER curve. Arthur Lafer was a right-wing economist who was sort of very influential in the t we talked about the tax revolution in America being kicked off by Proposition 13 in California which capped property taxes. It led to it really it led to it was a big factor in electing Ronald Reagan and Ronald Reagan's big was implemented some of the largest tax cuts in history and his sort of intellectual case was based on the work of Arthur Lafer Ler drew a famous LER curve which was theoretically absolutely right. What did the LER curve look like? The LER curve I don't have to draw it because it's already drawn for you look like figure 20-9. What did Arthur Laugher point out? He pointed out he made three observations. First he said a tax rate of zero. So on the excess is tax rates. On the Y axis is revenues. He made three observations. First of all at a tax rate of zero you raise no revenues. Unimpeachably true. Second of all for some positive tax rate you do raise revenues. Unimpeachably true. And third almost certainly true but not unimpeachable. At a 100% tax rate, you also raise no revenues because if leisure is a normal good, no one would work if you couldn't keep any income. Maybe not true. You know, there's nerds like us who'd work anyway, but let's but it's not a crazy assumption. Given those three assumptions, you by necessity get a figure of the type of figure 20-8. It could be shaped very differently, but it's hits the x axis at zero and 100% and is positive in between. That is what we call the LER curve. And Ler argued that in a world like this there is a revenue maximizing tax rate where basically once you get higher than that tax rate you actually each additional increase in taxes lowers revenue. You might say how can increase tax lower revenue? Well, it's graphically true here. There must be a point if you accept my three premises. There must be a point at which raising the tax rate actually lowers taxes. And that's because the tax base, okay, the amount of tax revenues you get is what? It's the tax rate times the tax base. But the tax base is a function of the tax rate because people change how hard they work and what they earn when taxes go up. So, dr equals dr d to equals b b plus to * db da which is negative. So when you raise tax rates there's two offsetting effects. You first of all get money because you have an existing base, but you then lose money because the base shrinks. The peak of the LER curve is the point at which this is zero. That is zero at the peak of the LER curve. And to the right of that peak, you lose money by raising taxes. The second term dominates the first. Okay. So this is the underlying economics of the LER curve and this says that there is an optimal tax rate. The al tax rate is not 100%. As would implied in the previous example in my simple example. The optimal tax rate once again we solved this in the in the appendix but basically the idea optimal tax rates is to say how do we maximize social welfare while raising given amount of revenue. It's more complicated. Optimal commodity taxes were how do I minimize dead weight loss while raising a given amount of revenue. Optal income taxes say how do I maximize social welfare while raising a given amount of revenue. And the resulting optal income tax formula is of the form the optal income tax formula is of the form that you want a setting of taxes such that the marginal utility of individual I above the marginal revenue raised from individual I equals lambda. So it's a little bit different formula. You raise taxes until the margin utility of income for the next dollar of revenues is equal across all people. This is sort of hard to understand. Okay. So basically, but it reflects sort of two two trade-offs. A trade-off of two different factors. The first factor is that basically um uh essentially the first factor is vertical equity. That basically says you want to tax the rich more because they have a lower margin utility of income. margin of consumption. The second factor however again is behavioral responses which is as you tax the rich more they may respond by earning less income and that will mean that the marginal revenue raised from them is lower. You lower marginal revenue. Okay, this is sort of a hard intuition. So let's see it in an example. Go to figure 20-10. Uh, we got two people in this example. Okay. Um, Dr. H who has a high in who has a high income and Dr. L who is a low income. I don't know why it's a doctor. Can you make a note, Valerie? I don't know why they made that a doctor. It should be Mr. L and Dr. H. Okay. Or Mrs. L and Dr. H, whatever. Okay. So, basically what you have on the X axis you have the tax rate. On the Y axis you have this ratio I talked about which is marginally or margin of revenue. So the curve for Dr. L is higher than Dr. H because they have a higher margin utility because they're poor. Okay. So what that says is that we'd like to tax H more than L. The problem is that we tax H too much, he eventually gets so poor that you want to stop taxing him. So this says that the optimal tax rate where lambda equals that ratio is going to be 10% tax rate on the poor and a 20% tax rate on the rich. It's not going to be tax the put everything on the rich. Put everything on the rich then first of all you'll lower the margin utility so much they'll be poorer than the poor and second of all you won't as much revenue because they're elastic. Okay? And so that's basically how we think about optimal income taxes. The bottom line is a trade-off. you just like you want to tax the rich more but you want to respect the fact that you do don't want to shrink the size of the pie too much and that's inherently the equity efficiency trade-off. Okay, questions about that. So the bottom line is of all this is essentially we're thinking about this equity efficiency tradeoff and we can implement it by thinking about what's the fairness benefit in terms of targeting people with low margin of consumption versus the e for the efficiency cost in terms of distorting people's uh earnings. And we'll come back to this in chapter 25 and talk about what this all implies what the income tax schedule should look like. Now I want to cover one other topic before we stop which is related to this and is near and dear to my heart. Um which is thinking about um tax benefit linkages and the financing of social insurance programs. And this goes back to the article which most influenced my career which is an article by the economist Larry Summers who was my thesis adviser. Many of you know him from other runs of life being the secretary of the treasury, president of Harvard, the guy who said inflation is going to go through the roof. All the things we know about Larry Summers. But he's also a very famous academic and he wrote an article which by his own admission he did not think was a big deal when he wrote it but ended up being an incredibly influential article which and Summer's article made base of the following point. Let's go to figure 20-11. At the time Summers wrote this article, a very hot topic in public policy was the topic of employer mandates. The idea was if we want to get if we can deliver social benefits by making employers deliver them. It was an idea came out of the left. It was a liberal idea and this was the fundamental idea behind for example ideas that people like Bill Clinton were proposing for universal healthcare reform in the 1990s was let's get universal health reform by making employers pay for it. Okay. Let's make in particular let's mandate that employers provide health insurance to all their employees. Now people said that will be disaster. It will cause mass layoffs. Why did they say that? Well, they said that because of figures like figure 2011 A. They said look if you tax employers that will c that will raise the cost of labor. Not if you tax employers if you make employers provide health insurance. Take a benefit no employers are providing make it easy or suddenly make all employers provide I don't know jobs. I don't know whatever something they weren't providing. If you suddenly make them all provide that, okay, that's going to add a new cost. Workers will now come with a new cost. That will lower the demand for labor. Once again, ignoring labor market imperfections. Lower the demand for labor, reduce the amount of workers from L1 to L2 and create a huge dead weight loss. And therefore, we shouldn't mandate employers to provide benefits. Somers said actually that's wrong because if we mandate employers to provide benefits something else happens we make work more valuable. Why? Because now you don't just get a wage you get this benefit and you can only get it by working. So people are now going to want to work. It's like okay so imagine the mandate man the benefit we mandate is that everyone gets you know a vacation to Disney. Okay. You get a mandal employer find a vacation to Disney. Okay. Well, employers will have to pay more. But now people are like, "Wow, if I go work, I'm not working. If I go work, I get a vacation Disney. I might want to go work now. That's an extra benefit that entices me to work." That will shift out my labor supply curve. That is like panel B. So now the demand curve has shifted down, but supply has shifted out. That has two effects. [clears throat] First of all, the reduction in employment is smaller. Instead of level employment falling from L1 to L2, it now only falls to L3. That leads to a lower dead weight loss. Okay, the dead weight loss is lower. It also leads wages to fall more. Wages that are falling to W2 fall to W3. Indeed, to really drive home the intuition, imagine a world where every employee valued the benefit of a trip to Disney at exactly what it costs the employer to provide that. Okay? Everybody in the world valued the trip to Disney at exactly its cost. What would that imply? That would imply figure 20-11 where the reduction in demand from providing the trip to Disney from the cost trip Disney was the same as the increase in supply from people working because they like the trip to Disney. What happens in that case? There is no change in labor. Why? Why is there no change in labor? What's happened? What have you done with this new with this new rule? If the government mandates every Yeah. What have you done? >> Exactly. You haven't changed compensation at all. You've simply shifted the nature of compensation. You see, wages have fallen by the entire amount of the cost of a trip to Disney or what we call full shifting to wages. that in a world where employees and employees value benefit the most. In fact, there might be no dead weight loss from mandating benefits. Not only might the dead weight loss be smaller like in figure 20-11, it might be zero like in figure 20-12. You actually get no dead weight loss from Yeah. for many >> the University of Chicago question would be in summer's address figure 2012 like well this is stupid because if this is really true why employers be doing it already if I like Disney and I like it as much cost him to provide it why wouldn't every employer provide Disney to which Summers had a very good response and he he didn't use Disney as example he said imagine this example was Imagine uh this is the 1980s and health insurance excludes AIDS coverage and you you're going to add benefits for AIDS and let's say that the average employee it's very cheap because AIDS is rare. So let's say the average employee values that is exactly its cost or maybe more. Why would employers still not do it? Yeah. No. I mean forget the PR. I mean today's world that'd be good, right? Why do employers not do it? Yeah. Ever selection, all the workers who know they're at risk for AIDS come work for you. And it doesn't cost you the average, it costs you the full cost. So, no employer wants to go first and be the employer that covers AIDS because then they get all the workers that have it. Same with workers compensation. Why would you not want to be the one employer in 1904 that offer workers compensation? Because all the clumsy workers are going to come work for you and you're going to go bankrupt. any benefit even if it's valued fully or valued more than fully might not be offered because no employer wants to move first. In that world, a mandate can actually be efficient. Indeed, if people value the benefit more than its cost, a mandate could be efficiency increasing. Not only not efficiency reduced, it can be efficiency increasing. It's a very powerful insight. A simple insight. He his article is even called some simple economics of mandated benefits, but a very powerful insight. Okay. So the bottom line is that and it comes back to Tibu. Why? Because what was Tibu about? He was about tax benefit linkages. Why did communities provide the efficient level of public goods in the TIOU model? Because TIOU model the taxes you paid exactly with the benefits you got. Likewise here, something that people value the cost of employer is efficient to provide because they'll just pay for it in lower wages. There's a full tax benefit linkage. Okay, questions about that argument. Now, this argument raises some interesting issues. One issue is what Alec raised, which is why did employers do it already? The other issue is, well, when what's going to determine how big these tax benefit linkages are? Well, let's go back to our Disney example. Now, in fact, Disney's kind of fun for adults, but let's be honest, it's more fun for kids. So, there's gonna be a lot of difference in how employees will value that Disney benefit. Likewise, there be a lot of different people would value the AIDS benefit. If I know I'm, you know, in a in a heterosexual relationship and I'm never going to get a blood transfusion, I might not value AIDS coverage. Okay. Um, so basically, as a result, it's there's going to be differences across people in this tax benefit linkage, and that's going to complicate the model. His model is sort of written for the average tax benefit linkage, but heterogeneity will make the model more complicated. Okay, here's another issue. Actually, Summers I'm going to talk about this article. There's a big event firm on Friday. I'll be speaking about this paper at that event. I won't mention this point, but actually there's there's a mistake in the title, okay? Because this actually has nothing to do with mandated benefits. Take unemployment insurance. There's no mandate for unemployment insurance. You're just taxed. Employers are taxf employees unemployment insurance. The analysis is the same. Employers pay a tax. Employees get benefits. So because of employee unemployment insurance, I'm more willing to work because if I get laid off, I'm covered. So really, his article should be called some simple economics of benefits that are attached to work. Let me flip it around. Actually, the reason his model doesn't really apply to Clinton healthcare reform is Clinton wanted to tax employers and use the money to provide insurance to everyone. But what happens if you provide insurance to everyone? Then you don't get the labor supply shift. Even though it's a mandated benefit, if you're giving to non-workers too, there's no labor supply shift. The key trick that makes this work is that you're restricting the benefit to the people who are paying the taxes. That's what delivers the tax benefit linkage. Okay. If the benefit is so anything, it doesn't have to be a mandate. Anything which limits the employer cost, limits the benefit to those who actually have to go work for the employer is going to have this summer's offsetting effect. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, no. I mean, basically, we know this mandate exists. So, take workers compensation. Perfect example. This mandate exists for workers compensation. We have mandated workers comp coverage. Health care. We there is there is a small there was a small mandate in the original affordable care act. There's a mandate in Massachusetts. Some states have mandates, but basically doesn't really exist for health insurance, but it does exist. For example, if you offer health insurance and you're one of the plans that's regulated by the state, which is plans above X employees, X varies, you have to include certain features in your health insurance. Now the ACA made that national but before the ACA for example in Massachusetts you had to cover IVF. In other states you didn't. So that was a mandate but we didn't mandate people had insurance to mandate what you have to cover if you had it. Workers comp is the best example. And indeed my first ever published article was looking at well what happens if you mandate workers comp? What hap what is the extent of this shifting? And I found in work with the late great economist Alan Krueger, I found that in fact workers comp was almost fully shifted to wages. That is when as the cost of workers comp went up, now I couldn't study the introduction of workers comp. Later articles did that and found the same thing. I was looking at a world with workers comp. What happens workers comp gets more expensive or less expensive. We found was workers comp gets more expensive. It lowers wages and doesn't lower employment, which is consistent with figure 20-12. Okay. I then went on and in my thesis asked the question, well, wait a second. What happens if it's a benefit that doesn't affect everyone like maternity leave? There's what if we mandate maternity leave, which most countries in the world mandate paid maternity leave. We mandate unpaid maternity leave. In some states, we actually mandate paid maternity leave like Massachusetts, but in most states, we don't. Well, that's complicated because that's a benefit only to some workers. So if you can perfectly adjust every worker's wage, then you'd see the same model operate but just for the workers who benefit. But if it turns out it's hard to set different wages to different workers because they'll be pissed or discrimination, then it'll be hard to do it. So I actually studied an interesting feature of the system which is when I was born and before in until the mid 1970s. Okay, the way health insurance was set up is it said if you break your arm or have a burst appendix or have cancer, we'll pay your medical bills. But you have a baby. If you have a baby, here's 200 bucks. The idea was that child birth was not a medical event. It was a choice. So insurance did not pay for the cost of child birth. This was then viewed as discriminatory and a number of states started passing laws, mandates mandating insurance covered child birth. Well, this was a major increase in the cost of health insurance. So I looked at what happened to the wages in the states that mandated this maternity coverage. Then in 1977 the federal government mandated for the whole country. So we ran the reverse of the experiment. So I said some states had added it and then the rest states had to add it. And I looked at both and I looked at what happened to the wages of for example married women relative to say men or uh very older women who weren't of childbearing age. And what I found there was actually group specific shifting. That is the relative wages of married women and actually to some extent of their husbands since their husbands provide the health insurance actually went down relative to the wages of groups like young young single women or uh or older women or unmarried men which is consistent with the ability of firms to actually shift those costs even within the firm. It's consistent with this kind of model working within firms. Now does it work perfectly? No. But the idea is that this kind of model actually works across firms and within firms as well. Yeah. >> Well, I mean that's what's implied that it did. The ultimate you can't look at you can only look at equilibrium outcome. Labor didn't change. Okay. So what this says is this good news or bad news? Well, actually it's mixed news. Here's the good news. We can my evidence implies we can mandate paid maternity leave and women will not lose their jobs. That's the good news. If you want to extrapolate from my now 30-year-old paper to uh today, the bad news is you're not helping women. You're just redistributing the way they're compensated. So, if you think I'm going to mandate maternity leave because I want to help women, well, in fact, you're not. You're just giving them maternity leave instead of wages. But the good news, at least they won't lose their job. So, in some sense, it's it's it's an eitheror. You don't get the efficiency loss, but you also don't get the equity gain in some sense of help people out because they pay for it themselves out of their wages. Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. Great question. I couldn't investigate my paper. Maybe they did it through uh promot low slower promotions. The other thing, this is a very high inflation environment. So, they could have done by just not giving them raises as quickly as they did other groups. So, there are ways they could adjust, but I I can't really get at that. It's a good question. All right. Yeah. >> Right. No, but I mean I mean they're if you look at figure 2012, they're indifferent. Maybe they're even better off because maybe they've added it more than it costs the employer, >> but they're not. It's not like suddenly we're delivering this massive benefit to women for free. They're paying for it in lower wages. All right. >> Well, I mean, basically, it's it's like the minimum wage argument. How do we feel about giving more wages to some low wage workers, but other people lose their jobs? But so, that's the equity is harder because it depends on that, but the efficiency is clear. It's much more efficient to not have people lose their jobs. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, that's another thing. looked at the interaction with the floor and that suggests that there you couldn't shift it and they that would cause some job losses but then women's wages wouldn't fall as much. So the bottom line is the efficiency is clear. The more you shift to wages, the less inefficiency. The equity is a bit hard because on the one hand you reduce job loss. On the hand you lower wages. The point is not that I have a bottom line equity. The point is it's not as good as it seems. You say women are losing their job and that wonderful for women. Not necessarily. They might have to lose their job because their wages are lower. Okay. So let me stop there.