So today we'll be uh talking about the portfolio management as one of the application lectures. Um so I will share some of my uh research work uh from a practitioner's point of view. So rather one rather than from pure theoretical or mass point of view. So as we mentioned at the beginning of the term uh we've been uh teaching this class since uh 2012 and in 2013 this class was recorded uh for MIT open courseware. Uh the link I put it here is uh the lecture from 2013. Uh some of you may have watched that lecture. It was actually turned out to be one of the top most viewed uh uh courses. Our course is one of the top five actually on open courseware. Uh so I want to promise you uh in today's lecture I will give you a lot of new content. uh so you you will uh make your you know showing up the presence here worthwhile so we can also make it uh interactive. So this is the outline of what I will be uh talking about today. So first I'll talk about what is really all this uh portfolio construction is about coming from very basic level then I'll talk about what is the endowment model how do we manage a endowment fund then I'll talk about the portfolio theory and illustrate in some really special and simple cases for you to understand the math then I will really switch gear and talk about the limitations of these theory right the theory was proposed in the 1950s I mean of course a lot of people have worked in the field try to overcome the shortcomings of these theories so I myself has been uh spending a lot of time thinking about these problems so I will talk about my own research work uh in terms of how to improve uh the portfolio construction theory for example how to improve the risk measurement using volatility and sharp ratio and to and how to model uh crowding behavior and also you probably heard the power law also power law uh how this behavior actually originated uh from the crowding behavior. Now I will summarize. So before we start the lecture uh I want to do an exercise with all of you. I'm going to hand over a piece of paper to all of you. Yeah, please pass it down. Make sure everyone gets one piece of paper. What I want you to do is to write down your own investment portfolio. Just hypothetically think about you have $10,000 to manage and uh put down investments you like to have in the portfolio. put down the percentage of each investment. And uh I also want you not to think too hard and also too long on this. Just use your intuition. Imagine you are now a fund manager, right? Sitting at a pension fund or endowment fund or hedge fund, right? Just ask you to pick a few investment and uh then just hand it back to me. uh after you finish then we will talk about from where you started how to do the portfolio management. So just spend a couple minutes don't overspend your time. So why I'm talking so you can write down your choices. So when you receive that blank sheet of paper so you must be thinking what are the criteria for me to do this right? what are the considerations? So this is exactly I want to lead you into how to think about these problems. First of all you need to think about what's the objective of doing this exercise right? So always say oh I want to get a great return for the investment. Sure. So you have a return objective but is that what is the great return? Is that 10% 50% or 100%. What is the time horizon we're are talking about, right? And because investment is highly uncertain, what's your loss tolerance, right? You think about you have $10,000, how much can you afford to lose, right? So that those are the questions. Then when you pick those investments, you should also ask yourself what's your own ability of picking a winner, right? Why do you think you have an edge in predicting that market or investment? Then of course, how many investments you should have in the portfolio? Is that one, five or 50 or 100? Right? how diversified or how well mixed that investment portfolio should be. Right? Then ultimately the most important question is how do you size each of the It comes all down to sizing. Okay. So portfolio construction I will show you later. It's really about when you have a list of investment you like, how do you size them accordingly in rel you know relative amounts to each other to the whole portfolio. So now please hand it back uh because uh you I I want you to listen to me not uh just spending the time on writing down your portfolio. Okay. Uh you can uh it's your choice. Name or no name is fine. Yes, I'm I'm not going to call you names but I will probably use some of uh your answers as examples uh to talk about uh investments. So uh as we are collecting uh these uh uh uh portfolio choices so I'm also uh going to talk about in your decision making process. So when you choose investments, you probably were thinking about what markets right first of all you will be selecting your investments from and uh what are the instruments? >> So are we mostly finished? Uh so by the way uh for you uh we are doing an exercise. We ask you to put down uh your investment portfolio. just put on the percentage whatever you can do. Okay. Um so anyway um you're done. Okay. Okay. Uh for the rest of you if you want to take a longer time that's fine. I'm just going to use some of the examples. Okay. So uh the decision making process I was talking about you need to decide which market to pick your investment. Then you need to think about what data to collect right? what kind of signals you can derive and what the models you need to build, what factors you need to take into consideration, what predictions you need to make, right? Then assemble them into strategies, then we're talking about sizing and allocate your capital portfolio construction, then optimize it. Then at the end really to manage the risk. So now you can see what we really come down to is how to compare different investments to understand the relationship between different investments is to understand the return and risk profiles of all the investments. So what is risk? So in the in this chart we are talking about here I'm using volatility for the time being which uh represents uncertainty right of the outcome. Um later on I will kind of come back and is telling you volatility is not really the best measure for risk. Uh but let's save that for later. But before we talk about the investment choices, let me look at some of uh what you uh have written down. So one portfolio here has uh half in S&P uh straddle. So this is actually option strategy and uh then 30% in VIX related ETFs then 20% in uh dollar index futures. So sounds like someone has uh done an internship somewhere knowing option strategies. Uh so this portfolio has about uh eight investments. The largest one in it is cash 20% and uh 20% in QQQ which is NASDAQ uh ETF. Let me see. This one is uh 70% bonds, 30% stocks. This one is quite interesting because when we normally talk about 60 40 or 7030 portfolio, the the bigger piece tends to be the equity piece. Uh but this one probably has more uh risk neutral or risk uh parody type of construction. So we'll get to that. Uh this has many single name stocks. Microsoft being on the top and uh this is A-50% S&P 50% Vanguard Pale uh fund. Uh probably that's what is written. And this one 100% S&P. Yeah. Very uh much representing the average market. And uh so this one probably has five stocks, 20% cash. Yeah. 50% US Treasury bonds, 25% S&P. Okay. So fairly uh similar. So now you got the idea. uh and Peter and I used to uh kind of reveal uh over the years year-to-year change of the investment selection only three years ago in 2021 most of the class chose some crypto currencies and uh dogecoins being the top one being selected by everyone. I haven't seen any crypto investments today. So that just tells you the index investing ETF seems to be the theme of this year. You know, I don't blame you. I think it's I think it's pretty good idea. You know, S&P if you don't have particular uh edge you feel you like to have investing in index is pretty good choice. So on this graph I'm showing you here return versus volatility. So we already touched upon a lot of people choose chose cash right cash basically you can view it as a zero volatility as some minimum return you know Fed just cut interest rate is still over 4% um you know close to 5% and they may cut more but uh compared to the interest rate where it has been in the last 10 years this is actually not bad place uh to park your capital. Bonds have slightly higher return, a little more uncertainty of uh return. Um stocks definitely have more but the index has less volatility and the index return wise it may not be uh lagging uh the broad uh stock market. I mean as you know the index now is heavily weighted towards large tech large cap tech stocks and uh lately those large cap tech stocks has been have been doing really well. So if you long QQQ or S&P, you essentially long the magnificent seven stocks, right? And uh so the ETF uh investment choice here is a not a bad choice or index investment. Further up on the right is the private equity and venture capital choice. Uh which I haven't seen anyone put it down. So uh you you may be more thinking about the public markets but private equity and the venture capital are basically investing in private companies not publicly listed on stock exchanges. So those companies tends to be illquid. You cannot get your money out easily. You have to stay with them for a very long time. But a lot of times you have more influence on the company's operation and uh venture uh for example you invest in startup companies those companies can grow very fast can also fail very fast uh so the outcome the uncertainty range is very big but overall over the years they tend to produce higher returns to justify the uncert uncertainty or risk premium you are uh dealing with. So coming back to the return objective and loss tolerance. So we should think about uh when you write down your portfolio right so you try to maximize your return for sure right is anyone here disagree with you should maximize your return probably not right at the same time you should minimize your risk in this case minimize your uncertainty right so you want to maximize the ratio of return over volatility right that's one of the objectives but you may have constraints as well, right? There are certain investment you may not want to uh participate in. Uh for example, uh many universities declared uh we don't want to invest in fossil fuels right for the environmental concerns. And in the past like tobacco companies or you know some kind of weapon companies you know people have in principle uh reasons to go against them and uh so there are constraints of what you uh investment universe should be. Then there's liquidity, right? Uh you know how much you need to use the money, the $10,000 you you had in the portfolio, you may not want to use it in all in the investment or your liquidity investment all the time. So you may want spend 5% a year for example, right? Uh so you need to take into account your spending needs and uh also on the downside how much you can afford to lose is really a very important question. So if your $10,000 becomes $5,000 do you will you feel really bad? you would just say I'm gonna stop investing alto together right so that's I cannot afford to lose maybe that's situation I saved uh for next year right I put aside just want to earn some return I don't want to lose it so then your risk tolerance is very low is very different so for many asset owners uh inflation is also a important concern because wealth represents relative purchasing in power. So how much wealth you have is not really just a dollar amount you have in your bank account is how much you can buy, right? So when the price of goods, services are going up, your purchasing power is going down, right? So that's inflation and it's also relative to the next group and people or person how much they can buy, right? So for universities that means you want to hire a professor you know if there are competing offers how much more you can offer to the professor to uh get them to come to your university. So uh so there's definitely absolute return angle for the requirement of the portfolio right and there's also a lot of people nowadays talk about beating a benchmark beating a index you know you many of you have chosen S&P as an index but if you can produce more return on top of S&P return so that's called the alpha right so relative return that's also often being used as a measurement of investment skills. So you don't justly just put in a beta or broad market investment. You actually can extract more return. So asset liability matching cash flow is very important. Right? So 2008 taught many asset owners uh a big lesson. When you don't have the right asset liability uh match when your portfolio has a draw down your liability side will basically dominant uh dominant on your balance sheet you need to cut your spending budget you know stop your uh uh building projects and the layoff people right so that those are painful uh uh lessons uh you need to have the cash flow well planned so time horizon I mentioned is very important. When I gave you that piece of paper, I didn't say time horizon on purpose. I want you think about you should ask the question this portfolio is for how long is that? For one day or for a year or for 10 years, right? So in the investment world, people always compare returns like year to years, sometimes even quarter to quarter. like peers try to say oh I outperformed A outperformed B so therefore A is better than B so this is actually lot lot of times unhealthy exercise because for long-term investors you should really focus on long-term return but inevitably in the real world people look at uh short-term returns so you cannot ignore it but that's the the uh the peer pressure for a lot of investment managers is that's the career risk because they bored may think in the short term they are not good and try to replace them. So coming back more on why investing right. So on the on the left if on on your left if you look at the um personal income and spending as one person's age uh as age as a function. So your income level kind of peak somewhere in your mid career. Okay. So let's call it around age of 50, right? So you're earning the most, you probably also spending the most. But as you as you as a student, you probably don't earn that much. You don't spend uh that much either, right? I mean, same is true when you uh over the peak point. You're getting into the retirement stage. So you don't earn that much, you don't spend that much. So you need to plan accordingly of your personal portfolio. So that's related to the question of time horizon and also the marginal benefit of having more wealth and money starts to diminish when you have had certain minimum amount. So that's the bottom curve. uh your benefit is start to uh uh kind of a plateau and uh so also do you want to take more risk or not at that point right but for organization or endowment on the right is a little different because it's a perpetual uh portfolio is a very long long time horizon and the spending uh keeps going up uh as uh inflation goes up so you cannot not basically be complacent and say I just put all the portfolio into some conservative uh investments. You have to keep producing those kind of returns. So the endowment is set up for a university typically they spend 5% uh of the portfolio and on top of that there's expected 3% inflation. So the nominal return target is 8%. Right? Uh so as you know it's probably not always easy to make 8% consistently uh year over year and especially when interest rate is low. Uh you don't have a bonds or safety bond you can put in. Also endowment tends to have long time horizon definitely more than 10 years. That's what the people always say you know universities have hundreds of years history right and looking to have another you know many more hundreds of years and uh on the university spending budget operating budget now roughly about 40% of the budget uh is coming from endowment uh spending so you can see universities are now more and more uh reli relying on endowment returns and uh that's uh because uh the you know the research grants from federal agencies and the uh industries are coming down. So this has to be made up from the investment portfolio and uh so this is just a list of the strategies endowments tend to invest in. I mentioned cash, government bonds, uh corporate bonds and credit products meaning the issuer unlike US government it has the risk of defaulting so therefore will pay you higher uh interest. Uh so they are hedge funds betting on the macro markets right betting on the Fed uh or stock market the general uh direction they're also quantitative funds doing the trend following people usually call it CTA yeah commodity trading advisors or stat up which is to capture the relative uh value uh between a pair of stocks or actually many pairs of stocks. So it's a statistical arbitrage they call it. So which is really to uh find uh statistical patterns to generate returns. So this is heavily computer-driven strategies. Many big quantitative shops still doing a lot of these. So there are fundamental equity hedge funds. They buy stocks and also sell short stocks. And uh there are also the platforms you probably heard you know the big platforms they call it multistrat or multi multi-pm uh portfolio manager platforms they hire hundreds of different uh teams uh trading uh on the same platform you know very different a wide range of strategies but achieve a high degree of diversification and they can level up uh the portfolio IO quite a bit and uh so I mentioned private equity uh earlier there also real asset investment real estate natural resources farmland timberland those type of uh uh investments and the new assets such as you know crypto or intellectual uh properties or legal claims and so on. So basically anything you can think of can generate return it can also be considered. Uh at the first lecture I already highlighted some of the uh features of the endowment model. So endowment model nowadays tend to focus on hiring external managers and doing both public and private uh investing and uh we hire both uh generalists you know look at everything and also specialists in certain domains such as biotech you know uh AI and so on. uh we focus on both absolute return and also relative return to the benchmark. uh so we are mostly active managers. So we uh we have some passive beta index investment but it's a minority of the investment is also u not always permanent. So whenever we can find an active strategy or a manager to beat a benchmark or index we will always go for the active uh uh investment. Um yeah so as you can see this investment process is centered around manager selection right uh selecting the good investing uh uh fund managers and Harvard actually in the old days used to have lot of internal uh fund managers but that model has changed from uh seven years ago. Yeah. To focus more on external managers. So now I'm going to shift gear a little bit to talk about uh portfolio construction problem. So shifting towards the math part of uh the discussion a little bit. So the classic portfolio construction problem is stated as such. Assume you you know your return objectives. You have a loss tolerance and you can predict each investment's return volatility which is the standard deviation and also the correlation matrix of these investments. The question is what percentage you should put in in each of the investment. So that's the portfolio construction problem right and the objective of that as we mentioned earlier is to maximize the return for the whole portfolio while minimizing the portfolio risk in this uh classic uh problem is to minimize the uncertainty or volatility of the whole portfolio. So as you can see the portfolio construction problem really is a sizing problem of uh investments at all different levels. You can relate that to asset allocation problem. So what is the asset allocation problem? So you group those investments into different asset classes. So as I showed you earlier, so the list of these strategies, you can also think of them as list of different asset classes. So from top down the discussion needs to be had is how much you want to be in each category or each asset class. And uh sometimes people will say well that's still way too many asset classes, right? you if you have 10 to 15 asset classes that makes the optimization problem very hard. So people tend to reduce them to uh big uh risk factors. So sometimes you know say three to five risk factors usually equity, bonds and plus uh one of the other things could be uh uh you know inflation, it could be currency, it could be uh uh credit and other uh dimensions. But the factor analysis or can also expand into many detailed levels. You can have you know 50 factors or even hundreds uh factors but it's just a different ways of grouping the investments to make the optimization uh problem little easier. Okay. So then what is the risk management problem of a portfolio? So risk management problem in many ways is actually the same problem as portfolio construction. is the sizing problem. But in addition, you need to think about how to avoid concentration, right? Concentration of course is also a sizing problem and also ili liquidity and what's unaccept unacceptable losses and unwanted risks to constrain uh the So I'm going to spend a few minutes on the portfolio theory which is illustrated in two assets. Asset one has a return R1 volatility sigma 1 and will have a weight in the portfolio of W1. Uh similarly for asset 2. So the sum of the two weights should equal to one. W1 plus W2 and the portfolio return which is denoted here as R subp is the weighted return of R1 and R2 right and the variance or in this here is the sigma P squared the volatility squared can be expressed in terms of the weights and the volatility of each of the two investments. as well as the correlation row between the two investments. So this is a very uh common equation you probably have seen uh many times uh in uh in any uh you know probability or stat uh statistics class classes. So let's look at the some special cases. So when the correlation row is positive one meaning the two assets are perfectly correlated one moves up the other moves up at the same time one goes down the other one goes down at the same time right so that's called perfect correlation so if row equals to one and we can simplify the uh sigma Sigma P which is the portfolio volatility becomes the weighted sum of the two volatilities W1 * sigma 1 plus W2 * sigma 2 or you can also express the W1 in terms of Y minus W2 right so therefore solving for W2 in terms of sigma P and the sigma 1 and sigma 2 so then you can derive the overall return of the portfolio R subp in terms of W2 because W2 above is a function is a linear function of sigma P. So you know in this case the return of the portfolio RP is a linear function of sigma P. Okay. So this is on this chart you can see that straight line when row equals to one that's the special case when row equal to minus1 that means they are perfectly uh negatively correlated. So one goes up the other one goes down. So when that is the case you will actually easily derive that this sigma P is actually you have two branches of solutions. So depends on the value W1 sigma 1 compared to W2 sigma 2. So that's the two uh separate lines on the left. That's the other solution. In the middle is the other values of uh the correlation between negative one and plus one and including uh zero correlation row equal to zero. So what if the first asset has zero volatility sigma 1 equals to zero. So then from the equation earlier we can derive sigma p the portfolio volatility is simply w2 * sigma 2 right because sigma 1 is zero and therefore w2 the waiting on the asset 2 is sigma p divided by sigma 2 right that's a straightforward uh result and uh the portfolio return r subp P now can be written as R1 which is the first asset with zero volatility which you can think as a cash right we mentioned earlier cash has zero volatility so this cash or riskless asset has a return R1 while it's RP is still a linear function of uh sigma P right but it's a straight line. In this case, you can see the slope of that line is determined by the difference of R2 minus R1 and divided by sigma 2. So by the way, so this is so-called capital allocation line in the uh portfolio theory. Okay. So we can uh look at let's say constructed the portfolio you already have a sigma P which has many assets in it right and also RP by adding one riskless asset or cash which returns RF RF is basically like a risk-free return you can draw a tangent line over uh the sigma P point you pick the uh one point on that efficient frontier I should explain efficient frontier meaning that on that return versus volatility chart because you have different waitings right so let's come back to this uh let's look at the uh this curve here so for different W1 and W2s you can have different resulting portfolio return and portfolio volatility Right. So this line the upper part of this is called efficient frontier because by lowering your risk and moving your return up that's your objective. You are improving the portfolio. So any point on this line is a potential solution of that portfolio construction. So why when we add the risk-free asset uh on this RF point so we can basically combine that risk-free asset with the existing portfolio to uh further improve the risk uh the efficient frontier to move up to that uh straight line. So that slope R P minus RF divided by sigma P is so-called sharp ratio in simple terms think about your return over volatility right so that's kind of a uh the sharp ratio definition um sometimes you also hear the term alpha and the beta that's compared with a benchmark right so in this case you can uh write down the portfolio return minus the risk risk-f free asset in terms of alpha plus beta times benchmark minus the risk-free return and uh uh the beta is a function of correlation of the portfolio to the benchmark and the ratio of the volatility. Um what if you want to lever up the portfolio and uh borrow more? So meaning make the weight of the first uh risk-free asset to be minus 100%. And make the other asset be 200%. So still sum up to one. So that means you're borrowing money uh in in cash. You're putting the proceeds into the risky asset. So, you're moving the volatility up to this point by investing more into the second asset. So, that's also possible. That's a typical exercise people do in risk parody portfolios. By the way, if you don't follow uh any of those, that's fine. The reason I want to talk about this is really give you some flavors of what the portfolio theory uh is about because then I'm going to tell you uh in practice a lot of these needs to be improved. So the example of portfolio with two assets we talk about the 6040 uh equity bonds right some of you wrote down 70 bonds 30 uh% stocks uh that's very much similar to the risk parody uh portfolio which they try to make equal risk contribution coming from the bonds and equity by borrowing uh more to invest in the bonds because bonds typically have lower volatility than equity. So you need to have more to make them have equal risk or contribution. So that's the idea. Again today I'm not going into the uh math. Uh in the previous years sometimes I spend more time on that but I feel I want to uh uh talk about other things bit more today. But before we move away, I want to talk about the importance of rebalancing. Um uh because we had this uh 2013 uh OCW video just uh two weeks ago. I think somebody uh made a a clip out of that class uh speed it sped it up to 1.5 times and made a three minute uh uh video of uh the only free lunch of uh uh diversification which is exactly this example. So, I'm going to go through it uh with you quickly. Just think about you have two assets or two uh assets in a two-year period. In year one, the first one doubles and then year two it has. So, I think it's a little easier to uh to show on the on the blackboard, but the other one does the opposite, right? So they both started here. The first asset doubles then halves. So this is a year one. This is year two. The second asset halves first then doubles. So those were the R1 and R2s. So if you start as equal weight of the two and after year one you can calculate the portfolio is up 25%. So this is just a simple math you know the first asset one is 50% weight asset two is also 50% weight one doubles one halves so total you made 25%. Okay. But if you don't do anything at this point, so asset one will be dominating the portfolio. Asset two will be just a small portion. Right? Then because asset two then doubles, you're coming back to the same point. After two years, your portfolio's return is exactly 0%. Okay? Even though you had a divers diversified portfolio with perfectly negatively correlated assets, but if you rebalance at this point to equal weight, then your portfolio in year two will make another 25% return in year two. So you're making compounded return of 25% two years in a row, right? So, some of you may point out that isn't this just uh betting on mean reversion, you know, uh and uh if if you think it's a trend uh trade, you shouldn't do this. That's right. Uh the question you should ask yourself, what is the basis of your sizing or waiting of the two assets? Right? So you started with the equal waiting meaning that you think the two asset have the same likelihood of performing and the same amount of risk. That's that's why you size them equally and of course uh you also know they are negatively correlated. So at the year at the end of year one do you maintain that view or not? If you think is that still the same projection of risk and return then you should maintain the equal weight. You should not change the waiting unless at the year one your projection has totally changed. You think asset one will continue to outperform asset two. Yes, in that case you can change to a non-equal waiting. So that's the point. If you believe they are they have the same probability distribution and uh there's no reason for you not to rebalance. So people say this a free lunch the only free lunch is diversification but you have to rebalance to uh to eat it. So that's on that. So then I'm going to shift the gear uh to talk about the limitations of so-called modern portfolio theory in short MPT. I mentioned this was mostly developed in the 1950s and uh Harry Marquiz pioneered uh in this area. He actually got a Nobel Prize in the I think early 90s uh for his work. Uh so all I have just described uh to you so far the mathematical part has a lot to do with his work. Okay. Uh but you can tell already right. So a lot of these depend on your confidence in the capital market assumptions which is the projections of return volatility and the correlation matrix of these investments. Right? And uh the mean variance optimization problem of often has unlimited number of solutions and you have to put artificial constraints to bound the solutions. They are very sensitive to uh small change of these capital market assumptions. So in practice is very hard to use. Probably not many people use it. So with those questions I myself have always been curious about this and have done uh various uh research work uh in this. So today I'm going to highlight a few uh the first one is more related to the sizing question using a different uh approach. Um I call it you know a gain loss ratio. Uh the second part I will talk a bit about you know the effect of crowding behavior and how to model it. And uh lastly I will talk about uh you know the power law distribution uh coming out of these crowd interactions why these are all relevant to a portfolio construction. So issue number one uh for the MPT. So volatility is a poor measure of risk. Why do I say that? You know because volatility is just the standard deviation or the range of uh uncertainties. So if I am long uh out of money call option, think about it, right? You have one investment. Um Stephen, you uh studied you worked on options. You probably can get this uh easily. If I've long out of the money option, do I wish my the volatility to go up or down? Do I want my portfolio have a high V or low V? Right. I want my portfolio Yes. Yeah. >> Higher volume. >> Yes. Right. The higher V, the better. Right. So on the other hand, if I'm short uh all the money option, I probably want to have lower V, right? The better. So because I don't want to uh get exercised. So really depends on, you know, your gain situation, your payout or your potential loss. And the shop ratio is derived from volatility. So basically suffers from the same uh issue. So over the years there are methods like a sautino ratio uh try to uh differentiate the upside range and the downside range. Uh I think it's a good measurement but it uh it doesn't give you uh direct link to sizing. You know the ultimate question we need to answer is sizing. So the new way to compare different investments uh uh I'm basically uh uh using or I came up with is to use expected gain and expected loss. I call the G and L. Uh here I both use positive numbers. So when I say loss, these are absolute uh numbers. So we are looking for the best skill which is gain much bigger than expect much bigger expected gain than much bigger than the than the expected loss or written in different forms in the G minus L which is the return divided by G + L. Okay. and you change the format a little bit, it becomes 1 - 2 L / G + L. This is really exactly the sizing percentage uh from uh Kelly's criteria in the binary uh bedding. So this number is bounded from minus1 to + one. So it can be directly translated uh into uh sizing and uh so let me give you a few examples to help uh you understand this. So if you are flipping flipping a a coin, right? You know the head has a certain probability and the tail has certain probability and when it's a head it has a payout you will get or lose and when it's tail you have a payout or lose. So expected gain is the probability of the head times the payout. Right? If you bet on head, expected loss is the probability of the tail times the payout on that side. So in that discrete example is fairly easy to understand. But in the continuous example is the terminal distribution. Let's say you have a probability uh density function describing all the outcomes. Then you need to use that probability density function times the payout, right? Integrated over all the losing part and integrated over all the gaining part to get the expected loss and the expected gain. So it doesn't have to be always separated by zero. Right? If you have a target return, so you integrate over say from minus infinity to the target return. That's your expected loss. That is what needs to be included in L. So when you do this your optimization problem is no longer return versus volatility but in the vertical axis is gain in the horizontal axis is L is loss. So you need to basically maximize G while minimizing L. So this is all relevant because as I just explained earlier minimizing volatility is not not always for your benefit right when you are long option you need to you need to have higher volatility but in this case when you specify expected loss that's what you need to budget and control your uh investment. So in the investment game we gave you at the beginning, I hope you have all of your submitted uh your choices uh in September and some of you rebalanced uh in October. I wanted you to track the daily gain and loss in dollar amount. And uh at the end of the game which is mid November, I want you to summarize all the daily gains and also summarize the daily losses to derive the G and the L. So some of you said you know in order to win this game why don't I just pick the highest volatility stock right uh to have the best potential uh to produce highest return yes but your higher volatility investment will suffer on the denominator which the G plus L uh this ratio will indicate the quality of your investment even Though your G minus L which is the return may be good but the denominator will normalize it right to make it basically uh comparable to other investments. So the optimization problem. Yes, please. >> In practice, what like do you use to estimate the expected gain? That's difficult to like estimate like the distribution of the pricing. >> Uh yes. Uh but no more uh difficult than getting the return and the standard deviation. Yeah. So it's the same amount of work. It's just that you are separating the numbers. uh you're calculating half distribution instead of the whole distribution. So it is uh so especially when you do the optimization problem as I'm uh about to explain uh these lines basically for example the 45 degree line indicates g minus l equal to zero so zero return line so you don't want to uh pick any investments below that 45 degree line you want the lines have higher slope right so indicating higher g over L ratio but when you combine them combine let's say two uh assets into one uh calculating the combined portfolio G and L which is actually pass dependent uh which actually should be because when you have two investments the final outcome of the expected gain and the loss uh indeed will be pass dependent that means you probably need to do a lot of Monte Carlo uh simulation uh to derive that. Yeah. But it's no more work amount than the uh traditional uh distribution uh calculation. >> Yeah. Okay. Um let's move on to uh modern portfolio theory issue number two. How do we predict future based on the past? How confident can we be in the capital market assumptions return volatility and correlation? So because we human thinking uh process right our thinking process always extracting patterns from the data. So we have observations this I'm just outlining the typical thinking process. You have observation. You have measurable data. Try to quantify them. Then you try to extract useful information or recognize patterns. Then you try to build models having inputs, outputs and the conditions. Then you predict output from the inputs and the conditions. Then you repeat your observation. Then you iterate try to calibrate your model parameters. When you are very good at it, you can actually control conditions and inputs to get the desired outcome. Right? So that's that's true for any subject, physics, engineering, finance, right? But finance involves uh uh human behaviors which is much more complicated. So the historical patterns may not be repeatable, right? And also the crowding behavior and also adaptive behavior of human players will make the process much more complicated. So I want to show you a video. Let's see if this works. So what are you watching is a video of birds or bats in a totally selforganized way to form a group behavior. What they do is they watch the neighbors. They adjust their actions and uh the group as whole displays certain patterns. The financial markets is very similar to this. So uh except there's a central observation you can actually see which is the stock price you know you can also look at your neighbors too but nowadays it's much easier to look at the central observation. Okay. Um in the past I've also shown the uh London Bridge video. You probably How many of you have heard the the Millennium Bridge of London? Uh yes. Okay. It opened is a Millennium Bridge around 2000 on the you know first day when people walk on it starts to sway and then people try to keep their balance they all sync they become synchronized in steps that made this sway even bigger. So market does the same thing. When panic feeds into panic or greed feeds into greed, market can form bubbles and crashing and these kind of behaviors are not uh easily uh predictable but it's a part of crowding uh behavior. So how to how to understand and model this kind of behavior? So we can look at as a a feedback loop, right? Uh so S here is uh the agent's action. Uh O is the observation. A is kind of a amplifier or agent's action feed through into the uh observation. As you can see the change of their observation is the sum of the agents action times the uh power they have which is a then agent's action the change of agent's action ds is influenced by external force as well as the feedback loop of the observation and plus some random noise. So that's the basic uh framework of crowd uh modeling. When the agents behave in the normal conditions, they are more rational. So they are less reactive to the observations or you can call it the feedback loop parameter B is actually taking a lower value. But when observation changes more volatile uh in a more volatile fashion the agents tend to react more they get into a reactive state. So more agents in the crowd get into reactive state the crowd actually becomes more synchronized. So if we look at the the order parameter which I defined as uh the ratio of the sum of all the actions together divided by the sum of the absolute uh number of the actions. So if they are all synchronized so that number should be one right? If they are not synchronized at all that number can be very close to zero. So what the first chart on the left shows is the order parameter as a function of number of agents in the crowd in the reactive state. So then when more agents become reactive to the observation the order parameter can become very high. the crowd gets synchronized and on the right you can see the order parameter is also a function of the random noise term in the previous page. The higher the noise the less likely the agents uh the crowd will be So this type of behavior by the way is not new in physics uh in in some of the you know circuit uh engineering circuit systems when you inject a noise you can also reduce the order parameter synchronization but in social science this actually uh is a also a similar behavior. So I further simulated uh the bubble process. So when you have a external force showing on the up left it's kind of ramping up then come down then oscillate. The number of agents in reactive state starts to peak up then also drop when the external shock uh diminishes. The observation as a result also follows but then comes down. But if the external shock on the other end maintains at a higher level forever eventually all the members of the crowd, all the agents get into the reactive state. So they the whole crowd become synchronized. the observation basically goes uh shoots through the roof. So it becomes a very unstable uh system. So that's the bubble at that point. When the system becomes unstable your bubble will burst. Uh so that's the part of the crowding behavior. So the purpose of showing that is when we look at portfolio management these type of bubble forming and bursting process is a very important aspect of our understanding beyond the fundamental uh analysis right this is all about behavioral uh uh finance right um has nothing to do with the fundamental of the economy or the fundamental of a But then you probably also have heard power law distribution, right? So what is power law distribution is the winner take all the 8020 rule or the Matthews effect. many different terms describing essentially a social phenomena that uh the small number or percentage of the Asians taking a majority share of something in the in the group. So let's think about a wealth distribution, right? So 20% of the people probably have 80% of the wealth and uh this is also true. You look at the top 20% within that 20% the top 20% has 80% wealth. Then within that is still true. This is so-called scale free or scale invariance. This is the unique property of power law distribution. So in mathematical terms, so the probability of B * X, X is the random variable, B is a scaling factor equal to some function of G of B times the probability of X. So this you can prove mathematically if and only if this P of X is a power law distribution that scale-free property uh maintains. So example of power law distribution I mentioned the wealth distribution venture capital funds returns the top tier funds tend to get you know majority of the profit of the startup companies there's a book published two years ago is called power law so by uh uh Sebastian uh Manaby uh you you should check it out very interesting it's not mathematical but It talks about how the top tier VC firms winner take all uh phenomenon. City sizes same thing big cities gets bigger right why in the network theory because all the nodes want to connect to a more popular node to attract more traffic. So the in network space internet connections web pages or social uh media posts this type of power law is very common but in nature we've observed a lot of uh normal distributions such as height right so a lot of people probably centered around uh you know call it between five to around six uh uh feet, right? Maybe just under six feet. Uh this the majority of the population. Uh it's not like most people are very short, but there are few giants really just much taller. So that's power law. Power law does not exist in the height distribution. So now we comment on social many social phenomena obey power law distribution. But why? Right? This is the question always uh make me very curious. So what's the cause of such a skilled wealth distribution? So eventually I realized this actually has a lot to do with the crowd interaction. So the same mechanism we looked at earlier the agents have the feedback loop that's the reason of the cost of this type of power law in nature you don't have that kind of a feedback mechanism once you are born you grew to certain height your height doesn't change but in social phenomenas that is that's keep changing So agents have different powers influencing the market in financial market. It can rich can get richer. So we need to model each agent differently. So we call heterogeneous agents. So for a random variable uh x the normal distribution we're all familiar with right is the e to the x minus the mean / 2 sigma square. But for power law people a lot of times get confused about the terminologies. The parados's law talks about the cumulative uh uh density uh function uh of the probability uh and uh zip zip zip's law talk about the rank of that uh uh outcome. So basically the random variable X versus the rank of X which is more displayed in this chart but they all related when we normally look at the power uh power law in probability density function. So that behaves like this versus the normal distribution. So even distribution of course is a you know delta function. So the parameters of these uh three different ways of representing power law they are all linked by that formula. So power law probability density function is c overx to the power of a. A is related to uh the cumulative density function power K as well as the zips zip law of parameter B. So if we look at the the feedback mechanism we can derive that the agents with more power in this case which is represented by a varying over time can gain more power when they bet in the right direction that when the observation shows their betting is in the right direction. So that's how rich get richer. So that's how concentration of power uh is formed. The super agents will be uh born in this case a system may may not become stable when that happens and uh I mean this actually can be expanded into a discussion of entropy you know what is order what is stable but this is beyond the scope of uh this lecture. uh just to come back why this is all relevant to portfolio uh management. So I want to summarize uh in this page of what we learned today. Um so portfolio management is about how to size each investment. You need to clarify your objectives. You need to know your loss to tolerance. Diversification helps but you need to rebalance. Volatility is not risk. Shop ratio doesn't capture skill nor provide sizing. We should use the new ratio I presented to you. Capital market assumptions are not reliable and the crowding behavior can be pushed markets to extremes. You should pay attention to powerful super agents. Who are the most powerful super agents you can think about? Anybody has any idea in the market? Yes. Yeah. The Fed. >> So when you invest in the market, you have to pay attention because they have such a big power to change the direction of markets. Yeah. And uh in the old days, some hedge funds have more power, but I would say nowadays definitely the governments. Yeah. So you need to understand the key drivers of your portfolio. Um so I want to stop the lecture here. Uh I want to take some questions then I will save a couple of minutes talk about the investment game. But before I get there uh let's open up uh for questions. I packed in a lot of content for today. I know uh the idea is not necessary to uh ask you to follow in details because some of the math you probably need to derive it yourself to get a feel. But I want to give you the concepts what the portfolio construction is all about. It's about sizing, right? Of investments. Sizing is about comparison about investments. So how to compare them? That's that's what it really comes down to. Uh so for that please questions. >> Yes. questions about like so I know another thing that can influence investments is taxes that you have to pay on like the capital gains or how long you hold something can vary like how much taxes you might pay or certain types of investments might be more tax sensitive than others is that something that is considered like in terms of like investment decisions >> yeah so that's a that's a great question you Endowments are taxfree, right? Right. So, don't consider that. But if you run a family office, you have to be very uh careful to plan your capital gains, right? So, the family offices or private investors tend to invest more in long-term private equity because they don't have to realize those gains. They invest less in public uh equity for the tax reason. So, it is a very important uh parameter. Yeah. Any other questions? Yes. >> What is the best risk measure? How should you measure risk? >> Uh so I I still think uh we should try to understand the uh potential loss or expected loss. So that's the L I I discussed earlier. uh you know because people tend to think you know gain and loss are symmetrical but normally it's not the case right because you can construct your positions have a very asymmetrical payouts so you need to understand when when you buy an option of course your maximum loss is the option premium you're paid right it's very clear but when you buy a stock that may not be so clear right so you need to understand how much the stock can lose it can move down and the com what's likely range it can move down to and those kind of things so you need to I think the risk measurement should be shifted or focused more on the downside uh protection understand your downside so which is really expected loss >> nice yeah the question of like expected loss versus case loss how do you >> yeah those are two different things right so roughly you can Think about worst loss maybe a you know few standard deviations away I mean expected loss probably is really the uh weighted average of outcome times the payout that kind of a thing uh so you cannot construct your portfolio all based on worst case then you will not be doing anything right so but so that's why expected loss is a probably a better way to uh measure and for sizing your investments, but you need to be aware of your worst loss. Yeah. In in case something happens. Yeah. Yes. >> I was going to say going off the worst case loss kind of like when would you implement stop losses? How effective have you found those? Um just kind of like a little bit more on that as well. >> Yeah. So, uh yeah, you you I think this is a very good question both of you uh brought up. Uh stop-loss is an interesting concept, right? So stop loss uh typically is not set at the worst loss, right? It's kind of set usually quite close uh probably even closer than the expected loss. They uh if you're trading at the hedge fund platforms, they give you a very tight stop-loss uh for the reason that they try to artificially construct asymmetric payout for the portfolio managers or the traders. When you lose a little bit, they cut your position in half, then you lose another few percentage points, cut another half, then get you out. So when you make money, they try to uh let you ride on the wins to create that kind of a asymmetric optionality. But uh uh that forces you to pick investment has that kind of a probability distribution, right? So if you think a investment has a worst case loss which is uh very bad but has a very low probability let's just say right and uh so you need to you need to think about you know if that almost like uh the firm that takes that risk for you right because they they are responsible to cut you out right but if you think the upside is very big then you should take that bet right you get it Yeah. >> Worst case scenario, you get fired, but for them >> Yeah. >> Right. >> Right. That's kind of that's Yeah. That's the kind of the the you know, a lot of the issues with uh uh hedge funds, right? They get a cut on the profit, but they don't bear the downside responsibilities, right? So, they long they are long a free call option. So, yeah. So, that's why a lot of people want to be a hedge fund manager. So I I will just touch upon the investment game. Okay. Uh we already uh talk about it. When we pass November 15th, we can you know look you you should keep track of G and L numbers and uh uh let us know how you performed and I I will try to verify. But last slide I want just you know coming back to the point a lot of people ask how to become a hedge fund manager right? So I wonder I maybe I want to pull you the audience here a little bit. Uh is there a value you know you think from that trading or investment game to do some paper trading games or do you think you want more lectures on the research process how to do data collection signal generation the know back testing all the all the things and the portfolio optimization as we talk about today or some people say I just want to uh learn more about how to become a manager how to do fundraising how to build a team, how to negotiate the terms and how to uh assemble systems and back office legal taxes and so on. Uh so I'm actually thinking maybe there's something you know we as an organization or some other people should really just help the younger uh potential PMs a little more uh to incubate them to become a a better found manager. Uh if anyone of you think that's something uh valid this this idea you can talk to me you know email me or just come to me after class uh maybe this something in beyond what we talk in this class could be useful to any one of you. So with that uh thank you very