But the first thing I want to do is explain the kaly tree theorem. And so the question is how many labelings labelings of um a tree on n vertices. And what I want to do is I want to um give you the first few elements in this few first few numbers in this sequence and let you guess the answer. So the first one is a tree on two vertices. And if you want to label it with um with one and two, there's only really one way of doing it, which is that. And now so that's um n = 2 n = 3 1 2 3 which is clearly the same as 1 3 2 because these trees actually and 312. So there's one way of doing this, three ways of doing this. N= 4. Okay, this time I'm not going to list them all out because they're too many to count, but I'm going to list them in, you know, the form of the tree. So how many ways are they doing it? are they're labeling a tree which is a path. Can anyone tell me? Yeah. >> Maybe like four choose two to choose the two middle ones and then two. >> Yeah. 4 choose 2 * 2 which is 12 because you get to choose which two are the middle ones. um then there are two ways of completing that. And how about a tree that looks like this? Um wait, I drew one too many leaves on that. How many ways of there of doing this? Four. because the only thing that matters is the middle one. So four and this becomes 16. And let's do n= 5. And there's one of these. Um oops, I drew I drew an extra leaf on that one, too. Sorry. There are five of these. And there are five factorial over two ways because there are five factorial ways of labeling the vertices from left to right. And but this tree is symmetric in left and right. So you're double counting if you do that which is 60. And then there are again five factorial over two because um you can label these 1 3 2 4 5 but you can swap five and four and get the same tree. So there's a extra factor of two and this is 16. and you add these up, you get 125. So, does anybody see a pattern? >> Yeah. >> Like multiply by three, then by four, then by like I guess like like within the sequence. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, yes, that's essentially the right idea. This is 3 to the 1. This is 2 to the 0. This is 4^ squared. And this one is 5 cubed. So the kay tree theorem says there are n to the n minus2 ways of doing this. So that's the statement of the kay tree theorem. there are lots and lots of proofs. So one way you might think of proving it is to find a bjection between labelled trees and sequences of the numbers 1 through n of length n minus2. And you can do it that way. But this bjection is really incredibly complicated and completely non-intuitive. So that's not really the right way to do it. So what I'm going to do is try to explain a way of doing this by counting these certain object twice or certain object in two different ways. And how do we do this? So let t subn be number of labeled trees on n vertices. And the first thing we're going to do is change the thing to number of lab of labeled rooted trees on nver vertices. Okay. So, what do you do to get a rooted tree is a tree with uh specified vertex called the room. Okay. So um if t subn is the number of labeled trees on nver vertices, what is the number of labeled rooted trees on n vertices? Okay. Well, what you do is you start with a tree. Let's do this tree. 1 3 2. And now you pick a vertex to call the root. So in this case you can you can do this is the root and three one two this is the root or you could do two 3 one this is the root. to go from a label tree to a root tree labeled rud tree we just pick one vertex and so there are n * p subn of these and now what we're going to Count. What we count in two ways is labeled rooted trees with ordered edges. So, let's pick the um middle one there. One, three, two. So, we need to order the edges. And we can either order this one and then this one and then this one and then this one. So, I'm going to use letters to order the edges because otherwise we have too many numbers floating around and it gets confusing. So, 3 2 1 A B. So how many labeled trees in terms of t subn the number of labeled trees? How many labeled rooted trees with ordered edges are there going to be? So there are n minus one edges. How many ways are there of ordering n minus one edges? n minus one factorial. Very good. So this is t subn * n * n minus one factorial. Okay. if we can count this in a way that tells us the answer is n to the nus2 * n * n -1 factorial. Then we have proven the theorem. the second way of counting there are n to the n minus 2 n factorial labeled rooted trees with ordered Good. So how do we prove this lema? What we will do proof method um construct a labeled rooted tree. I'm going to say via labeled rooted forests by adding one edge at a time. So back here we have this n minus one factorial which is the order of the edges. And this order of the edges is just going to be the order that we add the edges to get to via labeled rooted forest to get to the label rooted tree. And I'm going to do it by example, but well basically because it's much easier to see by example than if I try to describe the process in words. So we start with a forest. I never told you what a forest is. A forest is a collection of trees which I'm going to say that this makes perfect sense. So, start with a forest with n trees with one vortex each. One, two, three, four, five, six. Choose one of these trees. And what we're going to do is we're going to add it to a vertex and add it on top of a vertex in another tree. And let's see. So, so let's take one of these trees and stick it on top of a vertex in another So this gives us one two um four five three six and we want to label this with the letter A because it was the first thing we did. Now let's take a different um different tree and stick it on top of you know vertex in a tree and we get one four five six two and here this was three and this was a first step. This was our second step. Okay. And we keep on doing this. And maybe the next step is we pick this tree and stick it on top of this vertex. And we have 1 4 5 6 2 3 [sighs] and B A and C. And we keep on doing this until we get until we've used up all the trees except one. And we have a labeled rooted tree with an ordering on the edges. how many ways are there of doing this? Oh gosh. This is this is one of these um hard to erase chalks. Okay. Well, how many configurations are there to start with anybody. How many labeled How many labeled forests with n trees with one vertex each are there? I can see nobody's answering it because this question is too easy. There's only one of them. There are n vertices and they have the labels one through n. And since order doesn't matter, there's one of them. So one after K steps have well each step we have n each step we reduce one tree. So we have n minus k trees. Take one node um add a different tree. We take one node, we add a different tree on that node to that node. So for example here here we chose node number five and we added the fourth tree to that node. So how many ways are there of doing this step? How many ways are there of choosing a node? Anybody? Yes. How many nodes are there? N. And we can choose any one of them. So there are n ways of choosing the node. And now we have n minus k trees. And we want to choose a different tree to add on top of the node. So there are n minus k minus one trees we can add. So there's n * n - k -1 ways to do this. [clears throat] So number of okay what was it labeled rooted trees labeled rooted trees with edge ordering is the product. Well, so after k steps, so after we want to start with how many ways there are after zero steps. So zero to well there are n minus one steps altogether. So n minus 2 I believe um n - k - one. Um [clears throat] so this is equal to from 0 k = 0 to n - 2 n * from k = 0 to n minus 2 of n - k -1 which is equal to well there are n there are n minus one steps and each of these you have a factor of n. So this is just n * n minus one and this is should be n minus factorial which if I haven't erased it yeah we wanted to so show that there are n to the n minus 2 n factorial, but that's the same as n^ the nus1 * n minus one factorial. So this is the number of labelled rooted trees with an edge ordering. So this implies that t subn * n times n minus one factorial. So this is the number of labeled rooted trees on node and this is the number of edge orderings is equal to n -1 * n -1 factorial which shows you that p subn = n - 2 to the n to the n minus 2 which is what we wanted to prove. Okay. Yes. >> And then isn't the second one just picking like which like a tree that's not as trees you already picked? >> That's right. Well, is tricking a tree? No, because you can pick a tree that you've already picked. You just cannot pick a tree. You cannot pick the tree that that node is in. >> Yeah. So, we pick a node here and then we pick a different tree to put on top of it. And that's five, six, two. >> Doesn't it [snorts] matter like how you connect them like with the other tree because you're just picking like another tree to >> Oh, we're always going to put the root of this tree >> on top of this note. And you can see that the process can be undone because if we have A B C, the way we undo this step is we find the last edge and we cut it and we have a tree on top of that edge and we have the tree that's left when you remove this edge. So that undoes the step. So the whole process is I'm going to say that there is uh you know this function that takes you from trees trees on k n minus k nodes to trees [clears throat] or to forests of n minus k trees to forests of n minus k minus one trees is reversible. So it's a bjection. But yeah, that was a good question. Okay. So, and last year we actually used this theorem for one of our term paper projects. This year we're not. But um I I wanted to tell you this at the beginning of the um class, but I forgot. So what we're going to do is tonight, assuming all goes well, I will put up the term paper projects and their assignments to students. And tomorrow in recitation um the you know the recitation leaders will discuss them a little bit. Although most of the recitation tomorrow is going to be devoted to writing. Okay. So the term paper projects are hopefully coming out tonight. So now we are going to switch topics and go to generating functions. And generating functions are a very useful concept in mathematics and you can use them to count things. I mean there are proofs of the kaly tree theorem that use generating functions and there are proofs of probably nearly everything we've discussed in terms of counting that use generating functions. Although often the generating functions proofs are more difficult than the non-generating functions proofs. On the other hand, there are cases where generating functions are really the only way to do it. And the other advantage of generating functions is that they're mechanical. So given uh say cominatorial identity and you look at it and you say what can I what things can I count in two different ways to prove it or something else well it's um no you have to use some creativity to find this but if you have a generating fun uh combinatorial identity with general generating functions. Often it's fairly straightforward to prove it using generating functions although it involves actual algebra. So it's maybe more difficult. So why am I let a1 well a z a1 a2 etc be a sequence of numbers The generating function associated with a C sequence. is f ofx is equal to sum a sub i x to the i = 0 to infinity. And so this is a an algebraic function and that means you can use all the tools of algebraic functions to manipulate it and this we will find is going to be very useful. Now um you can ask what does X mean here? And X doesn't really mean anything. It's just a tool for keeping track of what the what the I is on AI X to the I. So it's key way of keeping um the E AI from different distinct from the J AI. So it usually doesn't really mean anything. So the example well one example is we'll take the sequence of binomial coefficients. So what is this f subn? All right. A subn is equal to k choose n. [snorts] So the generating function for this f ofx is equal to sum and here n is what we're summing over n= 0 through infinity and you know this is zero if n is bigger than k. So that's sum n= 0 through k a um k choose n. Let me write a n x to the n k x to the n. And you should know what this is. This is a binomial theorem and it's just like 1 + x to the k. And one way of thinking about this is f ofx equals 1 + x 1 + x. Okay. So for the kth term no for m term I'm sorry choose n x's k minus n ones. Good. So we need to choose whether we'll use the x from this one, the x from this one, the x from this one, etc. So we're choosing k x's. We're choosing n x's out of k things, which is just n choose k or k choose n, I'm sorry. And so that's why a subn is k. Okay. So, example two. Um, the A subn is the probability of of N heads. When you flip a coin, a biased coin, K times, and we'll let P equal probability of heads and Q = 1 - p. So a of x is equal to summation a subn x to the n is equal to k choose n p to the k q to the n minus k * x to the k x to the n x. Ah, I keep mixing up my K's and my Ns. Let me apologize for that. There we go. And this is equal to I forgot the sum here. This is equal to um q + px to the n again by the binomial theorem. So hopefully I will have time to do a real example that shows you why generating functions are useful at before the end of class. But if not, we'll get to it tomorrow or not tomorrow, Thursday. [clears throat] But I want to say a few more general things about um generating functions. Let A B be disjoint classes of objects and C equals A union B where U is disjoint union. So that just says that A intersection B is the empty set. So I'm going to say the generating function for C of X. So what we're going to do is we're going to express the generating function for C of X in terms of A of X and B of X is equal to A of well it's going to be some C subn X to the N. Well, c subn is just a subn + b subn is equal to sum a sub n + b subn x to the n which you can see is the generating function of a of x plus b of x. Okay. So the next one we want to talk about multiplication of generating functions. This is actually first pretty straightforward and second is not really that useful in manipulating generating functions. Multip multiplying generating functions is incredibly useful and we'll do an example. So let's do the example first and then we will do the the formal um the formal um explanation So, let's say we have a six-sided dice and an eight-sided dice. Eightsided dice. And we want to know what is the probability of rolling. Okay, let's call it n. when we add up the numbers from the two die and I should you know specify that the six-sided dice is numbered 1 through six and the eight-sided die is numbered 1 through eight. [clears throat] So let c subn is equal to number of ways of rolling n. Claim C subn is equal to or rather C subn C of X is equal to sum C sub N X to the N is equal to X + X2 + X cub + X 6 + X2 + Xub 2 + dot dot dot + x to 8 equ= x + 2 x^2 + 3 x cub + dot dot dot + 5 x 5th + 6 x to 6 + 7 x to the plus sorry 6 x to 7th plus 6 x to the 8th plus 6 x to the 9th + 5 x to the 10th plus dot dot dot plus x to the 14th. So, how do we get that? So you can see from this that there are five ways of rolling a 10. You can roll a six and a four and you can roll a five and a five. A four and a six. a three and a seven and a two and an eight. And you know and this works because C subn is equal to summation. J = 0 J = 1 through N. Um, okay. A subj B sub N minus J. So if you want to get an N, the first place has to be J and the second one has to be N minus J. And [clears throat] AJ equals 1 if one is less than J is less than six, zero otherwise, and B subj = 1 if one is less than J is less than 8, and zero otherwise. Is this clear? I mean, to get an N, you have to roll a J on the first dice and an N minus J on the second dice. And you can only roll a J on the first dice if J is between one and six. And you can only roll an N minus J on the second die if J is between one and eight. So if a of x is equal to summation i = 1 through 6 x to the i and b of x is equal to summation i = 1 through 8 x to the i. That's not a very good eight. Then c of x = [applause] a of x b of x because this is the formula for multiplying polinomials. So we have the generating function for the first die and the generating function for the second die. And we get the generating function for the sum of the two dies by just multiplying them. And let's make this rigorous. Let A Let a B be two classes of objects. [sighs] A of X and B of X be their generating functions. oh well the cartisian product product A cross B is A B A N A B and B. And we want to claim that size of a b equals size of a s plus size of b. the cartisian product has generating function. A of x B of X equals C of X. poof. Okay. C subn equals summation K = Z through N A subk B sub N minus K. So we want to look at the things of size n in the cartisian product. Well, they're the things of size k in the first um generating function and the thing times the things of size n minus k in the second generating function. And when one is sum this over all k. And now we just need to check that summation c subn x to the n is equal to summation k = z to n a sub k b n minus k x to the n is equal to some k = z or rather and = 0 to infinity. I forgot the second sum here. n = 0 to infinity. k= 0 to n which is just sum k= 0 to infinity a subk x to the k summation j = 0 to infinity b subj x to the j because [clears throat] you know when you multiply these you group the things that have the same k + j= n and that gives you this term sum k= 0 to n a sub k b subn minus k. Yeah. >> What does size mean? Size is [clears throat] size is just an arbitrary function on these objects that correspond to the the the n here in summation a subk x to the k. So when you have generating functions, you're grouping objects into things that go with x to the k and um those are what we're calling size. >> So is it the power of x? >> It's the power of x that is associated with the object. And I think we should look at a actual example. So this is a simple example. example. Okay. Suppose you have one penny. No, six pennies. Um, one nickel, two dimes. How many different ways can you make an [sighs] claim? name the generating function let's call it um c of x is equal to sum cn x to the n. So we'll let C subn be the number of different ways CN be number of ways to make N cents with six pennies, a nickel and two dimes. C of X is equal to 1 + X + X^2 + X cub + X4 + X 5th + X 6 1 + X 5th and 1 + X 10th + X to the 20th Okay. So, when you multiply these things together, let's look at the x to the 20. Let's look at the x to the I'm thinking x to the 21st term. So it can be get got from x to the 6th * x 5th * x 10th and we can also get it from x times x to the 20th and those are the only two ways you can get it. So there are two ways to make chain two two ways to pay 21 cents. [clears throat] So here the size is just the number of cents. Okay, let's do something a little bit more complicated. How many ways are there let's say n cents in an arbitrary number of pennies, nickels, dimes. [clears throat and cough] Well, I want to claim that it's 1 + x + x^2 + x cub + dot dot dot * 1 + x 5th + x 10th + x 15th plus dot dot dot * 1 + x 10th + x 20th + x to the 30th plus dot dot dot which is equal to 1 1 - x 1 / 1 - x 5th * 1 / 1 - x 10th. So cn x to the n is equal to that. [clears throat] Okay. So now I want to give an example for how you would actually use a generating function. I mean, we have not gotten to the end of our, you know, overall description of generating functions, but I want to give you an example first of how you would actually calculate something with them. And I want to claim this is really pretty neat. What is sum k= 0 through n k n choose k. Okay. So the first thing is you can do it by counting something two different ways and I want to do it with generating functions first and if I have any time at the end of the class I'll check it by counting by using the technique of counting in two different ways but I'm not sure I will. So what is it? K = 0 through N choose K * X to the K is equal to Does anybody want to tell me what this is? >> Yeah. >> Um no because we want this as a function of something with x's in it. >> 1 plus x. >> Yeah. 1 plus x to the n. That's right. 1 + x to the n. Excellent. Okay. Now, and this is we should call this f ofx. Now, how can we get this out of that? Well, let's differentiate. dx f ofx is equal to sum k = z through n k n choose k x to the k minus one. Right? Okay. And now let's differentiate this. Well, that's just n * 1 + x to the n minus one. And now let's substitute x = 1. Well, in this we get sum k = 0 through n k k n choose k and in this we get n * 2 to the n minus one. Okay, we have our answer. And [clears throat] I I want to say that we kind of skipped a step here. Um generating function for K N choose K um is some K N choose K X to the K K = 0 through N. what we calculated here was just k n choose k x to the k minus one. So this is actually n x 1 - x to the n minus one. But since x if we're substituting x= 1, it doesn't matter if we have x to the k or x to the k minus one here or if we have this extra sorry plus or if we have this extra x here it will if x is one they're the same. So to get so to multiply the nth term in or to multiply the k the kth term in a generating function by k, we just differentiate and multiply by x. And this is a very useful trick playing with generating functions. So, how would you do this with counting two different ways? Anybody? >> Yes. >> Is that like what what's the question? Is it the line about it or >> you mean this? >> Yeah, >> it's [snorts] K. What you ask like what's like um we want to answer what question are we answering >> = n 2 n minus one where we're answering what is summation k and >> I mean like you just asked counting two ways like which >> oh we want to answer this question by counting in two different ways. Oh okay. So it's like you pick you have a set of A elements and you pick K elements out of it and then from the K elements you pick one special element. >> Yeah. Exactly. So we have set of n elements choose K elements. one of the K elements. So we have a special element and then we have a subset of K and a subset of N minus K minus one and sum over K. We just have a special element of um k n choose k. We have a special element and a subset of the remaining subset of n minus one other elements and you know you can pick the special element nways. other elements are the subset sorry the subset of other elements elements is 2 the nus1 ways and this gives n * 2 the n minus one which is what we wanted in the first place. Okay, so that's two different ways to solve this problem. And I want to say that, you know, so far we're only doing things with generating functions that we could have done more easily some other way. But there are things that you can do with generating functions that are much harder to do other ways. And we will eventually get to those when we start talking about Fibonacci numbers. And um I think the next thing I want to do is too long. It didn't do three minutes. So I will let you go and see everyone on Thursday.