Okay. So last time uh we uh we talked about um in particular we talked about two things. We talked about the cushy uh convergence here. So the cushy convergence theorem says that any any cushy sequence uh is convergent. Right? So this is one thing we talked quite a bit about last time. uh and we proved it but we proved it assuming another theorem. So we showed it the proof proof used the also bas now now the person bias theorem. So that's the following. So this is the following theorem that say that any bounded any bounded sequence A end has a convergent subsequence and let's call it a and k. Okay, that was the balsano vra theorem. So using this remember the cushi convergence theorem the proof then went like this that if you take a cushi sequence then it was easy to prove that it was bounded then you use the balsano vasium to say that now the sequence is bounded it's a sequence the sequence is bounded so it has a convergent subsequence so you have and the limit you would then want to prove that the limit is actually a limit That's for the whole sequence right that's what we did right now but we didn't prove the balsano vess theorem so let's try to pro prove it now so proof of the bzano vos so let me try to explain the idea So you have a sequence a n and a n is bounded. Let's just say it doesn't matter but let's say that a n lie in the interval from 0 to one. It could be any other bounded interval but but let's just say it's 0 to one. Then the idea is that you we want to prove that a n we want to so the idea is that we want to find want to find um a subsequence A and K and two other sequences. A sorry B K and C K. And these two other sequences has a property that if you have here A and K then the B's lie below the they lie below the A and K and the C's lies above it. So, so the sequence the subsequence that we will find is going to be squeezed between two other sequences. So, so right. So, a and k is squeezed between two other sequences. And the thing about the other sequences is that they are much nicer because so why are they much nicer? The BKS are monotum increasing and the CK are monotum decreasing. Okay. So, so you have that. So the picture is sort of that the that the bees the bees are always moving in this directions. The C's here this is the B's they you know as as K get larger they're moving to the right and the C case are moving to the left and these guys they will be squeezed between these two right? So if you're looking at a later one right h so this is like one and now imagine that you take a later uh uh in the subsequence sorry let me indicate it here a n say l and l is now further out in the subsequence then this is going to be lying between b L and CL but these here this here will lie you know the B L because it's further out in subsequence it would lie to the right of the so here will be BK it would be BK would be to the left and CK would be to the right of this right so you see that these here are coming together they're coming together like this and the the the a no the the a the subsequent is going to be squeezed in smaller and smaller interval right and that's going to force it to converge right and the the point here is that because this here is increasing and they always lie between the ones that go below this automatically means that the B case will always be less than than the first C and and this C case will always be bigger than the first uh B and so this is a more a sequence that go up but it's bounded so it has a limit so BK is converging to something the CKS are going down but they're bounded from uniformly bounded from below so they will also be converging converging, right? But now they're coming closer together, right? They're coming closer and closer together. This is converging to that and this is converted to this. So that's going to imply that B is equal to C. Okay, that's the idea. Yeah, sorry. >> They they only they will uh they they will be uh they will have sorry the B K will be less or equal to B K + one and the C K will uh be uh big or equal to CK + one. >> So so it's not strict it's like inequality like this. >> Yeah that's right. But the thing is also that they are going to that the difference. So the CK is lying above the BK. Right? So this here is positive. This is and we prove that this here is bounded by two. It was actually going to be equal to we actually prove that this here is equal to um to one minus like this and you see this here goes to zero. So you're right that uh if they didn't come together we couldn't conclude things but they will come together this will guarantee. So how do we do this? That's the idea. How do we do this? Well, and again I'm just I'm just doing 0 to one, but it but the same argument work for any other interval. It's only like it will look it will look simpler if I do it from 0 to one. Uh but it's not there's nothing essential I'm using about. So here is your starting interval from 0 to one. We want to construct a subsequence and we want to not only what do we want to construct a subsequence but we also want to construct the sequence BK and the sequence CK right so let me find let me define B1 b1 is just going to be zero c1 is going to be one and then uh a n1 that's the subsequence the first element is subsequence I just take it to be the first element in sequence okay so now of course we have trivially that we have that b1 which is zero this is lesser equal to a1 because it lie in this interval lesser or equal to c1 which is one Okay. Now then you divide it into two intervals here. So the second step is that you take the interval from 0 to one. You divide it into two halves. Right? So you have between zero and a half and a half and one. The whole sequence lie in this interval. So this means that there are either infinitely many here or infinitely many there. Right? Let's say that infinitely many of the a lie in this interval. Okay? So then we're going to forward we were going to just focus on this interval and on sub intervals of this. Okay. So the we need we have defined a1 a now we want to define and b1 and c1 then so now assume again assume that infinite many lie in this interval right so then we make um we a n2 the second element in a subsequence we let it be the next element after a1 that is in this smaller interval right so this here is the second element in the original sequence that lies in the interval from 0 to a half. Okay, that's a n2, right? We don't want to have a1 again, right? We need another element because it's otherwise it's not going to be a subsequence. You can't pick a pick the A1 we already I mean it could be the same value but it's it will have to come from a different subscript. Okay. Now B2 is then just going to be the left end point of this interval. So this is again zero and C2 is going to be the right end point of this interval we're now focusing on. So that's a half. Now uh so now to the next. So now how do we construct the third element in the subsequence and the corresponding B's and C's. Okay. The thing is that and here you have to be a little bit careful because now we we we we assumed that there was infinitely many elements in the sequence that lie in this smaller interval. You are going to only from here on out you're going to only look at those infinitely many. You're not going to care about you know so this may be the fifth the seventh the 15th element in the original sequence. You're not going to worry about what lies here, right? And so now you divide this one here into two halves. This interval between zero and a half, you divide it into two halves. And so so now imagine you have then the picture here. Here you have zero. Here you have uh a half. And then you divide it into this interval from zero to half. You divide it into two equally large intervals. So now we already we're just focusing on the infinitely many of the original sequence that lie here. But of those infinitely many either infinite many lie here or infinitely many lie there. Right? Let's say that that there's only finitely many here. Say but there are infinitely many here. Right? So if there's infinitely many in this interval here, then from here on out, you would only focus on those infinite many. And the next element would be right we know that uh right the next element would be the next element after the the one you pick to be the second element in the subsequence that would lie in this in this subsequence. Right? So we define a3 is now the next element. So a N3 this is now this element that lies in in in this interval here right and then B B3 is then going to be 1 / 4 and B uh sorry and C3 is going to be the right uh end point of this interval 1 over 4 one over two Right? And then you continue, right? Then you continue this way. So let me just make sure that it's totally clear. Let me just go over how how we did it. Right? So, so just because I want to be careful that you, you know, once you, so we started with the interval from 0 to one, the first element you just pick in the subsequence that was just the first element in the original sequence and the B1 was just the left endpoint here. So that was zero. C1 was the right endpoint that was one. Now you divide it into two and one of the two half potentially of course both of the two half could have infinite many elements in the original sequence. You just focus on one of the two half that have infinite elements, right? If they're both fine, but you just take one of them, right? And so from here on out, we're just going to focus on those infinitely many. And then you're going to pick the next one after the the A1 that lies in that interval you're focusing on. That's the second element in a subsequence. And the B's will always be the left end point of the interval. The C's will be the right end point of the interval. Then when you do the third element, then you have to remember that you were looking at infinitely many. And so now it's like you're looking at you divide this interval into two. And now either this one here or that one here has infinite many, right? and you pick whatever it is. I mean, I guess we we assumed it was this interval. And then the next element after the the two first you picked in the original sequence, the next element that lies in this that's going to be your third element of the sequence. And then still the B's will be then of this interval you're focusing on would be the left end point and the C the right end point. Right? If you do that, you see each time you're halfing it. So it means well it first of all it means that the that the bees are going to be increasing right because it's always right each time you divide into a half and it's always and but it's like the interval you focus on previously you divide into a half like this and then you either you pick either this point or that point right and this here was the previous one right so the bees will always be increasing Likewise, the C's will be a decreasing sequence. And you also see that the difference between CK say CK + 1 minus B K + one that the difference here, right? But the difference is going to be like half of the length of the previous interval, right? So the difference here is going to be 1/2. it's actually going to be 12 uh and then B C minus BK. So you're getting this form right and so and now if you just use that you're starting with if you're just using that the aridium. So when so you get this recursive formula here and you also have that c uh 1 minus b1 this is the length of the original interval right because b1 was zero c1 was one so this is one and so you're just putting this in and so you get the formula that c k minus bk K is equal to 2 to the uh 1 minus K. So you're getting this formula here. This just come from this recursive formula and how this starts right. See this give you this. Okay. And so you see that the length of these interval becomes smaller and smaller. Again the sequence BK is increasing the CK is decreasing. So this means that this here is converging to some B. This here is converging to some C. And because the difference between these goes to zero. Then the B must be equal to C. Right? and and so this will prove that the limit that you construct because the the this is going to be squeezed you have this property that if you're looking at a k and even uh sorry a n k and even a uh n l that this thing here. This here will by construction will lie between these two but all the later ones will also lie in this interval. Right? So this here will also lie in this interval CK as long as L here is bigger equal to K. And so you see that this thing here this thing here will because this here is converging to B and this is actually now we prove that this converts to the same number B. So this means that these guys here that is squeezed between these two other sequence will also converge to B. Okay. So that's a vol. Okay. Another key concept is um in this class is the concept of a series. Um and and so so this is the concept of a series. U and so a series is like as follows that suppose you have so let a n be a sequence from a sequence you can form another sequence and you can form another sequence the following way that s so we form another sequence And that is that uh s1 and we call this other sequence sn another sequence sn and uh and the sequence is defined as follows that s_ub_1 is a1 s_ub_2 is a1 + a2 s3 3 is uh a1 + a2 + a3. Um, S4 is where you summing the first four element in this in the original sequence and and then you write sorry this is first four element and then you write the nth element you write it just as a sum where I equals to one say to N of the AIS. So, so if you have a a sequence then you can form another sequence and this is this we denote by s and this here is this here is so we really so this here other sequence if a sequence is of this form then you call it a series so so uh so sn here so but sn is just a sequence this here is called is said to be a series. Okay. Now um let's let's go to the most so I'm sure m probably everybody have heard about that's a kind of one of the famous Greek paradoxes is this with I mean they have various different forms is this with one form of it is with Achilles and the turtle where the turtle is getting a head start of Achilles and the paradox is that because the turtle have a head start, then Achilles can never catch up with the turtle even though the turtle is moving incredibly slowly because in order to catch up with the turtle then Achilles first have have to go um half of the distance that the turtle have gone and then once you have done that he have to go half of the distance that he that the turtle now have traveled etc and so this go on infinitely long and Therefore, he can never catch up with the turtle. There's various other version of this, right? But that and that's exactly a series and like and this is also like the most important series is what's called the geometric series. So the geometric series. So this is a you know the most important uh series and it's the most important because it's kind of a non-trivial series that can be used to determine whether other series or whether these other for other sums whether these uh this sequence sn whether it converges or not. So the geometric series is the following that C you take some number C and then you are summing uh this number but to a power so you're looking at where you have some power say from zero to n right so this means that um so this is SN so it mean that s uh s zero uh this is just where you have where you have uh by C to the power zero by definition is one and s1 is then when you're summing c to the power z plus c to ^ 1. So that's just uh 1 + c and s_ub_2 is then uh s_ub_2 is then s_2 is then uh c 0 + c1 + c². So that's just 1 + uh c + uh c², right? Etc. So that's a geometric series where it's just a number and each time you multiply that number by itself the end time and then you're adding it to the previous. So that's the geometric series. Okay. And now and the reason why this is uh important is that this is very useful to determine whether other series are convergent or not because you can compare it. You can compare other series with the geometric series and the geometric series is easy to determine whether it's convergent or not. And so this is because of the following little calculation here. Let's suppose I'm looking at some summing here from zero to N of C to the power I and now I multiply this with C. Right? So then this here would just be where I'm summing here. You see if I multiply by C I can move that C inside and then the first time it's really right. So you can write this thing here. So let me just write it out. So this is C and then it's 1 + C + C 2 + CQ etc like that up to C uh N. And if you multiply by C then of course this is just C + C ^2 + C cub up to uh C to the N + one. Okay. And so this means that if you take this thing here, so if you take if you're looking at this sum from zero to n of CI and now you multiply by 1 minus C, right? Then this here is the same as this here is the same as just one times this. So let me just write it out. This is what this just give you the in original series. So this gives you this up to CN. That's when we multiply the one in when we multiply it by minus C then we get this thing here with a minus sign. So we're getting minus C. Um so I can write like this like that. But now you see that there's a lot of cancellation, right? This thing here cancel with this here. The next one would cancel with this. This here would cancel with the second last, right? And so you were only left with this one here and that one here. But the this one here comes in with a minus sign. So this is 1 minus c to the n + one. Okay. So we have this little formula have this little formula say that if you take uh if you take 1 minus c and you sum from i = z to n ci right this is what we did here then you're getting 1 - 1 - c to the n + one. Okay. So now of course if c if c is one let's wait with figuring it out but assume that c here is not equal to one then I can write this here as that this sum here i = z to n ci I can just divide here by this here on both sides. So I get this thing here 1 minus C. So I have this formula here assuming that C is not equal to one. So I can divide by 1 minus C. And now you see that um so now we can now from this here we can determine so we can prove a little theorem. So that the geometric series so this is geometric series convergence convergence. Right? Remember that this this thing here. So a series here. So maybe I should just emphasize that over here. So if you write down a series, so again a series is always that you're starting with a sequence like this and then you form this other sequence sn where you're summing the first um the first n you know I guess in this case now I'm starting from zero so then it would be n plus one elements like this and and and and sometimes one also just write for the series one write it as as this where one uh one write like this here but uh but really what you're thinking about is this sequence here and so but you you sort of with a slight abuse of notation you write this here for a series but what you're thinking about is this sequence And so a series is convergent. It is convergent. Uh just means that the sequence sn is convergent. Okay. So it just means that that that this sequence sn is convergent and the and the and the sum and the limit of the sequence series this is just the limit um is the limit of the sn That's called that is usually denoted denoted by by by this uh by this infinite sum a sorry this was I AI like that right so so you see there's a little bit of abuse of notation that one one talk about a series and one typically write it like this. What one really mean is that one think about this sequence here and then if it's convergent this just means that these Sn converge and the limit the limit but the limit you would also write as this. So in a way this symbol here is used for two different things. it's used for the series and if the series is convergent it's also used for the limit. Okay, this is like standard. So, okay. So, now let's come back to the geometric series, right? So, again the geometric series were that you take some C and then you form this series here C I I = Z to infinity. It's it's of course important where you start. I mean it's the convergence is not important but the what the limit is depends on where you start. Okay. So so this is a geometric series and we have that if um if see here so we have now the following that um that the geometric series series is convergent if if C here in absolute value is less than one uh and uh and divergent otherwise if as the absolute value of C is bigger to one. Okay. So, so this is the claim that okay and so this is and and so this is a claim and and in fact um right and and in fact so one more thing is that that so moreover If uh if C is less than one then the limit so so so then the claim is that it's convergent then the limit is uh one one minus 2. This here has a limit and so we write this here as the this infin. Okay. Now let's just try to prove this. So let me first do and we have we almost there already. So the thing is that Right. So let's first look at the case uh assume C in absolute value it's less than strictly less than one. Well, then we have already proven that Sn is so sn I = 0 to N CI and we have already proven that this here is 1 minus CN + 1 over 1 - C right and this makes sense C is strictly norm is strictly less than one so in particular C is not one right so this here is is fine but now you see that If you take something with norm strictly less than one, then just because CN + one, the norm of this here, well, if you take a something and you multiply it by another, so so if you take two numbers a and b and you take the absolute value of the product, that's the same as the product of the absolute values, right? So, so this means that if you take C to the power n + one, so if you take C and you multiply it by self, n + one time, this is the same as the absolute value times to raised to the power n plus one, right? And so now you see that because this c has absolute value less than one, strictly less than one, then as n go to infinity, this here converts to zero. Right? So this means that as n go to infinity this thing here right converge this here goes to zero. So just by the algebraic rules for limits right this thing here is going to converge to one minus C over one like that right so you see that in the case where the where C in absolute value is strictly less than one then we have now proven that the geometric series is convergent and in fact we have even which is really nice and and sort of unusual for a series. I mean, usually you cannot actually determine what the limit is, but in this case, we could, right? But we still need to figure out why is it not convergent if C is um the absolute value of C is bigger or equal to one. And so here's an easy thing. I mean, but you could also kind of I mean, yeah. So, here's an easy thing that if you're looking at C, sorry, SN + 1 minus SN, right? Well, SN + one or SN say this here was just right. This here was just C to the power zero up to C to the power n S N + one is where you do the same stuff. You're adding these guys, but then you have to add one more, right? So this means that this difference here is really C to the N + one, right? But now I could look at the absolute value of this difference. This is this but this is the same again as C to the power n + one. But you see if C here is the absolute value is bigger equal to one then this thing here then this thing here so if the absolute value here is bigger equal to one then this thing here must be big or equal to one right remember that if a sequence is convergent if a sequence is convergent then it is a cushy sequence it's a cushy sequence that if you go sufficiently far out then from there on and out everything bunch very very close together but you see here not even two consecutive is bunching together because independent on how far out how large n is the difference is always at least one right so this is not even a cus I mean this well I mean it's actually equivalent of course but it's not a cus sequence it sort of failed like the most basic thing with consecutive ones does not even lie close together. So this proved this uh this theorem about the geometric convergence the geometric series convergence. Okay. So now so this is like the most important example of a sequence. Um maybe the second most important is what's called the harmonic series. So harmonic series and but the harmonic series is unfortunately not a series that is convergent. So the harmonic series is the following. So I again I'm writing it I'm using this abusive notation that I'm writing the series as like a infinite sum but this infinite sum you know but it's not a convergent series. So the infinite sum doesn't really make sense. So so this is the here I have to start because I'm dividing by n. So I'm starting by one with one. So this here is called the harmonic sh. Okay. and and um and there's there's various so for series and for series there's like a sort of bunch of things bunch of tests that are useful to determine whether a series is converging or not right and but there's but and and the ones and we'll talk about these tests I talk a little bit about later in this lecture I'll talk about some of the tests but not all of them and and we will later talk about more the test that is particular useful in this case it's what's called the integral test but I won't talk about that today um but instead I will show you a very simple proof of why this here is not convergent so uh so so here's a theorem The harmonic series is a divergence. It's not conver it's diverg. Okay. And so in fact what we will prove is the following that we will show that if you're looking at so n is an integer. If you're looking at at so this is this is like so this is like a right this is only some of the you know you only hit for this here you only hit some of the um element in the sequence right so this is where I'm summing again from i = 1 to 2 n to 2 to the n minus one n is an integer of 1 I right so I want to prove that these guys here if if the original sequence has been convergent then of course any subsequence would also be convergent and we're going to prove that this thing here is big or equal to n /2 so I claim that we have this so this is a claim that you have this But if you have this thing here, you see that then the se this subsequence here is unbounded. Right? So of course the original harmonic series is not convergent. Right? So let's try to prove this. And again you know this is not um this is just like a simple proof of that very simple minor proof that the harmonic series is divergent but but there are you know more you know once we learn about the integral test and so on there are other in a way better ways of doing it. So let me try to prove this. So I want to prove the claim prove of of the claim. So I'm going to prove it by so I just prove so so I want to establish this for all n and I'm going to prove it first when um when n is equal to one. Right? So let's show this for n equal to one. So for n= to one well then the claim here means that um right so 2 to the one that's two so this is this is s1 right right because two to the one is 2 minus one so this is one so I claim that so so I want to prove that s1 is bigger equal to a want to show but of course S1 here S1 is just one over one so it's actually that's definitely fine okay so this is so it's for so we we so so we want to prove the claim and the claim is okay so claim is okay for n = 1. Okay. So now I want to prove it. So I want to assume so assume the claim is correct for for N and we want to prove it for want to show it to show the claim for for the next one, right? And so I I have that. So we we have we assume that s2 n minus one that this is bigger than n /2 and then I want to look at uh s 2 n + 1 -1. Okay, how can I write this thing here? So I'm summing, right? This here is a sum of the one over I where I do it up to this thing here. But I can think about that as a sum of the one where I do up to this here and then then I have to sorry sum the rest also. So this is I = to 2 n to 2 n + 1 2 n sorry + 1 - 1 like this of 1 / i right but now you see I want to bound it from below right so I So if you sort of continue this line then by assumption this thing here is bounded by n /2 right this thing here right I'm summing right I'm summing two n numbers right from here to here there are two n numbers right and uh and so it's two n numbers and if I take the smallest of those two numbers, right? If I take the smallest of these guys and I multiply by 2 n, then that's definitely a lower bound. So let's try to do this. So I say 2 n 2 to the n and then the smallest, but the smallest is the last one. So the smallest is 1 / 2 to the n + one minus one, right? But this thing here, right, is of course obviously bigger than so n / two. This thing here, well, this is 2 to the n. But this thing here, if I divide by a larger number, and the larger number is just this here, then I get something even smaller. So I would have 1 / 2 to the n + one, right? But now you see that this thing here cancel with these guys here. And so you're getting that this is n / 2 + a half. And so this is n + one / two. And that's exactly the claim for n + one. Right? So we proven that if it was true for n then it's also true for n + one. And we remember to check that the beginning was also okay. Okay, so that's the harmonic series. So you see that the harmonic series is divergent. Now um the harmonic series is of course an example of something else. Namely that if you're looking at so when you're looking at a series the first thing you look at typically is Okay. So, let me just have a side here. So, if you give me a series, you know, it doesn't really matter where I mean it it doesn't matter very much where it's the for for whether a series is convergent. It doesn't matter where you start because this is just adding something to it. It will matter where you start for the limit but not whether or not the sequence series is converging. But if you give me a limit the first thing I always check is that this so first so so for a series always check if a n goes to zero or not. And why? Because if you give me a series, this the the the question about a series is always whether it's converging or not. Right? And again, just like we did, if you're looking at Sn say minus SN minus one, this is where I'm looking at two consecutive things, right? But if I'm looking at this difference here, the difference here, this is where I'm summing up to the a n minus one. Here I'm summing up to the a n. So the difference here is a n. And if the sequence just like we saw, if the sequence of the series sorry is convergent, it means that this sequence here is convergent. But it means that it has to be a cruise sequence that things have to bunch together. But that two consecutive bunchs together or not is determined whether a n goes to zero or not. So if a n does not go to zero, you already done, right? There's no reason to continue. It's already clear that this if a end does not go to zero, you can just say it it doesn't converge because a end doesn't go to zero. So there's no reason to start with any kind of test or anything any sort of uh good ideas. Um okay so so that was just a side remark. The other thing is that for the the harmonic series is uh you know so this of course failed this test but but it also is an example of something where you're taking a so suppose you take a so you have a sequence a n and and then you're forming the series this here. Now, if all of the a suppose that all of the a ends are non- negative, right? Then if you're looking at sn + one, you can think about sn + one as where you're summing the first n elements and then you're adding the n plus one elements. Right? So this here you can think about as sn plus a n + one. And so of course if you have if all of these elements is non- negative this means that this here is non- negative. So this thing here is bigger than Sn. So you see that if all of the element a is non negative then this sequence sn is monotone. So in this case here if you have this this imply that this sn is mono increasing right. And so now to say whether this in if you have this to determine whether this series here is convergent or not it's just a matter of proving whether you know to determine whether this this sequence is bounded or not. Right? So you just need to find a bound. Okay. So this naturally leads to looking at what's called absolute convergence. So this is something stronger than convergence. And for many things for many although not all there's a particular test that deals with it with uh where you don't have both things or where you don't have the stronger property. So for many things you are you have absolute convergence. Um okay and um so let me try to so absolute conver. So again you have a um a series here. This series here is set to be absolute convergence or converge absolutely. So converge absolutely if if the co the series where you slap absolute values on them. If this thing here right? So if this so we say that this here converts absolutely if this here converge. Okay. Now uh so I claim that uh that absolute convergence is stronger than So, so absolute convergence implies uh convergence. This is a theorem. But it's not the other way around, right? So if you have what's called the So here an example and and we haven't yet proved that it's converging, but we'll do that in some later lecture. So um so here's an example. If you're looking at the series minus one to the power n / n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n = 1 to infinity. This here you see this is if if this hair just had been one then it had been the harmonic series. This here series is it's also kind of like a famous series. It's called the alternating alternating harmonic series. And it's alternating alternating mean that the sign of it is alternating right. So the sign of this a element it keep changing from guess in this case the first one is negative the next one is positive. So it go back and forth between uh uh back and forth uh around zero. to a harmonic series. And this series is convergent is convergent but not absolutely convergent. Why? Because the the if you slap absolute value sign you get the harmonics is and we already know that this is not convergent but not absolutely converted. Okay. So this is the alternating harmonic series. Okay. Now let's try to prove that uh absolute convergence implies convergence. And so I'm going to look at so I take two series. So I have SN that's my original series AI = Z to N like that. And then I take the one where I slap absolute value sign and I denote it with a bar. So I = to zero 2 N of A. And then I make a little observation and the observation is that if I take if I'm looking at SN and SM so just think about at N here is larger than N. Then you can think about this thing here as this thing here is just where you're summing from m + one n up to a n right that's this difference right but if you take absolute value on this absolute value on that well that's a that's of of course less or equal to right where you're taking absolute value on each individual one like that. But this thing here is just this is just right this thing here is just for the the other series. this is it's the same sort of difference and and here actually I don't need to take absolute value but I could take absolute value but this is already non negative and so you see that so so you make this little observation but now we know that if it is absolutely convergent then this sequence here converge so this means that in particular it's equivalent to saying that it's a cushy sequence and so this means that things if you are sufficiently far out these things here have bunched together epsilon together if you are bigger than some capital n but now this inequality say that these things here bunch together so you see that that if this is convergent then it's a cy sequence but this means that this here is a cy sequence so it means that there are vision series was converged. Okay. Um and so now let's look at one more example and then then we'll talk about some of the tests. Um yeah. So let's look at so we we we saw that the harmonic series is divergent. so we saw that the harmonic series is divergent but let's what about right I mean and what about so this is another thing you could do right so maybe the most important series is the geometric series after that you can debate a little bit which series is the most important and but these here is some other candidates for that. Um, so I'm looking at now the sum here n = 0 to infinity. Uh, and I'm looking at uh 1 / n squares. But you could do it more generally where you raise it to some power. Right? If that power was one, you got the alternating, you got the harmonic series. But I'm now I'm just looking at a specific power two. Okay. And so I claim that that this series here this here is um this here is um I mean this one doesn't really have a name but it is a key series. And so I claim that this here is convergence. So this is now You observe that the a n in this case this is just 1 / n^2 right and these here are non- negative. So all we need to do is so we just need to prove. So this is when the a ends are non negative all you need to prove is that that the sequence you just need to prove need to show that the SN which is where you're summing here I = uh you can't you shouldn't sum from zero sum from one I = to uh one to n that you will need to prove that these here are bounded and this is because the a ends are non negative. Okay. So now the idea here is that um I mean again this is not um this is not necessarily how I would do it but um if but this the advantage with this here is that it doesn't use anything fancy. I mean it's not like the the the way later on you would do it will you would use the integral test but we haven't talked about this integral test yet. So you can do it very simple mindedly. And so the claim here is that um that um that you want to compare. So we want to we want to make a following claim uh that um that um that if you're looking at s to the 2 n + one sorry f to the 2 n. So it's just similar to what we did before. If we want to prove we want to prove that this thing here uh for this uh series that this is less than the sum here from i uh equal to uh zero to n of 12 to the power i. So we'll put n minus one. So we claim this thing here. Now you see that so we claim that we have this inequality for all in right but um this thing here we already know that this here is a geometric series series with C = to a half so it's convergent and you see this thing here is a subsequ sequence but it's a subsequence because this here is convergent. This here is this here is yeah right this here is bounded by something fixed right so it means that this subsequence here is bounded but the original series was a mono increasing sequence. So if a subsequence is bounded then the original sequence is bounded and and so convergent right. So we just need to prove we just need to give a bound like this and the bound here you get is but we already determined that this here is less or equal to one over 1 minus c. C is a half. So this is like this. So this here is a half. So this whole thing here is two. So this here would be bounded by two. Right? Okay. So now we want to prove so we want to prove this claim here. So if we can prove this claim then we have that the series this series here is convergent. Okay. So now let's let's let's try to do that. So when n is equal to one so we we do it again in the same way. This is called by induction. We do it for first for for n = 1 for n = 1 it is a claim that s right if n is equal to one this is 2 minus one that's one so it's a claim that this thing here is uh is bigger equals is lesser equal to and now it's when n is equal to one it's just this is you're just summing over one thing. It's just one thing and it is a half to the power zero and that's one. So for n= 1, this is what we need to show. Okay. But now let's see for n equal to one. Well, this here is indeed one. So that's okay, right? So this is okay. So now assume assume that s ^ 2n -1 is bounded by this i = 0 to n -1 of 12 to the power i. Right? So assume this and we want to prove the same thing but for n + one. So want to show the same inequality for n + one. Okay. So let me do that. So I'm looking at s 2 n + 1 -1. So s 2n + 1 - one I can write as where I'm summing the first 2 n minus one and then I'm I'm summing and then plus and then I'm what I'm summing from I equ= to 2 n to uh up to 2 n + 1 - one right and then it's 1 / i^ 2 now in this case remember before we wanted to prove that something was divergent So we wanted to give a lower bound. In this case we want to give a upper bound. So when we do this we think about what is the instead of what is the smallest we think about what is the largest of these numbers but that's the first one right and there are again just like before there are two n many of them. So this thing here is lesser equal to s2 n minus one. Sorry. Yeah, like this. And then there are two n many they're all non negative. And this is and the first one is the largest. So 1 / 2 n squared like this, right? And so you see that this thing here is so now we can fill in the assumption. We were assuming that this here was less than this. So this is the sum from i =0 to n -1 of 12 to the power i and uh the this thing here but the square kills that one and you're still left with one over 2n but you see this is of course exactly the next one in the series. So this is I = 0 to N of a half to the power I like that right and that's indeed this is like the induction step right this is what's called the induction step so this is so it's true also so if it's true for n the claim then it's also true for n plus one Okay. So now uh so now um let me I have just four minutes left. There's a little bit more uh in I already posted the lecture notes uh and um and there's a bit more here I want to talk about. So I want to talk about some of the tests but we we'll talk about that more next time also. So to determine whether another series a series is converging converge uh then there are a number of tests and then of the the key uh the key point is to use the right test. So uh I will just talk about so I just mentioned some of the tests but we won't anyway go through all of them you know so maybe I can't go through any of them. So there's a comparison test, there's a ratio test, there's root test, and there's also the one I talked about several times, the integral test. And then there's even one called the alternate series test. Okay, now maybe I can just talk about the the comparison test. That's in a way the simplest of. And so the comparison test is that you're looking at two series. So you have these two series here and you have this other series here. And the comparison tests say that if you have a n bigger equal to zero less or equal to bn. So if you have this and and the B and this series here then then the corresponding thing with the A in will also converge. and and this this this is the simplest version of the comparison test and this is in a way used in two ways right so you often you have a series and maybe it could be a super complicated series and uh but you see some kind of path in and so you can compare it with a much simpler series that perhaps you already know whether it's converging right and so if you can compare it with something else and you know that that converge then you conclude that that that a end series is converging. It's also sometimes used that you want to determine whether this series here is converging but you can you actually you can easily kind of compare it with some other series where you have this relationship here and this one you already know is divergent right so it's used in both ways when it's used to both determine that a series is convergent and it's also used to determine that the series is divergent okay so there's a little bit more about test on the in the lecture notes. Um but we will anyway talk about it more next time. Yeah. >> Question about like the intuition of this like >> Yeah. Right. Right. Right. So so so that's right. So so so right. So that's so that sort of thing is I mean this last one show you that the geometric series is one that is that sort of come up often as a kind of comparison in a way when how you get it different for different people obviously you don't start with a claim you sort of looking at the first few things and you see a pattern basically but it's not I mean you know this is not the way you want to really you know later on you know I would never prove any kind of convergence like this you know there's a a there's a way of comparing it with the so the idea is let me just tell you but of course the lecture is over but but there is um so the integral test is that you're looking at so you're looking at a series and if you have a series of non- negative numbers you can think about that the series is like the area below. If this here is if this is think about this here as a1 and this is maybe a2 then you can think about the sum as the sum of the areas like this and so the integral of test is that you comparing it with some curve and the area that lies below it then it's like much more clear right the other one is like where you have to do it case by case right that's not you know here there's a kind of general idea So it's nice in this particular case. I'm not sure it's you know what I mean. I mean you had to look at the first few things and see if you see a pattern, right? And of course you don't start with a claim, right? That's like the end. When you when you actually have a claim, then you already know what's going on.