Let's get started. So, we're in the home stretch. We've got uh one more of these topics in coding theory. Uh Peter will be covering a related topic next week, but that'll be a bit of a different flavor. So today we're going to cover you know one of the other great results in coding theory which has to do with error correction. So so far we've been exclusively talking about compression. You know how you can take a message and reduce the number of bits you need to transmit in order to reliably be able to recover what was the original message. Now today we're going to talk about a very realistic scenario which is when the way that you're transmitting introduces errors. So there's a very simple model which is a good way to get started which is called the binary symmetric channel or BSC for short. The way that this channel works is that every time you input a bit which is either zero or one then it has some probability of flipping the outcome the output of the bit. So this BSC channel is going to be governed by some parameter P and it's going to have the property that with P probability it ends up flipping the input and output and with the remaining probability 1 minus P it just sends through whatever bit you sent along the channel. The trouble is that you don't know when and where these errors have occurred. So the question is, you know, you can think about P just for concreteness as being something like a third. If I'm trying to send a message along the channel to you and I've already done my compression to get it down to the shortest possible string of zeros and ones. Now when I send it along to you and each bit gets flipped independently with probability a third you know what hope do you have of recovering the original message and what are schemes you can design that combat the fact that you're anticipating there'll be errors. So, you know, just to be clear, we're talking about each bit is flipped independently with this probability P. And now we can ask all of the natural questions about communication and the presence of errors. So the main thing we care about which will be what we'll address today is you know is it still possible to transmit information reliably. So you know let's um let's think about you know what this question means uh with some simple ideas for how to combat the errors right. So one simple example you can come up with uh for how to transmit along a noisy channel is to use what are called repetition codes. So here the idea is that I take my original message Let's say it's a string of you know zeros and ones. And what I'm going to do for what I'll transmit along the channel is I'm just going to keep repeating each input bit a certain number of times so that you know even if some of them get corrupted maybe it's okay. So, I'll take my first bit, which is a one, and I'm going to repeat it t times. And I'll do the same thing for my next bit. That's a zero. I'm going to repeat it t times. And I'll do the same thing for all of the bits in my original message. Right? So now you can see that already the way that I'm combating the fact that the channel is introducing errors is that I'm increasing the length of my transmission. I'm padding it with extra information in such a way that hopefully I can detect and correct whatever errors the channel has introduced. So the name of the game you know for today will be what are the best possible schemes for how to pad the extra with extra information in such a way that I can reliably figure out what my original message was. So you know just to think about this right? So let's say that the original message had length K. Then what I can do is I claim a good choice for you know how many times to repeat each message is maybe something like you know 100 log K. So my original message was length K and then each bit I repeat 100 log K times. So intuitively, if I took this transmission and I sent it through the channel, you know, some of these ones get flipped to zeros independently, some of these zeros get flipped to ones independently. How would you try and decode what you receive to figure out what the original message is? Any ideas? And keep in mind, just to be concrete, you can think about the failure, the flip probability as being something like a third. So maybe a bit is, you know, more likely to come through in the clear without being flipped than it is being flipped. So if I sent you this long padded transmission, how do you think I'd figure out what the first symbol is based on what I receive? Yeah, >> the majority of the block. >> Perfect. The majority vote, right? Because intuitively, you know, if I'm repeating this t times, then I would expect that, you know, the number of bit flips that I have is around t over3. And so that means the majority of them should actually correspond to what my original bit was. In fact, what I care about is not just what the expected number of bit flips are, but I care about getting bounds on how likely it is that my decoding rule would fail. So, what kind of tool that we've talked about earlier in class might be relevant here. So, you know, if um I started off with bit flip probability a third and then I sent this bit through the channel with a repetition code. Now, my chance of getting the wrong bit for my majority vote decoding is the chance that the expected number of flips is a third. But really, the true number of flips is much larger because it's larger than a half. That's the only way I would get the wrong decoding for this bit is if I ended up with half errors instead of a third. So what kind of tool that we've covered earlier in class might be useful to get a bound on the failure probability the chance that my decoder fails here. >> Yeahov >> marov would do it. Um so I could certainly use marov. That's an example of a tailbound. Now one problem though is that marov uses very little information about the random variables. So if I did this right, what I care about is like what's the probability that I fail uh you know for this bit what's the probability that I fail for this bit and so on. And it turns out that if you used marov if you wanted to argue that you know with a good chance I fail on none of these bits and I use the union bound I would end up having to pad the length of the message by a factor of k instead of log k. So are there any ideas for how I could hope to get sharper bounds on how much I need to increase the padding by? Yeah, turn off. That's right. So the key point is that you know if I have this repetition code and I do it 100 log K times I can use the turnoff bound. See remember the way to think about the turnoff bound is that the error exponent goes down exponentially in the length in the number of independent samples you're taking. So the probability that I have too many uh you know flips that I was expecting a third flips and I get a half is something that goes down exponentially with log k. So if I choose this constant in front of it the point is that my failure probability is something like 1 over k squ and then I can say that I don't fail on this bit I don't fail on this bit. I don't fail on this bit. I don't fail on any of the bits. So that's exactly right. You know, if we use the churnoff bound, we could then take the majority vote in each one of these blocks and we could show that the majority vote succeeds with probability let's say 1 minus little O of one. So maybe I fail with some probability one over K, something like that. So we're not going to fully prove these things right here because we're going to design a much much better coding scheme. So repetition codes the first time you see this problem of communicating on a noisy channel is the first scheme you come up with. But the big surprise is that you can do way better than just repeating your message. So what I'm going to do right now is I'm going to tell you about you know what are the deserata. So what are the things we want out of our code and then we'll talk about you know Shannon's noisy coding theorem and we'll prove it. Okay. So I claim this code is pretty good but not really the kind of thing that we're aiming for. So let's make precise some of the things that we talked about intuitively. Right? So we can talk about the rate of a code. The rate just describes you know however long my transmission is. How long is that compared to how much information I'm actually transmitting right? So in particular what it is is the length of the message divided by the length of the transmission. So in particular what do we get for repetition codes? How good are they according to this deserata of having a good rate? Well, we can check that the rate that we get is 1 over 100 log K, right? Because you know my original length of my message was K. My new length of my message is K * T and I set T to be 100 log K. So I get this 1 / T type of rate. So the trouble with this is that you know this rate if you look at it right as the length of my message K goes to infinity my rate is going to zero so that's the question that's the main question really is is that necessary so when we send longer and longer transmissions does it mean that I'm communicating asmtoically very little negligible information when I'm sending things to you or is it possible to achieve a constant rate that's independent of the length of the message. So this came as a pretty big you know surprise and this is our main guiding question for today. Let's ask can we make the probability of getting an error and what I mean by that is the probability that we don't successfully decode the message we started from. I want the probability of my error going to zero [clears throat] but I want to keep the rate constant and here what I mean by going to zero is we're taking the limit as the length of my input message K is going to infinity so is it possible to do much better than these repetition codes we got you know error probability ility of error was going to zero that's fine but we were transmitting very little information at the end of the day so in fact I need to make some other notions precise too because we have to talk about what is our coding scheme see for the repetition codes I did this all informally right but really what there are there are two pieces to the puzzle one is you know the encoding which is how you go from the message to what you actually transmit along the channel. It's the way that you're encoding the information. Repetition is a very simple way to do that just by repeating myself. And the other piece of the puzzle is the decoding which takes you know whatever is the output of the channel where some of the bits have been flipped and we try to go back to the message we started from. So in our case the encoding was repetition and the decoding was majority vote. But in general we could think about you know very different kinds of schemes right so we'll say that a rn n encoding is a function and which we'll write as ink that goes from 01 to the rn to 01 to the n. So r here represents the rate and it's something that you know for us will be between zero and one and you can see that I'm going from a shorter message. This is my k right here is the RN. This is the input that I want to send to another party. And then I decide how I'm going to transmit it along the channel using a longer message. Right? So it goes from Rn to N. So that's the first part is that this is our encoding and you can see that you know r right here is literally the rate of my code. So that's a parameter I'll care about and moreover a rn n decoding is also a function. All it does is decode goes from a received message RN back to oh sorry N back to what we think the person was transmitting to begin with. Okay. Now the key point is um you know how these two functions encode and decode work in the presence of errors and bit flips like when we send it along the binary symmetric channel. So in particular we'll be interested in the following quantity. This is a bit of a mouthful. So let me write it down and then we'll parse it together. So if you give me two parameters, R, your target rate, and N, which is, you know, how long you want the transmission to be, well, I'm going to look at the min over all RN encoding and decoding functions of the max over messages M which are in 01 to the Rn of the probability ility that m tilda is not equal to m where we think about it according to the following picture. So we start off with our message that gets turned into some transmission which is just the encoding of my message given my encoding function. We send this through the binary symmetric channel and we receive cilda. We pass C tilda into the decoding function to get back what we think was the original message. And the question is, you know, how often do we have the property that m equals m tilda. So this is a lot of notation, but it's really very natural, right? So inside right here, I just care about the probability that I successfully decode the message you were trying to send to me despite the fact that the binary symmetric channel has introduced errors. Now uh I want this probability the probability that I fail to get the correct message to be small uh to be small irrespective of what message you're sending. So I look at how bad the failure probability can be in decoding in the worst case over all of my input messages, right? And then this latter thing is I want to create an encoding and decoding scheme that is good for all possible messages. So I don't want to choose an arbitrary encoding decoding function like these repetition codes but I want to figure out you know what is actually the best encoding decoding pair uh in terms of you fixed what the rate is how small can I get this failure probability to be? If I fix the rate to be a constant like a half or a third can I get the failure probability for all messages to be going to zero as n goes to infinity. So, this is a bit of a mouthful. Uh, let me give you a moment to parse this thing, but are there any questions about the terminology or what I'm asking for here? Give me a thumbs up if this makes sense. Okay, awesome. All right. So, let me tell you Shannon's second main theorem. Shannon's noisy coding theorem also proven around the same time and it asserts two things which are upper and lower bounds that meet. So what I claim is that if the rate that you're trying to hit is larger than one minus entropy of P then what I claim is that lambda star RN the best you can do for encoding and decoding functions that error rate goes to one as n goes to infinity. That's the first part for the theorem. Let me state the other part. We'll talk about you know what this tells us and how to connect it back to our intuition. So on the other side if r is less than 1 minus entropy of p then what I claim is that lambda star r n is going to go to zero as n goes to infinity. So let's parse these things together, right? Because to really unwrap what this theorem is stating, we have to go back to this, you know, minax formulation. So you know what this is saying is like think about P as being a third in our binary symmetric channel. H is the binary entropy function. We talked about what that expression is. You know minus P log P plus 1 minus P log 1 minus P. So you can just plug in for P is a 3 and compute numerically what entropy of P is. It's some constant. And now the point is that if you're trying to transmit at a at a at a denser rate than one minus entropy of P, you're going to fail. You're going to fail. Why? Because no matter what encoding decoding pair you choose, there will be messages where the probability that you successfully decode the message is actually going to zero. the probability that mild is not equal to m is going to one. So when you're trying to transmit at too high a rate, you never decode the correct message. And on the other side, if the rate at which you're trying to transmit is less than the same quantity one minus entropy of p, then what this means is that there is a good encoding decoding pair. We'll have to talk about what this pair is and how does it work. that the error probability goes to zero as n goes to infinity. So this is a really striking theorem because usually what you what the the terminology is that you call one minus entropy of p the capacity. It's just some kind of rate that the channel admits for you know how densely you can communicate with someone else. In fact, what's amazing is that, you know, these types of theorems are true not just for the binary symmetric channel. But if you invent, you know, your favorite stochastic channel, you know, something which maybe erases symbols or deletes them or has some hybrid model between these things, they always have a well-defined capacity that if you're above the capacity, your error rate is going to one. If you're below the capacity, you can get the error rate going to zero. But the interesting quirk is that in a lot of cases the channel you write down even though we know there is some line in the sand that you cannot cross. We don't actually know numerically what it is because it turns into an extremely hard math problem to give an explicit characterization the way that we have one here. Okay. So let's um you know this is a lot to digest. Uh let's try and get some intuition for this. So you know I told you h of p is the binary entropy. So recall that the entropy of p is just minus p log base 2 of p min - 1 - p log base 2 of 1 - p. Okay. So in particular, you know what this function looks like is if you choose P is a half, right? What's going to happen is that your entropy of P is one. So what you can show is that this binary entropy function it's this nice concave function and it's maximum value corresponds to P is a half at which point it equals the value one. So let's figure out what Shannon is saying here and see if it makes sense. Right? So you know I have my binary symmetric channel and um you know if p is one then I can compute the channel capacity that's 1 minus one so that's zero. So Shannon is telling me that you can't communicate at any positive rate when your flip probability for your binary symmetric channel is a half. Does that make sense? Let's think about that one. So why is that reasonable that when P is a half that I can't actually transmit information to another party? >> Yeah. >> That's right. So if you just look back to my definition of the binary symmetric channel, well one minus P is a half. P is a half. So what that means is you know you sit there and you receive my first symbol which is a zero or one. It has the same probability of being zero and one irrespective of whether you were sending a zero or one to begin with. So literally my channel just doesn't look at the message and it just spits out random bits. Of course there's no way to communicate right when P is a third. Shannon's theorem is telling us that we can do way better than the repetition code because this will be a constant because you know we'll be somewhere here and whatever that value is numerically is the fixed line in the sand. We can communicate at that rate and know better and we don't have something like the repetition code where the rate is going to zero. It's actually a universal constant even though the error probability is going to zero. Right? Let me test your intuition again. Right? See what's interesting is that the you know this entropy function h of p is symmetric around p equals a half right because when I substitute p with 1 minus p it doesn't change the expression so the same thing is true for one minus entropy of p so what shannon's theorem is telling me is that when my bit flip probability is 2/3 I can also communicate at some positive rate why is that intuitive You know, if I use something like the major uh the repetition code, majority vote doesn't work anymore, but something else does. What would work if my bit flip probability were two/3s? Yeah, minority. Exactly. All I do is I'm thinking that there'll be two/3 flips here. And so I take the opposite of the majority vote. Okay. So, you know, this theorem is pretty deep. Uh it takes a little bit to you know wrap your head around it but so far it makes sense. P is a half makes sense. The fact that it's symmetric and p interchanging p and one minus p makes sense. Okay. And we're going to prove this theorem today. And uh let me give you the proof right here. I'll put proof in quotes. So really the question is like you know repetition codes didn't work for my encoding function what should I use for my encoding function. So what you do is you let encoding be a random function and that's it. That's the proof. The entire rest of today's lecture will be removing the quotes around this proof because in order to actually analyze what happens when we choose encoding to be a random function, well, we're going to have to get into a lot of tools from the probabilistic method. So, you know, this is our strategy. Uh, let me introduce a bit more about what the strategy is. So what we're going to do is we're going to prove this second statement first which is of course you know the the um positive statement that we really can communicate at some positive rate. So let's prove two first and let me be more precise about what I mean by encode. So I'm going to choose M capital M equals 2 times 2 to the Rn strings from my domain 01 to the n uniformly at random. So if you think back to what's going on, right? What is an encoding function? Well, it's mapping each of the possible messages and there are 2 to the Rn of these to strings in 01 to the n. And what I'm doing here, it sort of looks like I'm looking I'm choosing the images of what those messages would be. There's 2 to the Rn messages that I could want to encode and I'm just going to encode them with a uniformly random string from 01 to the n. For each one of the messages, I just choose the bits in its output completely at random. I have this extra factor of two for reasons that will become clear much later because this scheme by itself won't quite work. We'll have to remove some of these strings to really get by and we'll talk about that later. But that's, you know, at least the intuition. And here I'm going to define the code book script C. That's just all of these different strings that I've chosen. C1 up to CN. All right. So now, uh, [clears throat] let me tell you one more key definition and then we can get to at least the statement of some of the key lemas. So the last key definition I need is the notion of a ring of width gamma around some point C. So C here is a vector in 01 to the N. And I'm going to let this ring be the set of all C tildas such that the Hamming distance I'll tell you what I mean by that in a second in case you haven't seen this term the Hamming distance between C and C tilda minus NP is at most gamma N. All right. So let me be precise. So the Hamming distance is just the number of coordinates I where CI is not equal to C tilda I. So my ring is going to be centered at some vector C and C right here remember is a vector in 01 to the N. And my ring is going to be a subset of 01 to the N. It's the set of all C tildas that are the right distance from C. In particular, I look at how many coordinates between C and C tilda are different. NP is maybe the expected number of coordinates where they would be different because I'm sending C along the binary symmetric channel and it flips each bit independently with probability P. So in expectation if c tilda is the output of my channel I would expect the hamming distance to be n * p. And here I just added a bit of slack. You should think of gamma as being something really really tiny that's going to zero. And it just adds a little bit of slack because my ring now just looks like you know not the set of things at some fixed distance but within some tolerance of that distance. So the way to think about it as a you know ring just pictorially is that I have my vector C here and then I'm looking at some you know dis around it of radius PN in terms of you know how many coordinates are difference between C and C tilda and then I fatten this ring a little bit by some width gamma and this shaded region in between them is exactly what the set ring gamma around is so it has a center and it has a thickness. Okay. So any questions about that? This is just the definition. All right. And so now let me tell you the key lema which is going to tell us you know it'll be the key for proving the second part of Shannon's theorem and it'll even tell us you know what the decoding function should be. We'll have to work up towards proving this lema but I can already state the lema right now. So here's the key lema. The probability that if we take C and we send it through our binary symmetric channel and we get out C tilda. We want it to satisfy two conditions. We want it to satisfy the condition one. that C tilda belongs to the ring around CI of some width gamma. And we want that C tilda does not belong to any other ring of with gamma around any other CJ for all J not equal to I. Well, I claim that this is at least 1 minus epsilon and this will be true for appropriate choice of gamma and as n goes to infinity. So let's parse this thing. This still requires a lot of you know digestion to understand what's going on. So I'm punting on the question what is gamma? We'll deal with that later. Okay. And all of these things I care about is really you know asmtoically as a function of n. All right. And you know ultimately I'm going to want this epsilon actually to go to zero too. So you should think of epsilon as something that's going to zero as n goes to infinity. So I haven't told you what gamma is. We'll deal with that later. But each of these c's right are uh actually sorry I should say ci here. Each of these CIS are the messages from my code book script C. Remember there's capital M of them. And what I'm saying is when I choose my encoding scheme that way where each of these CIS are a random lengthen string what I'm saying is when I pass that message through the binary symmetric channel and introduce flips and get C tilda well with you know high probability CI belong uh C tilda belongs to CI's ring right and he belongs to no other ring. So if this event really did happen with you know all but vanishing probability I would be in great shape because it would give me my decoding algorithm. So once I've chosen this encoding function where you know each of the messages the two to the Rn of them goes to a random image one of these CIS then all I have to do is I pass my CI through the channel I receive C tilda and my decoder is just going to check one by one each of the messages in my code book you know which ring C tilda belongs to and the point is that the only ring it will belong to is the actual message I started if both of these conditions hold. So that's the main point is that you know if this event happens I'm golden. So does everyone see why decoding would succeed if this happened? Does this make sense? Yeah. I saw less vigorous head nodding. Yes. No. Okay. All right. [laughter] Okay. So, we're going to have to prove this lema. That's uh one of the key things we're going to prove today. A bunch of these things I'm trying to do the calculations in a way that makes them as uh unpainful as possible. Um but there are limits. Um so the first thing I want to do is I want to tell you a back of the envelope calculation you know because all these things like this binary entropy h of p is going to have to show up and somehow it shows up from the cominatorics when we look at the size of these rings. So let me tell you a back of the envelope calculation which will be very useful for us and you can make all of this precise but let's do this a little bit more heristically. So we know from Sterling's approximation that n factorial behaves like n e to the n time square of 2i n. Now I'll tell you right now what I want to do is I want to figure out what the size of the rings are. So I want to use Sterling's approximation to figure out uh some sort of expression for a binomial coefficient. And that's where the entropy is going to pop out. Now I can tell you right now that for Sterling's approximation when we apply it to the thing I'm about to do this term doesn't matter. So if you want you can just ignore it. I'll still keep track of it. But you know let's progress right? So let's move on. So what I really care about is understanding the behavior of n choose pn. This makes sense, right? because you know I start off with a message which is say all zeros the let's say that's the transmission that I send along the channel and what I could care about is you know how many outputs are reasonably likely right certainly if my trans uh my flip probability on the channel is a third then I should expect that my output started off with no ones and after I send it through the channel maybe I end up with n over three ones That's just p* n and what I care about is how many you know outputs I'm reasonably likely to get from my channel. So I care about what are the asmtoics of this quantity right and I can use the fact that I can express the binomial as ratios of you know factorials and I'll get out when I plug in sterling's approximation I'll get this you know mess of an expression that I can simplify. So I get n / e to the n. I get n p over e to the np. I get n * 1 - p over e to the n * 1 - p. And then I get some other stuff that I already told you isn't going to matter, but let me keep track of it anyways. Okay. And this is not mysterious, right? Because you know this binomial is just n factorial over pn factorial times 1 minus p n factorial. And these are the leading order terms because these are much much smaller. Now what I can do is I can cancel things out because this n the n cancels with the n the np time n the n uh 1 minus one p uh 1 minus p. This e to the n cancels with the e down here. Uh the only thing that'll be left over is I'll get 1 over p to the np * 1 - p to the 1 - pn. And then I can cancel a bunch of these expressions if I want to. This is 2 pi n p * 1 minus p. So just some algebra. Nothing fancy so far, right? And now I'm in good shape because I can take this expression and I can take the log and divide by n. So what this tells me is that 1 / n * log of n choose pn. Well, this is exactly where the binary entropy pops out, right? So, I get minus p log p minus 1 - p log 1 minus p and then all the other terms are much smaller order because they behave like log n / n. They're tiny compared to it. So really what's going on is all of the terms that don't cancel when I take their log and divide by n that's exactly where the binary entropy pops out and that's why entropy shows up in Shannon's theorem. So this is really just saying that the limit as n goes to infinity of 1 /n time log of this binomial coefficient n choose pn behaves like the binary entropy of p. So this is a key you know algebraic fact that we're going to appeal to in our proof of correctness and our proof that lema one holds is just this fact. We're going to see a bunch of binomials in there and I'm just going to think about them in terms of the binary entropy instead. Right? All right. So now let's go back to you know this lema one and let me tell you some basic facts that are going to be key ingredients on the proof of lema one. This part is really just calculational to get to the proof of lema one. But let's state, you know, one of our key facts. Fact one. Well, I claim that you know ring gamma of C, the size of it, the number of strings that are contained in this set is bounded by like 2 to the entropy of P plus or minus gamma time N. So all this is is really it's related to this fact, right? Think about the case where you know gamma is zero for our definition of the ring. All that's happening is the number of things that are in our ring is n choose pn. And so our fact tells us that in that case when gamma equals zero it behaves like you know 2 to the entropy of p * n. That's literally what this expression means when I multiply through by n and take you know everything to the uh in the exponent of two. And as I take this thickness gamma to be something but you know ultimately I'm going to care about this thickness going to zero as n goes to infinity. It's only going to be some fudge factor in the exponent. So you can write down this fact more precisely. It's a bit tedious because it involves a lot of algebraic expressions, but this is really how the size of the ring behaves up to some fudge factor that depends on the width of the ring. It's 2 to the entropy of P * N. That's our first fact, right? And so now um what I claim is that uh you know we can get into these questions like how should I choose gamma? What I claim is that there is a gamma such that with probability at least 1 - epsilon / 2 p minus gamma n and that is a lower bound for the hamming distance between c tilda and c and p plus gamma n is an upper bound. So we can forget about how we're connecting this to coding theory right now. This is a purely probabistic question. I take any message C of length N and I send it along the channel and then I observe C tilda and remember that C tilda just comes from flipping each bit independently with probability P. So I can care about you know how many flips were introduced. This is really just the standard coin flipping question is I want bounds on the probability that the number of times I flipped the bit is larger than its expectation or is smaller than its expectation. And if my gamma is some appropriately chosen slack, then I can guarantee that you're not outside of these bounds with all but some tiny failure probability. Okay. So all this is is this follows because we've proven things very much like this. It follows from you know chebbev [clears throat] or the weak law of large numbers because as n goes to infinity you expect the empirical number of bit flips you get to be very very close to the expected number p * n. So with these two facts, we're now in good shape for trying to prove lema one. So let's put these things together and prove lema one. So how does the proof of lema one go? Our key lema and Shannon's theorem. So first of all, you know from fact two We have the probability that C tilda, how did I write it there? C tilda belongs to the ring for some appropriately chosen gamma around CI is you know at least 1 minus epsilon / 2. So my failure probability is at most epsilon over two. And now what we can do is let's bound the other probability. So let's bound the failure probability of the other event namely that C tilda belongs to some other guy's ring. And so what we can do is we can fix J not equal to I. So one of the other code words in our code book and what we can do is you know in that case the probability that C tilda belongs to the ring of some width gamma around CJ. Well I claim that this is the same thing. This is one of the key tricks in here is the same thing as the probability that CJ belongs to the ring of C tilda. So this looks like a pretty obvious statement, right? Because this notion of ring is just symmetric, right? It doesn't, you know, whether if C tilda belongs to CI's ring, that's the same thing as vice versa, right? if CI belongs to C tilda's ring but what's going on here is we have to go back to how exactly we chose the code book to see why this is important right is that you know app priori this might seem like a fairly complicated event to analyze right because I have you know some um you know message that's received by my decoder that's cilda what's the chance he belongs to some other ring around CJ J. The key point is that when I express the probability this way, remember I chose each of those code words randomly. So what I could do is I could run the whole experiment in my head but be lazy about when I choose CJ. So you tell me you're sending CI along the channel. Fine. You tell me you're sending that particular message. I fix what CI is. We send CI through the channel and we receive C tilda. But only now after I receive C tilda do I pick what CJ is. And you know the chance that CJ if it's a uniformally random string lands in this particular ring I can bound that based on the size of the ring. So now I can appeal to fact one right. So you know uh we can upperbound this probability by you know this 2 to the entropy of p plus or minus the slack gamma n over 2 to the n just because that's the size of the ring c tilda is exactly this quantity from fact one and we're choosing cj uniformly at random from all of the strings of length n that are binary. So we get exactly this expression. And so now we're in good shape because we can appeal to a union bound because we don't care about this just for one particular J. We care about it, you know, for all J not equal to I. Right? So now by a union bound the probability that C tilda belongs to any ring around a CJ where J is not equal to I. Okay, the probability that's true for any J is at most the size of our code book times this probability 2 to the entropy of P plus or minus gamma N over 2 to the N. So this is just a simple union bound right and now what we can do right uh if you ignore this gamma what's going on is I have you know um my code book remember looks like uh 2 to the 1us entropy of you know it looks like you know this code book right here is 2 * 2 to the rn and we're assuming that r is strictly less than 1 - entropy of P. What's going on right here is I have you know 2 the minus 1us entropy of P. So the point is that you know once my rate is strictly smaller than what's happening in the exponent over here then I'm in good shape because this probability goes to zero as n goes to infinity. So that's the proof of our key lema, right? It's really just the counting argument at the end of the day is that you know my code isn't so large like I union bound over all of the things in my code book. I look at the size of each of these rings compared to the size of the underlying domain. And as long as the size of my code book times the size of the ring is strictly smaller than my domain even you know asmtoically then I'm in good shape. Right? So this proves these two key facts. We know that the probability you don't belong to the ring you start with is very small is at most epsilon over two by the weak law of large numbers. And we know by a unionbound an accounting argument that the probability that you belong to any other ring is very small. And the key, you know, step that we used was really this transformation right here. That the probability that C tilda belongs to another ring because the CJs are chosen randomly. That's the same as the probability that my newly sampled CJ belongs to the ring around C tilda. So are there any questions about this? This is one of the key proofs for today is the proof of this key lema. Any questions? Give me a thumbs up. Good. All right. So now let's use this lema and there'll be another trick. It's a subtle trick, but it's a cool trick. So, I need a little bit more terminology and then we're going to be able to prove Shannon's theorem because one of the things to think about is that so far our attempt at proving Shannon's theorem, we're choosing a random code book, right? And that code book then defines you know what the encoding and the decoding functions are. Our encoding sends each message to one of those you know randomly chosen code words in our code book. Our decoder just looks at you know which messages ring you belong to. But at the end of the day to prove Shannon's theorem I don't want to argue that a random code is usually good. I want to show that there's a code that's always good. So that subtlety is really where the probabilistic method is going to show up, right? Is because we have to argue that there actually is one fixed choice of this random code book that makes everything small. And this is a little bit subtle to really prove this statement. But I need some more intuition, right? I need some more notation. So I'm going to let EI of my code book script C be the event that everything goes well that you know I send in my if code word from my code book through the binary symmetric channel. I get out some received message C tilda I and I have exactly the properties that are promised to me in this key lema lema one. I want that my received thing belongs to the ring around CI and it belongs to no other ring and this is true for all J not equal to I. So notice that this event now is a property of the actual code book too, right? It's a property of what errors the uh channel introduces and a property of the choice of the code book. And what we're going to do is we're finally going to let lambda I of C denote one minus the probability that this event happens. So it's really the probability that there's a decoding failure. But notice that the decoding failure then depends on what the original that probability depends on the choice of the code book and it depends on which message we're sending. All right. And so what I claim we just proved through lema one is the following statement. We proved that the average over all of the possible code books because we're choosing these code books uniformly at random. The average over all of the messages that we want to send of having a decoding failure is small. So what does this thing say? Right? Let's parse this in English. When I choose a random code book, this is the average over a random code book. When I choose a random message that I want to encode, the probability that I have a decoding error for that codebook and that message on the binary symmetric channel is at most epsilon. Right? This is not the same thing as saying that there exists a code book that's always good for every message. And that's exactly what we have to try and twist the statement into. So we proved through lema one was this. And we really need something else that gets rid of this average over code words, right? And so what I claim now is you know by the probabilistic method we claim that there exists a code book with the property that the average over all the messages of the decoding failure probability is at most epsilon. So the probabistic method is one of these things where you know it looks very natural sometimes when you state it but other times when it's happening you know with other layers of abstraction it's a bit harder to wrap your head around right so you know like we use the probabilistic method to show things like um you know if we choose that there's a graph that has no large clique or no large independent set we'll talk about that I guess later and um you know here we're really using the probabistic method the same way that I know that this expectation of this quantity inside is small over a typical code book. So there must exist one code book where it's small as well. Right? So does everyone see how I got from here to here using the probabistic method. Is that all right? Yeah. Okay. So uh now we're in good shape and I can tell you you know how to finish the rest of the argument. Let's see how much space I need. Not too much. So now we're starting to make progress because instead of saying over a random code book over a random message our decoding failure is small, we know that you know we have a code book where the average over the messages the decoding error rate is small, right? Um, but we really care about back to our original statement of what we wanted to prove was we want that there's a code book so that every message can be decoded well not a random message. So we have one remaining expectation that we want to prune which is this average over m right and now we're going to do it in a kind of cool way which is you know I claim by markoff bound We know that at least half of the eyes satisfy the bound that lambda i of c is at most 2 epsilon. So this is our old friend the marov bound, right? Because you know we're looking at random variables that are 01 valued like did you have a decoding failure and if the average over these messages one through m that we want to send has the decoding failure probability bounded by epsilon on average we know that for at least a half of the realizations the probability that they're larger than 2 epsilon the decoding failure probability is you know is small right so this is the usual thing that if this weren't true then the expectation would be higher because these are non-gative random variables. And so now what we can do is we can let C prime our eventual code book be the code book restricted to just these messages just these code words the ones that satisfy this condition right here that their lambda I for that particular choice of the code book is at most two epsilon. So what does this mean? Just you know putting this back into English, right? It means that this new codebook C prime is itself an R N encoding. That's exactly why I started off with my original code book was on capital M things where M was equal to 2 * 2 R N right was exactly this extra factor of two that I was going to have to give up when I went from C to C prime. So whatever's left is still an RN N encoding because there are two to the RN things in it. And we know just by unwrapping the definition of what lambda IC is. What this means is the probability that you know C tilda I is not equal to uh sorry uh that the probability that M tilda is not equal to M is at most 2 epsilon because literally the way we defined this was you know how often we expect for the given code word to have a decoding failure probability on that particular message. So the only you know code words that survived were exactly ones who when I fix the codebook and I fix the message have a very small failure probability of getting the wrong decoding. So this proves you know the the most interesting part of Shannon's theorem that we can get positive rate and error probability going to zero. So we can drastically improve upon uh you know the uh repetition code. If you actually work out the details, what ends up happening is that it's not just that the probability of failure goes to zero. The probability of failure actually goes to zero exponentially fast, which is really cool. So it's way better than the repetition code on a few different fronts. If I wanted the failure probability to be exponentially small for my repetition code, I would have had to increase it way beyond this log K blow up. So a bunch of people at the time really thought that, you know, the repetition code was optimal. So this came as quite a surprise uh that this was not true. Um I will briefly give you the intuition behind uh you know the sec the first part of Shannon's theorem and then we'll call it a day. So remember that the first part of Shannon's theorem was that you can't communicate at a rate larger than the capacity 1 minus entropy of P. If you do the um you know the probability of getting the correct message is going to go to zero. Right? And so let me give you very briefly the intuition. So let's suppose that we had a coding scheme where the rate was of P. And let's suppose for the sake of contradiction that it really wasn't such a bad coding scheme. Maybe the probability that it successfully decoded the message is at least some epsilon like 0.01 let's say. Well, what we're going to argue is that um you know we'll prove a contradiction that the rate really cannot be this large. So the main point is that an epsilon over 2 fraction of ring gamma CI must be decoded to CI. So you know here the point is like originally our decoder was just based on the ring right but now we have no idea what the decoder is but the same way whatever our decoder is we know that you know when we pass through this transmission along the channel we're going to end up in this ring right because that was you know the first part of lema one was just that we land in the ring with all but very small failure probability and once we're in this ring because that's always where we land. The fact that we're successfully decoding the original message is just saying that, you know, among these outputs that we often reach, well, you know, many of them must be decoded to the correct message, right? That's just the definition of that's just the translation of what this statement means. But now the point is that but the C tildas that are decoded to different CIS must be joint right because your decoding function has to map you to a unique original message. So if I look at you know over all these different messages which things are decoded to it is you know each of these sets are disjoint. And so what does this mean? Well if we add up just the total volume of these sets right we know that they're at least an epsilon over two fraction of the ring. We know that there's one of these rings for each of the code book. We know that the ring has size 2 to the entropy of p * n. But you know this cannot be larger than 2 to the n because that's the number of possible c tildas there are period right and so when we rearrange this bound we'll get exactly the thing we wanted that the size of my code book is at most something like you know 2 to the 1 minus entry of p times n. So this is just meant as a sketch because really to do this precisely I would have to prove a lot of you know the helper lemmas here and give similar kinds of bounds but you know the intuition is much simpler and we're only going to ask you about really the second part for Shannon's theorem. So are there any questions about this? >> Yeah sorry >> yeah that's right sure. So what is the statement saying right here is that at least an epsilon fraction. So if I look at you know when I start off with CI and I look at you know the output after the binary symmetric channel then at least an epsilon fraction of those outputs must be successfully decoded to the correct original message. Now almost all of the outputs live in the ring. So if we just throw out all the things that aren't in the ring, we're not really changing, you know, what the output distribution looks like from our BSC. And that means that we still must have at least a large fraction of this ring must also be successfully decoded. To fully prove this would be a lot more work and would be a bit tedious, but that's the intuition. Any other questions? Great questions, though. Okay, so um let me end with a little bit of a historical perspective. So this Shannon theorem is quite amazing. Um it's actually not uh such a perfectly ideal scheme. So we have the same kinds of issues that we had in you know Shannon's uh noiseless coding theorem right so we proved Shannon's noless coding theorem about how well we can compress a first order source but then the thing I complained about was the fact that really if we were to execute the scheme I would have to write down the full uh set of you know encodings and that would be gigantic I'd have to anticipate everything you could want ever want to compress and write down this code book of what to compress it to. Same problem happens here that you know choosing this code book uh script C randomly is very convenient for the proof because it makes it easier to reason via the probabilistic method. It makes it easier to reason about you know failure probabilities of events because it boils down to some combinatorics of the sizes of rings. But the trouble is that this would be a horrible coding scheme if I really had to write down exponentially many things and define my code book. So what Peter is going to be talking about on Tuesday is a very powerful paradigm which is called a linear code. So instead of explicitly writing down all of the codes in my code words in my code book, I can instead implicitly describe them as matrix vector products. All of my messages are vectors and my code book describes a matrix and when I want to encode some you know message as you know what it maps to as the code word I just take the matrix times the vector. So this now becomes a much more concise way to you know define the code book. So he'll tell you about um you know linear codes. And then the other thing which you know that next lecture will touch on is that right now the crucial assumption that we used in the proof of the theorems today was the fact that the binary symmetric channel introduced flips randomly. So bit by bit it had a third probability of introducing a flip. Now it turns out there are other models for codes where you could instead think about worst case. What if sitting on your channel is an adversary who gets to corrupt a third of your bits, but they get to choose when and how to corrupt those bits? That's called adversarial coding. And we can get similar semantics there where we want an encoding and decoding function that now works even if the channel is not stochastic but is bounded in terms of its budget of corruptions. So for those types of problems in general, we don't understand such uh tight trade-offs as we do for Shannon. but he'll tell you about linear codes and he'll tell you about adversarial decoding. And then after Peter's done with that, I'll tell you about some other topics it's connected to, namely cryptography and secret sharing. And then the semester will be over. So just to give you a little bit of a preview of uh what we're going to cover in the remaining lectures. But let's stop here and I'll take any questions you guys have offline. Thanks.