Okay. So, what we're going to do today, chapter 21, is talking about how taxation affects labor supply. So, we're going to talk in the next two lectures in particular about how taxation affects two behaviors. One is labor supply and one is savings. So we'll just start the base analysis of taxation labor supply we've kind of done before. It's really just another version of what we did for uh welfare. But let's just remind ourselves of how it works. You've got a standard consumption leisure trade-off. Here's leisure. Here's consumption. Okay, we've got a standard consumption leisure trade-off. And imagine you have an individual whose wage rate is $15 an hour. Okay, they're in the Massachusetts minimum wage of $15 an hour. Then basically they have some tradeoff between consumption and leisure. Okay, where the slope of that line is minus15. Okay, that is the rate at which they can trade off consumption and leisure. Okay, uh alternatively importantly it is the price of leisure. Okay, here's the key thing when we talked about this in 1401 in economics we don't know how to measure bads. We only know how to measure good. We don't know how to do optimization with bads. We do optimization with good. So if you're choosing two goods, I know how to do the, you know, the uh optimization. If it's a good and a bad, it gets harder. So we do to come back to our basic framework because we turn all the bads into goods. Labor supply is a bad. Remember, regular people in the real world don't like working. Okay, it's something MIT students have a hard time understanding. But actually, labor, leisure is a normal good. People would rather not work than work. That's our standard assumption. As a result, labor is a bad and leisure is good. So we do is we model consumption and leisure and then we just uh create uh labor as the converse of leisure. Okay. So whenever we're talking about anything affecting labor supply, remember the way I think about is first how does it affect leisure and then labor supply you solve as a residual. Okay. We're not modeling labor, we're modeling leisure. So we essentially now we have a well- definfined trade-off of the kind we've been doing since 1401 lecture two which is the trade-off between two goods consumption and leisure and that the price at which you trade those off is the price of leisure. The price of leisure is the opportunity cost of the opportunity cost of leisure is basically that you could be working earning $15 an hour. Okay. So you have some indifference curve. Okay. And there's some tangency at point A. Okay. In the book, we say, let's say point A happens at 900 hours of leisure. And at 900 hours of leisure, that means you're working. Oh, and let's say there's a total of 2,000 hours possible. Valerie, once again, can you send me an email that's not labeled on the in this graph? 211. I've got to add the x. I got to add the xaxis labels. Okay. So you have you have 2,000 hours possible of leisure you're going to take 900 hours means you're going to work 1100 hours if you work 1100 hours you make 16 comma 500 okay so that is your initial allocation you take 900 hours of leisure which means you work 1100 hours and you consume 16,500500 okay that's your initial choice now let's say the government rolls in and taxes your wages. Let's say the government in particular rolls in and says we are going to have a 33% tax on earnings. What does that mean? That means that the price of leisure has now fallen. Okay, the price of leisure has now fallen. If you take 2,000 hours of leisure, nothing's changed because you're not earning anything. But once you take less than 2,000 hours of leisure, it costs less to take that hour of leisure. Right? It used to be an opportunity cost of $15 an hour to take that hour of leisure. Now the opportunity cost is only $10.50. The slope of this was 15 minus 15 was the slope minus 15. The slope of this is -1050 because the 33% tax. So we've basically lowered the opportunity cost of leisure. What does that do to your decision of how much leisure to take? >> Yeah. >> What? >> Take more leisure. Why? >> Cheaper. >> It's cheaper. And we call that the what? >> No. No. Good try though. What do we call that? That's Yeah, that's a substitution effect. But remember, there's two effects. What's the other one? Okay. So the substitution effect says that we should take more leisure. The price has fallen so you should do more of it. That's unambiguous. But there's also an income effect. Okay? You are now effectively poorer. For any amount of work you do, you have less money. You're now effectively poorer. So that income effect says when you're poor, you want to buy less of everything. One of the things you want to buy less of is leisure. Okay? So that says take less leisure. So substitution and income effects while they work together in consumption go against each other with factor supply like labor supply. Okay. So actually it's ambiguous what a cut in wages will do. Think of it this way. Here's the way I like think extreme example. Imagine you have you have a fixed income target. You want to work enough to earn X. Well, in that case, it's unambiguous that cutting your wages will cause you to work more, not less. You got to work more to get to your target. That's an extreme case. But in general, you can see it's ambiguous which way this will go. You could end up taking more leisure or less leisure and depends on whether income or substitution effects dominate. Okay. Valerie, Amed on the way. >> Okay. Um Okay. So basically the bottom line is in this simple model it is ambiguous uh whether taxing wages will lead to more leisure or less leisure and therefore more labor supply or less labor supply. Now um of course this is a very simple model of the labor market. There's a lot of complications we don't have here. For example, overtime creates a kink in the budget constraint. When you work more than a certain number of hours, your wage changes. There's the fact that you don't necessarily get to choose your number of hours freely. Okay, which means you don't necessarily get to pick the optimal point on this distribution. There's complications like that. But for now, in this simple model, we've got just sort of the trade-off, the income substitution effect trade-off. So, which dominates? How do we how do we decide whether income substitution effects dominate? Well, we go to the data and we go to the data and we go to the data and there's essentially been four different approaches to trying to measure how do wages affect labor supply. The first approach is sort of a cross-sectional regression. So, this is the old school approach which literally just regress if my wages go up, do I work more or if my wages are higher, do I work more? That is a standard chapter 3 non-comparability problem. High-wage people probably are may work harder. Some with a high wage may work harder because they're intense. That's why they have a high wage, not because it actually caused them to work harder. So, it's a standard unobserved variable problem. So, the cross-sectional thing doesn't really work. There was actually a real randomized control trial of this in the 1970s, something called the negative income tax experiment. What they did is they actually literally ran an experiment where they literally assigned different tax rates to people and they looked at what happened to their labor supply. So that's the second approach. There's quasi experimental approaches. Quasi experimental and here there's two famous approaches. One is sort of a diffand approach of the type we discussed in chapter 3. So in particular imagine you have a tax reform that changes tax rates for one group and not another group. You can look what happens to the labor supply of the group whose tax rates went up versus the group whose tax rates didn't. So a standard difference in difference analysis, the kind you should be familiar with. Now another approach would be to do sort of a regression would be to do a a um what's called a bunching approach. So the bunching approach so DD and then the other it's a new method we haven't talked much about but it's sort of gaining a lot of favor. It's been really popularized by the economist Raj Cheddy at Harvard. And the idea of the bunching approach is the following. Imagine there's a kink in a budget constraint. Okay, basically if people are so think of the extreme case, think of the think of the window tax case. Remember the window tax case where basically once you went above a certain number of windows, there's a huge marginal tax rate for going up. And we showed a lot of people had right below that number of windows. That's a bunching estimate, which is if people are elastic, you'll see them all bunching right right before there's a disincentive coming ahead, right at the notch or the kink. And that's sort of the idea of this bunching estimator is you can infer elasticities from how much people respond to kinks in the budget set. If they don't respond much, then they're not very elastic. If they respond a ton, they are. So basically you could have imagined the number of windows wouldn't have changed because people are like I want to breathe. I don't care about the window tax. That would say it's not very elastic. The fact there was bunching of the number of windows right at that limit suggest people were willing to sacrifice some breathing to avoid paying the window tax. Okay. And indeed there's um I can't draw the grass well enough but in the book Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead. Uh, okay. Describe this is bunching RD. Excellent point. Great, great point. And I almost made the very mistake here. The difference between bunching in RD is the following. An RD estimate, a regression discontinuity estimate. Thank you. Let's just pass them pass each pass each row here. A regression discontinuity estimate is an estimate where essentially you say on either side of a cutoff there's different incentives and you look how an an RD estimate is basically sort of a difference estimate you look and ask do people behave differently on either side of a cutoff here it's does the cutoff it's at the cutoff do we behave differently than on either side of it so basically so now you have the handout so if you look at figure 213 three. Okay, this shows Cheddy's work around a tax increase. So what he did was he looked at Denmark where there was a big tax increase around 267,000 croners. There's a there was not an increase there was a big notch basically your tax jumped at that point. Okay. So basically he's not doing an RD an R. This is not something we see dramatic things on either side. It's that you see a dramatic thing at one point relative to what's on either side. It's sort of a break from smoothness. It's not a discontinuity in the series. It's a break from a smooth series where it kind of gets non-monotonic. So basically you see here this shows essentially how many people are at each income level in Denmark. And what you see is at 267 there's a little bit of a peak. So in other words, it's a smoothly declining function, but then there's a little peak at 267, which suggests that people are responding by bunching there, but it's not very big. That's for employed workers. Now look at self-employed workers. Self-employed workers, there's a massive peak at exactly that point. Okay, self-employed workers are responding very very highly to this incentive. Employed workers uh are not. What's the difference? Why why do you think there's such more elastic behavior among these self-employed workers than the employed workers? Yeah. >> Yeah. Self-employed workers are unconstrained. They can work as hard as they want. They can also cheat more. But certainly whether through cheating or actually changing labor supply, they can set their own hours. Employed workers can't. It's hard to target. I'm going to exactly 267,000. So that's why and what Shetty found was much more elastic response among the self-employed than the employed. So you have all these methods. These methods actually deliver a fairly consistent answer, which is if you look back in the old days, say sort of 1980s and before, you could think of the world as defined as primary earners, eg men, and secondary earners, eg women, especially in married couples, especially with kids. Okay. In that world, what they found was primary earners, eg men, were not at all elastic. That basically there was there was very inelastic labor supply, but that secondary earners, eg moms, were were fairly elastic. Elasticity is between 0.5 and one. The argument for why comes back to really substitution effects. If you're a guy in 1975 and you don't work, there's like nothing else to do. Okay? None of your friends are home. They're all working. Whereas, if you're a married woman 1975, you have a choice. Some women are home, some women are working. So, it's more plausible to be elastic. It'll be just you wouldn't know what to do with yourself. Your guy at home in 1975. There's no internet. There was none of your friends were home. There's only so much golf you can play. Okay? Basically, whereas uh for women, there was a choice. They could stay home, raise the kids. some of their friends were home, etc. So, it makes sense. But here's what's fascinating. Over time, we are losing the distinction between primary and secondary workers. As women become more integrated into the labor force, we're losing that distinction. What's happening is men's labor supply remains inelastic and women's labor supply is becoming more inelastic. So, overall labor supply is becoming just much more inelastic where everybody works. >> Okay. Yeah. No, this is what's fascinating. So what's happening is men now work just work and women just work and kids are in childare. So the difference is it's not that the burden of home care has shifted where men are now more flexible than they might stay home. Now obviously I know a state at home dad they're more stay at home dads than they're used to but by and large it hasn't really changed for men. It's women are becoming more like men in terms of the working behavior in terms of more like primary earners. So we're getting to a much more inelastic world of labor supply overall. And I would say roughly speaking you can view the labor supply margin as a fairly inelastic one in the US economy. Okay. Now of course that is if we measure labor supply by things like hours worked. But in fact that may be the wrong thing to measure it by. In fact, it may be in the new economy that what's more important than how many hours you work is like things like how hard you work, right? And what type of job you have. And you could imagine taxes, while they might not affect your hours of work, could very much affect things like how hard you work to get a promotion or what type of job you take. If tax are high, maybe you don't care as much about taking that high wage job, working hard to get that promotion and get that high wage job. but as tax so low maybe you do. So it says ultimately what we might care about is not hours of work but total labor earnings and this is a foreshadowing of chapter 25 when we'll ultimately conclude that really in some sense it's total income that we care about not these components. So we're sort of building up to that but nonetheless at least on the easily measurable aspects of labor supply it doesn't look like there's much of an effect of taxes. Okay questions about that. >> All right. Yeah Stephen. Uh I don't know I don't know. Okay. So that's the basics of tax and labor supply. Pretty straightforward. Okay. What I want to do for the rest of chapter 1 and 21 is apply that talking about two interesting policy issues. The first is something we mentioned before which is the earned income tax credit the EITC. Okay. The earn income tax credit, we mentioned this in chapter 17. It's a tax credit that you get that essentially acts as a wage subsidy. It's a tax credit you get where over some range, the harder you work, the more you get from the government. It's a negative tax. It's a subsidy. So, let's describe how it works. Okay, first of all, the ITC has grown tremendously over time. Okay. Um if you look at figure uh 214, you see that the EITC um is now uh has gone from being very small to now being about $70 billion a year in spending. The ITC has grown a lot in time. How does the ITC work? Well, the best thing to do is look at figure 215. On figure 215, on the x- axis is how much earned income a family has. It's irrelevant for things like dividends and stuff. It's just about wages, how much earn income you have. On the y- axis is how how big your ITC is. The way it works is starting from zero, for the first roughly $15,000 of earnings, for every dollar you earn, you get an extra 40 cents from the government. So, it's a negative tax until you reach the maximum amount of 59.20. Then you stop. You just get a check for 5920. But starting again at 19350 they start to reduce that check by a somewhat different slope by 21 cents. So that by 47440 you get nothing from the government. So what this is is a government subsidy where the level of the subsidy depends on your earnings. Essentially you can look at this chart say what's my earnings and that will tell you how big the subsidy is. Okay, that's how the ITC works is basically it's a subsidy that depends on uh depends on what you earn. Now this has now remember let's step back. What's the idea of the ITC? The idea of the ATC is we're going to distribute to poor people. We're going to do so in a way to try to fix the leaky bucket by paying them to work. That's the idea. I should have said this first. The idea is we've got this leaky bucket problem, this iron law of redistribution where we have the the G and the T and we're still we can't solve all our problems. One way to solve it is by actually instead of taxing work, let's promote work. But actually, does the ITC promote work? It's ambiguous. To see this, let's go to figure 216, which is a bit hard to read. I couldn't draw this very clearly, but it's actually really interesting in terms of how it helps think about our intuition. What the ITC does to work varies and depends what kind of work you are. What this does is it takes a standard labor supply, set your budget straight, assume a wage of $20 an hour. It's a standard consumption leisure diagram with a wage $20 an hour and overlays an EITC on top of it. So the new budget constraint, which is the which is the blue plus the green, is the new budget constraint with the ITC in place. And we have four different types of people. And we can ask what does EITC do to their labor supply? Well, for person A, it's unambiguous. There is only a substitution effect. Why? Because they have no income. So, there can't be an income effect. I'm just saying, I'll pay you if you go to work. If you don't go to work, you don't get anything. So, it's unambiguous that it will induce increased labor supply among those not working. Person B is someone who's working and at $5,000 is below the first notch. So if you flip back to the previous diagram, they're on the upward sloping part of the diagram. Okay. What's the effect on them? Well, actually it's ambiguous. There's a gum substitution effect. On the one hand, I'm providing a sub by providing a subsidy to work, I'm raising I'm raising the price of leisure, which means I'll take less of it. On the other hand, I'm richer, which means I'll take more leisure. So, the effect's ambiguous. What about person C? Person C earns uh $15,000. They're on the flat part. If you go to the previous diagram, how does it affect their labor supply and why? How does the HC affect someone like person C and why? I mean, see the answer to the diagram. So, you just got to explain why. Come on guys, you got this. There's nothing I haven't been talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's a purely income effect. There's no substitution on the It's If you look at that segment be if you look at that segment, it's parallel to the original budget. It's sort of hard to see. There's no sub. They're just richer. If you make someone richer, they work less through the income effect. So person C unambiguously, they'll work less. I've just given them a check for $5,000. they're going to work less. What about person D? Well, person D, there's now both an income and a substitution effect causing them to work less. The substitution effect is now they're on the downward sloping part, so they're taxed at 21 cents per dollar they earn. The income effect is they're still getting a check, so they're richer than they would be if they weren't getting the check. So that will also cause them to work less. So look at this diagram. First of all, questions about what's happened with A, B, C, and D. Look at this diagram. doesn't necessarily seem clear the it is encouraging labor supply, right? It does for A, but it's ambiguous for B and am and ambiguously deters labor supply for C and D. So, it's a very open empirical question about whether the ITC will actually how it will change labor supply. Fortunately, the ITC has been around with a lot over the last few decades. So, we have lots of quasi experiments to look at to understand it. So for example if you go to um figure 217 this shows for example how the ITC changed after tax firm act of 1986 and the tax this is a very this was when it's first introduced the slope used to be minus.11 now it's slope on the upwards part you see 0.1 now it's 04 it went up the slope went up they raised the maximum and they changed the phase out so you could set up a standard difference and difference by looking at groups that were more and less affected by this change. Moreover, the ITC um depends on the number of children you have. I wrote this uh let's see what number of kids did I wrote this for? Um single order with two children. Well, if you have if you have one child, your ITC is smaller than if you have two children. So, that sets up another difference and difference approach. So there's lots of quasi experiments you can do here looking at what happens the ITC changes for women with one kid versus two kids. Women with no kids versus some kids. Women no kids get a very tiny EITC. It's by the way it's generally women because generally married couples men and married couples earn higher amounts. Well actually let me back up. Strike that last statement. I refer to women because that is the population that folks were thinking about because the big thing of the ITC was can it get people off welfare. So the initial focus was what effect does it have on women and how does it compare with the disincentive effects of welfare. Okay. So that's where most of the literature is is looking at single moms compared to say single women without kids who used to get no EITC and now get a tiny one or say single men. So they look at the effect of the ITC on those groups using changes in ITC generosity. And what did they find? Well the effects were striking. Huge increases in working. So people like type A responded dramatically big increase in working okay and no apparent other effects on groups B C and D it didn't seem to deter work among groups BC and D. So in other words the group where it sort of unamiguously increases work it did large effects but you didn't really see this sort of offsetting reduced effects among those elsewhere in the budget constraint. Now there's two possible explanations for why. One is differential elasticities. Maybe the elasticity of participation that is going zero to one is very elastic. But the elasticity of how many hours you work isn't because you can't really control your hours, right? You work for the guy, he tells you how hard to work. So one explanation is just literally the one thing you clearly have a choice over is whether to work or not. How hard you work, you don't have as much control. That's one explanation. The other explanation is that it's really pretty hard to figure out these tax rates to figure out this system. If I say to you, hey, if you go to work, you get a check. If you don't, you don't. That's easy. If I say, by the way, the marginal hour will have a dis marginal tax rate of minus 21 cents if you work on this kink and not on this kink. It's like, I don't understand how that works. It's pretty hard to understand. So, the other explanation for what's going on is that basically people recognize the incentive effect of getting a check if they go to work now, but don't recognize the marginal tax rate. And indeed, there's a lot of evidence that people aren't responsive to marginal tax rates, at least in much of the range. Okay. And remember as I talked before I talked about people sort of misunderstand the tax system and this may be an example of that. So not sure why it is but the bottom line is that essentially um the EITC uh seems to be on net create a large increase uh in labor supply. Okay. This is fascinating because this is unambiguously good news. It is a patch to Oakan's bucket because we're clearly redistributing to low-income people. No one income more than $50,000 gets the ITC. That's pretty low income. And we're doing so in a way that raises not lowering labor supply. So this is wonderful news. Okay, which is that basically we've discovered sort of a tool for fighting poverty that actually does so without causing reduction in the social size social pie. Nonetheless, the ITC is still controversial and that's for two reasons. One reason is, as I said, it can cause people to have negative tax burdens and some people feel that the t as I said irrationally feel the tax system should not be paying people money. Tax burden should never be negative. As a result, the ITC is a bad idea. The other reason it's controversial is because there's a decent amount of cheating. Basically, like with any part of the tax system, there are people who will lie about how much they make if it's not really recorded. Here, it's lying to say you made more than what you made before. It's sort of an odd kind of lying, but once again, people do that. Um, they might misreport other features of their taxes, and they might say kids live with them who don't to try to claim the credit, etc. Now, we're going to come back to this in chapter 25. The amount of cheating on the ITC is like a tiny fraction of all cheating done on taxes. fundamentally where the rich guys really do the big big amount of cheating on taxes. But nonetheless, it's sort of so I view these as sort of thinly veiled excuses. People really don't like redistributing to the poor to be honest, but they are excuses at play in Washington. That's one reason the ITC is probably not even bigger than it is. There is a third weakness which is important and this comes back to chapter 17. You might say, well, gee, this is awesome. Let's get rid of welfare and replace. Let's forget these other problems. Let's imagine a rational system that honest debates. Let's say let's get rid of welfare and just replace the ITC. What would the problem with that be? Just say let's get rid of this whole labor distorting welfare. Just have any big EITC system. What's the problem with that? >> Yeah. Some people legitimately can't work. You still need there's a distortion from subsidizing nonwork, but there's also a consumption smoothing benefit. So an optimal system would never feature nothing for those who can't work as long as there is some exogenous reason people can't work. You never want a system that leaves people that work with nothing. So the optimal system be some combination of money to those who don't work but then incentives to work for those who can. What that combination looks like is complicated. All right. So that's kind of the the EIT that's that's the EITC and it's a great example of kind of how we think about applying our logic of income substitution effects to making policy. Okay. Yeah. >> Awesome. Great question. I'll talk about this more in chapter 25, but basically IRS does audits and with the audits they can actually compare people report to what they to what you see in the audit data. based on >> no yeah they random sample they literally go and make your life miserable and collect all the data and they compare to what you actually declared um okay so that's one um one application the other application I want to talk about is child care we talked a little bit about childare in chapter 17 I want to return to that remember that basically um today less fewer than one quarter of preschool age children are cared for by a um 12 and a half% are cared for other relatives and 62% are in some form of child care. So almost twothirds of kids today of preschool age are in childare. Childare is a very big deal and it makes it possible for women actually finally realize their potential and join the labor force uh in a way they couldn't in decades past. The interesting question is how should we treat child care for tax purposes? Okay. So, basically, and here we're going to go back to chapter 18 and thinking about Hey, Simons's uh think about Hey, Simon's principles. Okay. So, basically, if you think about it, when when you deliver when when when my wife stayed home and took care of our kids, she was delivering a vi something which expanded our resources. We were better off because she stayed home and took care of my kids. But if she'd gone to work, she would have been taxed. But the work she did staying home was not taxed. And that's a violation of Hey Simons. Hey, Simon says you should tax everybody's potential to pay. Well, think about it. Let's say my wife stays home, okay, and your wife goes to work and they're both delivering the same value of goods. It's just my wife's doing in the home and yours is in the market. You get taxed. I don't. That's unfair. That violates the Him principle. should be taxed on our underlying resources which are different which are the same yet we pay very different taxes. It's a violation of some concept of horizontal equity. So what do you do about it? Well, basically there's three approaches. So let's go to an example. Let's go to table 211. Okay, go to table 211. Okay, so imagine you have a couple imagine you have a you have a couple where the man's going to go to work and the woman's considering whether to go to work. the sp the wife's considering whether to go to work and imagine that if she went to work she'd earn $1,000 but she would pay $600 in child care costs. So on net and let's assume markets are perfect. So $600 in child care costs is literally the inherent social value of caring for the kids and the $1,000 is the inherent social value of her work. So what that means is she should work full stop. Okay, the value society of her working is a thousand. The value of society of her kids being careful, ignoring externalities of different people caring for your kids. Put all that away. Simple model where basically the market works well. So the value of caring for those kids is 600 bucks. So social the size social pie is higher if she works. Okay. However, if she goes to work in the 1, two, three, or fifth column, if she goes to work at A-50% tax rate, because remember her husband's already earning money. So, the marginal tax rate on her, if you've got a high earning spouse, your next dollar is already in the top tax bracket, right? You don't get to benefit, remember we talked about marriage tax, you don't get to benefit from that low tax rate initially. You're already in the high tax bracket when you go to work. So, the marginal dollar, let's say, is taxed at 50%. Okay? What that means is if she goes to work and earns a th000, she can go 500 in taxes. So her the after tax value of her work will be $500. But if she stays home, she'll effectively make $600. So she won't go to work. So in other words, we have distorted the market. We have not made a mark a social welfare improving trade. The social improving trade is for her to work, but she doesn't. This is the distortion that arise from not taxing the true H Simon base. Okay, we call this a tax wedge. A tax wedge exists whenever taxes impact the incentives to engage in two, if you will, economically similar activities or activities where you basically would like to compare them. Basically, if you ever a comparison where the where there's a relative advantage to one, let me think of a script. Actually, I think I have the definition in the book. Let me get this right. Um uh basically um tax wedges are basically the the difference between the returns to an activity in different sectors. That's the way to think about it. You can deliver labor supply in the market sector or the home sector. If taxes change the relative returns to those activities, that creates a tax wedge. Okay? And here that's happened. Now, what can we do about it? Well, there's two answers. One is what Hag would have us do, which is say, look, let's measure her full income. Her full income is she makes $1,000 if she works. She makes $600 she stays home. Why does she make $600 she stays home? Because she's delivering $600 worth of childare. So in the H Simons world, we would impute earnings to her. If she stayed home, we'd say if you go to work, you earn a thousand. If you stay home, you earn 600. And in either case, you'd then pay taxes. You'd pay 500 in taxes if you worked, 300 tax if you stayed home. So the after tax value of work would be 500. The after tax value of home would be 300. And she'd go to work. She'd get the right answer because you've gotten rid of the tax wedge. You've got rid of the differential effect of taxes on that on that labor supply delivered in two different ways. It used to be you're taxed differently if you delivered and market at home. Now you're taxed the same. That would be one way to do it. The other way to do it would be to allow her to deduct the cost of child care from her income. So she'd earn a th000, she'd spend 600 in child care, but she'd she would then get to deduct that 600. So, her net taxable income would only be 400. Therefore, she would owe 200 in taxes and she would make more money at work, $800, than staying home, which is $600. So, she'd once again go to work. So, two different approaches that end the distortion caused by this tax wedge. Here's where public finance gets really fun. How do I think about which one is better? First of all, let's forget feasibility. Okay, let's forget feasibility for a second. Obviously, imputing income would be like a nightmare politically, etc. Let's forget that. But how do I think about between these two approaches, which one is better and why? In a world where I could do either, there's an obvious answer. Which one would I prefer and why? Yeah, you got to speak up. because it what? >> No, I'm saying imagine where we could do both. I'm getting rid of the administrative problem just on pure economics. Which would you choose and why? Appealing to the lessons from last lecture from chapter 20. Which would you choose and why? Yeah. >> Well, remember what's the key source of distortion? It's two. It's elasticities and toss squared. The smaller the tax base, the higher the tax rate has to be. So by shrinking the tax base in the second approach to raise a given amount of revenues, we're going to have to tax more highly. So it's less efficient. So it's unambiguous on from the toss squared perspective. You'd like the first approach because you get the same you remove the wedge but you collect more revenues and therefore total tax rates could be lower. People understand that. Okay. All else equal, we want taxes with broad bases and lower rates. That's how we maximize efficiency. Now, yeah. >> Why is it not what? >> Why is it not 900? No. You're delivering $600 worth of childare. >> No, no. If you stay home, you're delivering 600 worth of childare. What's the extra 300? I don't get it. >> Also, >> you're not getting earnings from the government. You mean in the imputed case in the second row, you're not getting earnings from the government. Yeah. You're just getting you're it's you're earning $600 and going to tax $300 away from you. Okay. Now, let's make it more interesting. Let's get rid of the second row. We're never going to do the second row. First row versus third row. Tell me actually why this might Now, here's a really hard one, but once again, it all comes out of the formula for dead weight loss. Tell me why the first versus the third row is actually ambiguous. Which is a better better one to do? It's actually ambiguous. And the answer comes directly from the formula for dead weight loss. Where's the ambiguity come from? We know the third row raises less money. So, we know which way the tow squared effect goes. But what's the other effect that drives dead weight loss? What's the other thing that drives dead weight loss besides the to squar term? Think about your formula. Elasticity. So why might the elasticity go the other way? Well, think about it. If you look at the last row, if you look at the first row, the relevant elasticity is the elasticity of women substituting between work and home. If you look at the last row, the relevant elasticity, elasticity of the whole tax base. We're basically collecting less less less tax revenues. So imagine, let's simplify the world. Imagine world consist of men working and women working. That's it. Well, in the first row, the thing you're distorting is a woman's decision to work. In the second row, you have to collect more money from both. So you're distorting both their decisions to work. Imagine, as is still true, less true than it used to be, but it's still true. Women's labor supply is more elastic than men's labor supply. Then the first row implies a more elastic decision. The decision for a woman to work or not is more elastic the decision for all society to do work or not because men have a lower elasticity than women. So actually the first versus third row is ambiguous. On the one hand, you raise less revenues in the third row. on the end of the first row you distort a more elastic margin which is women's decision to work or not work and which dominates is unclear okay pretty mind-blowing I know take it home and think about it it's described clearly in the book but this is the how I want to think about this trade-off what do we do in the US what we do in the US is we compromise uh we basically say that you get a tax credit for child care up to $3,000 for one child and $6,000 for two or more. Okay? And you get it as a percent of your income. So you can't like claim $6,000, you only make $5,000. They sort of say as a percent of income, you can get a credit. They basically say you can deduct a percent of your income up to the maximum of 6,000 for two kids, 3,000 for one kid. So we have sort of a limited deduction is how we resolve it in reality. Okay. So that's how we think about how we operationalize the abstract concepts of chapter 20 which is think in practice about thinking about what's more elastic. You want to avoid destroying things that are more elastic like women's labor supply but you also want to try as big a tax base as possible and trading those two off is how we think about optimal tax design. Okay. Yeah. So decision to have kids is just like I think you asked the same question about marriage. Decision to have kids is totally inelastic to everything. The timing is elastic. I told you my story of my kid being born January 2nd. My sad tale. But um actually this is a big issue because fertility is falling around the world. Number of countries are really worried about falling fertility and there's been like nothing they figured out how to do. Now there's been tools which lower fertility. China's one child policy did lower fertility, but you can't really have mandate people have kids. You can mandate they can have kids. It's hard to mandate they do have kids. Um, and other than that, there's really been there's no evidence of any financial tool. There is that basically promotes people to have kids. It really is a fair inelastic margin with respect to incentives >> which for a lot of is the goal that they would like to achieve. >> Yeah. They'd like to achieve and they get big child bonuses and things like that and none of it none of it works. Now once again if we think about a tax break we have the marginal inframarginal parts marginally it's a bad idea to give a child tax break because it does induce childbearing but inframarginally it may be you're distributing to exactly we want to have more money in society so I talked about from an efficiency perspective the inframarginal piece is a waste but from an equity perspective maybe we just equitably want to reward people who have kids just out of some notion of what's socially just but it's not inducing more Okay, that's chapter 21. Now we're going to move on to chapter 22, which is sort of a parallel analysis. We go through the basic theory and then we'll talk about applications. Okay, the basic theory for the tax on this. Now, instead of looking at the effect of taxes on labor supply, we're going to the effect of taxes on savings. This is a little more complicated, but the logic is similar. The idea is when you save, we're going to start in a simple world where the only way you can save is put money in the bank. Okay, simple world. Money in the bank and earn some interest rate R. Okay, I'm sorry. I What do we have here? R I, uh R. Okay, we're going to start with a simple world of two periods. There's a working period and a retirement period. This is the classic overlapping generations model we talked about. We talked about social security. There's a working period and retirement period. And people are going to optimize their consumption bundle across time. We call this a model of intertemporal substitution. You're going to substitute your consumption across different periods. Intemporal substitution. In this simple case, there's two periods. Obviously, in reality, there's infinite periods. There's two periods. There's working life, that's the x- axis, and there's retirement, that's the y- axis. So on the x- axis consumption while working c super w on the y- axis consumption while retired c super r and your question is simply how am I going to allocate my consumption across these two furthermore we're going to assume you only earn income in period W. So you're going to some income Y that you've got to allocate across the period when you work and the period when you don't work. We're also going to say that you can choose to save some of your money when you work. You can choose to save. So savings is Y minus C. Y minus C super W. Whatever you earn minus what you consume while working as savings. The rate of return to savings is the interest rate R. Okay. So what we have here is the blue line in figure 221. You can either consume y while you're working. That's the x intercept of the blue line. Or you could save it all, consume nothing while you're working and have y time 1 plus r when you're retired. So you either consume it all when you're working, which gives you Y while you're working and nothing while you're retired, or save it all, in which case you get Y * 1 plus R when you're retired and nothing when you're working, or some combination in between. As a result, the slope of the budget straight is minus 1 plus R. In other words, the opportunity cost of consuming in period one, by the way, I'm going to refer to period one and working and I'm going to refer interchangeable. When I say period one or two, I mean working retirement. I just slip back and forth. The bottom line is there's a two- period model. We've got before and after. Okay. The opportunity cost of consuming while you're working is that for every dollar you consume while you're working, you're giving up one plus r consumption when you're retired because you could have put that away and saved earn interest. This is the key concept here with savings. It's a little easier with labor, right? Either you sit at the couch or you go to work and earn W. It's easy to see W is the opportunity cost, but it's the same logic. The opportunity cost if I don't eat it today, I put it in the bank and it becomes one plus R dollars tomorrow or when I'm working on our dollars when I'm retired. So that's the opportunity cost of consumption today is the savings I could have had when I was retired. Okay. Now imagine the government comes along and taxes interest. This is what we call capital taxation. It taxes interest. What does that do? That lowers the effective rate of return to saving. Okay. Is your sweatshirt on backwards? Cool. Um, okay. So, that lowers the effective rate of return to savings. Okay. So, basically, uh, what that does, it moves from the blue line to the red line. Okay. You now see the opportunity cost is no longer 1 plus r. It's now 1 + r * 1 -. It's a little confusing. Think of it this way. Imagine tax rate was 100%. Okay, there'd be no slope to this line. It' be a flat line. Okay, so basically it's reducing the rate of return by how much that is taxed. So the slope pivots downwards. Once again, if you consume everything while you're working, there's no change. You still have C super W equals Y. But now if you wait till you if you consume nothing while you work and consume it all when you retire, you wind up with less when you retire. you with y * 1 + r * 1 - questions about that? Yeah, >> tax on interest. >> It's not on your stock of wealth. Come back to that next. It's a tax on the It's what's called a capital income tax. Tax on the flow of the flow of income you earn from your capital. Very important distinction. I call them savings taxes, but technically we're talking about capital income taxes. Tax on the flow of income from your capital holdings. Okay. Other question about how this works? >> Yeah. >> Experience when you sell this difference. >> No, not when you sell it. Every this is a bank account. Every year you earn interest from the bank and it's taxed by the government. Just like labor income, this is capital income. We'll come next time to assets you sell. That's capital gains. We'll come back to that next time. Okay. Other questions? This is hard. So don't be afraid to ask questions. This isn't clear. Okay. Now, what happens to your savings decisions when you when we tax interest? This we know the answer is going to be ambiguous. I've given you a hint. So let's go and explore it in figure 22-2. And this is the basically the same as for labor. It's just more complicated. Here is the key insight. Okay, remember this. We are not modeling savings. We're modeling consumption in period one. Remember, savings is a bad. Saving is something you have to do to make sure you can survive when you're retired. The good is consumption while working. We model this. This is fixed and we compute S as a residual. Okay. So, just like we don't model labor, we measure leisure. Here we don't model savings, we measure model consumption while working. Okay. So in the first case we have a we have a substitution effect income effect. The substitution effect is the price of first period consumption has fallen. What do I mean by that? The opportunity cost of eating now has fallen because you don't get as much later if you don't eat. Once again think of toss 100%. Why not eat at all now? Okay the opportunity cost of eating now has fallen. So a result you consume more today. That is a substitution effect. >> Yeah. >> You'd still want to split your incomes. You don't want to starve. >> Okay. >> Right. >> No. No. If to Right. It's not negative 100. >> Yeah. You've gained nothing by saving. So, it's not like you're necessarily going to consume it all today. It's just the incentive to wait has lowered. Good. Good point. I wasn't clear on that. Thank you. Okay. So now on the other hand, you have an income effect. You are now poorer because every dollar you save yields less lifetime income. Since you're poorer, you want less of everything including first period consumption. So that says you consume less in the first period. In the first case, the substitution effect dominates. In the second case, the income effect dominates. Once again, not implausible. In fact, here I find it even more plausible in labor supply case. Why do we save? We save because we want to buy something, right? We have some goal. I want a car. I want to have this much when I retire. Well, in that model, income effects would dominate. In a model where I'm saving to meet a goal, then if the interest rate gets taxed, I'll have to save more. So, it's not at all implausible income effects could dominate here. In fact, rind tuition might be more likely which is in most parts of the world we think substitution effects dominate. Here I think that presumption is more difficult although we'll still assume it because we always do but it's a little more challenging. Okay. So basically but now the diagrams are complicated. Let's go back to they're complicated because let's look at literally what happens in the first case. You were consuming C superw sub one and saving S sub one. Now you're consuming C superw sub 2 and saving S sub2. Now we're not modeling period 2 consumption period uh period R consumption. But it has implications. Look what happens period R consumption. It falls from S1* 1 plus R to S2* 1 plus R* 1 - to that is C2 C I'm sorry C R falls for two reasons. First of all it falls because you're saving less. Second of all it falls because even the savings you have earns less interest. So that's why look at the second panel. In the second panel you save more because income effects dominate. Okay? You go from saving S1 to S2, but look what happens to retirement consumption. It still falls because there's two effects. You save more, but it earns a lower interest rate. This is why model C CW and let the rest come out of the equations. Don't be around with with C2 because you're going to mess yourself up. Okay? Because here we have a case where in both ca sa the in one case savings falls another case it goes up and in both case secondary consumption falls because there's two effects. There's the effect of saving and there's the fact that literally interest rates gone down so you get less for every dollar you save. So once again make your life easy. This is the choice variable we want to model. Everything else just falls out of the out of the budget constraint. Okay. Yeah. So substitution effect is um the interest rate the after tax interest rate r* 1 minus to is the price of working period consumption. Why is the price working consumption? Because the higher it is the more costly it is to consume today. So when we raise taxes that is a reduction in price. When you reduce the price of a good the substitution effects consume more of it. So that would say more period one consumption the income effect if it's the so it says more of it the income effect is unlike with goods which I'm buying this is an a factor I'm earning now I'm effectively poorer be why because if r minus one minus t falls I have less money in my lifetime budget constraint my lifetime we'll do the math in section my lifetime budget constraint is basically um is essentially going to my lifetime total consumption is going to turn by how much I save. The more I save, the more my lifetime total consumption is, right? And that's so my essentially my resources fall. Okay. Yeah. are extending the amount of time. >> No, no, but I'm I'm taking why fixed here. >> Okay, >> I'm taking this is just a savings decision. Why is fixed? It's not about income. That was the last chapter. This is just about savings, just about how much you consume with income fixed. Now, you can imagine a world, say, on an exam where we combine these two insights and allow both income and savings to change. But for now, we're holding it fixed. The last chapter is what drives this. This chapter is about what drives this. Okay. Now, that's one reason this is more complicated than labor supply. While I teach it a second, is the graph's a lot more complicated. It's also a lot more complicated because the intertemporal choice model is only one of a number of models that could plausibly describe savings behavior. Indeed, many people think it might be the third most important determinant of savings that things like how you respond to the interest rate might be the third most important because there's two other very valuable model of savings. The first so this there's three models. There's the intertemporal substitution model intertemp substitution model that's the classic model we're working with based on interest rates. There's also a precautionary savings model. If you ask people why they save, the number one answer they give is they're worried about stuff going wrong. Not the not the responding to the interest rate and worrying about allocation allocating their consumption over working retirement. The main reason is they want to have money in case something goes wrong. That's not in this model. That's what's called the precautionary savings model. The precautionary savings model would be basically um the the precautionary savings model would be one where basically think of it this way. Here's how to think about the here's how to we're not going to make you write down the math this but here's how to operationalize it. Imagine a world where people face liquidity constraints. They can't borrow. If you could borrow, there's no need for precautionary savings. If you can cautiously borrow, then you wouldn't need to precaut this is only a world with liquidity constraints. Otherwise, there's no need for precautionary savings. But imagine you can't borrow. Then you're going to want to make sure you have some savings in case stuff goes wrong. And so in a world with liquidity constraints, there'll naturally be precautionary savings as a form of self- insurance. Okay, so that's an alternative model. And indeed, there's lots of evidence for this. First of all, there's lots of evidence that people who are in riskier jobs save more. Now, that's not super convincing because maybe they're different. Better evidence is there's evidence from that when the generosity of social insurance goes up, people save less. Remember we talked about this with social security. We see it in other contexts too. For instance, in na in Taiwan, they put in national health insurance for some groups and not others. And the ones that got national health insurance started suddenly started saving a lot less. Now that's because they were saving against getting sick. I found a similar result here in America. when Medicaid expanded, people saved less and consume more because they didn't have to save as much against getting sick. Okay, so clearly the precautionary model has some validity. We'll come back next time to how this changes our conclusions, but that's one alternative model. The other alternative model that's very relevant is the self-control model. the self-control model. This a model which says it's not really affirmative model of savings. It's sort of a model. It's kind of a Homer Simpson model of the world where basically we just want to consume. We want to eat what's in front of us. And what's stopping and the only thing that allows us to save is imposing self-control to stop ourselves. And that savings is really whatever the motivation the driver of savings is how much self-control do I have to make myself save for either precaution or retirement. Okay. Now there is lot this is very much related to the behavioral economics insights we talked about in chapter six when we talked about smoking which is the notion of self-control problems and there's lots of evidence that in savings people face self-control problems. The classic evidence existence of what we call Christmas clubs. What a Christmas club was a thing banks used to offer where you could set aside money every week in a non-interest bearing account or a tiny interest bearing account to have money at Christmas time. Well, why the hell people need to do that? They could just save it somewhere else to have money Christmas time because they're afraid they wouldn't be able to. More modern evidence comes to the following fascinating confluence of facts, which is that um most individuals have virtually nothing in the bank or many individuals have virtually nothing in the bank but lots of money in illquid forms like housing and pensions forms they can't get at. Moreover, it goes further than this. The modal individual in America or many I don't know if it's the modal but almost the majority of people in America have the following fee combination of assets. Little money in the bank, money in their pensions and housing and huge credit card debt on which they're paying 18% interest. Think about that for a second. That makes no sense. Okay, they've got money in the bank first of all. They should at least spend the money in the bank. Moreover, they've got money in a pension which earning 6% and their credit card debt 18%. Why are they doing that? Because it's a what we call a commitment device. Like we talked about with cigarettes. They know that they can't control themselves over their credit card maximum. That's just a state of being. So to set a commitment device, they put their money where they can't get it in illquid assets. Even though they're sacrificing a massive rate of return differential, essentially the price they're willing to pay for commitment is to hide their money away. So they can't get it because they know if they took it out. Yeah, they pay their credit card bill off today, but then it go back up tomorrow and they would have just blown through their money. Okay, they're still able to keep some money in the bank because they have because they're able to keep some money in the bank because basically they because of another model, self-control models really call self-control/general behavioral models. Another important behavioral model that can explain this is a model of what we call mental accounting. The mental accounting model is fascinating. This says that people don't think about dollars funibly, that dollars in different places mean different things. There's a famous story I told in 1401 about the actors Dustin Hoffman and Gene Hackman, famous old actors were roommates together when they're acting students and poor and Gene Hackman knows Dustin Hoffman all these bottles labeled like rent, money, etc. and rent, food, etc. And the food bottle was empty. So he went to Gene Hackman and said, "Can I borrow some money?" And Gene Hagen said, "Yeah, but your your rent bottle is totally full and your movie bottle's full." He says, "Well, I can't touch those. Those are for rent and movies." And that's sort of a way people think about it. And that's how people are able to leave some money in the bank because at least they're like, "Okay, I won't touch that for my credit card." But once it gets too big, they'll dip into it. these models also. And then maybe the best the the best piece of evidence I find for these models is a fascinating experiment or product introduced by the Nobel Prize winning comist Richard Thaylor. He went to workers and said, "I want to offer you the following savings plan. It's called the Save More Tomorrow Plan. Here's how it works. Next time you get a raise, you will commit to saving 50% of that raise in a separate account. It doesn't cost you anything today. You don't have to give up your consumption today. It's just money you're going to get in the future anyway. Just decide to set half it apart. Now, in a rational non-self-control model, I would say no. Why should I commit myself? What good does that want to save in the future? I'll save in the future. But in a model where I know I have trouble saving money, I might find that attractive because it commits me at no cost today to having savings in the future. Well, he offered that plan. 80% of employees signed up for it. Okay? And their savings rate went from 4% to 14%. Okay? Which exactly consistent the fact that people had self-control problems and they couldn't save. Okay? So clearly self-control is a major determinant of savings and once again we'll come back to what that means next time for for policy. Okay. Now like last time I want to have two applications for thinking about how tax affects savings. Like in chapter 21 we have two applications. I'll cover one today and one next time. Okay. So basically step back just like other slide a basic theory a basic traditional theory. Before it was a model of you know allocation across consumption leisure it's a model of entrepreal substitution unlike with labor's fly we have other very plausible models okay that may in fact be more important those other models and that's sort of the theory set up now let's go to two empirical applications the first empirical empirical application is talking about inflation now in the chart I drew True. I used R, the real interest rate. But in fact, banks don't pay a real interest rate. They pay a nominal interest rate. And we typically assume that the nominal interest rate is the real interest rate plus expected inflation. Okay? So basically, if inflation's stable at 3%, the nominal rate will just be the real interest rate plus 3%. If we expect inflation to go up, the nominal interest rate will go up. So that's our sort of model of interest rate determination. Okay. It turns out that becau in inflationary environments capital capital taxes have particularly bad feature. Okay, they have particularly bad feature and that's because when we tax interest, we tax nominal interest, not real interest. And this creates an additional wedge between consumption and savings. to see that. Let's go to table 221. Okay, imagine we're all Marshall Lynch and all we eat is Skittles. Okay, nothing. Nobody, no Marshall Lynch fans here. Okay. Um, okay. So, basically, I want to consider three worlds. In the first world, there's no inflation. Okay. And there's no taxation of interest earnings. Uh, I'm going to save $100. Okay, I want to save $100. So, and the interest rate is 10%. So, in this world, in the first row, I save my $100 at 10%. I get $10. Okay, after tax, I have $110. Skittles are a dollar. So, I buy 110 bags of Skittles. Okay, people understand the setup. Now, imagine the government comes and says, "No, I'm going to tax your interest at 50%." Well, now that $10 of savings only becomes $5, $5 of after tax return. That $10 of interest only becomes $5. So now I have $105 after tax and I only buy 105 bags of Skittles. So what taxation has done is caused me to has distorted my consumption so that I can only consume 105 instead of 110 bags of Skittles if I save, which may make me want to cause to save less. Right? So it's distorted my consumption. That could have income and a substitution. In fact, we know which way it goes. But that illustrates the distortion of capital taxation. Now imagine a world where inflation comes along and the interest rate doesn't adjust. Imagine there's now 10% inflation and the interest rate doesn't adjust. It stays at 10%. This is an this is an implausible world, but it's useful middle step. Well, now I save my hundred. I earn $10. In row three, I keep the 110, but there's 10% inflation. Skittles have gone to a$110. So, I only get 100 bags of Skittles. And with interest taxation, that 10, I only get $105. So, only get 95.5 bags of Skittles. So, basically, in the first row, I end up with fewer bags of Skittles because inflation basically offset my interest. In the second row, I end up with even fewer bags of Skittles. Okay? Clear on that. Now let's go to the realistic case. The realistic case is one where the real interest rate adjusts. So that now the real interest rate is 20%. There's a 10% inflation. Interest rate is 20%. So look at the next to last row. Inflation's 10%. I save I'm sorry it's 21% because of you know it's multiplicative. I save $100. I end up with nominal rate of 21%. Because it's not really plus pi, it's times 1 plus pi e. So that's why it's 21%. But we can always round and just say plus. So I end up with $121. The price of Skittles is a$110. So guess what? I'm the same as the first row, which is what should happen. Absent taxation. Inflation should not affect how many Skittles I can buy. Why? because the interest rate goes off to offset goes up to offset the price change. I'm indifferent. But now look what happens when there's taxation. There's A-50% tax rate in interest. My savings is 100. I earn $21, but half of that is taxed away. So after tax, I have 110.5. Skittles are a$110. So I can only afford a 100 bags of Skittles plus half a bag. So look at the difference between rows one and two and rows five and six. In rows one and two without inflation when it capital taxation has reduced the number of Skittles I can eat by 5%. In rows five and six with inflation capital taxation has reduced the number of Skittles I can eat by almost 10%. What's going on? What's going on is there's another wedge. And the wedge here is that we tax nominal in interest rates, not real interest rates. So when inflation comes along, and think of this an extreme case, if there's massive inflation, then even if real interest rates adjust, I'm still not going to save because basically I'm going to when interest rates go up, I'm going to lose a lot of that through taxation. Even though in fact it should be like row five. I should be indifferent to inflation, but I'm not because it's a wedge created by the fact we only tax nominal interest, not real interest. Now, this point was made in the 1970s by the famous economist Martin Feldstein. Really sort of the, if you will, sort of the father of empirical public finance. Okay, this was a very important point and then we forgot about it starting mid about the mid1 1980s. Why? Because inflation went away. So, every year I teach this and be like, "Yeah, whatever. There's no inflation." Well, guess what? there was inflation and now you understand why something like this matters. Now fortunately we're back to low inflation but you could see we were in a world with almost 10% inflation and you could see in that world the fact that capital capital taxes are more distortionary in a high inflation environment because we tax nominal interest not real interest. Now in fact we could fix this by we could just simply index capital taxation. Indeed, we've done this otherwise. When I was a kid back in the day in the 1970s, the whole tax system used to have this problem, which is that basically the tax brackets were fixed, but your income was not. So, let's say inflation went up and my boss gave me a raise. That could move me into a higher tax bracket and I could pay more taxes even though I didn't have any more resources. So, imagine where prices went up 20% as they were going up in the 1970s or 15%. I get a 15% wage increase. I can't buy any more goods, right? But my taxes have gone up because the tax bracket was fixed. So, I'm bumped into higher tax bracket. That was called bracket creep. We fixed that in 1979. We index the tax brackets. So, now the tax brackets themselves go up with inflation. We could do the same thing with capital taxation, which is we could index what you pay to what happens to inflation. We don't. Part of the reason we don't is that who would that help? The wealthiest, the ones who save the most. So that'd be no. We do lots of things that help the wealthy and maybe that this Congress will do that. But traditionally, that's been viewed as sort of a sort of a wonky fix that plays bad politically. So it's not really been done. Okay. But in principle, you could solve this by indexing capital gain by by indexing uh indexing taxation to account for inflation just like we did with brackets. Okay, questions about that? All right, if not, let's stop here.