And so from last time uh we covered the ETO formula for the single case where we have the integral or sorry the function of a brownie in motion uh function of one variable. And importantly um with this function of a one variable, we get that the differential of the function is equal to the first derivative of the function evaluated at the Brownian motion plus a half the second derivative uh of the function. And so this is Eto's formula. And when we uh apply eto's formula in one dimension um we can consider uh defining the anti-derivative of the function f and that's capital f. And so eto's formula gives us this expression for the integral of f of bs dbs. So this is a very uh useful uh way to compute uh eto integrals. Now when we go to functions of two variables so case two we're going to have a function of time and bt say um when we want to evaluate this function of time and space as a function of brownie motion then our eto's formula is expressed this way we basically have the partials of little f with respect to t and with respect to x and then a second order term the second partial of f with respect to x. So this is uh how eto's formula generalizes. Now what's really convenient to highlight is that with eto's formula we get this top formula for the change in value of f of tx. So we have um this theorem uh which is for how f of bt changes from an initial condition and in looking at this expression it's a sum of two terms. Okay, the first term is an integral with respect to time ds and so that function will be sort of non-random on paths. The second term is the integral of the partial of f with respect to x dBs and that will be uh that that will be random depending on dbs. So if we have a uh this formula for the increment then um we basically have a constant term plus an integral of brownie in motion which has mean zero as a random variable. But if the term that's in the integrant over time, if that's equal to zero, then this function f will be a martingale. So importantly in quantitative finance uh we often are interested in solving for values of functions where the functions are the price or value of a derivative over time. And if we can express it sort of in the right framework uh where the price function follows a martingale then it will satisfy this PTE condition. Now the notion of the value of some derivative contract or asset following a martingale over time means that it has a constant sort of expected value over time. So we don't have sort of the natural growth in value according to the risk-free rate. So to set this up, we'll need to normalize the prices discounted to the present value. So that comes into play in different applications. All right. Well, um there are some examples of ETO's formula applying it and with the brownie in motion with drift. We went through that last time. And then finally in this section um I want to sort of highlight how geometric brownian motion is represented in terms of the stochastic differential equation as given here. So dpt is equal to pt mu ddt plus pt sigma dpt dbt. Um and importantly we basically have these factors PT on both sides which could be divided in both sides. So we might think that we're working with the derivative or differential of the log of the price. Uh but it's we're it's a little bit different. Um so with this uh geometric brownie in motion if we apply eto's lema to the function log of pt so if we think of log of pt is equal to g of pt then the partial of g with respect to p is simply one over t the partial of G with respect to T is zero and the second partial of G with respect to P um is - 1 over P^2. So it's lema gives us that the differential of log p is the sum of two terms one that's times dt the other that's times sigma db dbt and so um log price is going to follow a generalized vener process with a drift rate given by mu minus sigma squ over two and variance rate equal to sigma Now what's important about this result is that the drift rate changes from mu to mu minus sigma^ 2 / 2. Um so the uh basically the drift rate on the log scale um sort of has a drag due to the uh quadratic variation. And if we consider uh normalizing the uh log return well actually not normalizing but we look at an increment of the log return that's normally distributed and then um let's see if we consider uh I guess looking at what the conditional distribution is of log pt it's given by this brownie in motion which gives normally distributed log values with a particular mean mu star and variance sigma star. Um and so the expectation of our price at some time point capital t given the value at time little t. It'll be a lognormal random variable with expectation equal to the initial price pt p sub little t times the exponential of uh mu * t minus t. There should be an e here which um is in that factor. So, so despite there being sort of a drag on the drift um the expectation of the exponential of the log doesn't have that drag due to drift. It actually has the mean uh log return um in that in that factor. And with uh logn normal random variables we have formulas for the mean and variance which we covered actually in the first couple of lectures. Now interestingly um let's see if we think about just what kinds of results happen with values of mu and sigma that we might expect to see in financial markets. Um here's an example where we consider um a drift rate mu of.3 per year a time period for obser uh the log normal return of 1/ half year from time little t to capital t and an annualized volatility of 04 or 40%. So this is perhaps reasonable for some moderately uh risky uh stocks that have a modest return uh expectation of sort of 30% per year and a volatility rate of 40% per year. And when we look compute the expectation of the price, it equals the initial price PT * 1.1618. Now that 1.1618 says that we expect the price to increase by about 16%. And if we think of a half year and a drift rate of.3, we might have thought it would be 15%. If we didn't, you know, follow through the details. So it's it's a bit higher return. And similarly for the uh volatility or standard deviation of this price, it turns out that the volatility of the or variance of the price at time capital T is 335 squared times the square of PT. So the variance is also a bit higher than you might expect if you just naively interpreted the mu and sigma as appropriate annualized values. Now with this result we can actually uh compute the sort of continuously compounded percent return of a geometric brownie in motion. So we can look at the change in value from time little t to capital t. The log of that ratio is the difference in logs and divide that by the length of the period capital t minus t and we get the basically the annualized rate of return for the geometric brownie in motion. And what that rate of return as a random variable is is normal with mean mu - a half sigma^ 2 and variance sigma^ 2 over t minus t. So with this what's significant or important is that the sort of rate of return over long periods of time converges to a constant average rate and the variance about that average rate is going to zero as the time into the future continues. So this is an important property of geometric brownie motion that the growth of the uh of the process uh basically grows at a constant rate with some variability but that variability goes to zero as we consider very very long periods. So um let's see. So here uh let's say I have a simulation of Brownian motion um where we consider the same mu and sigma as the previous slides and we consider a time period of capital t equal to four years and we define increments uh on that interval um and look at basically brownie in motion with the appropriate mu and sigma then geometric brownian motion which is the exponential of that brownian motion and then the log returns. So let's take a look at what we have. Um so so here's some simulated paths of brownie in motion with drift with those mu and sigma parameters. And importantly, we have sort of the mean return as a function of time or the mean value as a function of time of the brownie in motion being given by the blue line. And then plus or minus uh sort of two standard deviations is given by the red uh curves. And if we simulate not five but say 50 paths, this is what this Brownian motion looks like. Um and if we I guess before doing this I'd like everyone to just think about how is this set of paths going to transform when we take the exponential of them. So the basically the exponential of Brownian motion with constant drift and variance. Well, here's the geometric brownie in motion and uh what I've done is I've drawn the same sort of blue line and the same red lines as the for the Brownian motion and how that translates to the exponential scale. And what's rather striking here is that there are paths out of 50 that really have extraordinary performance. And so you're basically growing in value from by a factor of 10 or an order of 10 basically to an order of 20 um on the exponential scale. And so what I think is an interesting takeaway from this is that if we have a simple brownie in motion process defining the sort of log price processes, then with reasonably modest drift and volatility parameters, there can be some realizations that have phenomenal returns. And so when you look at the price returns of stocks, often our attention gravitates towards those that have extraordinary returns sort of like Nvidia or Tesla say and over some periods in the past, maybe not so much recently, but um these extraordinary returns over a number of years is actually consistent with the possibility of sort of geometric brownie motion models underlying those. Now if we look at uh the average log return we get this graph for these 50 paths just uh doing the time series of uh volatilities of the or sorry of uh returns um average returns over across each of the paths. And if we look at zooming in on that path, this is the uh space or it's an illustration of the realizations of the average returns over time. So over short periods we can expect very different return magnitudes perhaps uh but as the time period for measuring returns uh increases it stabilizes to uh vary about this uh constant level. All right so let's go back here. Um all right so um with stochastic calculus uh there are many sort of follow-on topics. We're going to focus today on stochastic differential equations. Um but it's important to know that stochastic calculus and differential equations apply to other problems such as population growth um and uh filtering problems. um optimal stopping problems and so uh you know it's a very sort of rich set of applications of of the theory. So let's go to stochcastic differential equations. Um okay these slides are a bit dense uh but I've colorcoded sort of some of the pieces so we can go through it more slowly. Um so let's go through the derivation of the black scholes differential equation. Now you've already seen this a few times in the class from a guest lecture and from Vicil's lecture but I think it bears repeating here. Um if we have a an asset price that follows geometric brownie in motion. So dpt is equal to mu pt mud dt plus pt sigma u dbt. Then let's consider the price of a derivative that's contingent on pt and as a motivating example say a call option but we could consider arbitrary options or derivatives. And if we apply eto's lema to the price function gt then eto's lema gives us this sum of two terms dt times the partial of g with respect to p mu pt partial of g with respect to dt the second partial of g with respect to p times a half time sigma^ 2 pt ^ 2 Um and then finally this partial of G with respect to P times sigma PT DBT. Now if we think about discretizing the price dynamics of the stock or the asset as well as the derivative then we can say okay the change or increment in PT is a mean growth rate times delta t plus sigma pt delta bt. So there's a random term and a deterministic term given time little t. And if we do the same for the increment of the derivative, we then basically substitute into dg uh delta t's and delta b's. So we get the same constant factor times delta t plus dg dp times sigma pt delta bt. And the uh sort of brilliant argument for solving for the uh option price or derivative price is to consider constructing a portfolio VT that eliminates dependence on the Brownian motion. So if we eliminate dependence on the Brownian motion then we basically have a deterministic price function for the portfolio. So one way of doing this is to say let us short one derivative. So minus GT. If we sell the derivative at price GT, we receive uh GT dollars and then um the uh we're going to add to that a number of shares of the asset given by DGP. So if we basically take minus1 times this plus the DGDP times the asset then the increment of value of this portfolio is simply deltat t times this factor. And we've cancelled out the terms in green when multiplied by minus1 for the derivative or uh dgdp for the asset. So we end up getting a portfolio whose change in value depends just on this bracketed term here with no brownie in motion increment involved. And so having eliminated the sort of risk in the portfolio, arbitrage arguments say that VT must be risk-f free and as a risk-free asset equivalent, it should earn the riskless interest rate. So our change in value of this portfolio is simply the initial value times the rate of return of the riskless asset over the period deltat t. And so what we can do then is equate the two expressions for what the increment in vt should be. If it's riskless, here's the right hand side. And according to our uh ETO's formulas, the portfolio has a incremented value given by this factor of delta t. So if we eliminate delta t from both sides, we get this formula which is called the blacksholes differential equation. Now what's really significant is that at least when one studies blacksholes theory in finance classes um one thinks of call options and deriving their price or put options through put call parody. Um what's really important here is that this black shell's differential equation applies for those vanilla options but also for any contingent claim sort of derivative where the derivative where where the the financial derivative GT uh basically depends upon um the value of the underlying asset. that. So we have GT which is a contingent claim um and we assume that GT is equal to some function f of pt and t. So we assume that the derivative depends only on the current level of the asset and the current time. Yes. >> So they won a Nobel Prize for it, right? What what part of the paper was like the Nobel Prize winning? Was it like the right? Um I it it really was the uh sort of extensions of the initial uh papers to handle sort of uh modeling derivatives under arbit no arbitrage assumptions. And so the the basic theory sort of extends amazingly you know to a broad range of applications. And um so yeah, I the initial papers were rather impressive in terms of solving these uh pricing problems using uh analysis basically. Um and so the initial papers were really quite mathematical. Um and since then uh arguments uh and developments have been made that make it more straightforward and what we're showing here is essentially the uh benefits from from those later developments. >> Yes. >> Um every time changing what the portfolio is. >> I'm sorry. Can you say that? >> Like the amount of the asset changes over time. >> Yes. Um, so then he's like not seeing why the the value of portfolio is like BT like is it the amount of PT has changed and it's going to get bought or sold some of it or should be that cash alongside it that tracks what? >> Well, okay. I guess this this equation should be um interpreted in terms of just infiniteesimal increments delta t. And as you point out as time evolves the value of the contract evolves the uh derivatives partial derivatives of the asset with respect to time those are not constant as well. So as as the uh process increments those will also change. So it's this is a a simplification I guess of the argument. But if we're looking at sort of what properties must hold in the infiniteesmal time range then this is exact. But okay. >> Yeah. Like why can we always say that like that term after >> Oh, why can we say that this equals this term? >> Okay, I'm just just repeat the question. So like the expression for DG at the top like how like all >> okay you're saying that the VT equaling minus GT plus okay that's um going to be the initial value of the portfolio at time little t. So at time little t we are combining a short uh derivative claim >> ignore what happens >> exactly we ignore what happens before and and but this highlights in a good way you know it's a good question that when t evolves or the time involves past time little t then the partial of g with respect to p at that future time point will not necessarily um equal this. And in order to have a portfolio that eliminates the Brownie in motion term, one would need to adjust the number of shares in the uh asset. So if we go back to this argument here where we sell short one derivative and buy this many shares at time little t. This cancels out the brownie motion. Then for increments of time t or time after t, we still are short the derivative, but we may need to adjust the number of shares of the asset to buy to hedge that derivative. And that's where delta hedging comes into play. >> That expression doesn't mean like we're not assuming that we've done this through time. >> No, not at all. Not at all. Yeah. And and it's sort of helpful just to see okay if at any arbitrary time t you want to consider buying the or selling the derivative valuing the derivative how should that be valued? Great. Okay. So, so what's important uh with this uh blacksholes partial differential equation is that there are different boundary conditions that vary by the derivative that we are working with. And so with call options we have basically the final value at time capital t the maturity of the option is given by the hockey stick function of pt minus k if that's greater than zero or zero. And similarly for the put option it has this this terminal uh value. Now um what's what's as I said very powerful about this theory is that um the partial differential equation the blacksholes partial differential equation is satisfied by any derivative so long as there's no arbitrage in the market um and so with different derivatives uh contracts there will be different boundary conditions on those. So what we now want to do is figure out how to solve these partial differential equations. And what we're going to do is go through the uh diffusion equation. And it turns out that the black shaw's partial differential equation can be transformed into this diffusion equation by changing the scale of time, reversing time and doing some other normalizations. Um so so this diffusion equation is very fundamental to solving the blacksholes partial differential equations and it's sort of the simplest form of this second order partial differential equation that we can uh study and understand its solutions. So the heat equation um is a an equation that is satisfied by um a function u if the partial of u with respect to t is equal to lambda times the second partial of u with respect to x2. So this is the heat equation. Okay. So, and um we're going to give an example here which is uh very important and technical. But in terms of what kinds of functions satisfy this diffusion equation, we actually went through looking at um the density um of a Gaussian distribution which is equal to 1 / 2 pi roo P E - one2 X^2 / T. So if we think of a Gaussian density which basically is a bell-shaped curve around zero with some standard deviation here given by sort of one. Um this would be the density perhaps for t = 1. The density function and this is the density of a brownian motion starting at time zero ending at time t. And if we consider increasing time then the change in P. So P subt is equal to lambda * P subXX. Um and so the change over time is proportional to the curvature of the density. And so if you look back in the course notes, course materials, we sort of looked at how the density of Brownian motion over time it drops where there's strong negative curvature and it rises where there's positive curvature and so we basically get sort of flatter curves as time increases. So, so the normal density function follows this heat equation. And what we're going to see is that functions that follow the heat equation can actually be represented as linear combinations of these Gaussian densities. So the special case of the Gaussian density is in a sense very very general in terms of defining solutions to the heat equation. So let's consider um I guess how the heat equation is often set up. It says okay let's consider the temperature in a long thin bar of material that's perfectly insulated. So temperature only varies with distance along the bar at time t. So we have um the uh so we have uh so mu of xt is um is the value of the temperature over over time. Um and uh if we consider an initial value for the heat in the bar given by u not of x um then uh what we want to do is solve for how that heat function changes. And so some really neat uh sort of properties to use are similar properties to what we have when we're trying to solve for ordinary differential equations. So first observation is suppose we have two solutions u1 and u2 then the sum of those is going to also be a solution. So solutions are linear and if we have a collection of solutions indexed by little s um we can consider taking a weighted sum of those per an integral and this will also be a solution. So the linear uh linearity of the solution spaces sort of extends to this integral of solutions index bys also being a solution let's see okay so um the simplest initial value problem is to consider this u function to be a direct delta function at x= 0. So, so u of x0 equaling the uh direct delta direct delta function at uh t equals z. Um and if we consider this function which is essentially the PDF of a normal with mean zero and variance 2 lambda t. Then this density function is um turns out to h solve the heat or satisfy the heat equation but it also satisfies the initial condition where when we let t go to zero then it equals the direct delta function. So so what's the direct delta function? It's equal to zero for um it equals zero for x not equal to zero and it equals um and the integral of u of x0 dx is equal to 1. So it's a function that's positive but has weight under the integral equal to one. So this is a rather abstract kind of function to work with. And uh actually I don't know if is anyone here familiar with Paul Durac? there's a great he he was a physicist at uh Cambridge University and if you're familiar with I guess Schroinger and uh other physicists he's like number three or four in the list of top physicists at the time and um he came up with this direct delta function as something worth working with. So it's in a sense an imaginary function. It's basically the limit of this normal density function as lambda or AST goes goes to zero. So it becomes totally concentrated at zero. So um so with this function u delta we have this uh particular uh u function satisfying the heat equation with that initial condition. Now if we want to generalize from this initial function uh or the direct sort of delta function at zero. Suppose we consider wanting to solve where the initial conditions are given by a function u knot of x. So in this discussion we can think of you not of x the initial value being some arbitrary known function. So it's like the boundary conditions of this function at time zero. And if we integrate our u not function with the direct delta function evaluated at x - s then we simply get back this you not function at x. So the direct delta function allows us to pull out in an integral um the uh you not function itself. So there's like an identity uh relationship between you not and this transform of you not with the direct delta function. Now if we uh consider different solutions. We can index solutions to this heat equation by uh delta uh or or by s rather. And then we can integrate this u delta function with respect to the factor u not of s and we get this formula for u of xt. So, so for any initial condition function u not of s this integral will in fact give us the solution function u whose initial value u of x0 equals u kn. And so for in order for this to work, we need to have the integrals existing. And if we have uh if the integrals exist and we can take partial derivatives sort of inside the integral sign then we end up getting the partial of u with respect to t is the integral of the partial of u delta with respect to dt. That's the only part that depends on t. And similarly the partial with respect to x second partial we can take that under the integral sign and get this uh expression here. So if this holds then we have this function satisfying the heat equation. Now under what conditions can we differentiate integrals underneath the integral sign? And if you remember from calculus with real calculus how that works. >> Yes. When does US converges? when it converges. Well, the uh let's see okay well ux of t will exist if sort of you knot is sufficiently smooth and um so if the initial conditions are sufficiently smooth then they're first derivatives and second derivatives are bounded and so these integrals are bounded and we're and they're abs absolutely integraable and so we're able to take derivatives sort of underneath the integral sign. So um so when you have sort of unbounded functions you not um that maybe are sufficiently smooth then one can take limits as sort of the bound on that function increases and if those limits exist then these solutions apply. But what's what's important here is to see that we have this u knot of x is equal to this sum of the direct deltas multiplied by you not of s value. So it's a weighted sum of direct delta and um the uh so the equation the equation for the sum of these uh or integral of those weighted by u you not of s um is given by this expression here. Now when we can differentiate underneath the integral sign then basically um the values of the or the u function is the can be represented as um in a tailaylor series with uh the terms in the tailaylor series corresponding to these d differentials and they each of those satisfy the heat equation alone. Okay. So let's see how this works with where you not is an indicator function. Um so we're thinking of let's see let me just write here. So, so let's see. For this description, I I want to um actually think about ultimately a Brownian motion process XT that starts at zero. And so we have different paths, possible paths for this brown in motion process. And um we're going to be interested in basically an indicator for the path line between the intervals A and B. So let's consider a uh a you not function for the initial condition to be the indicator of um whether a process lies between a and b. So there will be some paths that start with the indicator being one and others with the indicator being equal to zero. And it turns out that the expectation of you not the indicator function with respect to this Gaussian density is simply the probability of lying between a and b. So u of xt as defined in the top is simply the expectation of the indicator function which is the probability of lying between a and b and we can solve for these this probability in terms of the cumulative normal cdf standard normal evaluated at the upper limit minus the mean divided by the standard standard deviation minus the CDF at the lower limit minus the mean divided by the standard deviation. So this u of xt which is the difference of two functions of gaussian uh densities integrals of them um is a solution to this uh problem. So um so now in the next slide um whoops okay so that's that solution now um all right so um so the next uh set of concepts we want to introduce you to are solving these equations using properties of similarity and invariance And so we're going to be considering changes in the time and space variables. So here we have time variable and here we have the space variable with Brownian motions. And so what if we were to rescale time to a tow which is equal to alpha t and we were to rescale x to a variable y which is equal to some beta x. So we're just changing the units of time and the units of uh space in a constant way. Well, if we consider a v function which equals the u function. Then um we basically can map u into v by redefining u in terms of y. and uh sorry u in terms of y and u in terms of toao. And so if we apply the chain rule to utt and if we apply the chain rule to the partial of u with respect to x we get beta v y and the second partial of u with respect to u y is uh beta^ 2 v y. And so we end up getting our initial heat equation in x and t to be this equation in terms of toao and y. And if alpha equals beta squared. So we could arbitrarily if we sort of knew the um if we have if we're free to choose alpha and beta arbitrarily we could choose alpha equal to beta squared and we then get va is equal to lambda vy. So this is a heat equation in terms of variables towo and y and um this must solve the original problem if we substitute back. So we can think of looking for solutions that are functions that are invariant under rescaling time and rescaling the space. So we must have that u of xt is equal to u of root alpha x and alpha t. If we consider these this particular transformation now with the choice of alpha and beta those are arbitrary. We can choose alpha equal to 1 / t and then that means our u of xt is equal to u of x over roo t and 1 which is a function just of x over root t. So we have a transformation of our original scales to a problem where our solution function V um basically or our solution function U has this form and so it's a function just of one variable. And so when this is a function of one variable, if we substitute that into the heat equation, we get the derivative of h with respect to t on the left hand side is equal to lambda times the partial of h with respect to x second partial on the right hand side. So those are easily computed to give that top equation. And then we can say well let's stop carrying around x over root t everywhere. Let's just use y / roo t as our variable of interest. And we get h prime of y * y /2= lambda hp prime which is given by this last equation here. Now this second derivative of h / the first derivative of h is equal to the derivative of the log of the first derivative. So it's one over the first derivative times the derivative of the first So we have that the derivative of the log of the derivative of h is equal to minus lambda over 2 y. And we just integrate both sides to get the solution for h prime is just a constant times the exponential of the integral of this which is y^2 over 4 lambda minus y^2 over 4 lambda in the exponent. And then we integrate this again to get a solution for h of y. And it turns out that we're basically integrating a Gaussian density function. This is proportional to a Gaussian density. So it's anti-derivative is a or one anti-derivative is actually the cumulative normal uh standard normal valued at y / 2 2 lambda. So with this we can substitute in our value for y back in terms of x and we get this formula here for what the uh u function is. Now with all of this development we sort of have a formula for what u is over the entire time domain. But at time zero, it's the initial condition. And so the initial condition is the limit of this f function AST goes to zero. And so when uh when x is negative, this goes to minus infinity. And so we get zero for the cumulative distribution function. when x is less than zero. When x is greater than zero, this goes to plus infinity. So we get one. And if x equals zero, then it's always equal to a half. So we end up having this function uh which uh corresponds to the initial conditions. um and uh this is the solution uh of the heat equation when the initial condition is given by this function. So let's see let's see if we want um well let let me just write as a function of x I guess um the function at zero um and then it's 12 and then it's one here. So this is the function u of x0 for this case. Now if we um consider uh different linear combinations of this solution, we can actually consider taking instead of u of x0 equaling this, we can consider u of x corresponding to f of x - a over 2 2 lambda t. And so this basic these first two bullets correspond to shifting this u of x0 to a values a and b and then with other one b let's see sorry the uh so at a we have the same and then at b we have the same of zero up to b and then a half at b and then one beyond. So we basically have sort of two step functions centered where where the steps are at x= a and at x= b. And so if we cons both both of these u functions will satisfy the heat equation. And uh if we consider the difference of the two functions that will also satisfy the heat equation. And so if we look at the difference in the initial conditions for these two solutions, we basically have the indicator of being between A and B. So one function for B you know is one forever and then the function for A is uh is one up to uh or sorry both functions are equal to one when X is greater than B in which case we get zero and otherwise we get uh one when a is between X and B and a half otherwise. All right. So, so what we end up having is uh for any initial conditions that are representable as a step function or a sum of step functions. We can get a solution in this way. So for our initial conditions you not we can basically use limits of these step functions to approximate any uh initial condition. All right. Well, with um stochastic differential equations that we want to solve, um we consider generalizations um of the drift and volatility parameters of the process. And so at the top here is or the general uh a general generalization of simple geometric brownian motion where the drift and the volatilities depend upon time as well as the level of the process x. And so what we want to be able to do is understand when solutions to these uh differential equations exist. And there are conditions that guarantee solutions. One of them is a lip shit's condition which says that the change in the mu function with at a fixed time t uh for different values of x and y plus the change in the volatility for the same t with different x's and y's that those are bounded by some constant times the difference between x and y. And if we have um the uh so so this is a sort of space time condition. And let's see with the spatial uh growth condition we also want the sort of magnitude of the drift term plus the magnitude of the squared volatility term to be bounded uh by 1 + the square of the x values. So what we have here are conditions for the drift not getting too wild and the volatility not getting too wild in order for there to be solutions to this. And um let's see with uh a really important theorem that we won't get into but which are dealt with in advanced books on stochcastic calculus deal with the uh existence and uniqueness of solutions to these uh stochastic differential equations. And so if we consider two processes XT and YT that are both solutions to the stochastic differential equation, then subject to the conditions that we indicated, the two solutions are actually equal to each other almost everywhere. So we don't get different limits or different solutions um to the equations. So they're essentially unique and essentially means that with probability one the paths are the same. Now um in solving these stochastic differential equations um a method for solving these that turns out to be very useful is a method called coefficient matching. And so let's just illustrate coefficient matching for geometric brownie motion. So here's the equation differential equation for um geometric brownie motion. And suppose we have a solution that's some function of time and the underlying brownie in motion. Let's apply the uh eto's formula to x of t and we get dx of t is equal to this expression dt plus this expression dbt. And so um the uh basically this dx of t is applying the chain rule to f of t and bt. And we can then say well let's match mux oft with this red term here and match sigma x of t the coefficient of dbt with df dx. And if we do that well the first or the second equation there sigma f equals dfd dx gives a solution of f equaling the exponential sigma x plus g of t. So um so this um so this first equation muf equals um okay or sorry the second equation sigma fdf dx um is equal to uh uh let me just write that Okay. So we have we have sigma f is equal to df by dx. And so we get sigma is equal to df by dx over f. And so um this is equal to d by dx of log of f ofx. So f ofx is going to be the exponential of the integral of sigma with respect to x. And the g of t function will just be an arbitrary constant of that equation. And then if we substitute this for formula for f into the first equation, we get this differential equation for f. And um with this differential equation for f, mufals g prime f plus sigma square over 2f. Notice that f is a constant factor in each of those terms. So we can eliminate that constant factor or term the same term and we get g prime is equal to mu minus sigma^ 2 / 2. So with that we end up getting a solution for f which is the initial value x knot time the exponential sigma x plus this factor times little t and that factor is the uh adjusted drift of the uh uh geometric brownian motion. So we get that um we basically get our solution for uh geometric brownian motion coming out from that differential equation. Now an interesting paradox is that the drift term is this factor and the variance is sigma t. Our standard deviation is sigma t for the value of a geometric brownie in motion process. But if our drift parameter is smaller than sigma squar over two then this mu star is going to be negative. And so if we have a Brownian motion process, a geometric brownian motion process where the on the log scale the drift is negative, then this is going on the log scale to go to minus infinity AST grows large. And so the probability that the geometric brownie in motion is smaller than any constant is going to go to one as time grows large. So so when the mu terms the drift term is small relative to sigma squar over two less than the likelihood of this process going to zero is is uh occurs with probability approaching one. But complementing that is that the mean value of x of t is growing exponentially at the rate mu t exponential rate mu t. So with geometric brownie in motion we have this process that has a mean level that's growing arbitrarily large. But the process is are with probability approaching one approaching zero for all paths. So, so that's an interesting um paradox, but it um it it it appears sort of consistent with what actually happens often in equity markets where you'll have some stocks that do really really well and others that haven't done so well and go close to zero. on average maybe there's a mean growth rate but uh many of them have uh ultimate values that that approach zero well in the remaining time um there's an introduction here to the Orinstein ulenbeck process which basically is a stochastic differential equation where instead of a constant drift term we have a drift rate that depends on how far away the process is from the mean level. And so um this uh model is one that arose with sort of physicists studying this where you look at the average velocity of molecules in a container with a certain heat or temperature. And so particles should be moving around at some average velocity. Um and this model is is one way of trying to characterize that. Um outside the range of physics, uh people have used this model in finance. Vasich used it as a model for interest rate dynamics where there's a mean level that is expected in the long run and there's variation about that when it you when the process is above the average level it tends to drift down and when it's below it tends to drift up. So, so with this Ornstein ulenbeck process we can um consider uh a solution which is a product process. Now you may recall with some differential equation problems where you want to solve a differential equation with two variables and maybe the solution is a product of one variable times a product of another var times the uh a function of the other variable. So in this case we can think of a possible solution being given by an a of t function times the integral of the brownian motion uh process with respect to a little bs b of s differentiable function. So if we just tentatively assume this possible solution, we can apply the chain rule to get this first equation uh dxt is the derivative of a times the bracketed term then plus a of t times the derivative of the right hand term with respect to t. And um we can then use coefficient matching as per these expressions. And at the end of the day we end up getting our Orstein ulc process. Um if we start at x0 it well let's see if we consider the process with mu equal to zero and initial value of x knot then it decreases or increases exponentially to zero and then um the extra term is this integral of brownie in motion with the exponential term and What's interesting about this process is that it has a limiting distribution that's not like a non-stationary random walk of brownie in motion, but it's centered at the mean level, which was assumed in this development to be zero and with some constant variance. So there's like a an erotic property to this process. The long-term distribution is simply this fixed distribution with constant mean and variance. All right. Um well just to finish up um we can extend stochcastic differential equations in one sort of space variable and time to multi-dimensions. And so we can think of having m dimensional processes evolving for the uh functions. Uh so XT could be m dimensional and then we would have a drift rate corresponding to different components of the dimensions mu1 to mumm different brownie motion terms corresponding to m independent brownian motions and then a covariance matrix reflecting the how similar sort of increments of x are related to each other um in terms of the co-variance terms here in this expression. So so we can have multiple uh multi-dimensional uh stochastic differential equations. And so um here's just an illustration of thinking about mean reverting velocity and position uh and how that would be set up. So um the theory of stochastic differential equations you know is very powerful and it's and exploited a lot in uh in physics and engineering. So um with that um let's see I just want to highlight some useful references for stochastic differential equations. Um there's this really excellent uh monograph on uh by Oxendal uh which is very mathematical not necessarily motivated by finance but uh motivated by physics problems as well and then the other uh references here are really good ones in quantitative finance. So um we have our guest lecturer John Hall to thank for uh giving us this book on options, futures and other derivatives.