Okay. Well, today is our our last day together. I was remembering the first day at the beginning. I said to everybody, you know, I'm excited about projection theory and these like basic problems were just solved in the last couple years and we're trying to, you know, describe the ideas in this and and the beginning of the class, you know, I say all these things I'm excited to do and I wonder, you know, am I going to are we going to manage to do this? Uh and uh yeah, anyway, now it's at the end and we've been working steadily and done some of it. Um yeah. Okay. Um yeah. So today we'll try to say um the finish the story of proving the sharp projection theorems and uh to say the last couple of of ideas that go into it. Um so the first idea kind of goes back to the beginning of the class. that goes back to uh using the the forier method and getting a little bit more out of it than um than we had realized at that time. Um and uh and then after that so this this thing I'll do sort of by itself. It's like re remembering the 4A method and and playing seeing what how much we can learn from it. Then I'll remember what was the whole big theorem that we wanted to prove and what are all the things we knew about it. The last the last idea in the class is um uh combining combining information from many different scales which allows us to combine all of the previous ideas into into one um big argument master argument. Um yeah and you know this this way of combining scales has only been I would say has only been around for five years or so and and is also something it's it's not that complicated and it's al I think also something you know that might be of value to take with you away from the class. Okay. All right. So, part one is the well spaced case and the for method. Okay. Um so so all of these things that were these sharp projection theorems there's some kind of um uh geometric measure theory analog of the sum troder theorem. So for reference let's remember first the saretti troder theorem and uh here's the version of it that will be relevant for us. So if E contained in R2 is a set of end points and L sub R of E is the set of lines little L so that little L intersect E is at least R. Uh then the question is how big could this be in terms of N and R. And the conclusion is that the size LR of E is bounded by N2. Actually, let me do a big R to match some other notation. N2 / R cubed + N / R. This n^2 r cubed is comes from the grid example. And this n / r comes from a very simple example. You just draw a few lines and you put R points on each of them. Okay. And we're trying to investigate to what extent this continues to hold if we replace our our pure points by some little balls and by our pure lines by some thin toes. Um and here is one clean version of that that if the points are quite spread out, they're what's called well spaced. um then this holds almost as real. So this is a theorem of Hong Guang nom Solomon and and me from around 2018 or something. So E contained in R2 is a set of N delta balls. Uh E is contained in the unit of ball. Okay. And they're well spaced. They're as spread out as possible. So they obey the condition that if you take E and you intersect it with a ball of radius N to the minus a half, then that's at most around one. So in other words, if I take a unit square and I subdivide it into squares of side length n to the minus a half that's been chosen so that there are n squares in this picture and then I put one or roughly one point in each of these squares uh one delta ball then this is what this is our what our set looks like. So this is a well spaced set. >> Yeah. >> For the size of E intersect B, is that supposed to be a delta ball covering number? >> Yeah, let's make that. Yeah, that's right. That's it's a Thank you. That's a delta ball covering number. Okay. All right. And then there's one more hypothesis which is Okay. Okay. So yeah, so then we could say what tr of E is the set of delta tubes T so that T intersect E delta is at least R. Um and here you know if you take a if you take such a delta tube and you wiggle it imperceptibly you will have another such delta tube and we want to count those as being the same. So I'll put here essentially distinct Okay. Now, there's one other hypothesis which is that R is not too small, which I'll explain in a minute. The hypothesis says R is at least a little bit bigger than delta time E delta. And then the conclusion is almost the same as before that tr of e is less sim sim um n^2 / r cub. This two tildas here means that it's hiding something like a uh like a delta to the epsilon or something like that. But it looks almost the same as this. Okay, let's compare these two theorems. Um, one difference is that in the first theorem we had an extra term here which I had not written in the second theorem and the reason is that this this second term is relevant when r is bigger than the square root of n. So the second term this um dominates if and only if r is bigger than square root of n. But in the wellspaced case, it's not possible for a tube to have more than square root of n points on it. So this case never arises. Okay. So that's why we don't have that. Um the other difference is that we added this lower bound on R. So let me explain why we did that. So a remark um an average for a random delta tube t the expected size of t intersect e to cover. Um that would be delta time e delta. This is for each of these delta point each of these little delta balls. There are this many of them. um the probability that a random delta tube intersects that point is about delta. Okay? So if you just take any old tube, you'll have that many uh you'll hit that many delta balls from E. Tubes that hit this many delta balls of E are not special. Any old tube will do. And so if R takes that value, this upper bound isn't true at all. This could be way bigger than that because it could be it could be basically all the tubes. But rather remark there's there's a rather remarkably sharp phase transition that you increase r just a little bit beyond this threshold and then you get a bound that matches some tri. Okay. So that is the statement of the theorem. Um and it it says in a nutshell that seated troder basically continues to hold if you take a well spaced set E which is one of the cases we mentioned last time. Okay. Any questions or comments about the statement? So I am going to do a proof sketch of this theorem. So let me first mention the tools that will go into it. There's the forier method. There's double counting. And then there's I guess I'll call this playing with different scales. The theme of this last class is playing with different scales which is a simple sounding an old idea which nevertheless people recently have found a lot of new um new ways of doing it. Okay. Um all right. So let me start with the forier method. Let me label this list of hypotheses hypothesis um for method. Okay, so it's been a while. In lectures three and four of this class, we developed a forier analytic method to estimate stuff like this. And um if we had kept having problem sets and if I had been really clever, I would have had you remember it on the last problem set getting ready for this lecture. Um anyway, if you if you if you take the method exactly the way we did it back at the beginning of the class, it said it it will say that if we have the hypothesis, then the size of TR of E uh will bounded by delta. Uh okay, I have to actually check Okay. Delta inverse E delta R to the minus 2. I considered sort of redoing this for in the last class to remind us all because I don't expect it really to have it on the tip of your brain. Um, but I decided it was not that much fun for a thing to do in the last class and also that I had to manage the time to explain the other stuff. So, I'd like to take this as a black box that it's the sort of it's something you can do with the tools that we've already have. Okay. Um, now how does this compare to our goal? This e delta by the way is n. So this is delta inverse n rus 2. Um well it depends on how delta and n and r are related to each other. But there's a particular case where it just gives exactly the right thing. Um the particular case is that if r is um the smallest that it's allowed to be. So let's say it is delta to the minus epsilon delta e delta. Okay. So in this case if I solve for the delta inverse the delta inverse would be around n / r and then I plug in here um and I get that one that this is an n / r is n^2 r cub that's the semi of that. So this 4A method actually gives the right answer in an interesting case. But then if you make r bigger um then if you do this computation um this ends up being bigger and and this this will be bigger than n^2 r cubed. Okay. You know another interesting basic thing about this that is perhaps surprising is that as delta if delta gets bigger the right hand side gets smaller. So as we make our tubes thicker we actually get a better bout. Um okay so um if r is bigger this is the smallest r could be. So the other option is that r is bigger than this. So delta to the minus epsilon delta e delta is less than r. And let's say that r is less than the square root of n because as we mentioned earlier if r can't be any bigger than the square root of n. Okay. Then I'm going to set a scale row so that row * n is around r. So how big is row? Um well row is going to be r / n. So it will be smaller than n to the minus a half but it will be bigger than delta because um delta n was smaller than r and I'm going to increase delta to row so that row n will be around r. So row will be around there. And then we're going to study E row which is the row neighborhood of E. So let's make a picture. Here is the picture of our wellspace set E. And then we're going to have a scale row which is smaller than this scale n to the minus a half but bigger than delta. And we'll look at that guy row. Um and you know originally we're trying to find our original problem is to understand delta tubes that hit a lot of balls. So this might be one. This is a tube delta tube and tr delta. E Delta is just E, but I put the delta to remind us. Um, but now that we have these thicker guys, we could study um I could study a row tube that contains a lot of row balls. So this might be T row. That might be a tube that that intersects row a lot. Um and well maybe for the same R but also maybe for different RS we might be interested. So now let's make a definition. Uh so TR of TR tilda of E row this is the set of row tubes T row. So that if I take T row intersected with E row and I take its row covering number, that's at least our tilt. Okay. And now the same argument as before gives us a bound for this thing. So if we have our hypothesis and if our tilda um let's see well let me not keep track of it. If we have our hypothesis and arch tilda is big enough um then yeah I'll just yeah here we can put r tilda is at least as big as r then t r tilda of e row will be bounded by well we'll have row inverse * e delta * r - 2 * r tilda 2 and this row inverse is n / r. So that's n^ 2 / r * r tilda^ 2. Just by thickening the tubes we get these bounds. And let me mention an important special case. So eg tr of e row is bounded by n^2 r cubed. All right. So, as it's it's uh it's a surprising thing that as we increase row, we get a better and better upper bound for this. Um now we can't increase it. There's a limit to how much we can increase it because we do need we do need this condition. So row this this gives some upper bound for row. But taking row as close as you can to that upper bound is a good idea. And when we when we make row that big then we get this. Okay. Now have we proven the theorem it look so when I got Yeah. Alia. >> Yeah it's a good question about the bound theorem you apply uh the same for method. >> Yes. Um but um would the E delta stay not becoming? >> Uh right. Right. So it would be E row. Um but you can um you can maybe see from the picture where did we introduce E row? So E row is equal to E delta is equal to. But that's a special that's where we're using that our set is well spaced, right? So that's a great thing to um yeah so the qu so the question was you know should this should be a row instead of a delta and how does that affect things and the answer is yeah great point this should be a row instead of a delta but for our set it doesn't change anything and um so if you look at our set our set has only one delta ball in each um n to the minus a half ball. So when you thicken them a little bit, the number of balls you see is doesn't change. It's still n. So that is where we are using this hypothesis. Yeah, great point. Okay, so when I first saw this, I thought that we were done. Um, but it's not quite true. So, uh, our conclusion in the theorem is that we're going to try to to estimate how many of these guys there are thin tubes, delta tubes that have R balls in them. And, um, we've counted the number of thick tubes that have R balls in them. Now, every thin tube with RB balls, if you thicken it, you get a thick tube with at least R balls. But inside of a thick tube with R balls, there may be many thin tubes with RB balls. And we've only counted them once. So, we do we still have an issue. Doesn't got super difficult, but it's important to recognize it. So issue one row tube may contain many tubes of TR delta. So what would the bad scenario look like? We would have like a row tube here and inside we would have a bunch of delta balls. So at least r of them but maybe more than r of them. So let's say that t row intersected with e. So delta that would be the same AST row intersected with e row. um let's say that it's r tilda which is at least small might be r but it might also be bigger and then um inside of here we may have many delta tubes that each contain each contains Okay. So, so now we have some cousin of our original problem. We have R tilda delta balls and we want to count how many RI tubes there are. Um, we don't know as much about how they are spaced, but also we don't need to have such an incredible bound. Um so so uh by induction we can assume or we can reduce to the case that each uh t and tr of e delta um has many delta balls at both ends. Right? So what I mean by that is here's a tube delta tube. It has a bunch of delta balls in it. So it means that there are a bunch at one end and a bunch at the other end. Maybe also a bunch at the middle. Um, uh, maybe it's better to draw what it's not. What it's not is like they're just all on the left. Okay. So, in a nutshell, how would we do this if this was the situation that all of the delta balls were actually in a much shorter tube? Well, then in my original picture, I could cut my set E into separate pieces and just look at um RIT tubes on each of those pieces and I could do some induction. Um so then we do a double counting argument. I'm gonna do um so we're going to count um just pairs of delta balls. Uh so I'll have like um tr of e delta intersect tubes in t row. So the number of yellow tubes in this picture times r 2. So I take a tube and I pick two points in the tube kind of near opposite ends and for any two points there is only one tube that joins them. So this should be bounded by r tilda squ double count. So we're counting we're counting pairs t uh x1 x2 where t is in this set and x1 and x2 are in t and they're near opposite ends. So how many are there? Well, for each tube there are R 2 choices of X1 and X2. On the other hand, there are only R tilda squared choices for X1 and X2. And for each X1 and X2, there's only one choice of T. So this is bounded by this. Okay. So to double counting and the 4A method are the two foundational approaches that we did at the beginning of the class. This one was short enough that I thought I could I could recall it for us. Okay. All right. So now um TR of E delta is bounded by um the maybe sum on R tilda bigger than R diic. We're going to look at TR tilda of E row, but then we're going to multiply by R tilda over R 2, right? Why? So every RI delta tube, if you thicken it up to be a row tube, it will be an R tilder rich row tube and R tilda will be at least R. So they're all in here somewhere. And um in each one of these guys there's at most this many uh RI delta tubes. This is bounded by this. And then if we plug in our bounds everything will work. So this is bounded by um n^2 over r * r tilda squared. And then we have r tilda^ 2 over r 2. This just cancels and we get n^2 r cub. And that's the end of the proof sketch. >> Yeah. >> Where does the sum go? The sum has logarithmically many terms. >> Oh, >> and so it gets absorbed. Maybe I should write that. Let's write that. Okay. It gets absorbed in the last Simpsons. >> Yeah. is the only part where we use it is like well it's like the delta >> yeah so the question is where did we use it's well spaced and I think it's instructive to trace where we used all the hypothesis so let's label this WS. Well, let's label it well spaced, which we can abbre. So, where did we use that? It's well spaced. We used it here. And that's the only place. So, so this guy is is N. That's the only place that we use. Okay. If I had another hypothesis um hypothesis that R is bigger than average r bigger than average um I have unfortunately hidden a little bit where we used that hypothesis but it it was in this forier estimate. So here we use r big and perhaps a little bit we might use a little bit of well space too although we don't need anything as strong as what's what's up there. Um where did our big come in? Well we had all these tubes and we took a sum of the characteristic functions of the tubes smoothed out a little bit and we did 4a analysis with them and there was a high frequency part and a low frequency part and some middle frequencies. Um this is the high the contribution of the high frequency part. If the high frequency part dominates immediately you get this the very low frequencies uh corresponds if the low frequency dominated it would mean that r was equal to this and there are some in between frequencies. So you have to compute a little bit to see that they're controlled by those two cases. Good. Yeah, >> I guess the A for method doesn't really need the well spacing condition, but would it be possible to use kind of well spacing condition to put a cap on the high frequency command cuz seems like if the the frequencies of the corresponding to the delta balls should be low if the delta balls are very well spaced. Um so the question is about the relationship between the spacing of E and the frequencies in like the 4A transform of E. Is that the question? Yeah. Um yeah. So if if you just took one uh delta ball here and you smoothed out its characteristic function, it would have a 4A transform that was supported on a delta inverse ball. Now we have a bunch of them and so each of them has a 4A transform that's supported on a delta inverse ball and now we're going to add them all up. Um now when we add them all up what happens is complicated and it depends on exactly where we put them all but absent any detailed information about exactly where we put them all. You would typically expect that they would have maybe square root cancellation and that the sum would still be pretty evenly spread over a delta inverse. Um and um um yeah, so being well spaced, we would see quite a lot of high frequency, but I don't know that we could recognize whether we were well spaced. I guess if they I guess if we if we you had more points closer together, you would see more low frequency stuff. Good. Other questions or comments? Okay, I had myself a couple comments. Uh, so one thing was it seemed kind of magical to me that we ended up with the right answer. Um, and looking back in in all the proofs of anything related to saretti trotder, it seems rather magical to me that we get the right answer. So the the uh form ready troder or this theorem there's a construction you take a grid you take some lines at rational slopes you compute a little bit and you see what happens and you get this n^2 r cubed then independently from that you look at some cell partitions or some this or some that or some for analysis and completely unrelated argument you get something and if you're if you're lucky it's n^2 over r cubed and we declare victory um and yeah in in all the cases I won't really understand why it why we are getting the right answer and it's perhaps worth mentioning that summar has many cousin problems which are almost as simple to state but no one knows the right answer. Um so for instance if you replace straight lines with circles or degree 2 curves or unit circles or make up your favorite class of curves um you get natural questions that people have studied hard and almost every one of them we cannot prove matching examples and upper bounds. So it is plausible that um that there is no deep reason why this bound matches the example that but that we were just lucky. >> Yeah. >> Most kind of put other variations of the problem. Is it like harder to show kind of a similar bound or to kind of find examples versus different? >> Um yeah. So the question is for these all these other variations is it harder to to prove upper bounds or harder to find good examples? Um in all these problems all of the known examples are look a lot like the grid example there they they involve grids of points and you try to intersect it with a lot of circles or a lot of parabas or what have you. Um and um and there's some upper bound and the proofs of the upper bounds are not so different from the proofs that we have shown but the numbers that come up just they just don't match and popular opinion probably is on the side that the upper bound should be improved but we are talking about open problems so nobody knows. Yeah. Okay. So that's one comment. Um, another comment is that in the context of the fenberg problem, there was a key difficulty that the first problem was false over the complex numbers, the first inber conjecture, but true over the real numbers. So, we're always on the lookout for what steps distinguish the real numbers from the complex numbers. This argument does not distinguish them. This statement can be you can replace all the Rs with C's and adjust a few things and it's still true. So, this part of the proof is not helping with that issue. Yeah. Cool. Okay. So, so that was part one of the class, the well spaced case using the forier method. Um, part two combining all the stuff we've done. Um, let's start by remembering what is the big theorem that we're discussing the proof of and then like sort of what are all the things that we've done and the last part we'll talk about how to put the pieces together. Okay. All right. So here is the big theorem that we would like to prove. So if E is a delta T set in the unit ball in R2 uh and let's say that the size of E is delta to the minus T and then for every point in E um TX is a delta S set of tubes. through the point x and there's no loss of generality in assuming that this is delta to the minus s put them all together to make a set of tubes t okay and then uh uh thinking about how how how these tubes intersect e so let's say r is the typical ical value of e intersect t delta covering number typical over t and t could mean average if you like but they after after a little bit of um pigeon holing we can assume that they're all about the same as each other okay so then uh the goal is to say that r is not too big these tubes can't overlap the points too much r is bounded by the maximum of three things corresponding to three scenarios. Okay, so A is the stars example. These tubes have nothing to do with each other. So the number of of dots on each tube is just one. That's scenario A. B is the really interesting one. It's the integer grid and so this we've written things a little differently but this corresponds to the numerology in sem ready try um and C is uh the regime where uh uh random tubes know if this set E is really large a random tube will hit a lot of points of E and this set T certainly could be made out of random tubes okay so that is the theorem we're trying to prove And we have developed uh many techniques and tools to work on this theorem and we have proven many cases of it. And let's uh document that Okay. So cases we have uh discussed the proof. Okay. So there are these A, blast and cruise scenarios and so we should sort of sort this theorem according to who is bigger A or B or C. So uh A dominates that if and only if uh S is greater than or equal to T. Let me write it actually AST is less well s is greater than um and in this case it's true by a double counting argument and c dominates if and only if s + t is greater than or equal to 2 and that's also true by the forier method. Okay, so B dominates otherwise and it's actually important to write down this otherwise. So S is between T is between S and 2 minus S. Okay, that's what's left. And this one we don't know yet. But we do know a couple of special cases of this hard case. Um but we do know um do know if E is ad regular that was by orin we talked about it last time and we do know sorry it is true E is a regular and it is true if E is well spaced we just talked And that's striking because ad regular and well spaced are sort of the two extremes in the way that E could be spaced and the other stuff is in the middle here. Um now yeah so actually people in the field have run into this problem a number of times and and and it um so there okay so there are several cousin problems of this first set problem. There's the CA problem which is the most famous. Uh there's also the falconer distance set problem. And in both of those problems there was a period where people knew how to do these two extreme cases and we thought we hoped maybe we were close and we tried to do the stuff in the middle and it was hard and messy and we couldn't do it. So when Orbin and Schmurkin wrote their paper, they said, "We we've solved the ad regular case and we know that previously some people solved the wellspaced case and what's left is to do the stuff in the middle, but we're not sure whether that might be very hard. Okay, cool. Um, cool. Um, okay. Um and so the last the last idea in the proof is an idea from Ren and Wong. How to um break up the general case into pieces that can be handled by these methods. First part of what they did is they souped up this well spaced case a little bit. Um so they proved that it's true if E is something called semi wellspaced that I will define for you def definition um soon. Okay. So it's a mild generalization of this and the proof is very is fairly a little more complicated but it's similar ideas to what I showed you. Uh it doesn't distinguish R from C. It's the same tools that I showed you. Okay. And then the the really important thing is how to how to put all these things together. Okay. Um so we're going to put all these things together by using uh a multiscale argument which is similar to the sub multiplicative lema that was one of the key things in the in the ad regular case. So let me remind you of that and draw draw the important picture again. All right. So multi-cale argument, so um so we're going to have delta, we're going to have some scale in between delta and row. And I'm going to visualize E at this scale, but also at that scale. So now we have a general E but it's uniform and so I think of it as having some row balls. So these circles are row inside of each row ball we have some delta balls. So those are the delta balls and E delta. Okay. And we have some fat tubes like that. So those are the tubes that scale row. Inside of the fat tubes, we have some thin tubes. Um should draw a little differently. So those are the delta tubes. Okay. Now what do we notice? We notice that the r that's associated to e delta and t delta can be bounded by a coarse scale. So this r is how many delta balls are there in an orange tube like this. So first we can ask how many row balls uh does the orange tube hit. So that would be r of e row t row. And then we look inside each of those row balls at this short delta tube and we ask how many delta balls does it hit. And let's call one of these balls B the typical row ball. And that would be R of EB TB. Okay. Who are what is EB TB? Um so EB is just E intersect B. And then let's rescale it so that B becomes a unit ball. And TB is you take T well you take T intersect B where T is in T. You take all these little pieces of tubes and then again you rescale so that B becomes the unit ball. And so EB is a set of delta over row balls and TB is a set of delta over row tubes. We do this rescaling. So we can relate this. Think of this as a case of our original problem. We can use induction. Um okay. But this inequality is just how many delta balls are there in the orange tube? Well, how many row balls does it hit and how many delta balls are in each row ball? Okay, cool. So, by this multiscale argument, we can take our original problem and break it up into pieces. We get to choose row. So, we have some flexibility there. Then we can repeat that. We can break these up into pieces and so on. And we would be very happy if all of these pieces are in the list of things that we understand. And then we could multiply go together all those bounds and get a bound. And in some cases we'll get the sharp bound. And and then that's how we that's how they prove the theorem. Okay. Now to keep track of what happens everything is described in terms of the branching function. And for people's intuition, it has been very helpful to draw pictures of the graph of the branching function. Okay. do graph of the branching function. So we're going to suppose that E is uniform and then I'm going to draw a graph that encodes the information of how many row balls there are to cover E at every scale. So on this axis I want to put row and what I'm going to put is log delta of row. So it's going to be a number between zero and one. And now on this axis I want to understand the covering number row. And I what I'm going to put here is the logarithm in the base 1 / delta of this covering number. Okay. Um so uh if e delta were a delta to the minus t then when you plug in one here that corresponds to the scale delta. So this is delta to the minus t. So this logarithm would be t have this. So I'm going to call this variable t. U I'm going to call this variable x and this is f ofx. f is the So if e of e delta is delta to the minus t it means f of 1 equals t. If e is a deltat t set then it means that f ofx is bigger than t * x. So here's the straight line with slope t and I'll put this in blue. f ofx is bigger than t * x. Okay, there are many things that we could draw that do that be like that. Okay, so these pictures always start at one because when x is one, it means we're talking about the scale row equals 1. And this is a subset of the unit ball. So that's the covering number at scale one is one. So it always starts there. any questions or comments about the about these setting this up as a graph? Okay, so now what do we know about this function f? Um so f is monotonically increasing. Why? Um as we go this way, row is getting smaller and the row covering number is only going to get bigger. but it doesn't increase too quickly. Um, so f ofx f(x) plus delta x is less than or equal to f ofx + 2 delta x. So f is two vectors. Uh why? Well, if we have a a row ball and then we decrease row, we can always cover that with a certain number of rota balls. So B row is covered by row tilda row over. So if row tilda is less than row then B row is covered by row over row tilda squared row tilda and we may or may not need all of them but the most we could need is all of them and that would correspond to equality here. So f is two lips. >> Yeah. >> So the two comes from the dimension. >> Two comes from the dimension. This two is this two which comes from the dimension. Yeah. Okay. That's right. So let me say E is uniform. E is contained in the unit ball and E is in two dimensions. And if you change this two to a D dimension, the only thing in this discussion that would change is that these twos would become D's. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, good. Okay. So, um to get a feel for this, I will draw a few pictures of um uh of the branching functions for cases that we have considered. Okay. So for the ad regular set before I draw it, picture in your mind's eye what does the branching function look like. It is a straight line. Okay. the well spaced example. So the wellspaced example looks like this. It's a straight line of slope 2 up to the height t and then it's a horizontal line. It's flatline after that. Okay. And now I can tell you what is the semi wellspace set. So here's what we do. So semi wellspace definition is now so t is going to be in between 2 minus s and s. That's good. That's the region we don't already understand. Um so e delta is going to be delta to the minus t. So that point there is going to be on our branching function. And then what I will do is I draw here a line with slope s and here a line with slope 2 minus s. By the way s is between zero and one. So 2 - s is the bigger one. And I extend these lines until they meet. They'll meet somewhere. Um, okay. And then the branching function f ofx has to lie above this stuff and it has to go there. That's the definition of semi well spaced. Um, okay. So, so Ren and Wong, they proved that in the semi-wwell spaced case the this theorem is true. Um and we won't do the whole proof but you know the proof is a variant on what we saw here where you combine in a clever way the forier method and the double counting method. And at a very high level you know this setup is sort of this slope 2 minus s is the slope where the forier method works and this slope s is the slope where the double counting method works. And so this picture turns out to be the situation where you can combine those two methods. Well, okay. All right. So now let's think about what happens when we do this multiscale argument. What happens to the branching functions? In other words, I start with this setup. I want to understand this guy and and it depends on the branching function of E delta. And I get these two new sort of smaller problems. What is the relationship between this branching function and these branching functions? Okay, the relationship is really u simple. So, so this is so f ofx itself this is the branching function of e delta and it looks like something okay could be anything and then we have this scale row. So over here is log delta of row. And if you think about this set e row, well it's just the branching function of e row is the same as the branching function of e delta except it just stops at row and we don't look at any smaller scales. so this here in orange is basically the branching function of row. And then then we look inside of this ball and we look at all of the start at the scale row and then we look at all of the smaller scales of E. So um this thing here is um let me say this describes f. This is basically the branching function of EB. Okay. Okay. Great. So so what's the situation? we begin with an arbitrary branching function that just obeys this condition. Uh yeah >> going back to the the uh multi scale or the simplicity second why why is it like the second one like RB TB but it's like the number of delta balls in the ball like how misunderstanding >> right right so this r of eBT is supposed to be counting the number of delta balls in in a segment like that. Okay. Now, why is it counting that? Who is EB? EB are the delta balls in the row ball in B and TB are I take the tubes um and I just take the part of the tube that is in the um that's in the ball be. >> Okay. Then then R E row R E R row that's the number of road balls in the road tube. Right. And the product is just delta tube. >> Right. Right. Right. So a t row is this blue tube and r of e row t row is the number of row balls in the blue tube. And then if we take an orange tube, it will go through this many of uh of the row balls. And we want to know how many delta balls are there in each of those bits. So now we have um some tubes at this tubes inside of B and points inside of B. And we blow that up and that's over here. Good. Okay. So here's something we might try. We start with E delta T delta. we don't know how to handle it. We look at the branching function. I can cut the branching function anywhere I like and produce two two branching functions and I can repeat that. And then I can take the different branching functions I get and hopefully I can put them into the list that I know how to handle um and then I'll multiply it together and I'll get an answer. Okay, so let me do a couple examples of this concatenation method and we'll see how it works. concatenation method. All right, so let me do the example where our graph consists of two lines. So it has a line of slope t1 up to somewhere. So here's log delta of row. Then it has a line at a different slope which let's say is smaller. So here's a slope t2 to the end. It's one. And let's say that this final height is t. Okay. So how are they related? So delta to the minus t is e delta which I can read off from my final branching function. That's the size of e row times the size of eB. number of row balls times number of delta balls per row ball. So that is row to the minus t1. So this is slope t1 time delta over row to the minus t2. Okay. So now let's see what happens. So r of e t bounded by r of e row t row r of ebt. Scenario one. Uh in this scenario one um t1 and t2 are both in this middle range where b dominates. So then this guy will give me um row to the s over 2 row to the minus t1 / 2 because this is option B b dominates and this guy here will give me delta over row to the s / 2 delta over row to the minus t2 / 2 because that's option B. This is not B as in ball. This is B as in A, blast and cruise. The three options. All right. When we multiply it out, something nice happens. What happens when we multiply these together? We get delta to the S over two. And what happens when we multiply those together? Okay, at first it looks like an unholy mess, but it's the same as this. And so it's delta to the minus t / 2, which is b, which is what we were hoping for. This is a smiley face. But let me mention another scenario. Scenario two, maybe t1 is bigger than 2 minus s and maybe t2 is smaller than s. So maybe this first one is really quite steep and then the second one is quite shallow. Okay. Well, now this first one, when I evaluate this, I'm in the C domain, I get row to the 1 - t1. And when I evaluate this, because this t2 is less than s, I'm in the a domain, which is one. And that's not what I'm hoping for. That's actually much bigger than my goal. >> So actually let me add to scenario two. But T is in the middle. T is a sort of average of T1 and T2. T1 is bigger. That is quite big. T2 is quite small. But this average is going to be in the middle. Since T is in the middle, this is the goal. How does this compare to the goal? Not so obvious, but it's much actually much bigger than the goal. What went wrong? Remember that at each step when I bounded R, my theorem bounds R by a maximum of three things. Maximum of A, B, and C. So this C is way bigger than B in this regime. And this A is way bigger than B in this regime. and B times B would be my goal. So this is way too big. So it doesn't work. Okay. So uh lesson that we learned here is that we want to break up f into pieces so that okay I'll say it in words. So first of all we'd like to be able to analyze each piece. So we want each piece to be on the list of things we understand. So if you don't have a sharp bound for the piece, there's no way you're going to have a sharp bound for the whole thing. But also, we're not happy with just any of these. We really want them all to be in case B. So So we So um right um so we really want each piece is either uh ad regular with t of that piece in our middle range in the b range or semi-well spaced. Okay. Um so the very last idea is that indeed you can do this. You can start with an arbitrary uh branching function and then you can break it up into pieces where each piece is sort of like this. Uh I'll write it down in a sec and draw an example. Um probably the most important idea behind this is the rodamoker theorem. So the rader theorem says that a differentiable function ellipse function is differentiable almost everywhere and so this function f we don't know a lot about it but it we did see that it's a lipshits function and so it's differentiable almost everywhere. So we that means that we can cut up our interval into little intervals where maybe you have to throw out a tiny bit but on almost every little interval it's approximately a constant slope example. So you can reduce everything just just by by rodmacher theorem you can reduce everything to the ad regular case and that's an indication ad regular case is really important. It's not just a special case. However, if you do that, we would not only have slopes in here, we would also have slopes that are too small and too large. So, we want everybody to be in case B. And that's why we need some extra stuff like the semi well spaced. Okay. So, I will write down this last thing. So the final lema if f is a function from 01 to r which is two lip shits and increasing then we can break up 01 as a disjoint union of some intervals maybe plus tiny leftover and then on each I either um F restricted to I either F is almost linear um with slope TI and TI is in our range. Ah okay I should say one other thing. So f let's say f of one is t and t is in our range. Uh oh yeah and yeah and we should sorry we should have f ofx is bigger than tx. So this is our setup. We have a delta t set branching function. Okay so either it's almost linear and it slope is in the desired range or on i f is semi well spaced. Okay. Um it's not so difficult to prove once you think to try to prove it. And I'm just going to illustrate it with an an example. So I suppose f looks like this. And so the slope is increasing for a while. I guess it needs to start bigger than t. It's a bit tricky to draw this picture here. Hold. So it needs to stay above this dotted line, right? Okay. So it's going to start tangent to the line, which is okay. The slope increases for a while, has a maximum slope and the slope decreases and it goes like that. And as this slope increases, there is a key moment where the slope gets too big. Over here, the slope is 2 minus s. And maybe at the end the slope is too small, slope is less than s. Okay, so what should we do? Well, um, this whole thing here, this whole thing is semi well spaced. And at the beginning, we can take very short intervals. So, we'll have this guy and this guy and this guy. And these blue guys are um almost they're short, so it's almost linear. And the slope is not yet bigger than 2 - s. So the slope ti is less than 2 - s bigger than s. Okay, this is not a proof but you know there are not that many ways this function could look and if you draw like five of them you can convince yourself that if you want you can prove. Okay. Um so to summarize um this picture, this fact is very powerful because it lets us break up our original problem into smaller problems. And the smaller problems in terms of the branching functions of the smaller problems are just little pieces of the branching function of the bigger problem. And when you do that there um uh what originally looked like we just had a few special cases. Now we can take any combination of those few special cases and that turns out to be a lot and even to be everything. So that that that's the that's the last idea of the proof. The proof how to put the pieces together. And so these pieces were were not just special cases. They they they are really the fundamental building blocks of the whole story. Um and it's also is striking to me that this multiscale argument. It was really crucial in both the ad regular case and the notad regular case. In the ad regular case, these problems were all the same. And then seeing that sameness at all these different situations, it gave us some some extra rigidity and structure. In the not 80 regular case by definition these problems are different and that means that gives us a whole menu of problems to choose from and then we can sort of look through this menu and try to find the things that we understand. Okay, cool. Okay, so that was an outline of projection theory. Uh thank you for coming with me on this on this outline. It's been nice talking with you all and uh yeah, let's stop the class there.