So today we're continue our discussion of chapter 23. Remember we're talking about how taxes affect behavior. We talked about savings and labor supply and now we're talking about risktaking. And now we'll turn to taxes on wealth. This is relevant for a particular reason which is in the next few decades the US will go undergo the greatest transfer of wealth in our nation's history. Currently the baby boomers your parents are sitting on and your parents and their parents are sitting on about $84 trillion in assets that they are going to leave to their uh descendants. That amounts to about 81% of all the wealth in America will be transferred over the coming decades uh to future generations hopefully yourselves. Um and uh this raises the important issue of should that be a taxable event and how should it be taxed this massive transfer of assets how should that uh be taxed now in the US we have a system what's called transfer taxes and they come in two forms [snorts] the first form is is the gift tax well let me start the first one is the estate tax the way the estate tax works is when you die you the money you leave behind they gets transferred to descendants gets taxed but only above $12 million for a couple. Okay. So basically uh so basically for the first $12 million you leave it does not get taxed. Once you're leaving above $12 million is then a marginal tax rate above 12 12 million with rates that rise from 18 to 40%. Okay. So this tax um uh this is what happens when you die. Now along the way you could say well then you could just say look well that's easy. I could just transfer all the money to my kid the day before I die. They don't pay that tax. Well the government wised up to that. And we als we have what's called a gift tax which is gift tax exemption which basically at any year you can give it says 15,000 in the textbooks not up to 18,000. You can give $18,000 a year to any person and that is taxfree to them and it could be deducted from your estate. So let's say I'm going to die with uh the exemption is 11.6 million. Say I'm die with 11.6 million plus 20 plus $20,000 plus $18,000. The year before I die, I can give that $18,000 to my kid and then I will have no estate tax when I die because that money will be out. Here's our guy who likes to go ahead. It's actually better than that. It's 18K per person per person you give to. So if you're a if you're a married couple with three kids and six grandkids, each of you can give away nine 18ks. [snorts] So you can as a couple give away 18 181 18ks. Okay? Because you can give it to each your children and each your grandchildren. So basically, but and you can do that without but anything you give above that they're going to subtract from your 11.6. So if you give away a 100,000 they'll say great the first 18k is tax exempt but the remaining 82 we're going to now say when you die you don't get 11.6 you get 11.518 as your exemption. So basically it's an integrated set together these make what we call an integrated set of transfer taxes which you can transfer while you're alive or when you're dead. Ultimately, the bottom line is 11 point at least 11.6 million of those transfers are taxexempt. More than that is taxexempt if you do it while you're alive up to these limits. Striking fact, there's incredibly little use of trans of gifts even among people who eventually face the estate tax. People massively underuse the ability to give gifts to your kids along the way uh relative to estate tax. Interesting theories is why the best theory is that people just sort of don't trust their kids. either [snorts] don't trust them, they don't give them the money, or they don't trust them because they're afraid they'll give it away and the kids won't take care of them when they're old. But it is a fascinating fact that in fact there's a lot of money being left on the table in terms of excess estate taxes paid by people who could be giving money along the way and aren't. [snorts] Now, the US is not the only country that has um uh that has estate taxes. If you look at um table 232, this shows how wealth and transfers Yeah. I'm I'm gonna get I'm going to get to those. Um what around the world there's also transfer taxes. You can see that um on average in the OECD 0.3% of revenue is raised from transfer taxes. Uh in the United States is 0.5% of revenue. So about one in every $20 the government raises from transfer taxes. Okay. Some other countries also have wealth taxes. This is different. This is not a tax on the transfer of wealth. It is literally a tax every year on your level of wealth. And we'll come back to that. That's something been proposed in the US. That'd be very different than we discussed so far. Everything we discussed so far is taxes on flows, your flow of labor income, your flow of savings, your flow of transfers. This is literally a tax on a stock. As you can see, not many countries do that. Switzerland does it the most. Four. Actually, one in every $20 they raise. I should have said one in every $200 when I said half%. One $200. One in every $20 Switzerland raises um is uh is from the wealth tax. Let me correct my previous statement. One in every $200 the US raises is from the wealth tax. One in every $20 Switzerland raises is from is from the estate tax. One in every $20 Switzerland raises from their wealth tax. Put it all together and the US is sort of somewhat below average. The average OEC country raises about almost8% of their revenues from wealth and transfer taxes. The US it's 0.5. Okay. So this is not unique to the US. So why do countries have these? Let's focus on the transfer tax part. We'll come back to the wealth tax part later. Let's focus on the transfer tax part. Why do countries have these transfer taxes? Well, there's basically one most important argument, which is this is the single most progressive tax that exists known to mankind. I would argue. Okay. So in the US in 2020 0.1% of deedants paid the estate tax 0.1%. So that means um we raise 0.5% of our entire federal revenues of 0.1% of people who die. Okay, that's pretty amazing. Um the average uh estate tax rate was about 17%. So on average 0.1% of people are paying about 17% of their estates to the government. Um so for example if just as a simple example of the importance of this if in 2009 we exempted 3.5 million from estate tax today it's 11.6 million. If we returned to 3.5 million, we would raise 27 billion more every single year. And in doing so, we would only apply it would only go from applying to uh it would it would only apply to um yeah. So going further, if we exempt it to if we lowered it to 1 million, we could raise almost 800 billion over the next decade. So there's a lot of money at stake here in this exemption. So that's the main argument that we tax wealth that we might tax transfers. Another argument is sort of a political argument which is that basically political systems fail when there's more of a concentration of power in the hands of particularly interested parties and that the the transfer tax is a way to reduce the concentration of wealth in the US. That rich families don't always stay rich but that you need to become rich through hard work. and then in particular um we don't want sort of an aristocracy of the rich that continually stay rich just because they made a lot of money in the past. So that's sort of the arguments for the estate tax largely sort of progressivity/political argument. There are a number of arguments however against the estate tax and it's very controversial. One of our most controversial taxes. One of the arguments against it. The first tax is that it's just darn cruel that someone just died. you can go to the family say, "Hey, sorry your dad died, but write us a check. That seems kind of unfair." Now, that argument is um uh that is really uh not I think a particularly compelling argument in the sense that it's sort of the right time to do it in the sense that when you die, that's when we get your assets together and figure out what you owe. So, we're going to tax people on their wealth or anything approximating their wealth. That's the time to do it. Uh so it's also true that like taxes in general, it's hard to say why taxing a rich guy when he died is more cruel than taxing uh a low-inccome worker when they go to buy hamburgers uh with a sales tax. It's not clear what how how that's more cruel. So that's kind of a silly argument. Um there is a more rigorous argument which is that the estate tax is essentially double taxation. The idea is you pay taxes your whole life, you die, and then you're going to pay tax again on what you saved. And that seems a bit unfair. Okay? In particular, more than unfair, it might actually deter people from saving because if you're going to save and then just pay back to the government, why save? And that's a, as we talked about, we're concerned about low levels of savings in America. So, that's a particular uh concern. Now, there are three problems with this argument. argument has Yeah. >> Well, no. No. Well, hold on. If we care, there's two different reasons we care about saving. There's making sure people can smooth their consumption through shocks and retire on. And then there's the aggra capital stock. For the aggra capital stock, those exactly are the people we care about because they do most of the savings. The rich do most of the savings. Exactly are the people we care about. So now there's sort of three counter-arguments. The first is I always go back to this old saw which is given income given income and substitution effects. We don't know which way this goes. We don't know if taxing estates leads to smaller estates or bigger estates. If your goal is to leave a fixed amount of money to your kids, then estate taxes will lead to bigger estates. So it's not clear which way it goes. That's argument one. Argument two is that much like the death tax is cruel, double taxation is cruel. It's also a silly argument. We all face double taxation every day when we buy anything that pays a sales tax. Okay, we paid taxes on our wages. Now we pay tax on our sales. Why should we get rid of the double taxation of incredibly rich people but leave it in place for the rest of us through sales taxation? So that seems kind of a weak argument. Um and then finally there's a there's an important conceptual point this misses which is if you remember what I talked about the tax favoritism towards capital gains. I mentioned you could exempt $500,000 of your house. I mentioned the rates lower. I also quickly mentioned something called the step up in basis at death which is that when you die the basis at which you sell assets gets raised to value when you die. So once again remember the example. If I have a painting I bought for $10 now worth a million. If I sell it the day before I die I pay capital gains on the million minus 10. If I leave it to my kid and he sells the next day they pay no capital gains because the basis is raised to a million. What does that mean? That means capital gains are never taxed absent the estate tax. So the argument of double taxation is actually wrong. For capital gains, it's single taxation. Absent the estate tax with this step up. Capital gains would never face taxation if you passed on to your kids. So in some sense, it's not just it's double taxation in some sense, but it's also for capital gains single taxation. So that's another weakness to this argument. Nonetheless, it's it's a legit argument theoretically. Another another argument is that this is just an enormously complicated tax to administer. It's just hard to figure out people's assets. Hard to add it all together to put it all together. Um uh and also you're basically saying to people, hey, uh grandpa died. He's got this farm worth $20 million. You kids have to pay us $2 million. And the kids are like, we can't pay that with selling the farm. You're going to force me to sell the farm. This is a common argument against these kind of wealth taxes is people just can't afford at that time. Now, it turns out and that is the number one argument against state taxes. It's all about the farmers, man. If you look at people opposed state taxes or what they call the death tax, okay, it's all about these poor farmers. Well, it turns out that um uh in 2013 when the exemption was half of what it is today, um 80 farms and small businesses paid the estate tax. 80. Okay. This is uh once again another sort of red herring that's used to oppose what's very progressive taxation. The truth is we also have a system where when they state tax is owed you can pay it back over 17 years. So you can essentially take a loan out against your farm to pay it back. So it's not once again not a super compelling argument. But the final argument I think is probably the most compelling and the most interesting which is that basically the estate tax is a tax on the unprepared or to be less charitable a tax on the stupid which is that basically um with good tax planning you can avoid a lot of the estate tax. Okay. So for example if you give away those gifts every year you can avoid the estate tax. Second of all you can set up what's called trust. This was Stephen's earlier question. You can set up a trust where basically what that means you can put away money. Let's say you want to leave money to your kids, but you don't want to give like your six-year-old kid $18,000. You put it in a trust and then you can leave money to all your deedants. In fact, anyone you know, doesn't have to be a seed. You can leave money to anyone you know into this trust and they can't get it till they're older. So, you can deal with your desire for control and desire to avoid taxes in that way. Um, moreover, it's even worse than that. If you leave stock in a trust, the entire appreciation is taxfree. So when I when if I put in a stock in a trust and it goes through the roof. So uh it goes to the roof, then basically that your kid the kids get that all taxree. So basically there's a lot of argument that essentially um these loopholes mean that it's really sort of unfair. It's sort of unfair to have a tax where the more sophisticated people can basically largely avoid it and the less sophisticated can't. Um, so, um, I think that's a legitimate point. I mean, there's a there's a really interesting philosophical question about do we want policies in America that, think about the extreme that aren't enforceable? Probably not because it deters faith in government and doesn't do any good. So, if you literally thought about a law which was annoying and totally avoidable, that's probably a very bad law. Okay. So, basically, the question is the estate tax cross that line. I would argue not. I would argue, yeah, there's some there's some avoidance, but at the end of the day, it does raise about $20 billion a year. That's a lot of money raised off the top 0.1% of richest families every year, pay families who die every year. So, I would argue that while that's a legitimate argument, it's hard to say it's large enough to offset $20 billion a year in revenue, but it is is legitimate argument. Yeah. >> It's just the way trust work. Anything I put in a trust then is just if I'm putting stock in a trust and then it grows. It's the same with, by the way, you might have, you were too young when Mitt Romney ran for president in 2012. It turned out he had like $5 million in his or $50 million in his IRA. We might say with a limit of 6,000 a year. How can $50 million? Because he put stock in and then all grew. Now the IRA, of course, when he takes that, it'll be taxed. With the with the trust, it won't be taxed. So, >> well, you can't make yourself the only beneficiary. It's someone else that's a beneficiary and there has to be an objective trustee. There's various hurdles you have to you have to go through. Um, so that's sort of the estate tax debate, which I think is largely pretty I'm being pretty calm. Usually, I get more I rate about this. It's pretty straightforward that we should have higher estate taxes. That's a very progressive way to raise revenue. It's hard to argue there's a lot of negative effects of it. Unfortunately, what's interesting is the taxes that seem to make the people most upset are taxes on stocks, not flows. So, we'll talk later about the property tax on homes. That tax makes people really, really upset because the theory is, wait a second, I've just got this asset, it's sitting there, and you want to tax me on it. That seems unfair. When I earn income, I see I'm making something. You just want to tax me on that? That seems unfair. And that leads us to the debate over wealth taxation. So, as you know, in the last in the 2020 presidential election, a big topic of conversation is wealth taxation. Elizabeth Warren made a lot of news by proposing a wealth tax. She proposed a wealth tax of um 2% on people with assets over $50 million. Okay? So, that's only the richest 0.06% of families. Every year, her proposal is every year, the richest 0.06% of families would pay a tax of 2% on the amount they have above 50 million. That tax would raise $3 trillion over a decade just to speak to the wealth inequality in America. So think about that. You're just taking the point richest. 06% of people make it to pay 2% of the amount they have about 50 million and that would raise three trillion almost $3 trillion over a decade. That problem with that is that basically there were two problems. One is that basically it would be uninforceable. That wealth is incredibly hard to measure. forms of wealth incredible to measure and would shift their wealth. Basically, there's easy parts to measure wealth which is stocks. There's hardest parts of wealth to measure like paintings and privately held businesses and that basically would be incredibly hard to enforce this and once again it would sort of cross that boundary of kind of the juice not being worth the squeeze that the effort we'd have to do to enforce this and the uproar would cause not be worth the revenues we'd raise. Um and so basically um the question is does it raise revenue? And actually there's now large literature that I've contributed to on wealth taxes in other countries. I studied Switzerland which has the world's largest wealth tax. And the evidence is that basically wealth taxes do raise money in the sense that we can't avoid them but people are still pretty good at avoiding them. In other words, if you think about the laughter curve, we're still on the right side of the ler curve. They do raise money, but we're still pretty we're almost at the top uh in the sense that people are pretty good at avoiding them. So basically um wealth taxes would raise raised nearly the three trillion Elizabeth Warren estimated it wouldn't have raised nearly that much but even at half that let's say she was wrong and it would raise half as much one and a half trillion over decades a lot of money to raise off the 006 richest 106% richest families in America. So there's a lot of interesting argument to think about. There's also legally apparently it's not clear it's constitutional. That's a whole separate issue I'm not prepared to weigh in on. Um but basically uh the wealth tax is certainly something that will not go away. Um uh the um uh the um you know according to the latest estimates uh 20% of households in uh I'm sorry 20% of all wealth in America. America is a 360 million person country. 20% of all the wealth is held by 250,000 people hold 20% of the wealth. And yet their effective tax rates are lower than the average tax rate in America. So the 250,000 people who hold 20% of all the wealth in America because of things like capital gains exemptions, step up in bases of death out of the way to void estate taxation, they actually pay less in tax than say I do as a professor or or a middle class worker would pay. So basically this debate is not going to go away. Yeah. >> Uh great question. When this is measured, they measure as their effective wealth flow. Their income is very low because they just are building up this huge stock of wealth. So what they say is when these calculations are done is they say, "Look, take your wealth effectively. What's your flow on that?" We can't measure it because all privately held businesses. We can measure what's the effective flow and then we can say how much are you paying in tax compared to that effective flow? And the answer is it's very low >> the appreciation of those assets. So in other words, imagine that your capital gains were taxed on acrruel. So the acrruel of your wealth even if it's not realized we're going to measure how much you pay in tax rel it's it's tiny. It's tiny and measured in that basis. Yeah. This is you know in some sense the vicious cycle of wealth concentration which is that wealth gets very concentrated at least to political power which makes it harder to take on issues which makes it harder to take on those progressivity issues and that is a concern um uh you know that you know it it it's a large it's a large concern I think um we have in the past raised taxes on the wealthy most notably to fund the affordable care act we put in a large new tax on the highest income Americans um that wasn't that long ago. Uh but nonetheless, I believe it's it's it's a challenge uh that faces us and the question is sort of how we're going to deal as society with one where increasing shares of wealth are concentrating fewer people who are paying lower tax rates on that. So um the last thing I want to talk in chapter 23 is the other form of wealth tax we have is property taxation largely on houses. So we also tax we don't just we don't tax currently there's no tax really on a stock because we don't have a wealth tax other than the property taxes. Property taxes largely go to states and localities mostly localities. They're the majority of the tax revenue earned by localities and they're you know the vast majority is on housing. Now how do property taxes and houses work? Let's be clear. It's a tax on the assessed value of the house. What that means is there's some tax assessor who comes by and says based on all the characteristics of your house, this is what your house is worth and we will tax you based on that assessment. However, that is um as much artist science in many cases and it can lead to a lot of variation. So for example, if you take the assessment ratio in if you take the assessed value of houses in Colombia, South Carolina to their market value, it'S4%. So assessive assess the vast value at 4% of the market value because they haven't done it forever and they tend to maybe go too low. Whereas um if you look at uh if you look at um Providence Rhode Island's 100%. Nationwide it's about A-50% 57% ratio of assessment of property value. So basically it's uh that's sort of one one challenge. Um uh and in particularly um uh there's uh there's a racial imbalance component of this which is quite interesting actually. Research found that the assessment rate is higher in minority neighborhoods because he heavily minority neighborhoods tend to have lower property values and the assessors don't account for that. So actually assessment ratios are higher facing minorities which is quite interesting. Um so this is a big issue. Um there's a lot in the book on this. We're, you know, it's getting toward the end of the semester, so I'm just going to focus on two issues. The first issue is um property tax incentives to businesses. Not only individuals pay property taxes, but businesses pay property taxes. Okay? And the big debate in state and local public finance is using property tax breaks to try to track businesses. Okay? Um this is a common uh tactic. Indeed, more than um about $50 billion every year is given away in for in tax breaks to companies by localities to try to get them to move there. So for example, uh Foxcom is a maker of flat screen TVs and other things. Um they were considering a new plant in January 2017 in the US. There were bids put in um and eventually um Foxcon agreed to set up a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin in return for about five$5 billion in tax breaks. The evidence was that um uh the state itself estimated that even if Foxcon had the most ambitious estimates of their proposal, it would take till 2043 for the state to recoup the investment it made. And I think Foxcon in the end has backed out of it. I haven't updated this but this is not uncommon uh that state uses tax breaks. Now this raises two interesting questions. The first and in some it's less important to know a specific thing than it helps you think about tax breaks. The first question is this a good idea for Wisconsin? Okay. What's going to determine what two factors will determine whether whether it's a good idea for Wisconsin to give a tax break to a business to move there? What are the two things that determine that? I give credit for either one. What are two things that determine whether it makes sense for Wisconsin to give a tax break for a company to move there? Yeah. >> Well, it'll be basically, let's call it the social value for the state. You could define it just as tax revenue or you can define it as if you think you care about your residents having jobs. It could be more than just tax revenue, but one factor is the social value delivered by that plant being in Wisconsin. That's one part of the equation. What's the other part? >> Nope. That's part of the social that'll be part of your social value calculation. What's the other thing? Yeah, >> well the opportunity cost would be in the social cost. So social cost be net of opportunity cost. But the cost relates to the answer I'm looking for which is what determines the effectiveness of tax breaks. You guys know this. Yeah. The elasticity of movement. To what extent am I going to be are firms actually going to move? So let's offer a big tax break. Remember, anytime I give a tax break, two things are happening. I'm giving away money to companies that would have been there anyway. From Wisconsin's perspective, that's a total waste. That's just costing the opportunity to cost that money. And I'm inducing firms to move there. So Wisconsin's perspective, it's a it's a product of how elastic our movement decision times how valuable is it from the move into Wisconsin, accounting for government costs, accounting for environmental, etc. Okay, it's the product of those two. Very important to keep in mind. The best estimates are roughly speaking it's about worth it. That basically every if you that basically there are large social benefits in particular those large positive externalities for manufacturing plants to move to a place. When manufacturing plants move to a place and increase the productivity of everyone around them. So there are large spillover benefits getting a plant to move there. However, the elasticity is not is much less than one. as well. When you multiply the two together, you get that roughly speaking from Wisconsin's perspective, it's roughly a break even. Depends how you do the social benefits, but maybe it's a little good, a little bad, but basically essentially two things counteract each other. Okay, people understand that? Yeah. >> The elasticity of the business decision to move to Wisconsin to somewhere else. >> Because I'm paying to get them moved. I'm going to say to Foxcon, give you five five billion in tax breaks. To what extent does that cause Foxcon to move to Wisconsin? >> That's the key thing. How's that elasticity measured? You measure it. So you basically look at um when states give tax breaks, you look at where firms locate. So essentially you do what's called a spatial equilibrium model where essentially you look at when a firm puts up to bid, which tax breaks each place give and where does it end up as a function as relative tax breaks. That make sense? Okay. Now here's the next question. We've just done Wisconsin analysis from the US's perspective. How do we think about this is a good deal or not? >> Yeah. >> US, >> it's definitionally a bad deal because Wisconsin, if Wisconsin and New Mexico are fighting. Yes, it's true. They may be fighting against Taiwan. But the extra Wisconsin pays over New Mexico is pure waste for national because we don't care if it's a New Mexico or Wisconsin as a nation. So it's unambiguously a bad idea from a national respect to have these states competing. Okay? It may be or may not be a good idea for the states probably roughly neutral, but it's unously bad for the country because the benefits where the country's happy regardless of where the plan locates. Once again, I care less about the example and more about how you think about tax breaks. You are going to read, especially in this new administration, you're going to read tax breaks every day in the newspaper. Okay? And you always want to think about them this way. think about the marginal inmarket effects of those tax breaks. Okay, now that's the first thing I want to cover. The second thing I want to cover is kind of interesting, which is that remember what's the ultimate inelastic factor? It's land, right? Economists love taxing land because there's no dead weight loss. And the truth is land owners generally tend to be richer than non-land owners. So, it seems like a great tax. It's fairly progressive and no dead weight loss. The problem is we don't tax land, we tax homes on that land and homes are elastic. So the problem is tax property taxes are distortionary because they don't tax the value of the land, they tax the value of the whole property which includes the house. So a famous idea dating the philosopher Henry George is why not just have a land tax? Why not just tax the land itself? Indeed, this there's some success stories of this approach. Um Pittsburgh um in the 1940s and 1950s had a bunch of sort of properties that were sitting on the they had a bunch they had a bunch of um properties that were assessed as fairly high value but were on land that was basically not that valuable. Pittsburgh said we're just going to assess the land. People were like wow it's really cheap to move to Pittsburgh. property tax are low they move there and didn't have this distortionary effect. So this is an idea that's very appealing sort of Georgian taxation of just tax the land. The problem is this is a great example of egg-headed economists and things that work well in theory not in practice which turn it's incredibly hard to value land because we don't sell land we sell the land plus the house. So the problem is you can imagine it's hard enough to assess what a house is worth. Okay. To assess the value of just the land part of the house is incredibly hard. Just to give you an idea, I had a special mortgage for MIT that had to get paid off. I had people come assess my It's a fairly rare old property in Lexington. The I had two assessors. There was A-50% variance in what they said my house was worth. Okay. It's there's a lot of art here. Okay. Then you add on top of that, well, you got to tell me how much that's the land. It gets incredibly hard. So these land taxes never end up getting used. It's just an interesting theoretical concept that that's what you'd ideally like to do. Okay, so that's all I really want to say about property taxes. Uh, once again, like everything else in this course, there's millions of other fascinating aspects that we don't have time to cover. Okay, but I do want to have time since many of you have been going out in the business world when this is all over. I do want to have time to go carefully through chapter 24 and the taxation of corporate income. This is quite frankly perhaps the most important chapter we teach for the foreseeable future. this in the next chapter because of the giant debate over taxation that's about to happen. Uh because in 2017 we saw the largest corporate tax reduction probably in our nation's history in terms of dollars. The tax the tax job the the what was the TCGA the tax cuts and jobs act. You got to love the names of these laws of 2017. Um uh it was the largest overhaul in corporate taxation in 30 years. Um and part of the reason was legit which is the US corporate tax rate is well out of line with other countries with which you compete for countries. So the average country which would developed country which would compete had a corporate tax rate of 24%. We had a corporate tax rate of 35%. And the view was that was the international competition etc. And so uh there was a large corporate tax cut down from 35% to 21%. Uh of of the corporate tax rate. So what I want to talk about is why did this why do we have corporate taxes? How do they work? And how do we think about evaluating a corporate tax cut? >> Yeah. >> I I I don't know. It's a good question. I mean one fascinating thing about you know we people always about high tax Europe but in fact Europe in general has higher labor taxes and lower capital taxes in the US which is interesting. you think it's progressive country but in fact actually capital tax in Europe are often quite much quite lower than the US um so let's talk about what are corporations what are corporations corporations are essentially um their modes of production but you can produce things in corporations or non-corporate entities there's two key sectors there's the non-corporate sector that' be things like individuals so individuals providing services or partnerships providing services then there's a corporate sector And the big difference in the corporate sector and and uh and a non-corporate sector is limited liability. Limited liability means once I incorporate, I am only liable for the value of that corporation. So if I'm running my company and it's not it's a non non-incorporated company, I do something bad, they can sue me for all my personal wealth. Once I've incorporated, I'm only liable for the value of that company itself. Okay? So that's a big plus. As you can imagine, the fundamental feature of corporations is a separation between ownership and control. The fundamental feature do you have a question? The fundamental feature is a separation between ownership and control. That the people who own the firm, who own the stock in the firm, may not be the people who actually run the firm. Okay. Now, this leads to a common problem that we call the agency problem. you may have learned about in other classes we talked about a little bit in 1401 which is the problem of whenever you which is a misalignment in incentives between the owners and managers of a company. So the example I use in 1401 that I like is let's say I'm um I'm I'm a CEO of some company. I'm managing it uh and there's um I managed this company and the company's pretty big but not really big enough to have to have it to justify my own corporate jet but all my friends have corporate jets and I'm really jealous like I I feel I'm like the leftout kid because they have their corporate jets. So I want a corporate jet but I can't really justify it. So what do I do? I well in other is not profit maximizing. So if I was the owner, I wouldn't have a corporate jet. But I'm not the owner. I'm the manager. So what I do, I make a fancy PowerPoint slide and I cook the numbers. So it looks like the money will save company will save money if I have a corporate jet. I present it to the owners. They're like, "Well, that sounds good to me." And they get me a corporate jet and the company makes less money. Okay, that is a classic example sort of a misalignment between managers who want to lead good lives and want the company to do well, but basically fundamentally they're about themselves and the owners who are just about the profitability of the company. And that kind of um that can lead to things like outrageous CEO compensation uh and uh uh and and and other and other uh other issues. Okay, so that's what a corporation is. How are they financed? Well, let's look at figure figure 241 talks about how firms finance investments. How do firms finance their investments? Well, let's say a firm wants to finance an investment. It needs money. It wants to invest money, needs money. What does it do? Well, it can raise. It can use its retained earnings. It can say, "I've got a bunch of money around." That's the bottom first arrow. We're going to ignore that for now. Let's say it doesn't have enough retained earnings around. It needs to raise money. So, it can raise money in two ways. It can issue bonds or stocks. So, what's the difference? Bonds or what's called debt finance are literally loans where you agree to a fixed term of payment. You say, "I'll pay you back this interest rate for this period of time." Okay? And if I don't, I'm in default. Stocks are essentially a share of the company where the only promise you're giving is that these people owe a share of the company. You don't owe them any other money. You don't ever have to pay them anything. Just they own a share of the company. Now, when you own stock, why then why would people buy stock? Well, they can be rewarded in two ways. One is they can get dividends, which are periodic payments that companies make to their shareholders. And the other is they can acrue capital gains which is stock goes up in value I can sell it and make money. So that's the bit. We're going to come back to this but that's the sort of basic structure of firm financing. I lay this out now. We'll come back to it next time but I'll lay this out now to um to highlight the question of why do we have a corporate tax at all? Okay. Why do you have a corporate tax at all? Well, there's really in there's really two reasons. The first reason is that in fact the optimal tax is a pure profits tax. A pure profits tax is a terrific tax. Why is a pure profits tax a terrific tax? For a simple reason. Max pi gives the same answer as max 1 minus to * pi. Corporate taxes are not pure profit tax are not distortionary. Whatever I'm going to do to maximize my profits, I'm going to do to maximize one minus two times my profits. There's no distortion. So, a pure profit tax is a great tax. You're taxing profits, which are generally held by the wealthy, and you're not distorting behavior because whatever they did to make as much money as possible, they're still going to do it afterwards. So, that's one argument for corporate taxes. The problem with this argument is we don't measure pure profits. We measure reported profits, which go through a series of exercises. We'll discuss some but are an incredibly complicated and detailed concept which do involve choices that you can change. You will distort your behavior under the form of a when there's taxation and we'll talk about how that happens. So unfortunately we don't have a pure profit tax. We don't tax economic profits. We tax accounting profits and accounting profits are very different than economic profits. And so as a result taxes can be distortionary. So that's you know this sort of this pure argument doesn't quite hold. The second argument that's more interesting is that basically is the inside buildup argument we talked about we talked about savings incentives which is companies can always retain their earnings. I can make money and hold on to it and absent a corporate tax if I never pay it out I never get taxed on it. So let's say I have a company that makes money and for 100 years just sits on it. That means a hundred years they're not paying taxes on what they've earned. By the time they do the the present value is essentially zero. You essentially have allowed them to escape taxation. So the idea of a corporate tax is sort of like the idea of why we'd like an acrruel tax on capital gains. That basically we want to capture along the way what they're making. Unlike with capital gains, we actually have a measure of what they're making, which is their profits. So while it would be hard to have an acrruel tax for capital gains, it's not hard to have a corporate tax. We just tax their profits. And that way they don't just infinitely build up a this stock of assets. So how does the corporate tax work? Well, it's very simple. The corporate tax is the corporate tax revenue. Corporate tax revenue is equal to uh the tax rate to times revenues minus expenses times revenues minus expenses minus any tax credits. So let's talk about the three elements of this formula. Okay, the fir let's talk about revenues. That's easy. It's what the firm makes pretty some there's some controversy in measuring it but not a lot. A lot of the controversy in taxation comes there's not a lot there. The big controversy taxation is expenses which is what did the firm pay to make those revenues. Now this consists critically of three components. The first are your cash flow costs like the wages you pay. Those are pretty easy to measure. Okay. So cash flow costs are pretty easy to measure. The second is interest payments. we call an interest payment you make an expense and those are also pretty easy to measure. They're measured by financial you know when you have have a debt have a bond it's that's public what you're paying in interest. So cash flow is easy to measure and interest is easy to measure. The harder part to measure is what we call depreciation which is the fact that your capital assets are getting less valuable over time. And that is a economic loss to you that your capital assets are getting less valuable over time. It's an economic loss to you. Okay? When you hire a worker, when I hire Valerie for a year, I'm paying her a wage effectively renting Valerie for the year. But when I buy a building, I'm not renting it. I'm buying it. And that building gets crummyier over time and I got to fix it. That is a depreci that is a loss to me. Just renting the building. I just I would think about this as renting the building. I deduct from my taxes every year's rent. The fact I'm buying it doesn't mean it's suddenly no expense. The expense is the depreciation of value of that building over time. The problem is yeah. >> So let's talk about one the general concept. What is economic depreciation? Economic depreciation writ large is the drop in the value of the asset each year. So if I buy an asset for $100,000 and one year later I sell it for $90,000 without putting penny into it, then that is a $10,000 depreciation. That is a technically correct measure depreciation. is literally if we could measure the value of every good every year, depreciation would be the change in the value of the good from year to year. Okay, that's technically correct. The problem is we can't do that. Just like we can't tax applicants and acrruel, it's pretty hard to measure these things year-over-year. So, we do instead is we have engineering approximations to depreciation. We have what's called depreciation schedules. There's a monster book which for all class of all assets in America lists the rate at which we've estimated the depreciate and you can then take that off of your taxes. Now, how do you do that? Well, there's multiple ways to do it. The typical way would be um you would basically say look, so let's take a simple example. $100,000 building. It's gonna depreciate not 10% a year, but 100,000 a year because percents are tricky, right? Let's say it's going to depreciate 10,000 a year. Okay, it's a weird schedule, but just make the math easier. Then basically say every year you deduct $10,000 from your taxes. Okay, now that is one schedule. However, in sometimes the government want to incentivize people to invest and one way they do is by offering accelerated depreciation. How does accelerate depreciation work? It means you can depreciate faster than the estimated life. So we would say you can deduct $20,000 a year for five years. Why is that more valuable? Because the net present value, remember pushing taxes off is good. So by depreciating more upfront, you push taxes off. Okay? So the more you can depreciate up front, the more value is net present value. Think about think of depreciation as a gift from the government. If you're gonna think if someone's going to buy the asset anyway, come along. And by the way, here's a gift for you of depreciation allowance. Well, the sooner that depreciation allowance comes, the more valuable it is to me. Indeed, in the limit, you can allow what's called expensing. Expensing is you can literally deduct the entire cost of the purchase the year you purchase it. It's super appreciated depreciation where literally you don't you just literally it's deduction. That's called expensing investment. Okay. So the key thing is that basically the more rapidly you allow depreciation um the more valuable it is. Now the trick of course is these schedules are very hard to measure. In fact there's a really novel study because there's actually one market in which it's pretty easy to measure real depreciation which is the uh market for PCs because people are always selling PCs at different vintages all the time. So you can actually measure economic depreciation and this study economic depreciation of PCs found the interesting thing was that depreciation is exponential not linear. Every year you hold a PC it drops by 50% of its previous year's value. There's exponential depreciation every year's 50%. So um uh essentially by like the fifth year PCs are worthless. Now you might think gee my PC kind of it kind of holds up pretty well. Why? Why? Why is there 50% depreciation if your PC let's say you treat your PC pristine PC pristinely? Why is there 50% depreciation? Yeah. >> Better technology. >> Because better technologies coming along at low prices. So essentially you essentially you're one year later you can get a much better PC for the same price. Therefore effectively your PC's depreciated. That's the key thing. It's not just physical breakdown, it's the value. So you get a much better PC for the same price. Your PC is essentially worth less. There's a second issue which is new software comes along and won't run on your old PC which appreciates it further. So it's not physically breaking down. It's sort of software- wise breaking down because it can't run all the new software that's coming along. >> Yeah. >> So if I buy the first year as >> No, no, it depends on the appreciation schedule. But if the depreciation schedule was this one, it's 50% exponential. We'd say if you buy a $1,000 PC at the beginning of the year, you can deduct 500 this year, 250 next year, 125 the year after, etc. You get to deduct the value of the depreciation. You don't get only if there's expensing will you deduct the whole thing this year. You deduct the depreciation which is 50% of the previous year's value. >> Yeah. Why would the government allow for >> the main reason allow for expensing is to encourage investment is basically a as an investment encouragement and we'll we'll come back to why that might make sense later actually. >> Well, wages are a cash flow. So wages are you just rent everything you pay every year just gets deducted. The thing is investments are different. You don't deduct the investment expense because you deduct you depreciate the investment. Okay. Now with the corporate tax I want to talk about two things. The first is incidence and we've sort of covered this already which is kind of what is the incidence of the corporate tax. Well that depends on the relative elasticities of the factors that are subject to that corporate tax. Go back to chapter 19. When I a corporation is not a thing. A corporation is an elomeration of factors. Think of them as labor and capital. So the corporate tax is a tax on those two factors. Well, who will bear that tax depends on what's most elastic and inelastic, remember? Well, labor. If you think about a tax on the US corporate sector, labor is going to be pretty inelastic. Not perfectly inelastic because remember, we also produce things in America through a non-corporate sector. So, there is some potential for elasticity. I can move to the non-corporate sector, which is, you know, just self-employment and things like that. So, but it'd be pretty inelastic. Okay. So we think in the short run most of a corporate tax will be born by will be born by uh um will be born by laborers. On the other hand, capital is super is super mobile. Uh um actually no, I'm getting this backwards. Hold on one second. Let me um let me back up. I got this backwards. Labor is somewhat inelastic because it can move across sectors. Capital in the short run is totally inelastic. You've already invested in the corporate sector. You've already made that investment, right? You've invested in GM, there's nothing you can do about that. It's inelastic. Labor is somewhat elastic. So, it'll be shared between capital and labor. Over time, we think that cap labor will not actually get more elastic over time. Maybe a little bit as people sort of reorganize production society towards the non-corporate sector. But capital will be very elastic over time. Over time, capital could easily flee. Okay. So over time we think of in the long run the incidence of corporate taxes could be a lot on workers not a lot on capital. However once we get to general liquid tax incident gets complicated because when that capital flees where does it go? It goes to the non-corporate sector. What happens when capital flees to the non-corporate sector? Supply of capital goes up. So the return to capital goes down. So actually the incidence of taxation is going to be on somewhat on capital it'll be on capital in particular capital the non capital overall capital will suffer and in particular this is a very important point when you tax corporations capitalists in the non-corporate sector suffer why because capital flees the corporate sector non-corporate sector more capital the non-corporate sector raises the lowers the rate of return to capital so through general tax innocence there's taxation on the non-corporate sector. Okay. Um so in the long run we think that the incidence of taxation will be shared to some extent by workers by corporate capital by non-corporate capital and we're not really sure in what proportions and that's why we love empirically. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Because basically think of it as self-employed people need to raise money to buy their equipment. Okay, right now if not self-employed people invest in self-employed not self-employed people then invest in those self-employed people. So I'm so in other words I'm a guy who loans money to dentists to build office buildings. Okay. And I can charge the dentist as high rate of interest because not many people want to loan money to dentists. Suddenly all this capital comes flooding in from the corporate sector like we'll loan you a lower rate of interest. That hurts me as the guy who loaned to dentists. So the capital in the non-corporate sector will see a fall in its rate of return through the increase in supply. Yeah. >> What about capital? >> Then there's then there's the other thing which is capital can flee to different countries. So basically in theory once again I said general limited citizens is tricky. In theory if you're a big enough country you could affect the worldwide rate of return to capital. Small country you would think that it should all just flee. Uh in practice it doesn't. In practice, capital is surprisingly sticky. So in practice, there's striking immobility of capital across countries. So almost everyone in every country in the world holds a much too big share of their portfolio in their home country. It's universal factor that investors in every country around the world almost always from an optimal portfolio theory hold too much of their capital in their home country. seems to make sense for America, >> but small countries. People in in you know in uh I don't know in Israel hold too much money in Israel. People in you know in Thailand hold too much money. Thailand's bigger hold too much money in Thailand. Um so basically capital is not as mobile internationally. Now there could be an optimality to this which is maybe my I know my investment opportunities better in my local country so there's an optimal reason to hold my capital there. So it's not necessarily a huge mystery but there's not as much international flows as you'd think. But the bottom line is it's a very complicated I mean your head's spinning at this point. That's the bottom line. It's very complicated. Workers are getting hit. Cap corporate capital is getting hit. It has to leave. Non-corporate capital's getting hit. Maybe international capital is getting hit. It's very complicated. What's the bottom? So that's why we have empirical economics. What's the bottom line? The bottom line is that the best estimates are that for every dollar in tax cuts about half gets born by capitalists and half gets born by workers. I would say that's sort of the best estimates. There's some there's some range. Certainly, it's not it's certainly not what most people assume, which is a corporate tax cut's just going to benefit capitalists. That's not true. A corporate tax cut will benefit workers. And that was a large selling point of the Trump tax cut that would raise wages through this kind of not not he didn't teach my model, but basically uh through this idea that corporations will benefit and they'll pay their workers more. And that's not a crazy theory. And in fact, the evidence is about A-50% incidence on workers. Okay. So what's the fairness effect? Well, it's a corporate tax cut is less fair than an individual tax cut which is borne all by workers. Okay. Because remember lace fly is fairly inelastic. So if you cut individual taxes, workers are going to benefit from from all that. Okay? But it's not as regressive as you might think because some of it is borne by workers. Okay. Now that's the equity part. What about the efficiency part? Remember, we don't have a pure profits tax. As a result, if we tax corporations, it will impact their economic decisions. And now we come to maybe what is the hardest model of the semester. Okay, so here we are the last the the last full week and we'll we'll go through a very hard model. This is the effect of how corporate taxes impact corporate investment. So I'm going to go through this slowly, but please stop me and ask questions, okay? We'll get through this before the end of class. Okay? Think about a firm making investment decision. That firm is going to invest a dollar and for every dollar of investment they are going to get um they are going to get uh for every $1 of investment they're going to get MP subk of return the marginal product of capital. So in other words, if the marginal product of capital is 0.1, that says for every dollar I invest every year, I get 10 cents back. Okay, that's the marginal rate of return to that investment. The marginal product of capital. Okay, now let's also say that every period that investment depreciates by some amount delta. Two things are going. I'm investing every I'm making MPK, but the value of my investment is falling by delta. Okay? And I'm assume delta is linear. You can imagine it's nonlinear but let's just assume it's linear to make life easy. Assume MPK you assume delta is linear. MPK is not necessarily linear. Now third factor the firm if they want to make investment has to finance it. Forget retained earnings they have to finance it. Let's imagine the firm finances it by borrowing money and the rate of return is row. That's the rate of return they have to pay. We there's multiple channels. Let's just summarize them as saying roughly speaking through all the channels firms use the cost of financing buy of borrowing a dollar of getting a dollar to invest is row. Okay? Could be from a bank it could be through stocks whatever it is it's row. Okay. So what that means is that every year firms pay out delta plus row in costs for every dollar investment they make. They're paying the interest back. I'll call it interest, but it's just a summary of the cost of capital and they're paying depreciation. Okay, that is the that is the cost they're paying out every year on this investment they make and they're getting MPK. Okay, they're getting MP subk. So to think about this, let's assume delta equals row equals 0.1. Delta equals 0.1, row equals 0.1, 10%. Let's just make life easy. So now let's go to figure 242. Let's uh do that. Let's draw this. So what we have is on the x axis is investment K. Okay. On the X investment K. On the Y ais is dollars. Okay. And the Y axis is dollars. Okay. And we have a line at 20 cents 0.2. This is delta plus row. Okay. which equals the marginal cost. We'll call it MC1. The marginal cost of investment every period that's to pay. We're assuming it's linear. It doesn't have to be linear, but assuming it's linear that for whenever you invest a dollar, you're paying 20 cents every period to invest that dollar. What is the benefit investment? Well, it's some marginal product of capital, MPK, which equals the marginal benefit. MPK is downward sloping. Why? Someone tell me why. Yeah. No, depreciation's here. Why is MPK downward sloping? >> Well, no, because the more you invest, the less productive it is. We have diminishing marginal products in production. Just like we have, this is going back to your old school 1401 lecture five. Okay? Just like we diminishing marginality of consumption, we've diminishing marginal product of production. So marginal product of labor diminishes, the marginal product of capital diminishes over the relevant rate. There may be range to it goes up but we think in the relevant range for production we think there's decreasing returns to scale the margin not not that we think over the range of production there's a diminishing margin of product to capital otherwise you just grow forever right without diminishing margin product capital we'd have one firm run the economy now maybe we do but uh the bottom line is we think in the relevant range the marginal product capital is diminishing each additional this is very important it's just like margin utility of consumption tuition each additional dollar of capital Okay. Is less productive than the previous one. Okay. Now, what does that mean? That means that the optimal level of investment is at this intersection which and we're going to call this K1. That is the point where you have to think about the intuition here. If the marginal product of capital is above 20 cents, then you're making money as you keep investing. What happens if you keep investing? You move down this line. If the margin of capital is below 20 cents, you are losing money. So you should invest less. You move up here. And that's the optimal point. Okay. So the optimal point is where the return to the next dollar of investment is equal to the cost of that dollar of investment. Okay. Now, now let's complicate things. Now let's add taxation. Okay. What does taxation do? What? Let's just say there's a pure corporate tax. None, nothing fancy. just a pure I'm gonna tax your re I'm gonna tax your income. I'm gonna tax your income. Well, what that does is that means that instead of taking home MP subk, you take home MP subk times one minus what am I calling this? Uh one minus to where to is the corporate tax rate. What does that do to this graph? That shifts in the the marginal benefit curve. Now the marginal benefit curve is MPK * 1 minus to that equals MB2. It shifts in the marginal benefit curve. What does that do to the optimal level of investment? It lowers it. It lowers the optimal level investment to K2. Why? Because since the next dollar is going to yield less, you don't want to invest as many dollars because each dollar investing is less and less productive. So an investment that was productive here, this investment was productive before tax because MPK exceeded delta plus row is no longer productive after tax because MP times 1 minus to is below row plus delta. Okay, questions about that? Once again, solvent isn't clear. It's only going to get harder. Okay, so the bottom line is once again your key intuition is is diminishing marginal product of capital. That's going to say corporate tax will lower the level of investment. Now here's where it gets tricky which is corporate taxation does not just impact MPK because of depreciation. When there's depreciation allowances, the higher corporate tax rate means a higher value of depreciation allowances. Okay? In particular, when we buy an asset, think of buying an asset as it comes, you know those refrigerators, they have like that energy facts on them. Think about that as any asset you buy comes with a coupon that says here's the value of depreciation allowances with this asset. Okay? So if it's pure economic depreciation, okay, the value is zero, okay, because basically truly you're just getting back for the government what it's actually depreciating. But if it's not, if it's better than economic depreciation, it's a positive value. Okay? So basically Z I'm sorry, scratch is zero. It's not the way to find. Let me back up. It's simply not zero. Let me redefine it differently. It's the NPV of the depreciation relative to the purchase price. So, we're going to call Z to make life easy. Z is between zero and one. Zero would be you don't get depreciated at all. One would be expensing. You depreciate it today. in between is a depreciation that happens over time but the slower you get it the less it's worth. So depreciation which says I'll let you depreciate this over 100 years is worth not very much to you because by five or six years from now that's not worth lying. You still got 95 years to go. Depreciation which says you can depreciate over three years is worth more to you. So the more rapid is the depreciation the higher is Z. And the limit if I literally let you deduct it today which we call expensing Z is one. Okay. So what that means with that concept Z what that means is that um if you get then this is essentially something you get we say you get to deduct from your taxes Z for every dollar you invest you get deduct Z. So it's worth you get a tax break that's worth to Z to you because it's a deduction not a credit. So you get a tax break of to Z. For every dollar you invest, you're going to get to Z tax break. Okay? Because you're going to deduct Z at a corporate tax rate of to. So what does that what does that mean? Um that means that basically for example, if the depreciation allowance is worth 50%, if Z is 0.5 and the tax rate's 20%. Then that's 10% off price, right? Think of it that way. I was going to buy this building for $100,000. Okay, the the depreciation allowance is a 0.5 in present value. The tax rate is 20%. So, I'm going to get to deduct 10% of the value uh of this. So, it's essentially, you know, $10,000 off by the price of buying it. Okay, let me stop there. Questions about that? Yeah. Oh, totally different thing. Oh, actually not different. Great point. In a perfect world, Z would be delta. In world of economics, a great question. Actually, in a world of economic depreciation, Z equals delta. Okay, so Z is what the schedule gives you, which is different than delta because we can't really measure economic depreciation. If we measure economic depreciation, Z would be delta. Well, no, but you could do because the point is go back to this formula. The reason I do the TOA is because it's inside this equation. It's part of expenses. It's a deduction. Remember we did chapter 18. Deductions are only worth as high as your tax. With a tax rate of zero, deduction is worthless. Right? So, deduction of $1,000 is only worth your tax rate times $1,000. That's why I multiply by to okay, but it's a great question. Z should be delta in a perfect world. We're saying Z is sort of something else. Okay. So now what does that mean? That means that basically um now you um you get your cost is delta plus row. Okay. So every dollar of investment is costing you delta plus row. Okay. case cost you delta plus row. Um but um you can basically offset against that cost delta plus row times 1 minus to z okay is basically your net cost of investing. So basically you're getting 10 if you're getting 10% back. So if you're getting 10% back you're only paying uh 90% as much as if you were before. So that is essentially your net cost of investing. Okay. Now there's one extra complication. There's one extra complication which is we also have something called an investment tax credit which I mentioned last which which uh I actually forgot to mention before. I forgot to mention before we have these tax credits here in part of this equation. What's investment tax credit? It's literally remember credits are after your tax bill is comp is computed. It's literally money the government gives you back for every dollar you invest. So invested tax credit of 10% is literally for every dollar you invest I'm going to send you a check for 10 cents. Okay? So it's a credit. So that means that your net cost investment is really delta plus row * 1 - z minus alpha. Alpha is the investment tax credit rate. Call it 10%. So what does that mean? That means if you go to figure 244, what that means is that the cost has fallen, your marginal cost is no longer delta plus row. It's this more complicated delta plus row* 1 - to * z minus alpha. Okay, so basically what that what that's doing is essentially I'm sorry the alpha's inside the parentheses. I'm sorry. What that's doing is that's saying that you have a that tax systems they lower the return to the activity but they also lower the cost of the activity. They lower the return to investment but they also lower the cost of investment. Okay, lower the return to investment but they also lower the cost of investment. And so the net effect K3 is below K1 but higher than K2. So taxes deter deter investment. The bottom the bottom line is low taxes deter investment. Okay. But how much it does so depends on things like depreciation allowances and the investment tax credit. How do we put this together? The way we put this together is the following. We say look we know what the corporate tax rate is 21%. But that's sort of irrelevant. What's relevant is how does taxation change your incentive to invest? Well, that's a function of both the rate and things like depreciation allowances and investment tax credits. So, we say is we calculate an effective tax rate. We calculate something called the effective tax rate which is the marginal product of capital. The marginal product of capital after tax minus the marginal product of capital before tax over the marginal product of capital after tax. Pay ignore the denominator pay attention to numerator for a minute. The effective tax rate is think of it this way. This is the key intuition. What is the wedge between what you get from a dollar of investment due to taxes? from a dollar investment due to taxes? If the tax rate is zero, the effective tax rate is zero. If the tax rate was 100% and there was no dep and Z was zero and alpha was zero, then the effective tax rate would be 100%. Okay. So let's think of it this way. Imagine a world where imagine a world where Z is one where depreciation allowance um where uh where Z is one where you deduct the entire cost of your investment from your taxes. Can anyone give me intuition what the effective tax rate would be then if Z was one? So every year I get to expense my investment. What is the effective tax rate in that investment? Well, think about the trade-off. On the one hand, I'm paying tax on return from that investment. On the other hand, I'm deducting the cost of that investment. So a net, it's a zero tax rate. It's essentially all the tax I'm paying I'm deducting at the same time. So in other words, I'm making all this money off it, but I'm getting a full tax deduction for all that investment. So at the end of the way, it's a zero effective tax rate. Okay? So with Z equals 0, if Z equals 0 and alpha equals 0, the effective tax rate equals the statutory tax rate. Okay? then it's just like look at the end of the day if it's 35% tax rate there's a 35% reduction incentive to invest but if Z equals 1 and alpha equals zero then the effective tax rate is zero because basically at the end of the day um I'm deducting just as much as I'm paying all the income I'm making I'm going to then deduct so at the end of the day I'm indifferent now what If Z equals 1 and alpha is positive, then the net effective tax rate is negative. That is there's a net incentive to invest from the tax code. That is, let's say I let you fully expend your investments and I give you an investment tax credit. Then on net, I'm actually paying you to invest. That is what the US did in 1981. We actually set up a system where for many sectors the effective tax rate was actually negative. Okay. Um and uh because we both allowed very rapid depreciation and investment tax credit. We actually ended up in 1981 with a system with a lot of negative effective tax rates. Why the hell did we do that? To promote investment. The idea is they want to promote investment. And the more rapidly you allow people to depreciate and the bigger the investment tax credit, the more you promote investment. The more you take this effective tax rate to zero, the more you promote investment. Now, two comments. Okay, let me stop there. Questions about that or that's hard. You have to have flip it over. Yeah. >> Well, basically, there's a couple reactions to that. First of all, it did promote investment. So, it's true that in particular, things like the investment tax credit and accelerated depreciation do promote investment. You're making it cheaper. Okay? firms when you make stuff cheaper, they do more of it. That's good. Um, second, um, it it it led to an enormous amount of actually excess investment in tax efficient but economically inefficient investments in things that could generate big tax breaks without generating a lot of actual revenue. And I'll come back to that in chapter 25. But the third thing it does is raise the sort of overarching issue that you need to keep in mind as we have this next debate over the next couple years about the Trump tax cuts which is to think about we have three tools that affect investment. Okay, we have to we have Z and we have alpha. Those are the three tools that have toffect investment. Here's the key point. Z and alpha. If I change Z or introduce alpha, it's an incentive to invest. Going forward, investments are more valuable. If I change to it's incentive to invest and a reward to all the past investments because income you earn is based on past investments. Remember I talked about the prospective capital gains tax. talked about how if we cut a capital gains tax starting today, then we wouldn't reward old investments. We don't reward new investments. Well, think about Alpha in particular. Alpha is saying for every dollar we invest starting today, I'm going to give you a tax break. But if you invest in the past and are making money off that, well, you're still going to pay high taxes on that. So, and it's the same with depreciation, saying the next thing you buy, I'm going to give you a good deal on it. But all the old stuff you bought that's generating your old MPK, you're getting taxed on that. So the point is if we really want to incentivize investment tools like the investment tax credit and accelerate depreciation are a great way to incentivize investment. If we want to just reward guys who hold stock and corporations to is a good way to do that. So if we think about purely the investment margin then cutting the corporate tax rate doesn't really make sense compared to other tools we could use. Okay. other tools would have a much bigger effect in incentivizing investment. Indeed, what's quite striking is the following. The higher the corporate tax rate, the more you incentivize new investment by things like depreciation allowances because they're worth more. So, subsets, you can imagine system with a high corporate tax rate, a big depreciation allowance would a lot of investment while penalizing people who held previous investments. Okay, so that's the important distinctions. Once again, this old versus new capital, old in investment versus new investment versus previous investments, okay, is really the critical distinction you want to be thinking about here. There's a lot of math here. You're not held responsible for this, okay? So, you take a deep breath. You don't have to memorize this, okay? Or figure this out. We have to figure it out because it's good intellectually. It's good intellectual exercise. You don't have to memorize it. The key thing I want you to take away from this is that when you hear something called the corporate tax rate, that is not what you care about. the statuto rate, you care about the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate is a much more complicated beast. So in the US, while our while our statutory rate was 35% before Trump, our effective rate was 24%. Okay? So firms on average paid a lot less than 35%. So basically, that's the key thing. The key thing I want you to know from all this is to realize that taxes interact with the system in complicated ways because of things like depreciation allowances. So now last question to motivate what we're going to do next time. Okay, last question. What we're going to do next time is then why don't we why why why we cut the corporate tax? Why not just have a high corporate tax? If we cared about US domestic investment, you know, it seems like I've just made an argument for that. Cutting the corporate tax is a pretty blunt instrument. Why would we do that? I'm looking to my students from around the world on this question. Why are we worried about a high corporate tax rate in the US? Yeah. In the back. Yeah. Because we're worried about the elasticity of mobility of companies of capital. Remember the corporate tax rate is borne at least partly by capital and they bear it by leaving. So the reason why we're worried about the high corporate tax rate, people say it's because it deters investment, but the truth is we want to encourage investment. There's more effective tools to do that. The real reason we care is because of international competition. The reason why we care about TA is because a high will mean people won't want to come here. Okay? Because ultimately they won't make as much money being here. And that that is really what drove a lot of debate over the corporate tax was uh essentially the uh issues about uh international competition. Okay. And that's next time. Yeah. they >> they they would help but in some sense if I'm moving here a company here that's not a new company then I've got all this old capital that's going to get taxed at so for a new company setting up they'd all work equally for new company setting up all I care about the effective tax rate because but if I'm an old company moving here then those investments help but I still got to pay court I go let's say I go from paying a 10% corporate tax rate to 35% corporate tax rate on all my old investments. That's not going to make it very attractive to move to America. >> No, no, but if you move the company here, you still got the old Well, actually, it's a great segue to the very complicated world of international tax law, which we'll dip our toes in next time, which can be an entire semester at law school, visual tax law. But this is a great setup for what we're talking about next time, which is what do we do when companies are nationally mobile and how do we do taxation in that case? And then after that in 15 minutes I'll teach you everything you can know about corporate finance. So I can you can skip all those course 15 courses. Okay. So we'll do that next time and then we're going to start on chapter 25 next time. We'll get about halfway through. And then remember the last lecture is Friday. Two announcements. Don't go yet. Last lecture is Friday 12 to 1:30. Please be there. It will be recorded and it'll be available. But I hope you found the interaction in class valuable. You'll learn a lot. Be the last chance for us to be together. So, I hope you'll show up if at all possible.