The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Some content in this audio is not covered under our creative common license. For more information, see the course materials on the MIT Open Courseware website. >> Okay. So, today uh we have a guest lecture. Some of whom are pro some of you are probably already taking her class. Uh >> my victims, current victims >> and past victims. >> Past victims. Um, I probably need to do something for the light. I think it's >> I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I'm still operating on Tylenol and Cathy. Um, so uh you know to uh today we're going to talk about stories and games and Clara teaches uh not just the intro to video game studies class but also the writing for video games class in the spring. uh I kind of uh wanted her to come in and bring her expertise uh because she's carefully looked at this problem a lot more than I have and uh and yeah everybody I've seen you know um so yeah Phil asked me to come here and talk about uh stories and games and I as far as I remember you guys had to read two articles for today chapter four of yes real and Seren Johnson's um things not meeting which was what I take this course to >> yes but he's late okay anyway so so this has been preparing this has been kind of interesting because yeah there's there's I think I've thought about this you know quite a bit because you know is this some part of the focus of my research studying how you know games and stories can be brought together what Does it mean to have a story in the game? Uh where do we put the story? Uh but the interesting challenge was thinking well the guys are working mostly on non-digital games and what does it have to do what do stories have to do with with non-digital games. So here what I'm going to need is your input because you guys have been playing all these board games, card games. uh and I want a bit of your input on what you think um you know the how you think these concepts uh apply to um to non-digital games and uh because the part of digital games I I can do pretty confidently but I don't know as much about board games or card games so I need your expertise this is what you guys are doing uh so the first thing that I wanted to ask you about you the we had two different readings one is talking about fiction and the other is talking about theme But what is the fiction of a game according to you? >> The fiction of a game is well whatever you want. It could be the characters in the game. Let's digital game. It could be a real environment. You just have fictional characters. It could be um an environment that may not exist. It's pretty much it's up to designer to figure out what they want to like be in the game that aren't real and what they want it to be uh fiction. >> Well, it's there's something there, but but it might be a bit more if I it might be a bit more intuitive than that. I mean, yeah, I think that you're on the right track. Yes. >> I'd say it's the setting or the universe in which the user perceives the events of the game to take place in. or the one that the designer intends the user to see the game take place. >> Okay. So, I mean, you've mentioned environment is kind of like the the the what was the word you the universe, you know, the setting, you know, something like that back then. >> Oh, yeah. I think the word you used over and over was world. It's just a world >> pretty much >> and that's the key word. you know when we when when um Gary was talking about fiction he's really talking all throughout about fictional worlds uh and in a way you know designing games and designing video games specifically is always thinking about what is the world of this game and at times there might be games that don't have worlds you know you can make Tetris you can make there's very few video games without worlds but there are some tetra is u >> peg Well, Pegle has characters, you know, you were talking about this like characters are already flying a fiction. Um, >> please he says like has nothing to do with unicorns. >> Yes, >> you want to say something. Oh, we have two hands here. >> Stealing it. Okay. Um, and particularly with board games, I think of fiction much more as the the specific explicit things they give you. Mhm. >> Um like the pictures, the the rules and all of that stuff versus like what it >> what it feels like you're doing. So if they don't specifically tell you you're in blah place, then that's not part of a fiction. >> Okay. Yeah. So that's you put your finger on it that when we're talking about non-digital games, there are some non-digital games where thinking about worlds is a bit shaky. Do you want to say something? >> Uh yeah, I was going to add that in an environment, you have a set of things you can do. So, you're basically given rules. Like in a board game, you could be you could be given uh if a character has to jump for some reason, then you uh the board game could say that they could jump some insane distance while in real life they can't do that. That's just part of the fiction. So, it's whatever laws apply to within that world as well. So there are this is a very interesting point because when when you was talking about um what's the word he uses in congruous worlds incoherent incoherent he talks about incoherent worlds and it's like going in coherent according to what you know at times you know the rules are also creating part of the fiction the rules are also creating that you know what are um the the gravity the laws of gravity in the specific world that we're playing in for example um so so you know we when we're talking about fiction we're mainly talking about fictional world, but how does that relate to theme? And you were already kind of hinting at at that, you know, that that in fiction and board games, it's kind of like, well, it almost can be about anything. But what is the theme of when you, if you remember, sorry Johnson's discussion, what does he refer to as a theme? He is not an academic, so he has a more >> wobbly loose definition. It was a theme of a game. The theme of the game is what the designer says to the player. This is what the game is about. But when Son Johnson is saying theme is not meaning. So he's making a point that theme is might not be what the game is about. >> Right. >> It's just what the game designer tells you. >> Yeah. I mean this this is what the example that that he gives is ticket to ride right >> and ticket to ride is not about riding trains is about >> it's about well the description is about going from one end to another right >> it's building >> it's about traveling across the United States >> but is it really traveling or is it building the >> story about traveling >> yeah the story It's about traveling. That's the theme. But the you know what you actually do is >> the official the official story is that >> um I think it's some number of years after the events of around the world in 80 days >> and to commemorate that the original people who were involved in that race decided that they're going to race across America in trains >> and that is the theme of the game according to >> that's the theme of the game Alec. >> Well that's that's sort of like drives to the point of what Senson is talking about that when theme and meaning are in congruous as they are in Ticket to Ride to like an extreme extent. It can actually turn people off from the game sometimes. So, >> well, and it's not War. >> Well, not necessarily. I mean, >> on Halo Wars a bit, it sound like you bought it thinking it was going to be an action game and got disappointed. It was like >> I mean, in the case of Chica to ride, it is pretty much what we were just saying there, right? that the theme seems to just be what whoever it is that wrote the instruction booklet says that >> you're doing >> which may not necessarily have anything to do with the actual mechanics of the game. >> Yeah, I have a game. I don't know if you guys have played it. And if you want to play it, I can bring it back. >> Uh is a Reneia game called Too Many Cooks. >> And it seems to be about cooking, but you know, yeah, you have ingredients and you're supposed to have like a you're making a soup of sorts, but really what you're doing is resource management, you know, and exchanging. Like just imagine being a cook and having like, well, I have to wait until I get the right ingredient or like exchange it for another. It's like that's not how you cook really. Um, so there is, you know, there's always the clash of of how how the fiction of the game relates to the rules and and what the interesting distinction between fiction and theme is that theme seems to be like a layer, seems to be like a a decoration. Um, at times, you know, it can be part of of the title. It can be, you know, how the the tokens look like or what the board looks like. That is setting up the fiction uh of the game. But it's um not the fiction, the theme, you know, but it doesn't really have a fictional world. Like when you're playing Ticket to Ride or when you playing Settlers is like, do you have the feeling that you're in a world more so than ticket to >> I mean, so the the I will argue that maybe the world that you feel is not the world that they're telling you that you're in, right? when one of the problems of Ticket to Ride is that you never really feel these characters exist. >> Yeah. >> Um but the world of the United States is very very present. >> It's like you know the the the positioning of the cities. The fact that these cities exist and can be connected >> by man is is very >> you guys have read the levels of abstraction talked about levels of abstraction here at all. >> Not in great detail what I'm talking about. So the idea that you know it might be a it's a world but it's so the way that it works is so abstracted that it doesn't really feel like a world anymore. It's kind of like this little bits and pieces. >> Um so okay we have we have fiction and we have you know theme but we also have stories. And what do stories have to do with this? You know how do how do we have the story in non-digital games? No. Well first of all you know a story and I'm going to define it to you to save time. Uh a story is uh a series of events connected events that involve characters. Uh so those characters perform actions or there are happenings things that happen to them and those those actions happen in time and in a specific setting uh in a in a specific place. Uh and in the case of games they also involve objects. That's kind of like my telegraphic you know um version of where the story is. So what we do in games in games we have uh changed of state right every step of a non-digital game particularly we can think about uh non-digital games as changes of state and having a change of state can constitute an event uh so that is one way how do we generate rules that generate changes of state that can be thought of as um as an event in the story but I want to know a bit more of the games that you've played so far. How can non-digital games um I don't know what maybe you've played more than card games than anything, but how can we have a story? How can we have those events happen? >> So, one of the games that we played that has a really nice story to it is Balar Galactica. >> And the way that works is uh it works off of what the player already knows. >> So, it sort of assumes that the player has like the knowledge of Balar Galact. And so, it keeps referring to that whenever you play a that has special abilities, >> whatnot. So, it relies on previous knowledge of play. >> That's a very good point. I mean, part of what we do and and it's in in digital games and non-digital games, but it's also in digital games. A lot of storytelling in games happens in the player's head is is evoking, you know, certain characters, certain situations is with tapping on the player's knowledge. Is not, as we're going to see, it's not so much about storytelling, but we're kind of like, okay, what do you know? we we are making the player fill in the gaps. So that designing a game that involves storytelling is usually giving cues to the player to create the story if that makes sense. >> Um Patrick >> um I was going to say that uh a lot of um like board card games all a lot of the fiction just comes from the metaphors of the mechanics. >> So for example in a like settlers when you want to build a road if you strip away all the fiction it's just I have these cards I put them down. I can put this piece here. >> But um adding the fiction to it, you say now putting I'm not just putting cards down. I'm uh using up resources to build a road. And so that metaphorical action is another like event in the story. >> Well, it becomes a meaningful action. I mean that's another I'm sure that you guys have been talking about that you know what is a meaningful action and at times meaningful action is it constitutes like a story event of sorts. journey. >> Um, I think that the whole point of Munchkin and ShaGeek and those games uh are to construct stories. We >> when we played it, there was a moment when someone trashed someone else's shrooms and then the other person played a go dumpster diving card to go pick up the the shrooms and a bong from the dumpster. >> And this whole sequence of events, you know, the flavor text on the cards, what they were the actions you were taking, and you put them all, you string them all together. I did this then this happened and this happened with these objects and you've got a perfect story because you know you're playing a geek and uh you know >> well there's that but the other thing that is good about munch game is that reading the cards is fun you know there are bits of the story already in Munch game like reading the events that is kind of like engaging already you want to say something >> I was just going to say there are some games which are like entirely about telling stories >> role playing games are the number one and then another example is something like once upon a time >> which I think And then there also the adventures of bearing wood trousers if you've ever >> Yes. Oh, I should bring it. Yes, I have it in my office, but that's kind of difficult to set up like in half an hour. Yeah, >> I'm actually a friend of mine invented a game which is kind of vaguely based on the adventures of Barry Mchowen um where you each person is telling a story and they have cards in front of them which need to be flipped over and by incorporating the elements of the story that cards anyway don't worry about >> yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no yeah no no I'm going no yeah you you we're going a bit faster but that's fine because you know yeah there are games that are about storytelling communal storytelling and role playing games are about that you know we again as as game designers what we are given when we have the rule book from D and D are is a fictional world that has rules and but then we have as as a as a designer as a DM uh we are coming up with what is the situation what is the world what is the specific challenges that we're situating in this world how are we going to do that uh but is is about communal sorting as as as we're going to see in a minute there are also games that are about coming up with stories like we're being thrown you know the similar way. Well, in Munchkin, you're kind of like constructing the story as you go. But in the games that we're going to play today, or some of you are like gloom or once upon a time is the game is being able to produce a narrative, being able to make sense given the specific cues you would have had your hand. >> So, I was going to do the opposite extreme of a game with a very basic story and you kind of make the story a little as you go along, but it's not really that crazy. uh game card game falling where pretty much the pretense says you are goblins. Everyone's a goblin and you're falling to your demise. And so the point so while you guys are falling you guys decide we who let's make a contest of who hits the ground last. And so it's a real time game and you're deal cards in order and you keep going until you reach ground cards. And so you can uh attack other people. It's like okay this is going to happen to you and different effects happen. And so when you're actually playing it, it's kind of like the intensity when you're falling. It's like, oh, I'm going to die. I have to do this fast because before you know it, ground star. >> It's interesting because it creates a longer event or something that is supposed to be got like smashed, right? Uh but it's kind of zooming in and how long that would feel if you were actually flying. uh make it like a mini story of that or you know I it's interesting because I don't know how strong and this is one of the questions when we're talking about stories and games is you know what kind of event constitutes an event in the story know like is opening a door an event in the story well in some games it can be because it might give you access to uh new areas you know there might be someone showing up that changes things uh but in other cases you know like I don't know in Monopoly getting to um uh going around and getting the how many $100 $200 you know is that an event you know >> maybe it's not it doesn't seem like a story event because it's such a mundane thing that happens all the time although clearly has given >> yeah it does have an effect but as a storytelling you know part is kind of questionable um the other thing I wanted to ask you know since you guys have been playing um particularly board games you know there are board games that have similar mechanics. So, I've played Race of the Galaxy, which I really like, and I've been told that Puerto Rico is very similar. >> Yes. So, does changing the theme I mean that those games have different themes, but is does changing the theme affect the rules in any ways for those of you who might have played both? >> Not really. I mean, not Puerto Rico, but San Juan, I think, is closer. San is with the cards, but uh it doesn't really change the game because the mechanics are almost identical. It's just kind of covered in a different shell of whatever it is, whatever the mechanic they're trying to mimic. >> So, it's kind of like maybe if you don't like colonial or, you know, whatever. >> Yeah. If you don't like if you don't like the the >> science fiction part of >> the science fiction theme, you could go for this more earth town building theme. >> Yeah. >> But if you don't like playing the game itself, >> switching to the other game is probably not going to be all. >> Yes. Yeah. which I think is kind of interesting and just kind of like okay so tug of munch doesn't kind of cancel >> the interesting thing is that in neither of those cases unlike say ticket to right these things like feel like they're attacked on theme and in each case the actual mechanics of the card faithfully represent what they're supposed to be in in the in the game fiction right so >> I feel that this the fact that they the themes are essentially kind of interchangeable or like the the same mechanics underly both games despite the fact that they have different themes doesn't necessarily mean that there's some something wrong with the theming. It's just that >> but the meaning is similar >> mechanics are flexib what you actually do in the games is similar you know resource management planning ahead knowing where you can deploy a certain you know they are about the same thing even if they have different settings uh so that's probably the connection it's not about oh if you like science fiction games you can play the battlest star galactica game and race to the galaxy whereas I'm guessing that for most people it's like well if I like Puerto Rico or Puerto Rico San Juan. Sorry, I wrong place >> name. The games are close enough that >> but but you would play something that is similar. Does that make sense? >> If if the meaning of both games is really empire building in some sense, right? You know, in some kind of historical in futuristic, but they're both empire building. That's why I mean sure the theme is very well applied in both of these games but it will also make sense that that will make sense because both themes are about empire building only you know one to the future and one to the past. >> Okay. So you know we have this is taking a bit of time but these are like the foundations of the of the concepts that I wanted to get across today and discuss today. Uh when we talk about video games, there's another there's an extra layer which is you know video games that are story driven versus just games with a story. Uh and the example I have here is uh so this is selfcal 2 as far as I remember >> I think I don't know I I looked for cell caliber one that was familiar um the characters I knew anyway. So, in Soulcalibur, we have what's a game about? >> Fighting. >> It's about fighting and kicking ass, you know. >> Story that doesn't >> And it does have a weird story that is kind of like, well, does anybody know the story? I know that there's something. And there's some reason why >> Sophia Sophia, right? >> I didn't know. I think this is >> they're like related somehow. They're like mother and daughter sisters or something. >> Oh, okay. That's maybe that's why she's asking for forgiveness. I don't know. Do I care? I still like these games, but do I know the stories? No. Do I Does it matter? Not really. I mean, not for these. I mean, for some people, I'm sure that they do care about the stories of these or the stories of the characters in Street Fighter, for example. Yes. Well, I was gonna say like for games like this, I actually kind of like the story because it adds >> like it the game is not the story. There are two separate entities, >> but one kind of like add to the other for me. Like Diablo, for example, >> um there's lots of people that have played Diablo II without really caring about, you know, like the actual story. >> The cinematics were so cool back in the day. >> True. But the thing >> but but like even though like you can you can pretty much separate the story from Diablo II and people would still probably play it like the story definitely adds a layer of like I I am attached to this game. >> But Diablo I mean in Diablo is the the difference is is that Diablo is closer to being a storydriven game. It's closer to being like an RPG game where you know the quests you have to know you know who you're going to talk to what you're going to do. Um, I had a friend, we were, you know, uh, working in in this game service and we had to test all these, um, role playing games and one of my co-workers was like, oh, I have to play it was Balders's Gate, too. Like one of the cool ones. And he was like, "Okay, I have to test this and I just have to see that it works." And he was not paying attention to any other texts. He was just doing the technical testing, but then he got stuck. I mean, we were supposed to finish the the games and he was stuck and he was going slower because he didn't know what to do. It's like, well, if he had read what you actually had to do, but for him it's like, well, it's just a story. It's like, well, you're playing an RPG. You kind of really leave the the story out. If somebody's telling you that you have to, you know, squash, I don't know how many orcs, you know, you have to know that you have to squash the orcs. You can, you have to know where to go. Um, so, so in storydriven games, what happens is that the story is really so tied to the rules and the goals of the game that you have as you advance in the game, you're also advancing in the story. That's something that, you know, here when when you um, you know, you beat up somebody in Soulcalibur or or uh or Street Fighter, whatever fighting game you can think of, you know, there might be a little uh uh cutscene uh that tells us who they are. One thing that I like about is it Soulcalibur? Yeah. Like there's a bit of taunting like ah you kind of beat me or something like that. Um but that you know is is building character a bit and that needs writing but really you know is is not really story driven. The fact that we're getting big services as we complete challenges you know it doesn't mean that if we ignore the game we can still complete the game without knowing the story. Does it make sense? So there's, you know, this is this is something that video games are doing that to a certain extent some of the board games that you might have been playing don't quite do. Does it make does make sense that it's kind of like we can still think of and and there might be you know some people who play these board games still at a mathematical level without paying any attention to what the events that's representing are. Uh but that's one potential of video games. you know that idea of having a storydriven game where you are playing a game you are interacting with the world with a strong and in the cases of storydriven games you also have a strong little fictional world that you're interacting with that you are exploring that you're poking around um so one thing that I wanted to make clear here is that you know when we talk when we talk about storytelling and I always try to use it the term we're talking about stories but is it really storytelling and the thing is that technically games don't tell stories. You know, who's telling the story? Who's the narrator? You know, there might be games that have the kind of gimmick of having a narrator like um Prince of Persia Sands of Time. You know, when you make a mistake and you know, he's supposed to be telling what's happened to him and it's like, "No, no, no, wait." You know, I No, no, no. That's not how it happened. Um but really in most games you know things again like Balders's Gate or Diablo or more recently like you know uh Mass Effect you know it's like what you know who is the storyteller you know and and the the thing is that there are also different types of stories you know when we are interacting with the game what we're doing is is performing and as we perform we're creating a story there's a story that has been maybe prepared for us you know kind of going back to the munchkin thing, you know, in every card we have a bit of the story and um and we are kind of like we are putting it together like laying it out. Um so so the game designers have designed each game you know each chunk of the story what are the cues that we're giving the player but then there's also what us as player are are bringing to the to the game you know as I was saying before you know there's part that is the game itself telling its story and the other is what we're invoking what we are having the player uh bring uh to the game you know is the story happening in the player's head so what I like to say is that it's not really storytelling it's about story building and as game designers we are designing those little chunks you know or we are uh creating stories that are uh that are meant to be reconstructed that are meant to be together. Uh so the difference between storytelling and story building you know basically when we have storytelling we have somebody who's narrating or uh you know maybe there's some uh uh someone who's enacting what's happened. of things like theater for example but it's continuous it's something that just happens and you know is not is not fragmented which is what what story building needs you know we have something that is as has already happened you know is communicated one way uh and how what those events are and what order they're told that's determined by the author. If we think about stories and how stories apply to games in terms of story building, we're talking about fragmented stories. You know, stories in pieces, stories that we have to put together like a puzzle. And you know, we're game designers. We make puzzles. That's one of the many things that we can do. Uh what those fragments are, how we were giving cues to the player to put together those fragments or to come up with their own ways of of coming up with the story. Um, in a way it's a kind of collaboration between the the designer and the player because we rely on the player to put this story together to come up with their own ways of filling the gaps um to to really have a proactive role in figuring out what the story is uh and what the order of events is. I mean there are you guys have seen the the games of progression and games of emergence. >> Yes. >> Discuss that first. I'm trying to remember this. >> It's like the very It's in the first chapter. >> I think we had actually did the the initial paper. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. We we had in the paper not not >> another basically the same. >> Okay. Yeah. No, cuz he he talked about the same thing totally different places. Um so so yeah what what happens is that you know at times there are games that have a specific order of events and there are certain adventure games like uh Siberia for example where you have to go through a very specific sequence of events and when you get to a scene it's like you have to do this uh things like um Dragon Slayer the the laser disc DVD like when you go to a place and you have to figure out what is the action that you have to do and if you don't do it you're you know you die in horrible ways. Um so those are you know those are games that set the order of events very very specifically but most of the games tend to have some more flexibility. You know let the player explore the world. You know the things that happen in the world are generated by how the player is interacting with the world. So in RPGs for example, depending on the RPG, there might be the main quests and the side quests and there might be flexibility in what order that happens or even how a player might solve a a specific quest in top tabletop. I don't know who here is has been uh dungeon master. Okay, a bunch of you. >> So everybody, >> okay, so we have the corner of the dungeon masters. So, you probably know that when you design a quest, you know, and then you you set it up and you have your players and then your players come up with totally different ways of tackling your quest you had never come up with and you have to improvise and trying to, you know, like you're building the rails as they're moving. You know, it's kind of like, you know, trying to anticipate what they're going to do. Um, so so that's we're trying to get that into video games, too, but but we don't have the improvisational capacity built in in computers yet. Uh but but as you see it's kind of like we the game or the dungeon master as dungeon masters we're responding to the actions of the player. Does it make sense? And then there are you know we where we're talking about story building there are games as I was saying that are about story building where the challenge is constructing a story improvising as you as you go. You know you're given chunks and you have to be able to be a storyteller. Uh but you'll play that these later. Um, we've actually talked about this before. So, when we're talking about building the fictional world of of the game, you know, I'm going I'm going to go through through this a bit um fast. We have until 4:30, right? Yes. Okay. Uh, so there are also very minimal ways in which we can, you know, construct our fiction. uh and these are lessons that I've taken from digital games but if you think about it many of these also apply to uh non-digital games uh so for example we have um the title of a game can tell us you know something about the fictional world right so come what about uh board games or card games how do the titles build the fictional world >> the board game Mafia Wars is pretty clear about with that >> there you go so that's a way It's evoking certain things like the title can evoke a world on itself and also certain situations. So we hear mafia wars is about >> there's different factions. >> There's going >> there's going to be betrayal probably, you know, shooting down people in horrible ways. >> Pretty much any licensed game. >> Any licensed game. Yes. There were types of you know things like versions of Monopoly or true pursuit that it's kind of like is that >> Star Wars >> Star Wars everything >> risk it's a kind of broad >> and there are also skinningings of risk right >> there like >> Lord of the Rings >> Lord of the Rings everything >> I don't know >> I've seen like so many this god which takes place back in like it's like mythological. >> Yeah. What other apart from franchises, what other title? Sorry. >> The settlers of katan. >> Settlers of katan which is evoking >> settling building cities >> building. >> Yeah. I mean it's kind of who you talking to. >> Chinatown. >> It's set from Chinatown. >> And what do you do? You build businesses that are stereotypically associated with >> one title. It's not only we're evoking a world, but we can also invoke rules. What do you have to do here? So if mafia were to kill people, you know, don't settle jobs and longer. >> Uh but you're already implying what some of the rules are, what the game is about. Um which is what is important here. And and again, you know, Seren Johnson calls attention to the fact that if you say if you're announcing that your game is about something in this trench booklet that people might not always read or at least the part that people don't read, you know, you should you should um follow up on that because it's kind of helping. He's giving cues to the player about how is the story of the game going to build up. you know what is the cue you I like talking about giving cues to the player a lot because I come from theater and and is a is a very intuitive way of understanding it's not about us telling the story it's about helping the player construct the story so I have two examples from from video games that I really like about how to to build a fictional world with with a title I mean one obvious one in in video games is Space Invaders right Space Invaders means we're on Earth >> and they're invaders from space that we probably have to fight. >> Invading our space. >> Another good one. Zombies ain't my neighbors. There's a whole story right there. So, what's the story of this game? >> Zombies a neighbor. So, what do I do in this game? >> Zombies. >> So, probably killing zombies. >> Zombies eating my neighbors. So, zombies could have eaten my neighbors and then just left. >> Maybe the zombies are your neighbors. >> Yeah. Oh, maybe you have to kill your neighbors too now. >> Um, if there's anything left because they hit them. Um, but it's, you know, like this is building like a whole, you know, situation. What do I have to do? Okay, zombies, walking zombies, I'm sure. Or run away from the neighbors. I >> mean, the fact that you have neighbors implies that there's a neighborhood, right? It's not like a military zombie shooter. >> Yes. >> Yeah. It's not rested. >> It looks vaguely like 50s. >> Yeah. I'm not sure about that. I think this is like a Genesis game. I was just looking at the old like 50s. >> I mean, hearkening back to the movies of >> Yeah. >> Uh, another great title that I found not long ago, Earth Dies Screaming. >> Wow. which is actually >> is the title is from a 70s British movie uh that I think has nothing to do with the game. This is another it's like Space Invaders in a way. You are defending the Earth. It kind of like looks like that. Um you have your spaceship and you have a one of the invaders and you have to you just destroy it before it lands on Earth. Um, but again, you know, it kind of it's very evocative. I mean, it's kind of more memorable than Space Invaders in a way. Uh, because it's kind of like, okay, there's people attacking Earth, whoever it is, and this is going to end badly. That's another thing that Space Invaders are things like Miscommand and all those arcade games that didn't have an ending. You know, in this, you know, the ending, you know, you cannot really save Earth. It's really it's really uh ominous in a way. Uh but again like you have a whole world you have a whole situation is about in the title and it's also very memorable. I really like this title. Um, another way in which we can give cues to um to players to build worlds. And I had more of this, but but this applies more to um this applies more to video games than to board games, card games, you know, and even role playing games. uh is character design because when we are making and and you know tell me from your own experience but when you're making nondigital games and even when you're making when you're preparing your uh Dungeons and Dragons campaign you don't really come up with the characters the characters is something that the player brings for card games. If you have any examples that are counter examples for this please let me know. Um but character design is not something that you do so much in non digital games. If you do you have any examples of that? >> Do the NPCs >> design? >> Yeah, in a way. Yes. >> I was thinking Arkham Horror and other games where you kind of have a character role which is assigned to you and often they have a backstory in Arkham Horror bio on the back or what have you. >> Okay. >> Yeah. I was going to say like um the the game where you're trying to clue clue where you have like a you choose a character and they all have their swords. I'm sure it's similar. Mhm. The things like are you as a player are you really involved with those characters? >> Okay. So I can think of one game which is an example where you are and it's called Android. >> Mhm. >> This is an uh this game was released I think two years ago now. And part of the actually you should probably play it. Um, part of part of the point is that it was trying to include like elements of resolving characters personal stories through mechanics in the game. >> Oh, yeah. >> So, you're actually you're kind of you're kind of living you're kind of playing through this choose your own adventurish type scenario. Um, and the choices that you make throughout the game influence like what directions your character's personal story arc takes >> a very good game. But it's interesting. >> Yeah. So, so there are the what I'm trying to get at here is that, you know, at times the characters are and again, you know, evoking actions, evoking certain emotions to it. things of that detachment with with non-digital games with role playing games is different but again when you're building your own character in role playing you have an investment but you're making it yourself I'm talking more on the point of view of the designer here >> so another I guess game game again Battlestar Galactica you are assigning a character and if you know that like if you know Battlestar Galactica you're probably going to go for certain characters cuz like I that character is hilarious. I want to be him or I'm gonna be Starbucks. Starbucks's awesome. And so, and then each one each player actually also has certain traits which are characteristic of their um the player in the show like Tai. He's an alcoholic. So, there's a certain negative tribute to him if you are in certain situations. >> Okay. We had he had the back. Well, let's say in in live action role playing games like uh experience with the Assassin's C and stuff, the characters are entirely designed by the game designers. >> Yes. >> But you still you still get the the players who like take up this character become involved with it because all of their actions are based on >> on what the designer chose to to make that >> character. Yep. That's that's true. I'm >> um two other games. cosmic encounter uh is where like um probably closer to the battle situation, you've got you pick a a race at the beginning of the game. So, it's not a single character, but that's effectively the same thing in in that if you pick something like the humans, uh you have different goals and different different powers that you can use in the game. Whereas if you play a game like Illuminati again, instead of playing an individual, you're playing a corporation or actually your picking is society for for the most part and your actual game-winning goals are different for uh depending on who you pick. >> And part of the and there are certain part part of the game is also figuring out what certain characters are trying how certain characters are trying to win the game. Um because not everybody has the same game for >> Okay, Patrick, last one. In and the card game sabotur, if your role is the sabotur, then it is in the player's best interest to act in that role >> to like perform like one. >> Yes. To be subversive to the other players without like letting them catch on. >> Oh. Oh. So you see, and this is why I didn't do this and I was asking because I know this much better. But yeah, I think the the laring one is the the obvious case here. Um, in video games, you know what we do? you know, we can build character in kind of like cinematic ways and cut scenes and whatever, but really, you know, it's very difficult to build a character um that is at the same time you and not you or the the player and not the player. Uh and what we can do, you know, is giving cues about the personality of that character. And one of the the examples I want to give is Sonic because Sonic is not really you. I mean this is always the a bit of the struggle in a lot of the examples that you were doing you know except for lapping where lapping is bit more involved is that it's kind of like you but not you like who am I you know I'm the sabotur because I'm doing this um in in in uh in games we have Sonic for example with like you know we are Sonic what what are we hedgehog um and what do we do >> like run coins and cute animals >> and liberating cute animals. >> Yes, that too. Uh and one of the things so so one of the the the the goals of of designing character particularly in video games is making it seem alive you know making it go beyond the functional part you know like oh we're the sabotur we are I don't know whatever character in a clue for example you having that emotional involvement that is something that that we are trying to achieve in in in video games and Sonic does it in a very subtle but very cool Okay. Does anybody know what this picture is of? What he's doing? >> Don't do anything. He starts tapping his foot and looking at you. >> So, it's kind of like you have no control of me. Come on. I want to go. You know, I really have to go. I have to run cuz what I do is running. So, let's go. >> Mario goes to sleep. >> Yeah, Mario sleep. starts to >> and if you remember any of the Earthwork gym Earthworth gym games like he does crazy stuff. He's just like he starts like >> he flips his head, he dresses up like he was like in one of like >> Yeah. or like he gets an afro uh uh wig at some point and like what are you doing? You know, but it's kind of like calling attention to like who am I? You know, well, you're not controlling me. I'm going to be myself. And in the case of Sonic, it's like, okay, I'm a running guy, but I need you to run, so come on. Um, and it's very subtle, you know, something that is very minimal, but it's it's building character, but it's also kind of telling the player who this character is. Um, the last thing, and this is something that again video games can do very well, is something that role playing games can do very well or or laughing. Uh but I'm not sure that you know card games or board games can do this. It's environmental storytelling. Uh it's telling the story in the space as you go around as you're examining the space and what's going on. You know, a video games do what they do very well is uh constructing a virtual world that we can navigate, that we can explore, that we can interact with. Uh and one of u those of you who've been in my classes before, you know that I love the beginning of Bioshock as an example of environmental storytelling. Uh because you know, you know what is this world? What has happened before? And they don't give you they don't tell the word is just going into the space and figuring out what has happened. Another example that I really love is portal. um where you know a lot of the story is you know told or you you you figure it out as you explore the world. So what is this import? So first of all what is the premise of portal you know this the story >> you're a test subject testing a new device aperture labs. >> Yes. So, you're a test subject and but but very soon you realize that there's something kind of wrong, you know, you know, this voice that keeps talking to you, you know, kind of warps around and she goes and comes back and like there is something broken and you just go on because you don't know what else to do. But here, what is this? You know, once you start realizing, okay, there's something really wrong. What is this? >> This is when you try to escape. >> There's a hole in the wall. >> There's a hole. One of the things is like stuck forward. You can sneak under or something. >> Yeah. And you go behind the scenes and you realize, okay, so there is something really wrong here and kind of guessed it. But here we have what looks like somebody's uh refuge like some where somebody was hiding and they were writing all these messages and of course you know it's very funny because the famous the cake is alive is something is not something that everybody has to go through. You have to find it. you have to find it in the game is is part of the explore in the game. So, so what the reason why I like uh I I like Portal for many many reasons. Uh but one is because the storytelling is very brilliant and it's not you know is is not something that we're told. This is what happened. We figure it out by listen to to the voice by listening to Glados by going behind the scenes. We are piecing the the story together. Yes. Um, if you ever pay attention to what's written in the walls in the safe houses and Left 4 Dead, >> there's a lot of funny stuff as well. And I initially hadn't realized that Left had a story really. And then when you when you when you actually pause and read, you know what's on the walls in the safe houses, there's almost flame wars between different people who've gone to the same houses and are writing facts about the zombie apocalypse and they'll say, "No, that's not true. That town is completely overrun. No, you're totally stupid. I was there last you have like these things going on and various you know tidbits of trivia and facts about the world and it's very very clever and often quite hilarious >> because what this is what environmental storytelling is doing after all we're telling the story of the fictional world you know that can be part of the goal of of speaking or not what is the story of the fictional world you guess >> um was there's use environmental storytelling as story What? >> Well, you mentioned the difference between storytelling and story building earlier and you mentioned that that was environmental storytelling as a story. >> Yeah. And probably is really story building. I mean, so the thing is that environmental storytelling is what people call it. I'm using a phrase, but yeah, this is a type of story building. >> We're building it as designers and we're encouraging building for the player. >> But but yeah, this is story building. So yes or or um more precisely you will see talks on environmental storytelling if you go to a conference. >> Uh but what they're really talking about storytelling it's just that that term hasn't really made it so pervasive. >> Yeah. >> So maybe the closest to this kind of thing is in flavor text in CCGs and other such stuff. So if you think for instance of Magic the Gathering then there is a backstory behind each of these expansions which comes out >> and that's told through actual fiction where you can buy really trashy novels also partly told through like little quotes between uh by significant characters in the fiction and also the the images which presented on the cards and so maybe that's the closest thing to environmental storytelling. >> Yes. Yeah. I mean Magic the Gathering has this world and the things that it seems to be very easy to expand it. I don't know the survival of of the magic the gathering. >> Yeah. Like there's an entire creative department at visit the coast that's responsible for maintaining the story and making sure it's all consistent and stuff. >> Yeah. So it's not really something new. Uh it's almost four. So I have still something but we can go through it very fast. I would hope >> I mean if we run out of time we can play these games on Friday or something. Okay. Absolutely. >> So, so we've been talking so far, we're talking about uh designing the story of the world, designing the story of a fictional world, but we also have, as I was saying before, you know, the player is also constructing a story as we go, you know, things that happen to the player, um things that that happen to the world because they happen to player. And again, one of the reasons why I was talking about games of progression versus games of emergence is that in stories we have a similar parallel of uh stories that have been designed for the player of things that that they have to do. uh in role playing games and and I'm talking about pen and pencil um pen and paper role playing games we have the story that is as DMs we have designs and then there's what the players are trying to do in in video games because computers don't have the capacity for improvisation what the player has to do is a lot more constraint in a way uh so what are the bosses that they have to you know how do they solve a specific problem or how do we get over a specific problem? So, um uh I like giving the example of of um the legend the Legend of Zelda games where we do have a story that we're kind of complete completing a specific uh in almost in a specific order because if you don't have certain objects, you kind of go to the next dungeon until you have certain properties. So we have even though we have a really nice relatively open world of the world that we can navigate uh we do have a specific order of events that we have to follow uh adventure games and by this I mean like point andclick adventure games uh um again things like Siberia things like mess where you know there is a pre-established sequence of events that we have to that we have to fulfill and then on the other extreme we have games that are closer to you know these games like once upon a time or bloom where the system itself is producing stories of sorts uh like the Sims and in the Sims the fact that we have a way to record our own stories and and share them is is proof that that is that's a kind of system closer to to things like one song at a time that is a system to generate narratives and the playing with the with the system will generate certain narratives. Um so we have um ways in which as designers we can provide cues or or ways to to design the story of the player. Uh and the first one is you know the game premise you know what is the goal of the game uh game events. I don't know if I left that one because that was too long. Um and we have micro narrative. So the the the game premise is you know who are you in the game? What do you do? It's kind of similar to the to the title, but in this case is very tied to who is the player, what is the role of the player in the game. So things like cooking mama, for example, you know, you're cooking mama. So who are you in cooking mama? You know mama, mom's complaining all about it. You are the person who's cooking for mama. That's the title you should have. Cooking for mama and then mama getting pissed off at you because you didn't do it right. Uh but it tells you very clearly. Okay, so you're a cook or what is it that you do? You're trying to please mama by cooking something nice and yummy. Usually also kind of weird. Um, a really good example of of creating the story of the the player by the premise of by who you are in the game is this. So, I love this example >> because it's kind of like who are you? You're a hacker. And it gives you the cool thing about this trailer. It gives you a list of what you do. This is your story. You are framing people. You're framing innocent people, of course, you know, changing people academic records, building viruses, and all those are are activities in the game, but it's also, you know, who you are. That is your story. Those are the kinds of things that you're going to do in the game. Um, so again, you know, we were talking about Sabotur before. Well, as Sabadur, you already have a series of actions that you're associating with with your character. That's the way that we can design the story of the player at least at a at a high level and give it that cue. Um I'm skipping game events because that's kind of long and it's very based on too based in video games um and mostly on cut scenes. Um the other um example that I want to bring here is micro narratives. And again, this is more all these are more a video game thing, but micro narratives are little events, you know, they're not like even cut scenes. They're just little events that happen as reactions to the player's actions. In a way, Sonic tapping his food is a kind of macro narrative, like you're not doing anything and it's kind of like, come on, I want to go or or uh Mario falling asleep. It's it's kind of like a micro narrative of sorts. Uh but at times I love this is one of my favorite macro narratives in the history of games. This is the game Jack said Willie which is from 1985 80 something mid80s. Um it was for Commodore 64. Well it was originally for the Spectrum. True. Yes. Thank you. He has prepared a presentation of the Spectrum. Yes. uh Commodore 64, Amsterdam. It was for all the this uh Z80 U platforms in the 80s. And this was a sequel to Manic Minor. Uh so in Manic Minor, you wear minor Willie. Yes, Minor Willie. Uh and you go down into the earth and you find a treasure and you become immensely rich. So, with the money that you get from from the first game, you throw a party. And you throw such a big party that your house becomes invaded by the weirdest creatures ever. Um, there are flying toilet seats. Um, mutant pigs. I don't know. This it's it's Yeah, it's such a good party that you get people from other worlds to come to your party. Uh, but the thing is like it was such a good party, you want to go to bed. This is Willie. This is this is you in the game. So he jets at Willie. This is the the day after and Willie is hangover probably after the super party and he was under a bed and in the in the in the game uh to the to the left you have the picture of a bed and that's kind of like your goal. Go to bed. But this is your land lady who's seen how you trashed the place and she doesn't want you to go to bed until you've cleaned it up. So, the cool thing, and I really want to get an the animation here, um, is that she has her arms like this, you know, she's holding her her arms like this, and whenever you get near her, uh, her, which which arm is it? Her left arm goes like, "H go." And it's a reaction to what you do is with those. It's a few pixels. It's like probably four or five pixels. And in four five pixels, this game is telling you this is what you have to do. Go that way. This is your goal. Yes, but you cannot come here. Go that way and clean it up, you know, and this is, you know, this is 8 bit pixels. And she's telling it all bad with just a few pixels. You don't really need that much. Um, but it's that kind of reaction. You know, we always want to to get again give cues. What is it that the player has to do? We don't need a cut scene. only with a few with a few pixels we know what we have to do right and it's a very difficult game too for today's standards anyway so the conclusion um here is that you know why do we need stories or why do we need fictions you know what do fictional worlds do for us what do themes uh do for us you know well as we're saying you know we have humans have a tendency to storyize everything we are natural storytellers some of What these games like Once Upon a Time or Bloom um are playing up with is because we are we tell you know other people what has happened to us. You know if you complain about something you're complaining in the in the form of a story or something that might have happened to you. uh we understand our experience as stories and there are you know different uh disciplines have have dealt with this you know from cognitive cognitive science to um psychology you know how we are so making stories about ourselves how we making stories about our worlds. So having a story having a a a game that has a fictional world in which a story can take place is a way of understanding the underlying system you know by as I was saying you know if we have a game that is called mafia word wars we already have a goal we have a sets of rules you know who we are what is it that we have to do uh and we don't have we don't need a lot of you know two words have been enough to evoke a lot of those of that information Um, so the the other the last thing, and this applies a bit more to video games, is that by having a story, we're also providing consistency to the world. You know, when when um Yesper U is talking about uh incoherent worlds, he's really talking about worlds where, you know, there's not really a story and and there are video games that have awful stories. That's true. But when you're forced or where you're thinking about your your world as ter not only as a fictional world as a simulation but also as a world that has to produce a story that makes sense you know that is going to provide more coherence to the world hopefully if you have good writers too but that mean you can take the director for games supposed to uh you know that there's there's something and and there are things that that Jper complains about like the um you know why does Mario have three lives Well, well, because it's Mario, right? Uh, you know, is that part of the story? You know, that's that's a bit one of those like no man's land uh kind of kind of issues like does that undermine the consistency of the world? Maybe the onto the the ontological level, the level of the world uh itself. Uh but really, it's kind of is more about making sense about the rules. You know what is it looking at being able to look at the world in in a critical way? I'm trying to think of an example of apart from the three lines of Mario. >> What? >> What he says the plumber? Oh, no. That was >> No, but so for example, uh I don't know Kirby like he eats other creatures and spits them. You know what? Where does it come from? You know, why does he do that? That, you know, what is what is the story of Kirby? He's a kind of Yeah, he's kind of cute, but hey, I would watch out with him because he can eat almost anything and then he becomes it. >> Kirby is a really disturbing character. >> When you think about it in terms of stories, like this is kind of wow. >> I mean, Yoshi, right? >> Yes. >> And I love Yoshi. >> Yeah. That's another video game charact. It seems like one of the reasons why these arguments are being raised is because been this huge pile of inconsistencies. >> Yes, but the inconsistencies become evident when you try to write the story >> if that makes sense. >> You know, it's kind of like So, >> so Yoshi eats creatures and maybe >> he poops eggs. He hatches an egg. >> Depends on which Mario you're talking about. Cuz if it's Super Mario Yeah. He poops. >> Yeah. And it's like And then he throws it and they're like bomb. >> Yeah. He throws his ank. He uses his ank. That's true. Yoshi is a question. >> Yes. But yeah, but all those things become evident the moment that we start to story. So who is this person? Why did they what did they do this? And it's kind of like wow. It's kind of like falling apart. So the incoherence and I'm just thinking that I don't know if like this or not. But the incoherence comes from the impossibility or or not impossibility but but the the problems of trying to make this into a story and realizing well this has not been this has been thought out as a cool game and I love Yoshi's Island but as the story is kind of falls apart. Yeah. >> So I think one of the the really glaring inconsistencies in a lot of RPGs in particular is that in most of these worlds there's some kind of like resurrection power which exists. And there are a lot of plots which revolve around characters dying and that being a bad thing. And you're like, why not just use your Phoenix down? >> Why do we care if the king's been assassinated? I've got this thing in my inventory from resurrecting like a thousand times. And now because this guy killed it, like what kind of reason? >> The actual conceit there is you're not dead. You're just knocked out. >> So it's like smelling salts or something. But there are games like Plscape tournament where that is incorporated in the you know you're immortal and that's the thing that figuring out why you're immortal and why you they make fun of of you like waking up and it's kind like oh my goodness this is really this really hurts I feel terrible you know and then they're making they're making that problem into part of an essential part of the game. Yes. So, with the RPG thing, the incoherency is how so many times when you're in these battles, you're doing these incredible things like you're summoning asteroids or jumping and destroy people, but then in the in the game world, you get to a ledge and it's like, oh, it's a ledge. I have to go around or look, it's a it's a gap like this wide. I can't step over it. There's a bush. Oh, no. I can't what what am I going to do? There's a bush in the way. And so, >> but you put in diagonals, too. What? >> No, I'd rather do diagonals. >> I think another egregious inconsistency that comes up a lot is the uh and I think it's in the it's it's explicitly mentioned in the reading that that you're you're the world savior usually and on the way you're going to pillage, steal, kill innocent people, and it's not going to be a big deal. and and and even in games where they make the endpoint variables, they're like, "All right, you can neither save the world or be a total jerk, and that fixes one problem." They still have the problem that during the game, you can alternate back and forth between being really good and really bad. And all it does is it kind of swings you one way or the other. It's one, it's one dimensional, so you just sort of a spectrum, and if you do five really bad things and then five really good things, you're back to where you started. Yes. >> And that's not necessarily consistent, you know, uh, >> in terms of storytelling. There's also the the classic inconsistency of if I don't save the world, everything will be destroyed, but you're still going to charge me a 100 gill for this Phoenix. >> It's still inconsistent >> and and or I have to say to the world now because bad things are happening. Let me go do these 20 side quests first. >> It's still marching. But yeah, I can >> this cat stuck in a tree. >> The rat's in the cellar, man. Rats in the cell. >> Yeah. It's like the end of the world is nine. Like in Final Fantasy, the end of the world is nine, but let me go around more more random characters so that I can bump up my >> So that actually reminds me of I think it was a web comic I read about a month ago and it had like it was based around Link. I was like, "Oh my god, you're our savior. You're going to help us." I was like, "Yes, I am." And so the whole whole time he's just going on Cypus like, "What are you doing? They're raping and pillaging everything. They're destroying everything. What are you What are you doing?" Oh. I'll do that in a second. I just have to get this really fairly cool shield. It's like and then and then at one point it's like why what are you doing? It's like I'm fishing so I can get this litter so I can catch some other fish. Like why why would you ever be doing this right now when the world's about to end and evil is spreading across everything. It's like don't worry about it. I'm on it. >> Well, it's very interesting. And then this is my last last slide. So if you want to >> we can go on discussing. Sure we can have. Okay. So um at times you know the little cues that are building world or building character can also backfire. So, I've been playing one of the DS uh Zelda games, and this one of the nicest touches is that whenever you get near a character, you know, Link is going to look at them in the eye like, "Hi," you know, like you're walking and stuff like, "Hi," you know, and at times it's super weird because they look the characters look at each other like they acknowledge that they're there. So, they feel kind of alive, you know, it's very simple, you know, 3D algorithm like, "Okay, if there's another character, they look at each other." It's like, "Wow, they're alive. Cool." and they react. But then you go into somebody's house and they're looking at you and you're like, "Hi, you know, you break their pots to get rupees and they're looking at you and you're like breaking everything and it's kind of like it's kind of weird. They should react because they're looking at you and you're breaking their house, you know, and and that's, you know, again, it's giving a touch that is giving you making those characters alive, but it's also kind of like breaking it like kind of I'm still breaking your thoughts. That's better. >> I think that was uh subverted in um what was it? >> No. In another Zelda game, um >> Link's Awakening. >> You go into the shop and the shop owner is always looking at you. So, if you take something off the shelf and try and exit, he says, "No, you can't do that. You can't uh steal it." But if you run around him, he's not fast enough to keep his eye on you. So, you run around him until he's looking away and you can leave. But if you come back in, he says, "You're the guy who stole something." And then he shoots you with the laser. >> The character in the game calls you a thief. The rest of >> the game. That's very funny. >> That's awesome. >> I was going to say like Oblivion and Fallout do the same sort of like where everyone watches you like if they're within like >> they're acknowledging you and then like you try and take something like they'll run up and be like why the hell are you taking my stuff or like start you know beating you up or whatever. What should they do? people called the town guard. >> Yeah. >> And everyone >> problematic when you're powerful enough and you can take the town guard >> and it's just really annoying cuz everywhere you go there's like guys you can kill that kind of there and you're like all right come on get out of my way. >> Yeah. So there was a Mega Man Legends which I don't know if anybody ever played. I don't think anyone played that, but um essentially it was like Mega Man, but the RPG style game, but it was actually slightly different from most RPGs. And that most RPGs, you just walk around walking into people's houses looking for loot. But you actually couldn't just walk into people's houses. Their doors would be locked and like you could knock and see if anybody was there. But it was kind of interesting because like it was actually consistent in the sense that you couldn't just randomly walk into somebody's house and steal their crap. >> There's one thing. So one thing that I wanted to ask you because all these things in in video games you know after a while the kind of result evident right because we have we have the possibility of having fleshed out uh uh worlds that we can interact with you know that are simulated and the the times when those cracks are showing you know what system is showing when they're showing that this is limited that we've chosen a specific level of abstraction to to simulate the the world. Um, but do those in congruities bother people in board games or card games so much? >> I I would argue that sometimes it's a little bit of a speed bump to learning what's going on. Uh, assuming it's unmet, assuming that that that that is incoherent. It seems like because it's almost impossible to play a car game or a board game without first understanding the rules unlike in computer games where you can just jump right in. Um that is usually something that can be surmounted if people are if people sort of say oh the rules say this but the theme says that okay I understand what the rules say. >> Yeah. Able to step over that. >> Yeah. And I think that that's an excellent point that when we start playing a board game and probably when what you guys do in this class is you get a new board game of what do you do? You pick up the instructions >> and you're figuring out the rules first and not the world. In a lot of video games, we figure out the world first and then by exploring the world, we're figuring out the rules. And even if there are games that are giving us tutorials or you know manuals who I don't know, not many people read manuals if at all >> while the game is installed. >> Yes, if it's fun. Um but but you know like manuals is not something that even though it's going to be the first thing to look at in a board game and a card game. Um and even well as a player no as a player you'll also look at the rule books at least to cons to build your own character most times. >> You mean you mean on PC >> on roleplay games? >> Oh in in are you talking about tabletop role playing? >> Yes tabletop. >> Oh yeah even tabletop role playing games you Yeah, >> chances are people start by looking at the handbooks before >> laring might be a good example of how like laring you just giving your >> your character >> your character which is very interesting. >> I mean for role playing I know a lot of people who can't really be bothered to learn the rules that thoroughly prefer just to like experience the story and have somebody tell them how to resolve mechanics and that kind of thing. Yeah, >> but even it's funny because even when you are not when you're building your character in in a tabletop role playing game, >> you still have to have a look at, you know, what is the race that you want, what is your religion, what is your powers that you want to choose. You'll you kind of really, even if you're only playing for, you know, for cakes and you don't care so much about the moves and I'm I'm the type of tabletop role playing that prefers the story and I don't care so much about combat. Um, but you still have to know the rules even before you start playing, if that makes sense. >> I mean, there are situations like Owens describing where people don't look at a rules, but then then they're usually relying on the GM to tell them what's allowed and what's not allowed, which means someone read the rules. It's no different from someone explaining to you a card game as opposed to having rules. >> Actually, kind of makes the experience a bit like playing a computer game. The the GM sort of does the blackbox arbitration for >> Yeah, the GM is your computer. In fact, it's more powerful than a computer because you can sort of figure out what you're actually asking. >> What someone >> Yes. >> I I have a question about narratives actually. So, so one thing about card games and board games is that almost everything that gets revealed or that happens in the middle of the game um is usually a play of mechanic. Uh sometimes some sometimes there's some loose flexibility in like games where they allow open negotiation in between in between specific plays. But most of it's actually in the play of a card and move of a piece something like that. And especially when you're playing cards, you have things like paper text. You have things especially um for cards where you can just like play them at any time. Uh, and um, I've seen micro narratives done, at least what I think of micro narratives, seem to be done really well in those instances. Uh, in fact, they're instant cards, right? The the, you know, someone tries to do something that might win them the game and you play this card and that denies them the win >> and but then that's tied up with some sort of labor text, some sort of thematic element to that card. >> Well, it could be like the uh, Monopoly. What is the type of card? There is two type of cards. >> Go to jail. >> No, >> yeah, like the chance and there's chance is something that happens to you, but there's also community. >> The community chest. Thank you. Which is something that you play. The difference is in and micro narratives here. What it means is something it's a reaction to players >> events. is not something that the player chooses to do >> which is you know that those reaction cards those are also part of the player's narrative and in a way you know is player is choosing this is going to happen now >> um this is what gloom is about in this is what these two games are about most of the time it's kind of like you're trying to to construct a story and you're kind of like trying to tamper into somebody else's story uh so it's that kind of reaction but it's yeah we would have find a name for it. But um yeah, it's the micro narrative is referring to something that happens as reaction. It's not something that the player does. Maybe that's >> it's often in reaction to what another player is doing. So it depends on whose point of view you're taking. So >> I've got a community chess card and I'm holding it until somebody else is, you know, about to take advantage of a position and then I n them. >> Yeah. Yeah. And these ones >> still in reaction to what we >> I just going to mention in terms of micro narrative I don't know would this be a possible example in the board game that we're designing there's a computer incentive that you want to hack and every time someone tries to hack it it gets weaker so it's sort of a response to someone doing it actually >> would that count as a micro narrative or was that more of a mechanic >> it seems I mean as an event is an important event it's a change of state but I don't know how much of a story it is like how you know and this is there's no science to what constitutes an event or not. It's something that I'm that's part of my research. It's something that I'm trying to figure out you know what does how can we identify with an event that is a rule and it's also an event in the story. Uh because things like disconnecting the computer or hacking the computer yeah that that seems to be clearly an event. What if we had you know like each time they becomes weaker there is something else that you can do. So by hacking the computer there is a new action you know you get access to new areas of the game or you get uh a new power up or you get you know it's easier for example if and I'm totally hypothesizing about what your game is about but if you have a computer that is controlling the security of a place whenever you hack a certain part of the system it's letting you uh it's letting you move faster through the board uh in a way that might be closer to the a micro narrative because it does have it's a reaction but it's also consequences >> in that case for careers for girls when you choose to go down a path is that micro narrative because the player chooses and then sort of changes the state slash gives you more >> I don't know the choices but the events that happen like what happens when you land on something might be closer and again it's kind of like the micro narrative. >> I mean the careers and careers for girls which if folks haven't seen it is really really apparent um seems to be built on micro narratives the whole idea that everywhere you land something's happen some life event is happening >> but the choice what I'm saying is that the choice itself is not the micro narrative the landing >> and what happens when you land. >> Oh wow. >> Anything else? I actually kind of wanted to make one last comment about um like immersion stories >> in particular with the example of the Sims. Uh is anybody familiar with Allison Kev? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So Allison Kev was this really interesting experiment that this guy did where um he created two homeless Sims. >> Oh yes. A father and a daughter. >> I think we talked about >> uh just kind of like did a sort of web comic style display of the lives of these two homeless Sims like as she grew up and he got older. And it it it almost seemed like it became like a role- playinging game where the guy playing the Sims became the dungeon master who had like, you know, created these characters and then the AIs were playing these characters for him. in particular this there was this one moment where um he gets to a part of the story where uh the the daughter has just gotten her first paycheck and she decides to donate it to charity and like he keeps trying to keep her from donating it to charity but she keeps saying I want to donate it to charity so eventually he lets her donate it to charity and it was almost like it was the character's choice to donate it and he's at the end of this this blog post that he did about this specific events. He's talking about how like, you know, what does it mean when a video game character that you created makes you question your own life choices? >> I don't know. It's just a really interesting thing. If you haven't read it, you should check it out. >> I think it's alphanc.com something. >> It's a starting The Sims 3. >> Talking about like non-digital games being very involved in your character. I felt like I feel like the one game I've played where I've been very involved in a character is Mafia where like there's a lot of actual information given to you. People are young like you're the mafia. The way you smiled at him like you know clearly you guys. So I don't know. >> So you become the character more by how people see you than >> than how you play it. >> I guess you're also assigning character to other people >> reading into their actions. Is it >> I heard >> that's a game where the roles are designed by the designer and >> there's only two roles. It's like it's not >> Well, there can be there's a few >> I've seen websites with like a whole list of roles and some of them are hilarious. >> Seems good. >> Yeah. >> In digital games, I feel like they're the games where you have a very defined character unlike this. If you have a very defined character in the video game more was like fable your character isn't defined and kind of like changes based on the actions you use if you're evil he becomes ugly and he gets confessed and things but I never felt like I identified with the character at all versus games that already give me a very strong character and I'm supposed to play a certain way I feel like >> that's that's odd because that's completely >> that runs against what they were trying to do or at least that's what their marketing claims that they're trying to do is to make you feel closer to the character because it's the reflection Yeah, >> I think like Bioshock does a better job of that where you never see the guy. >> So you're always just like looking through his eyes and he has essentially no personality. So at least no personality is displayed in the game. So it's almost as if you are directly interacting. >> Yeah. given a space to be >> to to actually like, you know, project yourself into the game, >> which I think is sort of what Fable was trying to do, but doesn't really do a good job of it because you see him right there and he's clearly not you. I feel like torment is a really plcape Torment is a really interesting take on this where the character is essentially like who it is that you play him as. But there's more to it than that because there's also backstory to the character which you the character have forgotten and is revealed to you over time. But you're you're no more that character >> that was that that your character was back then than you are definitely the character now. So it's kind of your nature changes over time and you've gone through several iterations of this. Yeah. And if you like none of them is true or more correct you >> the funny thing about playscape tournament is kind of like a like a personality test. >> Uh because I've been playing it again and last first time I played through I was chaotic good and I was trying to play different and still chaotic good. So I'm kind of freaking out. Oh, like okay, you know, I'm really trying to do something different, but I'm still in the same alignment. Uh because a lot of your definition of and actually your alignment can also decide, you know, items that you can get or things that you can do. Um but it's based on your choices and how you tackle, you know, if you do a quest, if you choose if you lie, for example, or if you do like crazy things. Um and and it's not something Once you realize where you the effect of your choices is, you can kind of control it. But this, you know, like playing is kind of like, okay, it's going to be about you and how your game playing style is majoring personality. >> Yeah, there's an interesting effect in like Knights of the Old Republic. when played that. >> Um, you you can explicitly make decisions to become to go to the dark side, but like I remember when I played it, every time it came up with a decision where I could like the dark side has all the awesome powers, right? So, it kind of funny to think of like I'm going to be on the dark side. I'm going to have all the awesome powers. It's going to be grand. Um then you get to the decisions and I was like almost uncomfortable with choosing the evil options such that I couldn't actually bring myself to go to the dark side. >> We we are actually out of time but you know but I wouldn't say that >> the the options of of the republic actually let's let's take discussion of the republic space. >> Yeah. >> Okay. All right. Well thanks thanks. >> Thank you.