All right. I was disappointed about my explanation about corporate taxation last time. Saw a lot of confused faces. It's a hard topic, but I think it make it easier. So, I'm going to try again. If you remember last time, we were talking about how taxation affects corporation investment decisions. And we said that when you invest a dollar, you get a you get a return which is the marginal product of capital. Okay, absent taxation. Then we said look, if the government comes in and has a corporate tax, then every dollar you take home, they're going to take some of it. Every money take home. So you're only going to take home MPK times one minus. Okay? I think that part people didn't see people seemed okay with. Stop me once again if it's not clear, but that's sort of your net rate of return. Okay? Now, think of it this way. The government then comes along and says, "You know what? For every dollar investment you make, I'm going to give you a deal. I'm going to give you two discounts. One discount is I'm going to give you a rebate, which is a a um uh depreciation deduction." Okay? And that's effectively so I'm going to I'm going to express that in terms of the present value of this depreciation deduction Z. So Z is basically the present value of all the tax benefits you're going to get. If they're in the future, they're worth less than they're if they're sooner. So accelerated depreciation has a higher Z than regular depreci than straight line depreciation. Okay, what is that worth to you? Well, you get to deduct that from your tax base. So that's worth to Z to you. Remember this goes back to our individual taxation discussion. Deductions are not worth the full amount, only worth the amount of deduction times your tax rate. Okay? So that's one discount you get off the price. You get that. The other discount you get is in addition for every dollar investment you make I'm going to rebate you in a credit alpha cents. This is an additional incentive. So not only do you allow this depreciate induction I'm also give you alpha cents back in just a pure rebate pure tax credit. So what does that mean? That means the price of your dollar investment has fallen. What does it fallen to? It's fallen to one minus to z minus alpha. That's what the price of a dollar a dollar investment you spend a dollar but you get toy and alpha back. So this is your net price. So now what what that means is you want to compare this what I didn't make clear last time. You want to say the the net return to a dollar of investment. First of all bottle investment buys you more than a dollar. It buys me one minus to zed minus alpha. So that's the denominator. It a dollar buys more than a dollar. This is less than one. So, it blows up my return, but then that blown up return is knocked down by the tax rate. Okay? So, two things are going on to my rate of return. I'm getting a higher rate of return than I might have thought because my dollar is buying more than a dollar because I'm getting this this these rebates, but a lower rate of return because the government's taking a share. What that means is the effective tax rate is the So, this is what happens after taxes come in. What's my effective tax rate? Well, it's what I would have gotten without taxes, which is MPK minus what I get with taxes. Okay, it's what I would have gotten without taxes, I would have got MP subk. Now, I get this beast with taxes. So, what that means is what is the effective tax rate equivalent to? Well, if you do the math on this, you end up finding that the effective tax rate can be written as I want to make sure I get this right because I've already made this difficult enough. Uh the effective tax rate can be written as to minus to z minus alpha over 1 minus to z minus alpha. That is the effective tax rate. That's just basically take one, you know, you basically subtract this, you pull mpk out, take one minus this thing, rearrange and you get this term, this ugly looking term. But let's just stare at this for a minute. What does this mean? Let's imagine a world where Z is zero and alpha is zero. Then what's the effective tax rate to right? That's the that's the effective reduction your rate of return. But as as alpha gets positive and Z gets positive, the effective tax rate falls. Okay, why does it fall? Because it's you're you're you're losing it off. It's it's in the denominator. It's causing it to fall. So basically as alpha gets positive and Z gets positive your effective tax rate falls. So for example with an alpha of zero let's say the let's say that to was 35%. And let's say that uh Z is 50%. So the depreciation deduction will be 50%. The PDV of the appreciation deduction is 50% of the purchase price. So every dollar of investment I make I'm going to get 50 cents back in present value depreciation deductions. What that means, the effective tax rate, if you put these two in this formula, is 11.7%. That means that after you account for the fact you get a depreciation deduction, really, you're only paying 11.7% of your income in taxes on that marginal dollar of investment. So, the marginal dollar of investment yields MPK. Some of that gets taken away, some gets given back in a rebate. When you put it all together, that dollar of investment is taxed at 11.7%. Yeah. >> What does alpha represent? I'm sorry. Alpha is the investment tax credit. It's like a rebate you get for you get alpha cents back at every dollar of investment. Okay. Is that does that make sense to folks? Please ask questions. Yeah. >> What's the intuition or logic behind dividing by the term in the bottom? >> Oh yeah. This is what's confusing. This is why it's different in the book. I'm going to rewrite it in the next edition of the book. The idea is that basically this is what you get per dollar. Okay. But a dollar is less than a dollar. Now this is the discount you're getting off the price. So in some sense the bottom line is every every time you make an investment it costs you this and yields this. >> So it's what it yields over what it costs. Okay. It yields this and it costs you this. Okay. Questions about that. All right. So that's a form of effective tax rate. Here's the key point. What do you get if Z What do you get if Z equals 1 and alpha equals zero? What's the effective tax rate? Z yeah zero if Z equals 1 okay then the numerator is zero so the effect tax rate zero so with expensing literally there's no tax burden on investment because basically I tax you on it but I let you deduct it so there's no tax burden and if alpha was also positive the effective tax rate would be negative so with an alpha of 0.1 and a z of one the effective tax rate is minus4%. So, so the point is effect the tax because of the way it said the tax system it can actually incentivize literally the US tax code can incentivize investment and how could it do so by giving you effectively making the price of investment less than makes it less than free better than free from a tax perspective because you get this this depreciation deduction plus the investment tax credit. Yeah. So Tow is the corporate income tax. Yes. And this is how that affects investment. Yes. Specifically. >> Yes. Okay. >> Good. Good clarifications. So basically this is for the dollar of investment. What are you getting back? The point is what you're getting back. What's what is the difference between you get back in a world without taxation and a world with [clears throat] with taxation? That's the key. It's the difference between what you get back in a world without taxation, what you get back in a world with taxation. that difference is this function which can be positive or negative. Okay. So basically we have a situation where basically um now the question is sort of what's the right level? How do we think about what the right level of corporate tax is? Well that essentially is going to go back to how we think about optimal tax from an from an efficiency perspective. It's going to depend on what's the efficiency cost of reducing investment. Okay, from an equity perspective, it's going about the fact that corporate tax are generally paid by wealthier people. So be an equity efficiency trade-off with cutting corporate taxation. What I got to last time was there's an extra wrinkle and this is subtle and it's just but it's important to recognize which is when I introduce an alpha today that rewards all future investment but doesn't do any good to the people who who had old investments. When I cut Tao, everybody wins. So it's more expensive to for the same boom in investment it's more expensive to cut towel than to introduce an alpha for the same budget cost if I have a budget neutral cut in tow instruction of alpha I get a much bigger bang for the buck for the alpha because that promotes foregoing investment doesn't reward all the investment made in the past okay questions about that yeah >> effective tax that means the government like >> subsidizing investment >> okay >> it's I mean which You know, it's not implausible, right? Investment yields growth and jobs, and it's not crazy. You'd have a subsidy to investment. >> But is this off of each marginal dollar, like each more or >> each additional dollar, you're actually going to literally you'll make more money from investing with taxes than without it. >> Okay, great. So, trying again, I think that's clearly what's in the book, and I'm going to change it the next edition. Okay, now that gets even harder when we recognize that companies don't exist just in the US but exist in international world. In particular, many firms are multinational firms and they have subsidiaries abroad which are parts of their business who are which are headquartered uh uh uh abroad. Okay. Um so uh and this complicates taxes. So General Electric in 2010 had worldwide profits of 14.2 2 billion of which 5.1 billion came from the US. Okay. 141 billion. Five half billion in the US. Total US taxes paid -2 billion. They got a rebate in the US. How the hell was that possible? Well, let's now talk about international taxation. Okay. When we talk about international taxation, there are fundamentally two different ways you can tax international companies. There's what's called a territorial system and a global system. A territorial system is system where literally you're just taxed on what you make in that country. Okay? So literally whatever you make in that country you pay tax on it in that country or you make another country you pay tax in that country. A global system is one where you're taxed based on where your headquarters is basically. So essentially if a multinational um company if GE makes money around the world it's taxed in it's taxed in the US. Okay. Um now basically um what is the big issue with these systems? The big issue with these systems is that when you produce in many countries it is hard to figure out where profit comes from. And in particular we have a problem of what's called transfer pricing. This is this is for our friend in the back who likes all the fun tricks you can do with taxes. This will be another fun one. Another fun one for you. Okay. So imagine that France has a 40% tax on corporate profits. So imagine France in France the tax is 40%. And in the US it's 21%. Okay. Now imagine further that an American company is a French subsidiary that manufactures microchips at a cost of $100 each. So the manufacturing cost is 100 and it it's in France. Okay. They make it in France and it cost $100. Okay. They then transfer those microchips to the US where in the US the manufacturing cost and then the remaining costs are another $500 of kind of you put the chip in the computer, you put the computer together, etc. Okay. And then after that you sell for $1,000. Okay? So you've put $100 of cost in in France, $500 in the US, and you sell for a,000 for $400 profit. Okay? Now, let's say the question is who does the profit belong to? It's not obvious. So the US company could say that the profit all is due to what was produced in France. It wouldn't exist without the original manufacturing cost on the chip. Okay, I shouldn't. So with not manu, let's call this the the chip costs. The chip costs and this is the rest. Okay, the chip cost 100. Look, we wouldn't have earned this profit without the chip. So we're going to say that um uh we're going to say that we are going to we're going to assume the profits were in France. So we're going to say that chip was actually worth $500. It only cost to produce it, but I wouldn't have had the $400 profit without it. So, I'm going to claim a $500 expense in France because why not? I can do that. Okay, I'm going to claim a $500 expense in France. That means that the French company um would pay $160 in taxes. So, in this world, the French company pay would pay taxes on $400. At 40%, that's $160 in taxes. Okay? Um, and the American company would have no profits and so they'd pay no tax. So you'd pay $160 in tax because you would have you'd have $4 in profits located in France. Okay, questions about that. Let's do the other extreme. Let's imagine this company said no chips or chips whatever. It wouldn't exist without good old USA production putting the thing together. So all the profits are earned in the US. Now, if all the profits are earned in the US, then that means there's $400 in profits in the US. What do we pay in taxes? $81. So, basically, we can cut our taxes in half by claiming the profits are due to the production in the US, not France. Well, who's to say? The answer is tax lawyers are to say, and you know my feeling on lawyers, okay, lovely people. just uh it's a lot of work to basically figure out how to make the profits land in the place where it gets you the best tax deal. As a result, um as a result, you basically have um this problem of transfer pricing. It's hard to know where the profits land. Now, tax authorities aren't dumb. They know about this and they have what's called arms length transaction laws where you couldn't actually send the French company $500 for the chip because nobody pays $500 for a chip. So, they'd say, "Look, you can't do that." you could send them, you know, or you couldn't put it all in the US. More and more importantly, you couldn't put all in the US. Say, look, you got to some of the profit to the chip. You could attribute a small share of the profit of the chip. It's hard to know how much. And remember, when you have this important thing about tax enforcement, we'll talk about this lecture and next lecture. You have underpaid government tax lawyers fighting highly paid people whose job is minimize taxes. That's a job. That's a something the government's always going to lose. There's a challenge there to try to fight that battle. Okay. So basically um that is an example. So an example is Glacos Smith Klein the drug company. Um uh produces Zantac. You've all heard of Zantac. Um and they produce it in many in many countries. Um and uh at this time the US was a much higher tax country than the UK. So they shifted profits to the UK. Um and basically the government um uh basically uh found that eventually found that they'd uh underpaid about 5.2 billion dollars in taxes by misstating the profits attributed to the UK and eventually sued and won on that. Now that is sort of a good example of kind of the government figuring this out. I have great examples in the book. We don't have time to go through them. It's so much fun. But let's talk about the most fun one which is Apple. Okay. Um, [snorts] in 2011, Apple made um 70% of its $ 34.2 billion in pre-tax profits abroad and paid a tax rate of 2.2%. On those um and basically they're saying there were $74 billion they made in profits abroad. Uh they said that basically um uh between 2009 2012 only $74 billion in profits that were taxed abroad that theoretically could have been taxed at home. How do they do this? Well, they're very creative because they're Apple. Okay, what do they do? They go to Ireland. Ireland has essentially no corporate tax rate. It's a tax what we call a tax haven. It's they try to encourage activity there by having no tax rate. So basically Apple made $34 billion 2011. The numbers aren't important, just a concept. Made $34 billion 2011. And reported that its Japanese subsidiary, even though Japan is where they sell a ton of their stuff, if you've been to Japan, there's a lot of Apple stuff. They only made $150 million in Japan, even though it's one of their biggest markets. Instead, they reported 22 billion in income in Ireland, which would be like six iPhones per person in Ireland. Okay. Now, they've gone further. Okay. They now have AOI, Apple Operations International. which is um it it owns all of Apple's offshore production. AOI is a holding company owns all of Apple's offshore production, but AOI has no physical presence and no employees. Uh it it except for one Irish employee. Okay? Because it's managed control because it's not managed or controlled in Ireland. Ireland does not resist tax residency because it's not incorporated in the US. The US doesn't recognize his tax residency. So basically they created this thing that exists in limbo and paid no tax. Um eventually uh they got caught uh and they got paid uh a little bit uh but nothing as much as they should have owed. Yeah. >> How can you create a corporation that doesn't >> I'm not a tax lawyer. I'm not a tax lawyer. I'm just don't don't try to figure it out. No matter what you figure out, they're smarter than you are. Okay. >> I it it doesn't exist. That's the point is that basically there's all international taxation is incredibly hard because it's hard to talk about where money comes from when you're selling things and producing things in different countries. So now with that in mind, what are the relevant policy issues? Well, a big policy issue is basically should we have um our global s in fact the US was virtually alone before the Trump tax cuts 2017. The US had a global tax system. What that meant was, and by the way alone, every other country in the world had a territorial tax. Every other major country had a territorial tax system. You're taxed on what you made there. The US had a global system. Now, if you have a true global system and people are taxed on where they produce and tax in the US, that would be double taxation. That's unfair. So, what we did is we offered what's called a foreign tax credit. So, the way it worked is we said, "Look, you're selling in France. You're paying tax to France. We're going to give you credit for all the tax you pay in France. anything that's left over you'll owe the US. So basically say whatever profit you made we'll level the US tax on it but we'll give you a credit for all the taxes you paid to other countries and that's have a global system that doesn't invoke double taxation. Okay. The problem is they only know what you made in other countries when you bring it back to the US. So you make a bunch of other money in other countries. You just report to those tax authorities but the US company has no reason to know about it till you bring it back. So what that meant, it was a huge lock in incentive to leave your money in other countries because basically as long as it was there, you weren't paying that extra US tax from bringing it back. So this huge like we had a capital gains lock in effect. There was an international lock in effect. Okay. So basically um uh if you take the $74 billion in profits that Apple avoided through low foreign taxation, if they brought it back to the US, it would have taxed it. They only paid a 2.2% tax rate on that 74 billion. We would have said, "We're going to take the rest of our rate at that point is 35%. We'll take another third of that. Thank you." That would have nice chunk of change for the US Treasury. Instead, they just left it abroad. So, we never saw it. So, we never taxed it. So, basically, many people have argued that basically we essentially already have a territorial system. That basically, yeah, in theory, we have a global system, but the end of the no one brings their money back. We don't really have a global system. We have a territorial system which is basically we should just essentially give up on trying to tax the money made in other countries because they're not bringing it back anyway. Yeah. >> Is that holding overseas but not reporting back to the US governmental? >> No, it's not illegal. It's totally illegal. And more more than that, it's totally legal. One that's bizarre. So a big argument you heard for changing our tax system was all this money they' held abroad and they bring it back to the US and create all these jobs. Well, Paul Crew was very good in explain. Let's be clear. It was literally in the same bank. It was in a bank. On one side was called Apple foreign profits. Other side was called Apple US profits. If when they brought back just like change account number it wasn't like they were bringing new money into America. Just money sitting in a bank. It's which labels on it. Now you could say well maybe app you know if they bring it back then they've got to spend it in the US somehow. But they don't. They can just still leave it in the bank. Yeah. Does the locking prevent them from spending it in the US without paying money or is it what you're spending? >> Oh, they can spend whatever they want in the US. So, what they do is they take loans in the US to do stuff and they pay and they pay loans back with foreign with money from their foreign accounts. Okay. So, basically the bottom line is um people are saying look there was this lock in and we should we should reduce it. Um and basically we actually tried that. So in 2004 in the American Jobs Creation Act, gotta love these names. Um they actually uh essentially had a one-year tax holiday. They said, "We know you guys got all this money abroad. Bring it back. This year you only pay 5% in taxes instead of 35%." Okay? And um over the next few years, US companies repatriated $312 billion. Um and what they found was uh it created zero jobs because it wasn't about they just literally was reabeling the money. They're like, "Okay, we don't have to keep holding it there. We can come bring it back to the US." Yeah. when we talked about lock in with the um capital gains tax that had negative impacts. Does this lock in have any negative impacts? >> Not really. >> I mean that's sort of the point of this >> argument because it's just it's just funny money. Now in theory it could. In theory, remember I said capital is strangely immobile internationally. You could imagine a world where capital that's sort of labeled US could actually change people's investment decisions. It's possible. In theory it shouldn't. It's possible it could. But the tax holiday suggested it didn't. suggest that basically nothing changed when they did that. So essentially what do we basically um we have this tension of the fact they're keeping this money abroad and we also this other tension I talked about before which is it's really not great to have tax provisions that don't work. It sort of undercuts sort of the the sort of morality of the tax code to have tax provisions don't work. And so for a long time many economists have said look we should just have a territorial system and in the Trump tax cuts we did. we changed move to a territorial tax system. Now at the same time what the so what the Trump tax cuts did were fundamentally three large things. The first was they cut the corporate tax rate from 35 to 21%. Okay. And second we moved to a territorial system. So we essentially became much more competitive internationally in terms of corporate taxation. Okay. Much more competitive internationally. Now, um they did do a couple of things to try to reduce the because it is some people were repatriating money. So, it is a money loser to go to a purely territorial system. You aren't giving up on the money people actually did bring back. So, they did a couple things to try to uh address that. Um uh so, for example, they actually imposed a one-time tax. They basically estimated how much money you had abroad and did a onetime like what's called deemed repatriation tax. Like, we know how much money you guys have abroad. we're going to tax you on that. We're gonna have a new tax that didn't exist before. We'll just grab grab grab some of that from you to try to make up for it. But the bottom line is um it's not really um the bottom line is I think if if you poll economists, I think they're fairly generally positive on the corporate tax side of the Trump tax cuts. Our rate probably was too high internationally to compete. We brought it down. We probably aren't losing that much going from territorial territorial. We're losing some but you know we're losing some money. It's going to rich people but it's not nearly it it it probably is also increasing efficiency and increasing investment in the US. The problem was the following which is let's come back to our concept of tax wedges. Remember we t there was a tax wedge between investing in the US and investing internationally because you invested in the US you paid 35% internationally you paid more like low 20s. So that was a tax wedge that reduced investment in the US. We addressed that by taking our rate down to 21. The problem is in doing so we created a new tax wedge which is remember you can do activity in the corporate sector or the non-corporate sector. In the non-corporate sector most people are rich. They pay the top margin individual rate which is about 39%. So before the tax form we had pretty flat incentives in two sectors. There's 35% for corporations 39% for non-corporations. Now all of a sudden you've got 39% for non-corporations, 21% for corporations. So you've created a new wedge. So what do you do about that? Well, what Trump tax bill did was essentially give a huge tax break to non-corporate entities. Basically all these sort of non-corporate entities, your doctor's offices, your car washes, all that, they all got a huge tax break to bring those rates in line with each other. And that was a terrible idea. that cost us a huge amount of money and basically just gave a bunch of money to rich guys. Not it it bas based I mean these are largely rich people actually if you look at a lot of the most wealth the wealthiest a lot of the top 1% you know you think of them investment bankers and athletes they're they're autochain owners they're laundromat chain owners there's a lot of the richest Americans are actually people owning small businesses okay and they just got a huge tax break and it's not clear entirely why it's not clear entirely why we care so much if they're corporate or non-corporate and certainly the amount of money that was spent I think it was $500 billion was spent to end this tax wedge. It's not really clear why. Yeah. >> Is the difference between those two whether they're publicly or privately held? >> No. The difference is whether I'm sorry. Yes. Yes. They're publicly or privately held. Yes. >> Um No, no, no. There are some It's not public or privately held. It's more basically there's different types of corporations. There's what's called CC Corps and S corps. And I You're now exceeding my level of expertise. >> That's the difference. >> Yeah. Okay. So, basically it's sort of an interesting point about um that essentially there's tax wedges floating all over the place and fixing them fixes some thing problems but creates others and with each case in the case of fixing the corporate tax wedge from other countries that was probably a good policy move. Fixing other tax wedge was incredibly expensive. It's not clear what good it did. That was probably an inefficient use of money. Yeah. corporate businesses. >> Um, if there there's sort of a middle ground. So, there's there's like there's non-corporate, non-corporate, that's kind of like your your your partnership or like a self-employed person. Then there's what's called S corporations, which are essentially like small corporations that still have limited liability, but they don't have, for example, a board of directors. They don't have a lot of things that that that public companies do. Okay. Um, let me see if I have a better definition in here. Uh, of S corps versus C corpse. Uh, one second. Um, uh, the majors in these two in right, they're really pretty similar. Basley, actually, here's the most meaningful difference. S Corps pay individual tax. CRPS pay corporate tax. So, essentially the point here's a way to think about it. This is a better way to think about it. They're essentially the same. It's just before you did it based on I don't know what was more convenient for you. Now you'd be like gee I want to be a C corp because that pays a lower tax and people worried about that but it's not actually clear why that's a distortion whether S corp or CC corp. It's just two different labels and yet we're spending $500 billion to equalize the telling field between those labels. That's sort of the interesting question. Okay questions about that. Okay. Now, now we're going to teach you everything you need to know about um about uh corporate finance in 15 minutes. Okay, you can save all your all your course. I'm just joking. But let's talk about corporate finance. Okay, let's think about how taxes affect firms investment. How taxes affect how firms finance their investments. Now, we're going from whether firm invests to how they finance that investment. So, go to figure 245. Okay, let's say that there's a firm that is going to make an investment. They're going to they're going to finance an investment. They're not use the retained earnings. They're going to finance an investment. Remember, actually go back for a second to figure 241 to start. Remember figure 241, if you want to finance an investment, the bottom arrow is you could use your retained earnings. Okay, we'll come back to that. Leave that aside for now. Imagine you don't have return earnings. You need to finance an investment by raising the money somehow. Now go back to figure 245. What you do with that money is going to depend on how you finance it. For example, when you earn a dollar, let's say you finance that by borrowing. So that's the upper branch. You're then going to say if you earn a dollar and that's money that you owe. If you earn a dollar that you owe to the people who finance you, you give that dollar to the bond holders, okay? And they will pay income tax on that. But if you earn a dollar in if if you have equity holders, oh, and by the way, there's no corporate tax paid on it. Why? Because interest is deductible. So if you earn a dollar and you're paying it to bond holders, you can deduct from your taxes that interest payment. So on net, it cancels out. There's no But if you earn a dollar and it goes to stockholders, you do pay corporate tax. So the first step is you pay a corporate tax amount. Then the next step is you pay it out to your stockholders. But there's two ways you can do that. One way is you can pay them a dividend in which case they're taxed again at the dividend tax rate. The other way is you can put it into your stock and let it go up and then people can sell it and get a capital gain in which case they're taxed again the capital gains rate. So if you pay out money to equity holders there's double taxation. This is why many people don't like the corporate tax system. They say we look at features double taxation because you're taxed once at the corporate level, tax again at the individual level when that's paid out. Okay? And that level of taxation depends on how it's paid out. Now, if you look at this chart, it raises the two fundamental mysteries of corporate finance. The first mystery is why do firms ever use equity? Debt is massively tax favored. When you pay out debt, you don't have to pay the corporate tax. when you pay in equity, you do corporate tax used to be 35%. That's a big difference. Why do firms not all debt? And so there's a large literature on that. And the answer, the fundamental answer comes down to the key distinction between debt and equity, which is debt requires fixed payments. Equity does not. When you take a loan, you have to pay it back. When you issue stock, you don't have to do anything. You don't have to pay a dividend. Doesn't even have to go up. I mean, you wanted to, but doesn't have to. So, think of it this way. Um, imagine that uh I gave you two choices for a grading scheme for this course. Okay? In one choice, you do a problem set every week, and if you ever fail one problem set, you fail the course. In another choice, I'm going to average all your problem set grades. And at the end, I'll perform I'll rate you based on an average how your problem set grades did. Unless you're sort of riskloving, you kind of prefer the second, right? Well, the problem is debt is kind of like the first and equity is kind of like the second. Not exactly, but it's a similar feature. So, basically, um, now add on top of that the agency problem, which is that basically if the stock goes up or down, that is sort of annoying or not annoying. If the company goes bankrupt, I lose my job. So, I really care about not making sure the company doesn't go bankrupt. Okay? I really care about making sure my debt holders get paid. As a result, there is going to be a there's going to be a bias towards equity and away from debt. Let's we can see this in an example. Let's go to table 241. The defer equity conflict. Okay, you've got a company here that's worth $6 million. In the first case, 1 million is held by equity holders and 5 million by debt holders. Now you have an investment that it's a it's a tail it's a coin flip. Okay, the investment is a coin flip. Um, which is that it's 50% chance win 3 million, 50% chance lose 6 million. 50% chance win 3 million, 50% chance lose 6 million. A negative value expected value project. Okay, think of this from the equity holders perspective in the first case. If they if we make the investment and it hits, they get all $3 million. Why? Because we've already promised the debt holders can't make any extra money. They just get their interest payments. That's predetermined. The equity are the residual claimants. They get all the benefit from good luck. What happens if Oh, let's also say I'm sorry. Let's say this this company also regularly pays out a dividend uh of $100,000 a year and and the interest rate is 10%. So it pays out a dividend that stream of dividends for this company is a present value of a million dollars. So the company's going to pay out a dividend of $100,000 a year. So what happens if the company goes bankrupt to the equity holders? Well, first of all, they lose the future stream of dividends which is worth a million dollars. Second of all, they lose their investment which is worth a million dollars. So total, what do they lose? $2 million. So what do they want to do? Take the bet. Because from their perspective, it's win 3 million, lose 2 million. Okay. Now, the equity holders, the debt holders, I'm sorry, they if they basically if if if the investment goes up, they get nothing. If the investment goes down, um, let's see, what did I get? What are the bond holders getting? They're getting an interest payment every period. They're interest period of 10%. They get $500,000 a year paid back no matter what the company does. So, what happens if the company goes bankrupt? They lose that future stream of $500,000 payments. That's 5 million. And they lose the 5 million investment. That's another five million. So, they're out 10 million. So, basically, bond holders are screwed. Equity holders make out. Now flip it in the bottom panel. Now take equity holders. Imagine they imagine five million of the of the company is in the hand of equity holders and 1 million handed bond holders. Well, now if the investment hits, they lose three. They gain three million. But if it misses and the company goes bankrupt, they now lose 10 million. So they don't want to do the investment. And likewise, debt holders don't. So the bottom line is the share of the company that's in equity will affect its taste for risk. So now you're a bank looking at this table and I come to you for a loan. Which firm are you going to charge a higher interest rate to bank? But these these two firms exist. They want another million dollars. They come to you for a loan. Which one's riskier? Which firm are you more worried about? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. The first one's gamblers. I'm more I'm not I I I just want my my interest paying back. I'm not trying to get rich. Just trying to get my 10% a year. I don't want these cowboys. I don't want loan these cowboys who are going to throw it away on crazy bets. So, I'm going to charge a higher interest rate. The higher is the share of the company that's that is in debt. What that means is there's now a trade-off. As I lever up, it gets harder to raise new money. So, that's why firms aren't all debt. There's a tax advantage, but there's a leverage disadvantage. The tax advantage is you don't pay corporate tax. The leverage disadvantage is the more leverage the firm, the riskier they are and the more they won't it'll be it'll be more expensive to raise new financing and that's why firms aren't all debt. That's essentially that's the essential trade-off. Okay. Question about that? Yeah. >> Why is the gain in deducting still zero? Why is the gain? Oh, it's zero because the in in um the it's zero to debt holders because they get their $500,000 payment no matter what. They have signed a contract says every year I'll pay back $500,000. So if the firm becomes worth $8 billion, they don't get anything out of it. They still get their $500,000 a year. So that's the point is all the upside is held in equity holders, but the equity holders downside is limited to how much the company they own. That's why the more is equity, the more risks they're going to take. >> Yeah. I mean, there's lots of stories like this, okay? I'm not even getting into scummy behavior here. This is just all legal. I'm not getting into like Enron and stuff. This is just this is legal stuff. Yeah. >> So, the more debt you're in, the more >> more highly leveraged you are, the higher share of debt, >> the higher share organization, the less risk it is, which makes it a less safe place to lend money to >> makes it a more safe place. I'm sorry. No, the the the less risk averse it is. Yes. So makes it a less safe place. >> Less money and so they have to pay higher interest rates and that sort of >> offsets the tax benefit. >> The tax benefit. Does that mean that like even in a perfect credit market this would occur? It's not >> well define perfect credit market. In a perfect information credit market, none of this is a problem, right? Because basically I I know everything before I make you the loan. So I would know that this investment is a loser and I wouldn't loan you the money for that investment. But in a realistic credit market, this is going to happen. >> I guess my question was like if why couldn't a company like always keep on borrowing and paying off creditors? >> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's complicated. It's a hard example, but the here's the intuition. Okay. The intuition is debt is an action forcing event. You have to pay up. Okay. Equity lets you slide. So basically the more of your company that's equity the freer you are to sort of mess around okay and take risks that may not be healthy risks >> that point about having to be paid why isn't it that a company borrowing paying off the original creditors borrowing >> because the new creditors will know then the new creditors know they're they're just going to if you keep borrowing and you lever up on debt then basically they'll know the total actually in some sense that's part of the problem we've run to with this corporate is that so if you look at what was the company recently um that went bankrupt people didn't realize how much debt they had because they were borrowing from lots of different sources so you didn't and this is basically in some sense a little bit the story of FTX but in general basically the point is you're absolutely right if I if my new borrowers don't know about my old borrowers then I can I could pay back my old borrowers the new borrowers my new bers will not charge me so this is assuming the new borrowers know what's in this table if the new borrowers don't know this then yeah they won't charge a higher interest rate and you can just you can keep taking risks without them knowing and that's sort of what happened with FTX but a more complicated way >> sort of the intermediate due dates on these payments are less important things you could borrow and give them >> well no it's less important thing if they don't know but in theory they should know in theory there are rating agencies which should be keeping an eye on you and saying hey you're pretty levered up you're not rated this highly or I'm going to downgrade you earlier >> no because you've only levered up to pay it off so your total leverage is still So basically that's kind of how we think about that first puzzle. Now there's a second puzzle though. The first puzzle is why in firms all debt. There's a second puzzle which is why do firms pay dividends? Remember the capital gains tax rate is way below the dividend tax rate because you don't have to pay it till you realize gains. You don't pay it at all if you die. Um and the rate is actually physically lower. Okay. So the second mystery is why do firms pay dividends at all? Now increasingly they're not. Dividends are much lower than they used to be, but they're still quite large. So why do firms pay dividends? Once again, the best answer is is through the agency model. Well, and two aspects of the agency there. There's two answers here. There's sort of an an agency answer and a signaling answer. The agency answer is look, we want them to pay dividends because we don't want them keeping their hands on all that cash and doing stupid with it. Okay? So, for example, um uh for example, uh one study studied um uh 25 in 2002, if you took the 25 largest long-standing dividend paying companies, they currently held $160 billion in cash. If they never paid dividends, they would have had $2 trillion in cash. And cash sitting around makes people do silly things, try to steal it, take risks, etc. So part of it's like I don't trust a managers I want to get out of their hands. The other theory for why firms pay dividends, what's called a signaling theory, which comes back to our discussion just now. It's hard to know how well a firm's doing, but if they're paying you cash, they know at least they got cash. So it's a signal the firm's okay that they're paying these dividends. Okay, so that's a couple of theories for why firms pay dividends. Why is this relevant for taxation? It's relevant because one of the key debates over the last 20 years and going forward is how heavily should we tax dividends. If you look at this chart, if you go back to figure 245, you see that ultimately the dividend tax affects the rate of return to investment because ultimately equity holders pay it. So in principle if the dividend tax falls that raised the return to investing in firms that'll raise investment. So for many years people have said in fact this is why George W. Bush cut massively the dividend tax rate. He cut the dividend tax rate because economists are saying look that is a way to lower the cost of capital. That's a way to make investment more rewarding. Let's cut the dividend tax rate. What was wrong with that argument is you should understand why firms pay dividends. And if you think about it, both of the reason why firms pay dividends would say a cut in the dividend tax rate would actually want you to pay would actually want you to invest less. Okay. Think about it this way. Yeah. Question. >> Buybacks do the same thing. Solve the problem. >> Yeah. Yeah. Buybacks are similar similar sort of feature. >> They're not tax. Why don't they just do buybacks? >> That increasingly they are. But buybacks the problem is right that's increasingly they're doing buybacks. The question is why pay dividends at all? Yeah. >> Um and I don't know the answer. Why? Why? I don't know. I don't know the literature on dividends versus I guess you do have to take a finance course. I don't know the answer on dividends versus buybacks. Um so basically um so um in fact both the agency and the signaling models say that a cut in the dividend tax rate will lead to less investment. That's because dividends are wasteful in these models. So basically, dividends are simply a wasteful thing you're doing to either solve the issue problem or signal, right? They're wasteful. So if you cut the price of something wasteful, you'll do more of it. Okay? You'll do more, you'll send bigger dividends because they're cheaper, etc. But the point is, if you're setting those dividends, what are you not doing with the money? You're not retaining using for investment. So actually, by cutting the dividend tax rate, you're setting say send more money to your investors. That's less money you're investing. Okay. So, in fact, it's not clear whether cognitive tax rate will raise investment or lower investment. In the standard model, it'll raise investment because basically there's a higher return to investing in companies. But in in in the alternative model, which actually only model consistent with the data, it could lower investment. So, we don't know. And in fact, there was a wonderful study done by an economist named Danny Jagen who noted that when George Bush cut when there's this massive dividend tax rate cut, it was true for Ccorporations and not S corporations. So, we're very similar firms which just by how they were labeled got a very different tax cut. So, we could do a difference and different study of how did the tax how did Ccorporations saw a big tax change, big reduction in taxes, X corporations didn't huge change, zero effect on investment. So, we've paid out hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to rich guys and got no increase in investment for it. And that is very helpful to think about why theory matters. Okay, this I'm very empirical oriented guys. Why theory matters? It once you understand the theory of why the hell firms pay dividends in the first place, you understand it wouldn't obviously lead to more investment. In a naive model of just well, it's just I look at this chart, it lowers the rate of return. But once you actually think about the theory, it's clear it's it's not at all obvious what it would do. when in fact the answer did nothing. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, I mean they could sue him and they win sometimes. That was like Black Smith climb. We won. We got billions of dollars in back settlements. But if they're not paying taxes legally like Apple, I mean, I don't know about this this this holy thing that lives in no country, but the previous one where they just actually sort of were where, you know, where where it's basically you sue them and you hope that that you can that your lawyers are smarter, can keep up with their lawyers essentially the way it goes. Um, so that is sort of all I really want to say about corporate taxation. Any other questions about that? Yeah, >> empirical just to clarify empirical data show that there was no correlation >> that there was no effect of cutting the dividend tax on investment. >> So basically Bush cut the dividend tax for CC corporations didn't cut it for S corporations and yet patterns of investments across those two types of corporations were unchanged. >> So it's more so just signaling a >> yeah it's more we're just dumping money out to rich guys. So essentially just give a tax break to rich guys or something they were it's inframarginal just basically so once again we care about marginal inframarginal effects the marginal effect will gee can we get more investment by cutting the dividend tax rate the infram marginal I'm giving away money to people who are getting dividends anyway and the answer is all in form marginal no marginal now is that good or bad that's an equity question but we know that the dividend holds are rich so it's certainly bad from an equity perspective okay now now we're going to start the last chapter uh where we sort tie this all together. This is very important, exciting because once again, I like we integrate things. We're going to really be able to tie together all the stuff we've learned the last six chapters into one tidy package and talk about what we should actually do about taxes in the US. So, please, if you can make it on Friday, I really urge you to figure out a way to be there because this this is a fun discussion. We'll start today, we'll continue on Friday. Okay. So, what I want to talk I want to start with a story of a guy named Herman Kaine. Any you guys know who Herman Kane is? Herman Kane founded Godfather's Pizza and he ran for president in 2012 and he was sort of a silly character but his big platform was 999 he called it. We said we're going to get rid of all this complicated tax system, have a flat tax, 9%. It was a 999 plan, 9% on um 9% corporate tax, 9% income tax, 9% sales tax. Everything else is gone. None of this million pages of tax forms, none of this comp none of this, all that stuff, just a flat tax. It was actually incredibly popular. He got pretty far on just 999. Okay, he got pretty far. And actually, there's a long history of people proposing that we just scrap our current tax system with a flat tax system. Now, we actually got fairly close at one point. The holy moment, the golden moment for public finance, economists and tax policy was in 1986 under Republican president, Republican and Democratic senators locked themselves in a hanger at an Air Force base until they hammered out a tax deal. And the fundamental feature of the tax deal was to massively overhaul the individual tax system in 19 before 1986. In 196 there used to be 15 tax brackets with rates ranging from 11 to 50%. Um there was also massive all sorts of loopholes in the tax system. All sorts of violations of Hague Simons all over the place. Okay. In 1986 they said we're going to take these 15 brackets and make them three brackets. 15% 28% and 33%. Capital gains are now regular income. No more IRA deductions. We are going to go to Hag Simon with a much flatter tax system and economists cheered. This is what we want. Basically flat broad tax system is the most efficient way to collect taxes. Now you lowered the top rate. Okay? So it was, you know, you could dispute whether the top rate should be 33 or 50, but it was a much more efficient tax system. However, it did not last starting in 1993 and then again in 1997, then again 2001, 2003, 2012, 2017. we kept messing up the system. So now we have our more complicated system again. So basically the question is what is the advantage of a simpler flatter system and can we get back there? What are the barriers to getting back there? I'm going to argue there are advantages. What are the barriers getting back there? And there's really advantages in three areas. There's three fundamental reasons why simpler, flatter tax system helps. The first reason is tax evasion. We've so far talked about tax avoidance, doing legal things, at least borderline legal things. There's also straight tax evasion, literally just cheating, just not reporting your income. Okay. Now, um there's lots of fun examples of this. Um uh so the CEO of Brockman Incorporated, uh I'm sorry, Reynolds and Reynolds Incorporated, they make like tin foil and stuff. Um uh he he hid over 20 years of capital gains income through secret bank accounts imaging the largest tax fraud case ever for US citizen in 2020. Um he backdated records and used code words to conceal the movement of his money to entities in the foreign jurisdictions of Bermuda and NeAs. Um and then he basic his he and his co-conspirators settled for the justice department with 139 million in backs taxes, but it wasn't nearly as much as he'd stolen. Um now the rich are not the only ones who cheat on taxes. Um um uh we have something called in the the US tax system there used to be or there's deductions for there were deductions for the number of childrens you have. Now we have a child tax credit used to be a deduction for each number of children. In 1986 before 1986 you just listed how many children you had in starting 1986 as part of the tax form you had to list the kids social security numbers. When they did that um uh when they did that six million kids in America disappeared. Okay. Um, my favorite example actually internationally is Greece. Um, Greece, other countries have a hard time. Other countries much more of the economic transactions done under the table. So, it's hard to measure income wealth and tax it. So, they tried to do clever things. Remember the window tax in England? Well, Greece had a pool tax. They noticed that people with private pools are more likely to be wealthy than people without private pools. Okay? So, what they did is they literally like fly helicopters over and find out who had a pool and tax them more. Well, people got wise to this um that basically people developed pool covers that could fool the tracking, could fool Google Earth. So, in uh the wealthy suburb of Kifisa, there were estimated uh 324 people reported having a pool. The true number of pools is estimated 17,000. 17,000 pools. So, 324 out of 17,000 pools were found and reported. So basically there's a lot of people do a lot of stuff to avoid paying taxes. Um why do they do that? Well basically as always they're trading off the cost and benefits. So let's go to the first figure in chapter 25 which is a model of optimal tax evasion just like I remember we model everything okay from love to marriage to tax evasion. Okay and we always do it trading off costs and benefits. So let's think about the costs and benefits of cheating on taxes. Well let's imagine a model. What is the benefit of cheating on taxes? Well, for every dollar of tax you cheat, you save Talis cents. Okay, so the marginal benefit is a flat line at the marginal tax rate. So, let's start with a mar let's let's start with the marginal tax rate of 50%. Uh let's say the 50% marginal tax rate. The marginal benefit MB1 is just a flat line at 50 cents. That's the marginal benefit. What's the marginal cost? the marginal cost is going to be um essentially the penalty you pay if you get caught. So if the idea is that basically both the odds of getting caught and how heavily you're penalized rise with how much you cheat, you have an upward sloping marginal cost curve. Okay? So if you cheat a little bit, there's no cost because you know even if they they're going to ignore you. But as you cheat a lot, the odds you get caught get higher and the amount you have to pay gets higher. the marginal cost is going to rise. Okay. Now, um basically what that means is what will determine how much that means there'll be an optimal amount of cheating. The out amount of cheating is where marginal benefits equal marginal cost. So in this example, people evade an amount E1 which is where the cost the expected damage from being caught equals the benefit of cheating. What does that mean? That means that two things fundamentally determine how much you cheat. The first is the penalties and odds of getting caught. That's the MC curve. So if you increase penalties or increase surveillance of taxes, that will raise marginal costs that will induce less cheating. Okay? Move from E1 to E2 because once again, it's a costbenefit analysis. On the other hand, if the tax rate goes up for a given set of penalties, that increases cheating because the costs are fixed. The benefits have now risen. So what that means is another reason besides Hey Simons why we like low tax rates is it reduces the incentive to cheat. The higher the tax rate the more incentive there is to there is to cheat. Now in fact in the US we estimate that currently about $630 billion about 2% of GDP 3% of GDP is our tax gap. that is there's $630 billion not being paid in taxes that should be paid in taxes. Um that's pretty similar to other developed countries. Sweden is about 10%. Um uh but developing countries don't do very well in this metric. Pakistan has a tax cap of 70%. Um uh recent study um and uh uh and other developing countries uh have this sort of thing. Um in Greece the tax gap is 90%. And there's actually a fun story of why, which is that basically there's a great historical perspective on this, which is basically for a long time Greek was Greece was occupied by the Ottomans. They hated Turks. Okay? And and basically the Ottomans tried to tax them. So a view of patriotism was to avoid paying taxes and it sort of stuck. This is kind of like Deron's work on institutions. They kind of once things become in a nation's culture, institutions, they stick. So Greece has a long and valuable history of not paying taxes and result in 90% tax gap. Now, what can we question? >> So, this guy, man, am I going to go to jail for even teaching you? Uh, so basically, um, I do not know that answer, and if I did, I would not tell you. Uh, but but basically, here is the interesting evidence on it. So actually um there um there's actually um some really good uh evidence which is that basically uh there's an incredibly high rate of return um uh basically on this and there's a really cool new study by uh my colleague Nathan Hendren. He actually so the IRS uh randomly audits people actually had data on how much people cheat. Okay, so that deters cheating a bit, but it's sufficiently random that doesn't deter cheating that much because it's odd. You'll get audited, but they do and that they make that data available to researchers if you, you know, go through 18 secret doors and stuff like that. Okay. So they use this to assess and they used variation in the enforcement IRS spent on trying to go after people to assess what is the marginal return to a dollar of IRS spending to try to get people. So with each dollar of IRS spending to try to collect taxes, what do you get back in taxes? What they found is on average you get about $3 of revenues for every $1 of enforcement payment. So it's a massive increasing rate of return. Okay, so we're already so already we're massively underinvesting in collection. Here's a striking fact. There's a huge income profile, which is the rich are the ones who cheat. And why are the rich the ones who cheat? Because it's hard to cheat if you don't if you're just a working Joe. Because remember, your income's just reported right to the IRS, right? Let's say your your income is just from your job. How you going to cheat? They're just going to report your income. Now, you could lie about how much you give to charity, but that's not going to that's not a first order way you cheat. So at the bottom of the income distribution, the return to enforcement is closer to dollar for dollar. There's still some gain, but it's not a lot. At the top, it's 12 to $15 for every $1 you spend on enforcement. Okay? So there's an unbelievable rate of return to this activity. However, it is very hard to get investments in the IRS. And I saw this firsthand when I arrived at Treasury in 1997. In 1997, they had a huge set of hearings about abuses at the IRS, our tax authority. um uh about abuses of the IRS. Um and basically um what happened was they had all sorts of people testify about the IRS had made their lives miserable. So New York priest spoke of beingounded by the IRS to pay taxes he didn't owe. Um they found one man who committed suicide after a battle with the IRS. People came with bags over their head to testify. It was a big deal. And the IRS was massively overhauled and they massively cut back the IRS tax enforcement because of these um and basically um we've learned two things since then. Every single one of them were lying that every single one of those cases actually legitimately owed the taxes uh that they were found and they were just trying to avoid tax and the IRS caught them was punishing them. So that was the first um um so the there was no systematic abuse of any of the um uh things and in n a year later they set up a watchdog agency to uh investigate every complaint of harassment by IRS agent. They investigated 830 complaints zero were found to have merit. So first of all it's all BS. Second of all by cutting the staff we saw massive erosion in tax payment in the US. So basically um the uh IRS staff fell by 22% and the audit rate fell by 40%. Okay. So basically essentially because of this public hearing we massively cut back the IRS and that is why we incredible opportunities and in fact the inflation reduction act was actually the first major investment in tax enforcement in US in a long time. Invest reduction act included tons of spending which is actually a massive money raiser. So that the inflation reduction act was mostly focused on climate spending. How do they pay for that climate spending? Largely by collecting more taxes that people owed. But here's what's striking. Once again, sort of sounds so simple when I say it, but there's a large political constituency against IRS enforcement. Okay? Is actually incredibly controversial. It would not be surprised if the Trump administration cut back this funding. Okay? That is insane. Okay? Let's be patently clear. Okay? the money they collect is largely think about why tax enforcement is the best possible policy. Okay, for tax enforcement that returns more than it assuming we're not harassing people. Okay, let's leave that aside. Tax enforcement that returns more than you collect as a rate of return. Why is it a great policy? First of all, it's a positive rate of return government activity. Second of all, it increases tax efficiency. Why does it increase tax efficiency? Because people because you broaden the tax base and people don't spend their time trying to cheat. Third of all, increases equity because it's the rich guys who cheat. So basically, there is no argument against increasing afford spending, especially at the top of the income scale. But somehow people are kind of think the Irish is some bad guy and so it's hard to get that through. So that's been controversial. Yeah. I can't imagine. >> It's because people hate so there's actually an industry set up around people hating taxes. Let me explain what that means. Actually, I'll come back to that in a minute. I'll come back. But but the bottom line is many people have an incentive to get the government people to hate taxes. It's a large set of people who make people hate tax. And it's, you know, I'll come to more reasons why people legitimately do hate taxes. Okay? And this just fed that argument and led to change. Why does any hearing do anything? You know, it's public outrage. >> Yeah. >> Uh I do not know what the statute of limitations is actually legitimately. I'd tell you if I knew. I don't know. Um Okay. So, that's one argument. Okay. Okay. Okay. Can we actually do a thing? Can we start a collection for this guy's bail? Can we start like a like a collection? Um Okay. So uh so I said three arguments for a flatter tax system. First is less cheating. Okay. The second is simplicity. The tax code is comes to the the question was asked here about why the hearing matter. The tax code is super ugly and confusing. So if you look at page 25-2 this shows the number of pages in the individual tax return. So when you go to pay taxes in 1960 you got a document with 16 pages. In 2017, you got a document 217 pages. 217 pages. Okay. So, the average the estimate is the average simple basic Joe filing taxes um uh estimate spends about $260 in foregone time filing those taxes. Um one study estimated that in 2000 taxpayers spend 3.2 billion hours, an average of 26 hours per per tax filer. It's sort of like one having one and a half million employee tax one and a half million government employees in the US if you think of it that way. Okay, if you think about that's a pain. People don't like it. That's part of why they don't like taxes. It's super um annoying and a simpler tax code would simplify that. Basically, the one of the appeal when people talk about why they flat tax, they like it. It's the flatness people like, but the idea is we're going to have you pay tax on a postcard. We're going to send you a postcard. is just going to say fill in your income, fill in your sales, you know, fill in whatever and boom, you send it back. None of these nice complicated provisions, none of that stuff. Okay? Very appealing for many reasons. However, we have to recognize that simplicity comes at a cost. And let's take a simple example. I've been harping on the fact that we should include in your income your employer contribution to your health insurance. that that would be good for both equity efficiency but be bad for simplicity because then you'd have this complicated thing of figuring out how much is your health insurance worth and how I put in my taxes. It's doable but it's a complication. The point is there's a trade-off that the simplest tax system is probably not optimal. The questions could make the tax system a lot simpler um could we make the tax system a lot simpler uh than we than we do? Um, and would that make uh taxpayers um taxpayers uh feel better about paying taxes? Now, here's another thing we talk about what the politics of taxation. What other countries do is they make taxes much easier, which is they prepay prefill your tax form. So, in Scandinavian countries, you get a form that says, "Here's what we think you owe. Check it out. If it's right, sign it." Okay? And for most people, that's pretty easy. Like I said, most people have fairly simple tax forms. It still takes 26 hours to do it cuz it's you have to read the whole documentation. You're confused. But actually the truth is it's super easy. Okay. So why don't we do that in the US? Why don't we do that in the US? Who's stopping that? >> Turboax. >> Turbo taxation. Our block are stopping that because they would go out of business. So basically there's actually been many bills to simplify how we pay tax in the US that are blocked by the industries have now made money off a complicated tax system. So once again, the complications we talked about in chapter nine rear their heads again. Okay. So that's the second argument for why we want a flatter, simpler taxes. Yeah. >> Are there any like arguments for why this should >> I don't know. I don't know. I think they do it all behind the scenes. They're not out there advertising we should have a complicated tax system. They do it all behind they just give a lot of money to politicians who oppose it. >> Okay. So that's the second argument. The third argument is where the economics gets most interesting which is that a simpler flatter tax system would be much more efficient. And here we come to in some sense I hate to say it but in some sense while chapters 21 and 22 and 23 were kind of fun and interesting at the end of the day it's not clear how much they matter because the end of the day what really matters is when you raise taxes how much money do you get? And we can think about how it affects labor supply and savings. It's kind of interesting, but ultimately for public efficiency, we just want to know how much money you get. Well, how much money do you get when you raise taxes is going to be a function of five things. The first the first is what we call the direct effect, which is if I earned $100 and you raise my tax rate by 10%, you get $10. That's the first effect. That's the easy part. But there's actually four indirect effects that offset that. Four types of indirect effects that offset that. The first is what we can call the gross income effect which is what we call the laugher curve which is basically when you tax me more I might work less hard. I might save less. Now basically our unders chapter 2122 suggests that's not going to be very big because remember we said overall labor supply is very elastic. We don't have any evidence on how elastic savings is. But that's the first effect. It's going to turn out to be the least important. The second effect is the reporting effect, which is when you change the tax rate that cost creates incentives for me to change the way I report and classify my income. Okay? Really should be called the classification effect. Let's call this classification effect. That's a better name for it. The classification effect. Hey Paul, can you send me an email to change that in the book? Um, so basically what that means is, so here's a simple example. Suppose your employer says, "Look, here's your choice. I can give you a $5,000 raise or $5,000 in health insurance." And let's say that health insurance um is worth $3,000 to you because you're healthy. So your employing $5,000 raise, $5 health insurance. If your tax rate's 25%, you say, "Well, the $5,000 raise, I take home 37.50. The insurance worth 3,000. I'll take the raise." If your tax rate is 50%, you say, "Well, now we'll take the health insurance." So, by raising tax rates, we've suddenly taken money out of the tax system. Suddenly, we have money that was taxable to non-t taxable. So, that's the classification effect. We essentially move, we've created incentive to reclassify money in non-t taxable ways. Totally legal. All is legal so far. Okay. The third is the income exclusion effect. The income exclusion effect. The the the um income exclusion effect which is it cause you to take advantage of all the tax breaks. Basically the higher your tax rate is the more you take advantage of tax breaks. Char charitable giving mortgage reduction etc. Basically you take those more the higher your tax rate is. And then finally we have finally we have the compliance effect which is people cheat more when the tax rate is is higher. So all of these offset the direct effect. The point is all these indirect effects mean that you will raise less than you think from taxation. So let's do an example to illustrate this. Okay let's take um Nala here in figure 254. Nala has wage income of $45,000. She has a job with $45,000. She also on the weekends mows lawns and makes $5,000. So she's a total income of $50,000. Okay? And let's say she there's a 10% tax rate. So we raise $5,000 on her. Okay? Now let's say we raise the tax rate by uh from 10% to 20%. And let's say Nala responds in four ways. First of all, she stops mowing lawns, so $5,000 goes away because she doesn't want to do it if she only keep 80% of the money. Second of all, she decides to start taking healthcare at her job. So $2,500 of the money goes away. Third of all, she decides to start giving to charity, so another 2500 goes away. By the time you're done, her reported income is only 35,000. So you've ra doubled taxes, but you've only increased tax revenues by 40%. from 5,000 to 7,000. This is essentially the implications of the LA of of the general point that the tax base is elastic and fundamentally what we care about is what is DB DTO. How does the tax base respond to taxation is going to determine the ultimate efficiency of taxes. Ultimately, at the extreme case, if you if Nala literally stopped doing anything when the tax rate went up, you would raise no money. That's the we call the wrong side of the LER curve. But it's not but it's not, you know, or if she suddenly started reporting health insurance of $40,000, you collect no money. Now, it's not what Laffer spoke of, which is people working less hard, but it's the same effect, which is there's these indirect effects poke holes in the tax base. And as a result, what that means is that when you raise taxes, you don't raise as much money as you think because there's these offsetting indirect effects. Questions about that. Okay. So what that means is that essentially this is essentially a way to sort of quantify the H Simons point. No, that scratch that statement. This is a way to quantify the dead weight loss of taxation which is we talked about dead weight loss in terms of reducing labor supply reducing savings but ultimately in some dead weight loss is really how much less money do you raise than you think you were going to raise is a substance how economists are now it's really econ economist thinking has changed about this we move from talking about dead weight loss to talk about things what we call a fiscal externality which is how much does it cost the government to do an action here we raise taxes the fiscal externality is how much less are we raising because of these various activities ities. These various activities are creating an externality on the budget which instead of raising 5,000 we're raising 2,000. That's a negative $3,000 externality from these activities. So sort of move to thinking about it that way. And that is actually quite nice framework because a lot simpler. We just ask ultimately the efficiency of a tax system is ultimately determined by the fiscal externality. How much less do we raise than if people just didn't didn't respond? And that's kind of the way we're thinking about it now. Okay. Yeah. >> What is the baseline for this? system. >> Great question. Um, actually, let's start with I I I'm going to stop now because I I I want to riff for about 10 minutes and I don't want to I don't want to break it up. So, basically, uh, let's come to that next time and bring that question back next time.