So um today we're going to cover an introduction to time series analysis and time series analysis is really a very sort of powerful meth methodology in statistics um and especially uh powerful when it comes to modeling uh financial markets. So I hope you'll find this introduction engaging and motivating. Um so let's talk about time series. Uh we basically have notation indicating a stochcastic process where x corresponds to the value of the process at time t and the time periods t can be discrete. This is most commonly what we'll work with. Uh but it can also correspond to a continuous time interval. And so uh we can imagine basically time periods u uh time indexed by uh positive numbers from zero. And in terms of modeling such a time series um we want to be able to specify the probability model for any collection of time point values. So when we say let's specify a probability model for a time series then that corresponds to being able to specify the joint density of any set of points. Here we have m different time points. This generalizes to all cases of m and uh such a subset of the values of the process are uh a finite dimensional uh set of values and so we'll have finite dimensional distributions for xt. Now, uh, importantly, we'll want to consider time series that are strictly stationary. And a strictly stationary time series is one for which the distribution of any set of time points um is equal to the distribution of the same time points shifted by a constant. So if we're looking at the index of time and we have xt um if we look at say four points here t1 t2 T3 T4 then the distribution of the values at these time points will be the same as the distribution if we shift these time points all by the same amount. toao. So t2 plus toao and so forth. So we basically have that in this window and in this window the distribution of outcomes is the same. So what does that mean? Well, that means that if there's a mean value in this period, then it's the same mean value in this other period as well as all possible periods. So we basically have a probability model that is constrained in terms of the level being horizontal and the amount of spread about that level is constant. Now with statistics we like to estimate parameters. Parameters like a sample mean are very easy to estimate. We get a sample of values and estimate the population mean with the sample mean. And so we're may be familiar with estimating constants and estimating means of populations is is a you know trivial example example of that. With stationary time series, we want to consider perhaps a transform of our time series to a stationary scale and then there will be parameters of that distribution that we can estimate and we can estimate them because the distribution is the same basically across the whole range. So there's some hope that we'll be able to uh specify parameters uh consistently and with high precision. Now um uh a less strict um stationerity condition is called covariant stationerity. And with covariant stationerity, we're looking just at the first and second order sort of expectations of the time series values. So the mean value of xt will be a constant mu for all t and the variance of xt will also not depend on the time t. it will be stationary or constant over the time range and the co-variance of values that are tow units apart will have a co-variance that simply is a function of how far apart the time points are. So here um you know we're looking basically at sort of a mean level mu and maybe plus or minus the square root of the variance of xt uh being the lower and upper levels here. And then if we're interested in looking at how correlated different time values are then if we consider say t and t plus toao I guess and we also consider another t prime and t prime plus toao over here. Then when we have realizations of the process, they're going to be staying within a few standard deviations of the mean and the correlation between values at different time points will be the same if the distance the the time period between those time points are the same. So so those that's covariant stationerity. Now with such uh time series that are co-variance stationary then we can look at the autocorrelation function and the correlation between xt and xt plus toao is the covariance between the two divided by the square root of the product of the variances. So these are familiar formulas generally for correlations and we call them autocorrelations because we're looking at the correlation of a time series with itself and so we have row of t is the autocorrelation. Now let's take a look at some uh financial time series. Uh let's begin with just looking at the S&P 500 index. So this is the uh value of the 500 major stocks in the US equity market. And this is from I think 2011 to 2020 plus. And you can see how this over that period of time trended up with some dramatic uh drops due to co and with such a time series um it's clearly not stationary because it's trending over time. If we looked at different bands of years, they have different means. And so we really cannot uh consider this scaling of the index to be uh stationary or coariant stationary. And what ends up happening with many many financial time series is that we consider the time series YT say to correspond to a random walk model on the log scale. So if we were to look at taking the log of the series and look at the increments of that this is the log return of yt. Then the value of yt is going to be an initial value y knot times the exponential of the sum of these log returns. And we can relate these log returns to the uh percent returns on a fractional scale. This is log of 1 + rt where rt is equal to yt minus ytus one over uh yt minus one. Um so what will commonly be the case is that this sequence of log returns is coariant stationary. And so what I'd like to do next is to look at some time series plots of different financial time series and see whether this transformation uh to log returns seems to make the series appear stationary. So here's the S&P 500 index. Um these graphs here actually update the graph from before to uh the end of uh September. And if we change initially the absolute price to the log of the price, um you'll notice that sort of an exponential growth tends to transform to a linear growth on the log scale. And that comment is uh representing the fact that the lower panel follows more of a straight line path than the upper panel which has perhaps some exponential curvature to it. Now if we look at the uh monthly log returns, we can see that those monthly increments on the log scale have basically a flat time series process. And so it's rather consistent with this, you know, movement across a level that in this case is close to zero um with constant variance. Now with this data, we might consider looking at the distribution of these log returns and see whether they're consistent with a normal model just as a benchmark example that we might use. And here's the uh uh fitted normal curve to the data. And you know, would you say that this is a good fit to the data? Do I see any nods or shakes? I think you had a shake. >> Um it looks like relative weight like it falls like >> right. Yeah. And so um the true height is basically uh the realized values that are close to the mean and the normal fit is sort of underestimating those values that are close and complementing that the tails of the distribution maybe are underestimating the magnitude of the tails as well. And so this property is a property that is called lepto kurtosis and which means sort of slender. Uh lepto is Greek for slender. Um and then so let's take a look at what happens if we look at weekly returns. Okay, with weekly returns we get an again a series that appears to be fairly flat. The volatility though looks like it maybe isn't stable. So the variation of the uh time series at different time points may not be constant. It certainly was extreme during the COVID crisis um as evident here. And here's again the normal curve which has the s the same properties noted before. And then here's the daily log returns. So looking at a higher frequency measurements, we again get this property of sort of a stability in the mean, but maybe not a stability or stationerity in the variance. And again, the normal model doesn't look like it's uh appropriate. and it captures a a center and a spread, but uh seems to be far off near the mean and far away. Okay, let's take a look at Amazon stock. So, we're just going to look at the same plots here. Uh you'll notice that the absolute price has a rather um notable exponential growth in it. Um when we take the log scale we have this plot and what's really important to see is whether the sort of variability in the time series is constant or not. And when before taking the logs we have a really narrow variation of the price series com at the beginning compared with the end. But on the log scale, the variation is is more comparable. So that's actually a good thing to have. We still have a trend in the series. And taking the differences in the log values makes this series stationary or at least appear stationary. And here's the uh log returns on a monthly frequency. And uh here's the uh histogram of those log returns and the normal fit. It's perhaps doing a slightly better job uh than for the S&P 500. It's not clear. Um here is the weekly frequency time series. Again, um the top panel does look like it's consistent with a stationary series in terms of the properties we've highlighted so far and the Gaussian distribution seems to be fitting a bit better. Um if we look at the daily log returns then uh we have um this sort of leptoccurtosis appearing in this uh histogram of daily returns. And in looking at the time series of the daily returns um it looks like there are some significant spikes that are not really sort of consistent with the rest of the series. So maybe uh you know that feature is something that we would want to incorporate into our models. Well, here's getting away from the uh equity markets. This is looking at the crude oil futures contract. And with the crude oil futures contract um this future um it trades I think at the Chicago Merkantile Exchange. Um it actually has a dramatic feature that the value of the contract went negative in 2020 which was a shock to financial markets especially uh brokers and traders in those contracts. You can imagine if you had a hundred contracts of crude oil on the day you woke up and the price was negative, you basically owed your broker a hundred times that negative value. And uh brokers actually sometimes were unable to tell you what your position was because their systems didn't allow for negative prices. um if we try to take the log of the series and look at the differences with these negative values that's actually a huge problem but nonetheless uh let's see I did graph these um which essentially will sort of exclude those days when there were negative values for the contract and looking at this here's the monthly log returns. So this is excluding the negative uh price periods um on a monthly basis, on a weekly basis, and on a daily basis. And so what's really important here is just how looking at different financial time series with the same framework of log logging the series if it's positive and looking at increments on the log scale which correspond to percentage changes. um the data generally is transformed or often is transformed to a stationary scale. Um yet another example is looking at the yields of the uh 10-year uh US Treasury. Um, and so the top panel shows it's called price, but it's really the yield uh in percentage terms of 10-year government bonds. And so you can see it started above 3% dropped down to less than 1% following the COVID crisis and then was rising ever since. And if we look at the uh price or the yield changes on the log scale, we get this plot which isn't too different um and in its appearance. But then if we look at the uh changes in log on uh u changes in log uh the increments in log which are log returns in sort of mathematical definition. Log returns are not really the right terminology for the percentage changes in yield but we'll basically be using the same terminology as before. One can see that we basically get a distribution of increments steps in the random walk on the log scale that are unimodal and symmetric. And as we consider higher frequency, here's weekly and here's daily, it's actually doing a better job perhaps using a normal model for this uh transformed series than for the uh equity market series. So, so with these cases, uh the same manipulations of the data, taking logs, looking at log returns corresponds to transforming the series to a random walk process. And with random walk processes um we can think of the sum from zero to t of or it's capital t say of x subt and call this maybe s subt. Um in modeling the random walk by this sum um there will be many different models we can consider for this. The simplest model would be one where these x's the steps are identically distributed and independent. So it's like a pure random walk. um and uh more complicated models uh will consider ST um or the XTS to be dependent upon each other. So what we'd like to do then is let's see as we um let's see here if we think of this autocorrelation function the correlation between x's that are toao units of time apart um we can actually calculate autocorrelations for each of the series we just looked at. And so here is the autocorrelation function of the monthly log returns on the S&P 500. And one can see that there actually was a large negative autocorrelation for one month apart. and the other autocorrelations varied around this blue range. And what's important with um if we have a time series uh xt t equaling 1 2 up to capital t and then we consider the uh sample autocorrelation at lag K. Then this is an estimate of the correlation between XT and XT + K. And we call this RK. And I'll maybe put a hat on it to indicate that this is estimated from the sample. It turns out that this is approximately distributed as a normal with a mean or I guess okay a normal with the row k the true autocorrelation and a variance that's one over t minus k. So if we look at these bands, these bands correspond to sort of the region of sample autocorrelations that are consistent with a zero true autocorrelation. So if we want to if we want to test a null hypothesis that row k is equal to zero, we can say reject if r hat k is greater than 1.96 times the square of 1 / t minus k. applying a normal model for that return distribution. So we basically have um for the r hat k where we have a row k here we have a bell-shaped curve with a standard deviation square root of 1 over t minus k and if we consider row k equal to zero then we do the rejection if it's outside these bands. Now um the uh let's take a look at how these autocorrelations vary as we vary the frequency. Here's the uh weekly frequency for the computation of log returns. And we have this pattern where perhaps there are some significant negative autocorrelations at say uh five weeks apart. Um, and what would you say is a property of a time series that has negative say of order at lag five. What does that really mean in terms of what you would expect? Yes. Sort >> of mean reversion. >> Mean rever. Yes. Exactly. So the negative autocorrelations are consistent perhaps with mean reversion. So that means that if you know the price changes are too high they'll revert back or if they're too low they'll revert back. And um let's see also on these graphs are partial autocorrelations which we'll discuss later. Um but uh partial autocorrelations are correlations at a given lag after accommodating the dependence on lower order lags. We'll see that what how that works out uh in the case study later. But let's take a look at just these other series. Um, so here's the daily series uh with the S&P 500. And so you can see, oh, there's actually some reasonable strong autocorrelations. Here's Amazon stock. I'm not sure why it doesn't have the band on the lower side. Uh but it um it basically is symmetrical with that blue band where the correlation is consistent with zero autocorrelation. Um here's the weekly, here's the daily. So, so interestingly, Amazon stock doesn't seem to have any significant autocorrelations regardless of the frequency. Here's the um crude oil future. You can see that with the crude oil future in on a weekly basis, we have a negative autocorrelation at uh two weeks and then a positive autocorrelation at three weeks. So there's some interesting uh patterns that perhaps can be exploited. And here's daily. Uh again, one can see the rather significant autocorrelations at the low lag values. And let's see with the treasury yields looking at the autocorrelations and how the log yield changes one can see that there is some strong time dependence at the weekly basis as well as that the daily basis. Now let's see the this discussion of autocorrelations is a very important one in uh time series modeling and I just want to um highlight how if we have a time series and we have a we fit a time series model. And so we compute say y t t = 1 to t. Then um the residual from this fit of the time series model is the set of errors which are yt minus y t and you know we can just write yt is equal to y t plus epsilon or error t. Um a good model. So the model is good if the ETSs basically have mean zero constant variance are uncorrelated. with each other. And so the these assumptions um are basically assumptions of a white noise process. So if our model predicts up to this residual process which is unpredictable has mean zero constant variance is uncorrelated. There's no information left in the residual series and so we can use the autocorrelation of the residual series. We can use the autocorrelation function of the error series to test the uh model is good basically. And a good model will be a model that has captured all of the time dependent information in it. And predictions from these or forecasts from this model are ones we have confidence in. And so there's actually another assumption here which is that um let's see it's um if the epsilon t are normal or gaussian then this gives uh good predictions and by predictions I'm thinking of not point forecasts of a series but a prediction interval and how wide should that prediction interval be depending upon the variability. Um so so if when we work with time series we're actually are going to work often with autocorrelations of residuals to see um whether there's any time dependence in the series. And if we um what what's rather interesting to note is that one can fix a single correlation lag and use that to test whether the data are consistent with a zero autocorrelation of a fixed lag. We can also use sets of lags and test whether the whole set is equal to zero or not. And so um let's see let me just write it over here. So um if say row one equals row 2 equals row k is equal to zero then r hat j which is distributed as normal zero roughly 1 / t um for j equaling one to to uh A r hat j 2 * t is approximately the square of a normal 01 which is a kai squared 1 random variable. And if we look at the sum of t r hat j^ 2 from 1 to k this will be approximately a ki squared distribution with k degrees of freedom. And so we can then we can reject the uh null hypothesis. If this test statistic I'll call it well actually I'll call it BP because it's actually called the box pierce test if BP is large say larger than a critical value C star which where this is determined by the ki squared distribution. And so this is actually called the box pierce test. And um so we'll actually uh be very interested in autocorrelations of the original series but then autocorrelations of the residual series. And whenever we have a model where the residual series still has significant autocorrelations in it, then we're really not done yet. We really need to continue. Okay. So we have now the next topic is a really sort of extraordinary theorem. um the W representation theorem and with stationary processes that are co-variance stationary then it turns out that any covariant stationary process can be decomposed into a VT process which is linearly deterministic. So it's that means that basically the current value is a linear combination of past values and ST is a moving average process where we have these ADA T's which are white noise and our ST process is just a weighted sum of those white noise terms. And the white noise terms are also uncorrelated with the linearly deterministic process. So let's see when I first learned of this theorem I was um had an issue with well what is a linearly deterministic process? So, can anyone suggest what a linearly deterministic process is or or could be or an example of one. So we have VT is linear the deterministic. So we have VT. So if we observe VT over a sequence of time points, will for what patterns of VT will that determine the VT process into the future? Can you think of any? So if vt is equal to mu plus say cosine of theta t then this thing will just move up and down and we can actually determine that cosine function from enough values of vt. Yes. So does that mean like any any periodic process would be linearly determined? >> Yes. Any Yeah. And um it's interesting uh to know that I th those of you who may have studied harmonic analysis um could come across the u result that if we have say different period different cosine or s functions and take sums of those then that will also be a linearly predictable process. And so if you look at summing signs of different frequencies which basically corresponds to forier series that are flat um then uh those are linearly predictable. Um so so that's the VT process that we should be aware of. Um but what's really interesting is that the variation about that deterministic process the ST process um can be expressed as a moving average process and this u representation holds for any covariant stationary time series. Now for any coariant stationary time series um let's see with the covariance stationary process st um we have basically that mu is equal to the expected value of st sort of sigma squar which is the variance of st. This is constant over time. This is constant over time. And the co-variance of xt xt plus toao is equal to gamma of toao uh for all t. So any coariant stationary process can be represented as this moving average of white noise process. And so well how would we use this Wolves representation theorem? Well, if we have a time series XT that we want to specify a coariant stationary time series model to it, well, the first thing we would do perhaps is sort of drend the series XT so that it has a constant mean level. So if we had a linear trend or a quadratic trend, we would subtract that out. So xt is a series that uh looks like it has a flat path. And then we could initialize a parameter P indicating the past number of observations that explain the linearly deterministic term. And we can then project our time series XT onto the space spanned by the lags, the P lags. and then look at the errors about that projection. So here we can think of having the time series values y1 to yn and we can project those onto the lags of the y values. So for the first sort of p rows we actually need to go back in time. So that means we have to start not from the beginning of our time series but maybe p units ahead and then we can apply ordinary le squares to define the projection matrix onto those lagged values. And then we have this projected residual. And what we would want is that this projected residual um would if it's a stationary time series, we could use time series methods. We'll learn about how to specify a moving average model to these uh series and get estimates of the size and also estimates of the white noise terms. And with this step, we then can evaluate whether our residuals um are orthogonal to lagged values for lags greater than pback. So these residuals should not have any dependence on lags of y that are further back than p. If if not if if there is if those are not orthogonal then we should increase p. Um, and then we want to look at whether the ADAT's in our moving average model, whether those are consistent with white noise or not. And so if they are, we're good. But if if not then we need to consider sort of changing the specification of the moving average model and perhaps adding other variables such as deterministic variables that could be useful in the projections. But what this demonstrates is how this theory can in sort of the abstract be applied to real world data. And um so uh you know as we increase P the number of lags we use for the projection um we end up getting a limiting value as P gets large. Um that this sort of is capturing the uh linearly predictable uh part of the series. the VTS. Um, but this assumption basically requires if we let P grow arbitrarily large, we probably want to make sure that P over N uh goes to zero. so that we're estimating P parameters with a number of points that is large relative to P. Um so this is just a way of thinking about how uh we might approach our modeling effort exploiting the wool decomposition. But um what's what's really important here is that any covariant stationary model has a representation as this moving average process of white noise. So that's a fairly powerful result. It says that once we have transformed our data to a scale that where coariant stationerity is appropriate then we can restrict ourselves to the class of moving average processes. And what we'll see is that there are alternatives to moving average processes called auto reggressions that are very closely related to uh moving average processes. Yes. >> Um so I guess my question is why do you need to specify covarian stationerity for um the the uh the representation theorem? >> Okay. Um the uh well with the representation. Okay. Okay. Um let's see where is it? Here you know it's fine. Here here it is. Okay, basically if if we consider this process ST which has some set of weights SI times white noise ADA T's then if these conditions are satisfied for the size so the sum they're squares summable you know finite then this process ST t is going to be covariant stationary. It'll have finite mean and variance that's constant and the covariances will also be constant over increments of know any lag. What's what's powerful is that this representation can be used for any coariant stationary model. So this is coariant stationary but any coariant stationary model has this kind of representation. Yeah sure. And of course you know um coariant stationerity is a nice assumption. It may not be satisfied. So you need to you know have more complex models. But it's good to know when you have these uh assumptions satisfied that this is the representation. All right. So we next want to introduce you to this operator called a lag operator or a backshift operator. And uh because I call it a lag operator, I label it L. And so L operates on a time series XT and just shifts the time index back one period. So we're thinking of discrete time series with integer values of t and um the lag operating on xt shifts the time units back one period. And we can think of L to the zero power doing the identity. L1 one power of L shifts back once. If we apply L twice or L squ this shifts back two periods and of course if we apply it N times then we shift back N periods. And so with these lag operators, we can think of inverses of those operators as well and sort of consider sort of shifting the time series forward if that were useful. And so when we think of the w representation um we can express it as the sum of the moving average process and the linearly deterministic process vt. And we can represent the uh moving average process as a polomial of the lag operators possibly of infinite order that is multiplying the um ad t's. Now a a useful um sort of application of this uh moving average representation is that if we think about how was the value of the process at time t affected by the white noise process ada j lags ago. Then the partial derivative of XT with respect to that J lag back white noise term is given by SI J. So when pi j is large in magnitude that means that the current value of x is dependent on the j lag of the white noise and with a representation of the xt series by uh this uh pi function if one sort of graphs the pi function over lags. So let me do it over here. So if we look at SI J as a function of J and have we might have weights J that vary positive and negative. And so if this were the case, it would indicate in this graph that the impact of the white noise sort of three periods ago has a significant impact on X now. So it can capture sort of delayed responses of the time series XT to the white noise terms. And if we look at the long range impact of A to J or sorry the long range yeah impact of uh the uh or the cumulative response of XT basically corresponds um to the uh sum of the size and so there's basically a long run cumulative response of XT to the uh to a given a T. Um so this is the long run cumulative response to uh the white noise terms. Now what's interesting about the uh s of l process so if we have s of l is equal to the sum u from zero to infinity of s j l to the j um it's possible that this operator is invertible able and if it's invertible there exists an inverse operator with coefficients pi star and the product of these two polomials is simply equal to the identity if that's the case that an inverse of the PI of L operator exists. Then we can write our model for the stationary process as being equivalent to applying the inverse operator to both sides. And so we get an inverse operator which is a polomial lags operating on xt is equal to the a to t. So this corresponds to actually an auto reggression model that um has white noise terms. And so when this exists this is the format of that. And what we'd like to do is um show you how this works with some different examples. Right now it's perhaps a bit abstract but when we look at the special cases of an auto reggressive order one model um many of these terms will become clear. Now um we can introduce with this notation of lags and polomial lag operators the um ARMA PQ models where ARMA stands for auto reggressive and MA stands for moving average models and the P corresponds to the order of the auto reggressive and the Q corresponds to the order of the moving average. We can think of our time series XT being a sum of terms, auto reggressive terms on the top row and then the second row corresponds to moving average terms of the white noise. So notice in the top row we have xt and actually if you look at that equation if we sort of take xt minus mu this turns out to be equal to v1 xt -1 minus mu plus v2 and so forth. So these are lag terms of the mean adjusted x's and then we have the next row is the sum of the white noise terms at time t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t minus one up to t minus q. So, ARMA PQ models are a parsimmonious case of time series models where we just have P auto reggressive parameters F1 to FP and Q moving average parameters theta 1 to theta Q. And if we write the if we group all the terms with x's on the left hand side and all the terms with the adas on the right hand side we then get this f of l operator* xt minus f is equal to theta of l a t and the w decomposition of this arma model is to multiply this arma equation on both sides by the inverse of f of l. And so mu plus s of l a t is the w uh decomposition representation of the of the process. So let's look at um auto reggressive models. So we'll assume that there's no moving average term. So we have the f of l operator operating on xt minus mu is equal to the white noise. And so that model basically says that XT is a linear combination of the P lags of XT plus white noise. So this is a regression model for our time series XT using predictor variables the lags of this time series. And if we take expectations of both sides, we basically get mu the constant expectation of the coariant stationary process is equal to C plus the sum of FJ times mu, the expectation of each of the lags plus zero. And so C turns out to equal mu * V of 1. So u we have that uh representation of the constant term. Now what's important with time series models is whether the time series model is stationary or not. And it turns out that for an auto reggressive model with parameters f1 to fp that if we look at what's called this characteristic equation 1 minus v1 z minus v2 z ^ 2 up to pp z to the p power. If we consider the roots of that polomial then well if we have roots lambda 1 to lambda p then f of l has to be the product of these terms. each of these terms, each of these factors are equal to zero when sort of z equals uh lambda 1. So if z equals lambda 1 then the first term is zero. If z equals the p root lambda p then this last factor is zero. So this is a representation of this peace order polomial in terms of its roots and the condition for stationerity is that all of these roots have to lie outside the unit circle in the complex plane. And so um if we look at one of these roots fix just lambda as a root then if we take the inverse of this factor it has this geometric sum expression of 1 + 1 over lambda l + 1 over lambda^ 2 l^2 and so forth. And so it's basically an infinite order polomial in lags. Um and the coefficients are one over lambda to the i power. So if these lambdas are bigger than one in magnitude then the inverse of those the reciprocal of those is uh smaller than one in magnitude. So these terms will die down with a limiting value of zero and that's necessary for this representation to be appropriate. So we get a co-variance stationary sum of lagged errors uh lagged white noise terms um with this uh representation. So the f inverse of L is actually the product of P of these reciprocals. And so the condition that each of those reciprocals or or each of those terms is defined by lambda js that are bigger than one in magnitude makes their geometric series expression converge. If the lambdas were inside the unit circle the magnitude then when we multiply them together square them they get bigger and bigger. Okay. Um so let's take a look at what this works out to be just for an auto reggressive process with p equal to 1. with P equal to 1, our characteristic equation is simply 1 minus V Z = Z. And so the root of that is clearly 1 over FE. And so the a the p= 1 auto reggressive model is going to be coariant stationary if and only if the magnitude of fee is smaller than one or equivalently its inverse magnitude is greater than one. And so we end up having these first and second moments and these co-variances which are very easy to compute. And you know this will probably be an homework exercise problem. But with the first order auto reggression model, we have a constant mean, a constant variance, which is sigma squar over 1 minus v time sigma squared. And uh the co-variances basically are the variance times f to the j power. So with an autocorrelation uh the fee is the first order autocorrelation and fee to the J is the J order autocorrelation. Okay. Now if f is um between or minus one and one or for fee between zero and one the process uh exhibits exponential mean reversion and when fee is negative but no larger than negative one in magnitude then it exhibits some oscillating exponential mean reversion. But when f equals 1, then the wool decomposition does not exist and the process is a simple random walk which is non-stationary and when fee is greater than one then the process is explosive. So uh in financial markets there these first order auto reggressive models actually are used quite frequently with interest rates where there's maybe a constant long-term interest rate level and there's variation about that. This olbeck process corresponds to the first order auto reggressive process. um with these other series um these are financial or time series and financial markets where the level of the series is expected to be stable over time. So perhaps interest rate spreads would be modeled as being stable or stationary. real exchange rates perhaps or valuation ratios. Um so so these models arise in these uh application areas. Now to fit um an auto reggressive process and we could simply just fit a linear regression model with p lags of the series as uh explanatory variables. But what's rather interesting to know is this approach called ule uh solving ule walker equations. If we take our model equation, that first equation line, we have the mean deviation of XT is equal to a linear combination of FJ times the J lag deviation from U. There's a typo there. That second uh F2 should have an XT minus 2. Um then if we multiply both sides of this model equation by Xt minus J minus mu then we basically for each term we're adding XT minus J minus mu as a factor and then take expectations of that we have our J lag auto covariance and it's equal to the F1 * the J minus1 lag autocariance plus F2 * the J minus 2 lag and so forth and if the J is equal to zero then we also have a sigma squared term where we're looking at um basically that that well that term comes comes in. So um so we basically have equations a system of equations if we vary J and so if we consider J equal to one to P we get a system of P linear equations in the FJS and this is our U walker equations gamma one is equal to the first row of the matrix times the vector of fees and so forth. And with the properties of the autocovariances, they are symmetrical. So we can actually use these to uh make the computations of of the matrices. And when we use this Ule Walker approach to estimate the parameters, we're actually using a sort of method of moments principle for estimating the auto reggressive model parameters. Method of moments is a principle in statistical estimation where we basically equate sample moments and the population moments and solve for what population parameter values match the sample moments. Now uh we can do a similar analysis of moving average models. So here we have a Qth order moving average model represented by a polomial theta of L of order Q in terms of powers of L. And um the properties of this process can be studied. And one thing we might want to do is invert this moving average model into an auto reggressive model by basically modeling multiplying the model equation on both sides by the inverse of the theta of L operator. And so if we do that um then we basically have an auto reggressive representation of the moving average order Q model. And if you calculate simple second order properties of this moving average process, well the mean is simply mu. The right hand side of the equation is just weighted sums of adas which have mean zero. And so the expectation of the left hand side is simply equal to mu. And if we look at the variance of xt um it basically is the variance of the weighted sum of the adas. And it turns out to have this simple form with co-variances of the series with moving average processes. If we look at time increments J that are longer than the Q order, then there's no overlap of white noise terms in XT and XT plus J. And so their co-variance is going to be zero. When there is overlap then we get this formula. Okay. Uh so next um we want to uh deal with how we can accommodate non-stationerity and time series. So far we've just assumed examples and models like auto reggressive and moving average models where this series is stationary. There will be cases when our time series is not stationary and differencing the series will generally render a series to a stationary uh transformation. And so if we consider first order differencing we have let's see here if we do deltayt equaling 1 - l yt = yt minus l yt which is yt minus yt minus one. Okay, this is first order differences. If we apply the first difference of this, we end up getting yt - yt -1 - yt -1 - ytus 2. And this turns out to be equal to yt - 2 ytus1 + ytus 2. And there could be kith order differencing, but in practice we'll only generally use first or second order differencing. And what's really neat about differencing is that first order differencing will eliminate a linear trend in the series. Basically, if we have a linear trend, then the difference will just be a constant difference. And the second order difference is appropriate if there is a sort of quadratic um trend in the series and second order differencing will eliminate that quadratic trend. So we'll finish there for today. But this issue of modeling differences of the series or second differences of the series as stationary corresponds to having time series models that are looking at the dynamics of the slope of the time series or which is like the first derivative or the second derivative and assuming that those are perhaps constant level and constant variability. So, so those mathematical features end up now being very intuitive uhly applied actually with with different cases. Okay, we'll finish there for today.