All right. Uh let's get started. So today we're going to continue our discussion of you know algebra. Uh so last time we talked about modular arithmetic and I introduced you to the basic notions. We talked about the uklidian algorithm, the extended uklidian algorithm and uh multiplicative inverses and it turns out that um there are some really powerful abstractions that can give us a useful way to think about modular arithmetic and these come from really the starting point of group theory. So group theory is something that you can take you know a whole class in multiple classes in and it goes quite deep but we're going to introduce you to the basics of group theory and you know why this abstraction is powerful. So let me start off from where we left off last time. So we had this notion of you know multiplication in modular arithmetic and one of the questions which was on our mind was you know whether an element has a multiplicative inverse. So given an element a is there's some other number element we can multiply it by so that mod n we get back one and we showed that this was always true whenever n is prime and a is non zero. And in fact um you know what we really showed was that even if n is not prime the critical thing is whether or not the gcd the greatest common divisor between a and n is one. So we showed in particular that there was this equivalent way to think about the gcd as the smallest integer you can get nonzero integer where you take you know s * a plus t * n and you want to get that to be equal to one. So if the gcd is one then that gives you the multiplicative inverse and if you can't get one you can show directly that it has no multiplicative inverse. So this is where we left off last time. But now I'm going to tell you one very powerful definition and it'll take us you know uh all of today's lecture to really understand why this is such a powerful notion which takes us to what's called a group. So a group is just a pair G. It's a set of elements potentially infinite along with a binary operation star. So this is some set potentially infinite and this is just a binary operation and the critical thing about a group is that it has to satisfy a whole bunch of properties. So the first thing we need is closure that we can apply this binary operation to pairs of elements and get back another element in the group. So this is really just the statement that for any pair of elements AB that belong to the group the operation of A* B is well defined because it sends us back to some group element. Right? So last time when I wrote down for example this table we got with modular addition I was really just showing you for every row that's a choice of a different element for every column that's a choice of a different element. And I told you in the table you know what particular group element that pair adds to or multiplies to. That was just the closure property. We also need associivity which is also familiar from before. So for all triples a b c that belong to your group doing the operation of a star b and then taking the result and doing that with star c is the same thing as parenthesizing the expression a different way. Okay. We also need the existence of an identity element which means that there is some element which we'll call E that belongs to the group with the property that for all elements of the group day doing a star E gets back the same element I started from and that doesn't matter whether you apply E on the right or on the left either way you get back your original element and you do nothing to it. So for example in the case of the group being you know when we were working with this um set of moduli uh when we had addition the identity element is zero and when we had multiplication the identity element was one. Okay. And finally the last property we need from our group is the existence of an inverse. So what this means is natural we want that for all a belonging to our group there is some element which we'll call a inverse with the property that a inverse applied on the left versus a inverse applied on the right both of them send you back to the identity element. So this is the notion of a group. This is just formalizing you know algebraic structures that we've already seen in action. We've already seen groups but we didn't think about them as abstract sets you know abstract uh properties. Um and I'll also mention that you know additionally if we have commutivity so if commutivity holds that you know a star b is equal to b star a then what it we we say is that we call g a billion so it's an aelion group So these are the key definitions for today and what we're going to do is we're going to understand why this is powerful. So are there any questions about the definition of a group this makes sense hopefully. Uh so next let's go through some examples. We've already seen groups in action. Um and let's see some examples just to you know get a feel for what these definitions are. So one simple example is you know an infinite group. you've been working with all the time. You can look at the set of integers under addition. Right? So we can check in that case our set G is just an infinite set. It's the set of all integers positive and negative. Our binary operation is addition. And you can check that all of these properties hold. I take two integers, I add them up, I definitely get back an integer. Uh, when I add up three integers, it doesn't matter the order that I add them up. I have an identity element that's zero. I have an inverse that's just the negative of the number I started off with. And in fact, it's also commutative, so it's an aelion group. So, this is a very simple example of, you know, a group is just the set of integers under addition. Uh just as a pop quiz, what about the set of integers under multiplication? So what if I take the same set but my binary operation is now multiplication? Is that a group? Why not? >> Because zero doesn't have [laughter] zero doesn't have an inverse. And that's true of all kinds of other elements too. when I take, you know, the element two, well, I can talk about multiplying by that element. That'll still send me back to another integer, but I don't have the existence of an inverse because that would be 1/2 and that's not in my set. So, a non-example of a group is, you know, integers under multiplication. So, it's not just about the set, but it's about how the set behaves under the binary operation I've chosen. We can do another example with multiplication. We can take the set of uh rationals minus 0 and we can take our operation to be multiplication. So now we do have an inverse because we just flip the numerator and denominator and we once again have a group. Right? So these are all examples of infinite groups. And what we'll be particularly interested in today are finite groups. That's the part that's going to collect uh connect with modular arithmetic. So what about you know finite groups? In fact I claim we've already seen some examples of uh finite groups in action, right? So we can take another example. This will be a very important example for us which is we can take ZN which is just um you know addition we can take it with the binary operation of addition uh you know modular addition. So for example when n equals two this is just you know two elements we're looking at evens and odds and for that you know finite group just the set of evens and odds you can check that you know when you add up two elements it makes sense you know an even plus an even takes you back to even an odd plus an odd takes you to even and an even plus an odd takes you to odd right so in fact um we've already seen examples of finite groups in action that's what we did last time, right? But let me give you a a more interesting example which is going to show up okay. So actually let's do a simple corlary first and then we'll get to that example. You know this will be a correlary of that key lema I wrote up there. So let's look at the set ZN minus 0. So I'm just looking at the remainders when I take mod n but I'm removing the zero elements and if I look at this finite set with multiplication I claim that this is a group if and only if n is prime and I'm writing this as a correl because really it's a corollary of this key lema that we showed last time. So let's prove this lema just to get some familiarity with groups. So this is an if and only if statement. Uh let's prove the reverse direction first. So let's suppose that n is prime. Then uh why exactly you know is this a group? Now some properties you know a bunch of properties of the group are sort of tedious to check and they're very natural. So you know if I take multiplication mod n it's definitely closed. You know that's what it means to do modular multiplication. We talked about that last time. You just multiply the two numbers and subtract off as many multiples of n as you can and you'll get back to some remainder. No big deal. It's associative because really multiplication is associative and we're just subtracting off multiples of n. Uh you know the main question and the identity element is easy. That's also one. I take any remainder multiply it by one I still get the same remainder. The tricky thing is really the inverse right that's where this corollary becomes interesting. So the key thing to check is that uh there is an inverse and really from our lema. So if n is prime we know by the key lema from last time that every element has a multiplicative inverse. So that proves one direction you know of our corlary. Uh you know the converse is equally simple. So let's prove that you know uh if n is com we'll actually prove it in the contraositive. So let's suppose that n is composite. So what I just proved was that if n is prime then it's a group. But let's prove that you know if n is not prime if it's a composite that we don't have a group right and how am I going to prove that this is not a group what I'm going to do is I'm going to construct an element that doesn't have a multiplicative inverse because that's where all this action is happening in the proof of this corollary. So any guesses for what kind of element might not have a multiplicative inverse? Any good ideas? We already know this lema tells us a bunch of things do have multiplicative inverses. So where should I look for something that doesn't have a multiplicative inverse? I should look for an element A where the GCD between A and N is not one. Right? So let's just take any old element A with the property that the GCD between A and N is not equal to one. Right? And so you know the lema tells us already you know the work is already done for us that that element does not have a multiplicative inverse. So it fails our property four of being a group. So when we were doing modular arithmetic and we were worrying about multiplicative inverses really what we were doing was we were characterizing when exactly we had this group structure. So that's the first point is that we were really doing group theory last time and you know what we're going to do now is we're going to understand some of the implications of having this abstraction. All right. Uh actually let me make one comment first. So just as a quick comment this will be very useful for later. So imagine that uh we take n which is composite. We now know that the nonzero elements of ZN do not form a group. But it turns out that even though it's not a group, there is a group hiding inside. So this will be very useful for us. So there is a way to fix the failure of this group property. What we can do is we can let ZN star just be the set of elements A belonging to ZN with the property that the GCD of A and N is equal to one. So what I claim and I'll just assert this but the proof is very simple. It just again follows from this key lema last time. What I claim is that ZN star equipped with the multiplication operation is a group. So that's our key fact that we're going to be using. So even though there are elements, you know, belonging to ZN that are not zero that do not have a multiplicative inverse. So we failed to be a group, we can just take the set of elements that do have an inverse. the set of all elements a where the gcd is one and what I claim is that that's a group sitting inside this other thing that failed to be a group so the main point for today's lecture is we're going to uh develop some understanding of you know properties of groups we're going to prove something called lrangees theorem which is going to have a ton of cool um you know simple to understand applications So let's go a little further with you know group theory. Let me give you a key definition. The order of a group of a finite group G is just the number of elements and we denote it by size of G this way. So we're just measuring the number of elements in G. Okay? And you shouldn't yet see why this is a very useful notion, but that's where Lrangees theorem is going to kick in. But let's do some examples just to make sure that, you know, we're on the same page. So we can look at, you know, ZN with multiplication um for prime n. So we already proved in our corollary that when n is prime, this is a group. So what's the order of this group? Well, the order of this group uh you know ZN sorry ZN uh minus 0 because the element zero doesn't work. Well, this is just N minus one for this group just because I've uh uh removed that element. Okay. So now um the key property we're gonna Okay. So then let's do one more example and this will be a a crucial example that we use for later. So let's imagine that M is composite. We can look at Z MM star again with multiplication and let's assume that you know M is equal to P * Q where both P and Q are primes and they're distinct primes. So this is one simple example. you know m is composite so zm you know minus0 is not a group but if we only look at the set of elements that have a multiplicative inverse we know that it's a group the question is what's the order of this group so how many elements are actually in the set zm star so this is really just a counting argument right because what we want to do is we want to count the number of a's such that the gcd between a and m is equal to one. So now what I can do is I can use my old friend inclusion exclusion. Right? So what I can do is I can overount. So I can start off with you know PQ minus one because those are all of the elements that are in consideration you know in the set and then what I can do is I can subtract off the things which fail to have gcd1. So what are the ways that a could fail to have gcd with m uh one? Well it could have gcd equal to p or it could have gcd equal to q. So the question is just how many elements you know how many choices of A are there where the GCD between A and M would be P? How many are there where the GCD would be Q? Because that's the amount by which I've overounted. So I should subtract off those things. And you can subtract off P minus one. This is just you know the number of A's where the GCD of A and M is equal to Q. In particular, A should be a multiple of Q in order for this to be true. And then there are P minus one possibilities for what that is. And I can do the same thing the other direction. um I can subtract off the things which are multiples of P and I'm going to get q minus one of these elements and there's nothing that's a multiple of both p and q because the largest my remainder gets to is pq minus one. So this even though it sounds like a pretty you know tedious example this turns out to be an extremely important example. So just to write down what the expression is, it's p minus one * q minus one. And what I promise you is that this expression is going to come up in a very magical way later. In fact, I claim that this expression is the key to RSA encryption. So we'll see a bit of a hint of that. But this expression is very important. It's just the order of this group that you know has fixed the fact that our original attempt was not a group. So are there any questions about where we are right now? The notion of groups makes sense and the order makes sense. Hopefully any questions. Good. All right. So I want to get up to Lrangeas theorem. But next we have you know one more abstraction before I can tell you Lrron's theorem. This is our last abstraction for today. We can also talk about the notion of a subgroup. So imagine I gave you a pair G and star. So G is the set and we'll be interested in finite sets for today. And then we have this binary operation star. And let's assume that it's a group. So it satisfies all the axioms one through four of being a group. And let's imagine that you give me some subset of the group. You just keep some of the elements and let's call that H. Well, if this pair H and star is also a group. Then what we do is we say that H is a subgroup. So this is our key definition. So not only you know do we have a group but sometimes inside a group we have other smaller groups sitting inside them. And what we're going to do is we're going to show that whenever we have a subgroup, we can say something very interesting about the relationship between H and G. So that's where we're headed. But let's do, you know, let's just be explicit about this, right? So what does it mean for HAR to be a group, right? So in particular what this definition is really telling us is that we better satisfy a stronger closure property. So when we have any pair of elements AB that belong to H, we need that A* B belongs to H as well. See A and B are both elements of G. So we're automatically guaranteed that Aar B belongs to G. But this is the stronger statement that when A and B are actually not just in G but they're sitting inside H then the result of you know multiplying them should be something that's in H2. So the critical thing here is that this should not just be in G but in H itself. And the same thing is true for the inverse too. Right? We need that for all elements A belong to H. Well, a is in G, so there is an inverse. But the key thing is that this inverse actually belongs to H and again not G. So somehow when you're doing the binary operations or when you're looking for the inverse, you never have to go outside of the set you started from even though it lives inside a much bigger group. So that's the idea. So this is, you know, a key definition. This is very subtle. Uh, are there any questions about the definition for a subgroup? All right. So, I'm going to state Lrange's and then we're going to go through some examples and we'll prove Lrange's theorem and then I'll tell you some awesome applications of it. So what I claim relating all these concepts we've done so far. So if G is finite, it's a finite group and H is a subgroup. Then what I claim is that the order of H divides the order of G. This is why we care about orders already, right? See, when you tell me the group and you tell me the order, you know, how many elements belong to this group, well, that imposes some restrictions on what kinds of subgroups you can find. Say if I have my original group is you know order six this tells me no matter where I look I cannot find a subgroup of order four because it wouldn't divide it. So this is a really beautiful fact even though it sounds like we haven't assumed very much just G satisfies these simple axioms and H is a subgroup automatically we can say something very striking and powerful about the relationship between H and G that tells us something very important structure on what H could be. So we're going to prove this but first let's give you know some examples. just to make this explicit, right? So let's let G denote Z7 minus 0. 7 is prime. So this is a group. It has six elements, right? And now what's going on is that uh you know the subgroup H we can take to be the elements 1 2 4 and what you can do is you can just check that when I take any of these two elements you know 1 * 2 1* 4 I go back within the subgroup right and 2 * 4 I go back to the subgroup because it gives me one um and uh you know you can check that every element has a multiplicative inverse because in fact the multiplicative inverse of four is two and similarly the multiplicative inverse of two is four. In fact one of the elegant ways to see that this is a subgroup is actually by realizing that you know there's a way to express this subgroup in a different way. So an easy and powerful way to see this that'll be very useful for what we do later in terms of applications of lrangege is that all of these elements of the subgroup are all powers of two. So 2 to the 1 is 2 mod 7. 2 3 is 1 mod 7 and 2 to the sorry 2 to the two is 4 mod 7. So all of the elements we got 1 2 and four they were powers of two. So why do we have the closure properties? is just because when I take different powers of two and multiply them, I'm just adding their exponents. So really this is the set of remainders you get from taking powers of two and looking at the remainder mod 7. So this is one example of how to build a subgroup is really with powers of some element. And this will be a crucial way that we we use lrangees theorem, but I'll have to explain that later. And of course you can check the obvious thing that Lrange's theorem checks out uh in this case because you know the size of G is six the size of H is three. So you know three really does divide six. Okay. All right. So, let me pause here and ask you guys if you have any questions again because if not, we're going to do the proof of lrangees theorem. And that's where we're going to assemble all of these definitions from groups and subgroups that we've been talking about so far. So, uh, ask me questions to slow me down. They should hopefully be about the course material, but if not, that's fine. I'm just going to stare awkwardly until someone asks me a question. Everyone understands everything. You promise? Yes. Okay. All right. I'll take it. So, let's prove Lrron's theorem. This will be the main proof we do today, but then we'll get a whole bunch of amazing applications out of it. And this fact that I promised you is going to come back later on. Okay, but we can already see some hint about why this fact is powerful. Counting the number of group elements tells us something very powerful about the types of subgroups we can expect to see inside. All right, so let's prove it here. I think I should have enough space. Now this is really just a counting argument using the group structure. After all we just want to prove some statement about divisibility. So you know really what's going on here the way to prove lrangees theorem at a high level is to break G up into different pieces. You know we already have a subgroup which is one piece of G. But the question is how can I translate that subgroup around to cover all of G in a nice even way. So that's the intuition behind Lrron's proof and you know making this precise we have to talk about you know what are these translates and this takes us to the notion of a co-et. So, as I promised you, the main idea is to partition G. And we're going to build up this partition one by one. And we're going to partition it into something called co-sets. These are really just translates of my original subgroup. So, if you take any element belonging to the group, what we're going to do is we're going to consider the following set. It's called XH and it's really the set of all XY where Y belongs to H. Right? So what's going on is for the definition of the subgroup we needed the property that when I take a pair of elements belonging to H we go back within H. Here I'm taking a pair of elements one of which belongs to H and one of which is general. And these are my different translates. So I'm not just considering an X which belongs to H. But as I arrange X over the group, I'm going to get different pieces of the group, right? When X belongs to H, I'm just getting back H. And when X is something else that does not belong to H, it's a translate of the thing I started from. So these are called co-sets. In fact, this is called a left co-set because the element that um you know I'm taking from G is multiplied on the left and right co-ets would be the same thing but on the other side. So now uh you know here's our plan. This is our plan of action is what we want to do is we want to show that G can be written as X1H union disjoint union X2H all the way up to disjoint union X KH. So what's going on is I have K different co-ets one for each of these XI. I haven't told you how to find them. We'll talk about that in a minute. But I want the property that I can choose X1 through X K so that their resulting co-etss together make up G and there's no overlap between them. So what this symbol means is it's not the union, it's the disjoint union. So I want all of these things to have empty intersection. Okay, so that's my plan. And if this were true, Lrange's theorem would be done, right? Because what is the s you know each of these elements right here? We're going to prove that each of these co-ets has size order of H. And then we've written G as K copies of H. So that'll be our plan. So here are the things we need to show. And I haven't even told you, you know, how to build up this set. uh what I want to show is that the size of each of these co-ets you know XH is equal to the size of H. And I want to show that the way that I've built it up the intersection between any pair of elements of any pair of co-etss is uh zero. And this should be true for all I not equal to J. So in fact we're going to have a very simple plan for how to generate these XI's. All we're going to do is you know we're just greedily pick an uncovered XI. So I start off before I've built up a single co-et. I have nothing. I've covered none of the elements of G. I take any arbitrary element X belonging to G that's not covered which is all of them. That will be my X1 that defines a co-et. I pull that co-et out of G. All of those elements are now covered. And then I take any other element that's not yet covered. That's my X2. It defines a co-et. I pull it out and I keep recursing in this way. But I have to prove that this really does create a disjoint union of G. Everything is covered at the end and it's covered once and only once. And I have to prove that each time I pull out a piece, a co-et, it has exactly the same size. So if we can prove these two properties, we're done. And we've proved lrangees theorem. But now proving these two properties will just be about using the axioms of group theory. So this is where group theory is a powerful definition. We haven't seen it yet but we will in a minute is to prove these two properties. So let's show these two properties. So first let's show one. Okay. And let's suppose that X H1 equals XH2 for some H1 and H2 belonging to my subgroup capital H. So what is the way that I wouldn't get the co-et has size order H? Really the way that the co-et is defined is once I fixed x I look at you know xar y for all y and h and if for different choices of y I get the same element when I do that multiplication I get a collision that's the only way that I don't have an equality here if that doesn't happen then I really do have that my co-et equals the order of the subgroup every distinct choice of y is going to lead to a distinct product. Right? So let's imagine that we had two elements H1 and H2 that X * H1 and X * H2 were the same thing, right? And now you know what should I do? I claim that you know the way that my proof strategy wants to work, right? This you know this won't be a very complicated proof but the logic is subtle. So what I want to do is I want to show that h1 and h2 must be the same thing. I want to show that the only way that you get the same element when you get x * h1 is equal to x * h2 is if h1 equals h2. So how should I do that? How should I conclude that h1 and h2 are the same thing? And you know my hint is that you know the critical thing in Lrange's theorem is if G is a group so what should I use about the group axioms in order to conclude this fact? That's my key question. You promised me you guys understood everything up until that point. So which axiom should I use? I got you guys on the hook. Now who can make me happy? People are not making eye contact. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Maybe we could use like the existence of X inverse. >> Yeah. That's right. That's a great idea. Let's use the existence of X inverse, right? And that'll work. So now what we're going to do is we're going to left multiply by X inverse. See this is where I need the group structure is that X inverse exists. Right? So once X inverse exists then what this is going to imply is that uh you know uh X inverse X H1 and now I can use associivity is equal to X inverse X H2. And when I use associivity and the property of the inverse that it equals the identity and that identity times an element is the element, it's going to imply that H1 equals H2. So in fact the critical thing was the inverse but we really used all of the properties like you know the fact that we have associivity, the fact that we get back the identity element and the fact that the identity element doesn't change any of those things. So in this one step we've used you know all the properties of groups which is great and it implies the thing we're after but this finishes this first part in the proof. Every co-et has the same size because when I take different elements of h I cannot get the same thing because of the inverse. So we're halfway home. Right? So let's show property two and then we'll be done with Lrron's theorem. So now let's show two. Okay. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to suppose that they're not disjoint these co-etss we get. So let's suppose for i less than j we have the property that x i h1 equals xj h2 and this is true you know for some h1 and h2 belonging to h. So we just proved that you know we don't have any collisions within the co-et we don't get back the same element. Now what I want to do is I want to suppose for the sake of contradiction that you know there's some co-et i and there's some co-et j that intersect and that means that there's some element I got out of one which is you know x i * h1 and that's the same as the element I got out of the later coset which is xj * h2. So this is what it means for the two co-etss to not be disjoint is that they have a collision for some H1 and H2. And now we're going to try and get a contradiction. Right? So what I want to do I'm going to ask you guys to help me out is that I want to show that you know XJ actually belonged to an earlier co-et. So I want to show that XJ belongs to an earlier co-et. This would let me be done, right? Because what is the way that I built up my co-etss? I started off with any X that was uncovered and I chose it as my X1 and I pulled out the entire co-et. And then I took any x2 that was still not covered. I used it to find a co-et and pull it out. So if some xj later down the line actually belongs to an earlier co-et, then that means I shouldn't have done that. It should have been pulled out before. Right? So what I'm really saying logically is that if this weren't true, if the intersection were non zero, then I actually haven't implemented this procedure I told you correctly because xj was already covered. So now you know same question right I'm telling you what I want to show this is what we're assuming for the purpose of contradiction how can I show that xj belongs to an earlier co-et and I'll give you a hint it should be the co-et defined by x i and same thing is going to be true here we just need to figure out what property of a group or subgroup we should apply right so what should I do to this expression h uh Xi H1 equals Xj H2 to try and derive an expression where XJ belongs to a co-et the coset of XI. What about right multiplying by H2 inverse? Okay, so let's see what happens. So let's let's write multiply by h2 inverse. So we get x i h1 h2 inverse is equal to xj. I wanted to show that xj belongs to an earlier co-et. Why is this expression showing that xj belongs to an earlier co-et? So what can I say about this element right here? H1 H2 inverse. Yeah, >> it's an element in H. >> It's an element in H. Right. Why? Because H2 inverse belongs to H. And then I'm multiplying two things belonging to H. So we've used the two key closure properties of the subgroup. Right? And so what this means is that you know XJ belongs to the set XI H. And that means that XJ should have been covered and we shouldn't have considered it to begin with. So that's our proof like this is not a long proof but the logic for this is very subtle. We used everything that we could have used about groups and subgroups just to prove these few lines of this logical argument. Once we had the strategy of how to partition it into co-sets and we had this definition of a co-et where we needed the group theory and the subgroups was really the structural properties that forced these properties one and two to be true. So this is a tricky proof. Uh I will ask again any questions. Is everyone comfortable with this proof? So I can give you my pop quiz now. That'll count towards 50% of your grade. I'm just kidding. Boy, would the people who didn't show up today be upset. We should do that at some point. All right. Uh, so let's, you know, now that we've done this hard work of proving Lrange's theorem, let's see some payoff. So let me tell you some awesome statements that are going to follow as you know an application of lrangees theorem and it's going to connect all of the tools we talked about subgroups powers of elements uh the order and everything. So this is a theorem called uh format's little theorem. We're not going to prove for's last theorem. Uh so what I claim is that if p is prime and a is not divisible by p. Then a to the p minus one is congruent to 1 mod p. This is a beautiful identity, right? In particular, what this means is really that a to the p minus 2* a is equal to 1. So this gives me an explicit algebraic expression for what the multiplicative inverse is. Last time we talked about how we could compute the multiplicative inverse by using the extended uklidian algorithm. It turns out you can also do it by powering. If you give me a and I know that p is prime, all I have to do is raise a to the p minus2 power and that is the multiplicative inverse. You can check that all of our examples satisfy that property. That's why two and four were multiplicative inverses of each other. Uh was just that you take one and you raise it to the p minus 2 power and that'll give you the other one. So this property it doesn't seem like it's connected to lrangege but it is. So it turns out that uh we're going to prove it through lrangees theorem. Right? So what I'm going to do is I'm going to have a key definition which is I'll let K be the smallest integer such that a to the k is congruent to one mod p. So now uh the basic idea is that I have to prove that such a K exists. It's not obvious that there should always be a K. And once I know that there is a K, I'll relate it to the order of the group because this is going to define a subgroup. And that'll tell me something about you know when I use Lrangees theorem and I relate that to the order of the actual group which is P minus one, that'll tell me that the same thing holds with P minus one instead. So really you know this is the plan. First I have to show that such a K exists. So you know why is there any K and now we get to use a lot of the tools we've talked about in the class so far. So we get to connect it to a lot of earlier tools right I claim we can prove this by pigeon hole principle. So let's assume that there is no K. Suppose there is no such K. Then what I claim is that by the pigeon hole principle, there must exist some I less than J with the property that A to the I is congruent to A to the J mod P. So what I'm going to do is I start off with A. I raise it to different powers and I stop at the first power where what I get is congruent to one mod p. Let's suppose I never stop. What if I just kept going? Well, there are only so many other values for what the remainder when I divide by p can be. And eventually when I consider high enough powers, I must be getting some kind of collision. Right? So once I get this collision that a to the i equals a to the j let's figure out you know why there must exist a k such that a to the k is congruent to one. So what we can do is we can just divide through by a because there is an inverse to a right because p is prime and so we can write this as a to the j minus i is congruent to one mod p. This is just because a inverse exists and we can get rid of powers of a right. So when we get rid of i powers of a from both sides, we get the identity a to the j minus i is congruent to one mod p. And that shows that there must exist some k just by pigeonal principle. So this is the first thing that I owed you is that k exists. Right? And now we're going to relate k to p minus one. And that'll be the proof of vermont. So this is the first step. And now what I claim the powers of a form a subgroup and what is the order of this subgroup right it's K because that's the first time when I got back the identity element so it was the same way when I did that numerical ical example up here. I had a subgroup that was really generated by powers of two. Now I have a subgroup that's generated by powers of a. And my order is just the first time that I return back to the identity element. That's what K is. So I have a subgroup which is the powers of a and it has order K. So what I can do is you know now I can appeal to Lrange's theorem. So by lranja's theorem we know that k the order of my subgroup must divide p minus one. You remember when we did all those computations of what the order of a subgroup is when you know n is prime when n is the product of two primes. We know the order is p minus one because of that first example we did. And now we can appeal to Lrron's theorem and we know that k divides p minus one. So now we're golden because a to the p minus one, you know that's the thing we want to show is congruent to one mod p. And what are we going to do? We're just going to write this as a to the k raised to the cth power. If for example P minus1 equals C * K because K divides P minus one. So I'm just rewriting it in a different way. And now what do I know about A to the K? What is it congruent to? Mod P. It's congruent to one. So this is the same thing as raising one to the power C, which is the same thing as one. So that's the proof. So this is for Mott's little theorem and even though the statement of it had nothing to do with groups right I could have stated this for you at the beginning of lecture today because we knew what modular arithmetic was we know what it means to take powers of a but somehow the cleanest proof of theorem at least one of the cleanest proofs really goes through the fact that sitting inside the powers of today is some understanding of a group structure and how that relates to you know the larger group that it contains. So are there any questions about lrangees theorem? H sorry the application of lrangees theorem to format's little theorem. Who's comfortable with the proof? Give me a thumbs up. Okay. All right. So, one of the uh really cool things you can do, let me just take a brief digression for a minute. Uh which is that you know something like for Mott's little theorem there actually tons of proofs. So, we gave a group theoretic proof right now. Let me give you a totally different proof just because and this will connect back to some of the earlier topics we've seen. I claim there's a purely combinatorial way to prove for uh little theorem and we'll prove it in a particular case for a particular setting of you know a and p. So let me give you a combinatorial proof. And let's do the proof specifically in the case where a= 2 and p equals 5 just to be concrete. So the way that I'm going to do this is I'm actually going to think about a counting problem under the hood and it'll involve something called necklaces. So the idea is that um you know when I take the statement of you know Vermont right it's the statement that uh a to the p minus1 uh is is congruent to one but you know another way to think about this statement is really the statement that a to the p minus a is divisible by p. That's really what this statement means because I can take this identity and I can multiply it through by a. So I get a the p minus one is congruent to a mod p. When I move the a on the other side, I get this quantity a the p minus a. And the statement that that's congruent to zero mod p is really the statement that that is a multiple of p. Okay. And I claim that there's a combinatorial proof of this fact which will give us you know another way to think about you know what format's what's happening in for's little theorem. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to count certain combinatorial objects and I'm going to prove as a corollary that statement. Right? So what I can do is I can think about strings with different types of beads. A is two. So they'll have two kinds of beads, red or blue beads. And their length will be P, which is five. So I can look at the number of strings of length five over an alphabet. Those are just the bead types of size two. So how many strings are there of length five that are composed of, you know, red and blue beads? That's very simple. It's uh 2 to the 5, right? That's my a to the p right here is 2 to the 5. It's just counting the number of these strings. But what I'm going to do instead of counting these strings is I'll be interested in the number of necklaces. So I'll take those strings which are length five and I'm going to tie their ends together. But now the point is that it doesn't matter you know for the necklace whether it's you know when you take that necklace and rotate it it's still the same necklace. So now I'm losing some information. there are fewer necklaces because some of them are the same thing, right? So the question is, you know, how many necklaces are there? I don't know. It was very easy to count the number of strings I can get out of two beads of length five. And you know the way to think about it is that um when you take an example let's say right which is a necklace that looks like red blue red red well there are actually many strings it could have come from right in fact there are five strings it could have come from which all depend on where the B is. Maybe the B was the starting point of the necklace. Maybe it was the second and so on. And there are five possibilities and five is my P. Right? So in fact some of these necklaces really come from equivalence classes of strings that could have generated them. Now there are some necklaces which don't come from five different strings. Uh, can anyone give me an example of a necklace that can only come from one of the uh 32 possibilities? >> All reds. >> All reds. Perfect. You know, there are all of these other examples. Well, there's two of them. We could take all red and we could take all blue. This it doesn't, you know, any way you rotate it, you get back the same thing. So what you can show is that these are the only two possibilities that you know the proof is using the uh uklitian algorithm again amazingly but um you know here the number of necklaces really the way to think about them is in different groups either it's a necklace which comes from five strings or it's a necklace that comes from one. So you know this gives us our proof right is because you know the statement is that if we look at five this should divide 2 5th minus 2. So these are the number of non monochromatic strings. And if we just remove all of the monochromatic strings, the all red and the all blue, the rest of the strings have this property that they come in a 5:1 relationship with the necklaces. So in fact, the necklaces gives us a way to group the set of strings into groups of five. So what does this statement look like more generally? This is just the statement that P divides A to the P minus A because you'll have a monochromatic necklaces and that is exactly what format's little theorem is telling you. So you know once we have enough tools in uh discrete applied math there's this amazing nexus between these things. This was a simple statement related to modular arithmetic. I can prove it using group theory. I can prove it using combinotaurics and you know there are maybe half a dozen different proofs of format's little theorem. There are many routes to this theorem and they all lead to different kinds of abstractions in different mathematics. All right. Any questions about this? All right. So I will tell you uh one other statement which I promised you. This is due to oiler and this is the thing which is going to have you know amazing applications on cryptography when we get to it in in a bunch of lectures time we'll do that we'll do a whole unit on it later this is due to oiler So let's say that uh so we're in the same setting of format's uh little theorem except for the fact that we have a composite. So if m is equal to p * q where p and q are distinct primes and a has gcd between a and m equal to 1. Then what I claim is that a to the p min -1 * q -1 as congruent to 1 mod m. So this takes a minute to digest, right? So now I'm working modulo m that is not prime. So we already know that it's not a group and not every element has a multiplicative inverse but some elements do. In particular, what are the elements that have a multiplicative inverse? Those are the A's where the GCD between A and M is one. So what I'm saying is that all of these elements that have a multiplicative inverse, a version of Format's little theorem holds even though we're not working over a prime. The difference is that I'm raising it to a different power. It's not, you know, p minus1, you know, anymore where p is the modulus. It's now, you know, p min -1 * q -1. So, we've changed the power we have to raise it to in Oilers's. It turns out that this is really a correlary of the proof I already gave you. There's actually nothing that's really specific about the fact that P is prime. We're just using groups, right? So what can I do? Like how does this proof change? Where did I use the fact that it was prime? Well, uh let K be the smallest integer so that a to the K is congruent to one mod M. Right? I have to prove that you know such an integer exists and uh you know if not then there'll be some collision where a to the i is congruent to a to the j and then I can still rearrange things because I'm working with an a whose gcd between a and m is one so it has an inverse so I can pull out i powers of a and I'll get a the j minus i is congruent to one mod m. that part still worked. It was literally the same proof. So such a k exists. And now uh that's still a subgroup, right? When I look at the powers of two uh look at the powers of a that's still a subgroup. I still know its order because that's the first time I have a collision is at K. And then uh by lranjes theorem I know that k divides not p minus one but the order of the group. So what did I promise you we were going to use was this simple example. This computation right here. What is the order of the multiplicative subgroup sitting inside ZM which is where the structure is really happening? It's not M minus one. It's P min -1 Q -1. So what do we know is that K divides P minus1 * Q -1. So then uh you know k is uh p minus1 * q minus one is equal to c * k. Same thing happens here. This is p min -1 * q -1 which I'm writing as a the k raised to the cth power and that's still one. So in fact what's really cool about this right I could have told you all of this at the beginning of lecture. We knew what modular arithmetic was. I could have stated for the I could have stated Oilers's and they might have seemed a bit mysterious like why is the power I'm raising things to different depending on whether I have a prime or I have a product of primes right and it turns out that once you have this group theoretic proof of it we can see that the reason that we have a different power is because you know it's no longer a group and we have to look at the order of the subgroup that's inside. So that's really what's going in the exponent is just the order of the appropriate subgroup. So this is one of the amazing things about, you know, group theory um is that uh it can demystify a lot of these statements that otherwise look like they're, you know, not quite the same thing. In fact, here we had literally the same proof. It was 100% the same proof. I just had to cross out a bunch of things and replace them. So, are there any questions? All right. So, very last thing I'm going to tell you uh one more abstraction and then I'm just going to tell you a theorem because we're going to use it later, but we'll just take this for granted. So it turns out, you know, a group has a decent amount of structure, but not, you know, not everything. [clears throat] So there's actually something you can do which imposes even more structure than a group. Actually, there are many things you can do. Uh there are things called rings. We won't be interested in those, but we'll be interested in something called a field, which has a lot more structure than a group. And when you're dealing with a field a lot more nice things can happen. So uh last bit of you know abstract algebra is you know a field is a set f potentially infinite which now has two operations addition and multiplication and it satisfies a bunch of properties. So first of all we need that f and the operation plus the binary operation is an aelion group and it'll have identity which is some distinguished zero element. We're going to need that multiplication is also a group. We need that f minus0 when we remove out the element that's the identity for addition. We need that the binary operation on whatever remains is a group. We need that it's an aelion group one some special element. And the very last property that we need is we need that uh it satisfies the distributive property. So we need that uh for all a b c belonging to my field a times b + c is the same thing as a * b plus a * c. So this is a field. A lot of times we're not just dealing with groups. We're dealing with fields like the field of you know rationals where we have addition and multiplication and everything behaves nicely. And now here's an amazing theorem which we're going to use later on when we uh do more crypto. Uh what I claim is that any polomial of degree D at least one with coefficients in my field can have at most d roots in f. So what this means is you can consider some polomial p of x which is you know p 0 plus p1x and so on all the way up to pd you know x to the d and the crucial thing is that you know all of these pi's belong to my field and I'm only going to consider values of x that belong to my field. So a notion of a root is can I find an x that belongs to my field so that p of x evaluates to zero. And now it turns out that uh you can show you know this basic statement we know and love about real valued polomials that they if they have degree d they have at most d roots. Well that's actually a property of a general field. So it's not just a property of the reals. It generalizes even in this sense. So just to give you a hint about what we're going to do later. We're going to do an application we talk about crypto called secret sharing. What we want to do is we want to take a secret and divide it up among a group of n people so that any k people can recover the secret but any fewer than that cannot recover the secret. So they can together share their piece of the key and find out the answer. And what we're going to be interested in is the way we're going to build up our secret sharing schemes is we're going to be working with polomials not over the reals but over finite fields. So roughly what's going to happen is that the secret will be something like you know the constant coefficient of my polomial. So it's some finite value from some finite field and then what each of the parties are going to have is they're going to have the evaluation of this polomial at some point and together when they have enough points and evaluations they can interpolate the polomial and find the secret and otherwise they cannot. So I'll just give you the hint of that for later. But you know stay tuned when we do uh cryptography. We're going to see how this identity namely Oilers's theorem is the basis for modern cryptography in the RSA encryption scheme. And we're going to see how this uh statement about polomials and the number of roots is the basis for modern secret sharing. But we'll get there. So let's stop here and um I'll take any questions you guys have offline. Otherwise, have a great uh spring break. Hope you guys do something fun.