The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Um, so some of my my perspective on what kinds of things you can do with bio action game mechanics and kind of like see through that. Yeah. But it's not it's not the be all and end all. Uh, I'm basically sharing you my my my perspectives, but it's not the only perspective on that. In particular, I have very little that I I I feel qualified to say about things like sports. uh things where you're talking about athletic competitions, uh you know, faster, higher, uh stronger, that that that sort of thing. Um but I I'm a little bit more engaged in games where there's role playing where you're taking on a a persona or at least some sort of behavior that you aren't just normally doing in real life. Um, it's not just about how fast you can run or how skilled you are at hitting ball that that that sort of thing. Um, let's see. And and also not every single liveaction game needs to necessarily fit within role playing or sports. You know, you've got things like party games. This a this afternoon uh we'll have uh uh the lead designer for Dance Central coming in to to uh do a little Q&A about D uh about Dance Central around 4:00 4:30 in the TV lounge. You guys all welcome to do that. And that's arguably a live action game. It sure you got a computer. You got a one. How How much is the is the connect? >> $150 something like that. >> Something like $150 piece of equipment connected to a $250 Xbox to a screen that's probably even more than that. >> You know, oh, you got all this technology, but in the end, what's that game about? You know, what's Rock Band about? >> It's about the people who are in the living room. you know what and and and and what that's one of the arguments that Jesper Rio um in a different chapter in um in casual re revolution he argues that uh one of the big things that's happened with gaming is this reintroduction of the space in front of the screen the the the uh the the living room space has has come back into play um you you you you haven't lost that with board games or card games but you know for electronic games really. It used to be something that existed with arcade games. You know, you got these giant um motorcycles or uh steering wheels and stuff like that. Um and you still kind of had it with some really expensive computer games like Flight Simulators with people buying like joysticks. And I'm I'm a big train fan. So, I've got uh I've got a PlayStation one train controller. It's a speed and it's throttle and brakes. That's all it is. That's a steering when it comes to trains. It's a lot of fun. Um uh but you know, so with with arcade games and of course you have things like DDR, there's this whole idea that you're going to be engaging your entire body. Um and and you could argue that those are live action games. And you take the technology out and you and what and what you've got this whole idea of this here's this human body and you're playing with it and all its constraints. It's beholdened to gravity. Uh it's uh it can't move faster than a certain than a certain speed. It's kind of ungamely and it's got roughly a certain size. Um gives you constraints that you can work with in terms of game mechanics. One of the things that we did last year was uh we had a live we actually had a live action game assignment in this class and the constraint was you had to be able to play the game in this room. Um and I I was newspaper a constraint uh >> no >> no that was one team's decision to use uh to use the newspaper as a constraint. Um, but they did things like blindfold people, you know, they like they were playing around with the senses of the body so that you could hear where one where one person had unlimited ammunition in terms of like little balls of newspaper um and and and a bucket um but uh but couldn't see where everybody else was. And everybody else could move around the room uh on on sheets of newspaper. They had to step on sheets of newspaper. So you could always hear where they were stepping and you know the the the the person with the bucket was trying to help the people who were starting around. If you got hit, you had to like go out of the out of the the magic circle and then you know start coming in. The whole idea is to be able to tag the person who's actually throwing all of these newspaper balls. They had a little newspaper hat that you could like grab. It was pretty awesome because you know what do you need to play that game? You need one set of rules, a chair, a clean recycle bin, specifically that was that big and a newspaper, you know. Uh but but there were all these things in flight about what you can do. It's like, well, okay, your target is going to be roughly the size of a human body and roughly the weight of a human body. It's going to be able to move at roughly the same speed of human body and cannot be you cannot have multiple targets in the same place at once. In fact, it's hilarious when they try because you know you get these collisions and um uh and because they're playing with the human with all five of human senses usually just sight hearing. I don't know anyone's made a smell game but um the you you will have uh you will have a situation where some where the people who were standing on the newspapers will try to make noise near their near the other people who are playing the game so that uh so they will draw attention away from themselves. Uh, sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes it leads to hilarious uh collisions. A good time to set up. Um, and those kinds of party games, you know, King of the Hill, uh, you know, uh, um, any other Can anyone think of any like playground type games that that are personal favorites? >> Lava. What's a what's you have like playground like you know swings and all all the things you can climb on and like you you're playing generally on like a rock like the little pedal like rocky stuff and like you step on the pedal stuff that's like the lava and you get burnt. Um and so like you have to stay hanging on like all the metal parts and then usually there's someone who's like immune to the lava trying to tag you so that like they can walk all over the lava but they can't go on the structure. >> So lava monster ever stopped just out of curiosity. Well, someone comes the next lava monster. >> Yeah. Once you take then you switch roles, keep going. >> But the thing is like I never played that in like playground. I always played in like my living room. They're like couch cushions and stuff. All I ever did. >> Cool. >> That sounds really dangerous. >> I used wheelie chairs and push off thing. Yeah. >> I used to have the bunk bed. So So there was like some verticality that I could have in my in my bedroom bedroom and with my uh with my two brothers and but they were both bigger than me. So I was lost. about that would be awesome. >> I mean you can sort of think of you know that on one hand these are athletic games because they they do test your ability to move and the control that you have in your body which is why it's so popular among kids who are sort of trying to master what their bodies are capable of. Um, but on the other hand, um, they're also sort of games of mimicry, going back to Kalawa, uh, definition, because they're sort of pretending that there's lava and they're sort of pretending that you're a person who cares that there's lava. Uh, you know, or a monster that's immune to it. Um, and these games don't necessarily, and there may be some rules about, okay, you've been tagged, now we swap. Um, I've seen games where sure I've technically been tagged out of this game, but since this game really has no end state, that just means that, oh, I lost now. I'm back in the game again. Um, it's like it's like playing a Doom Death match, you know, and you die and you just you're just right back in the game again, right? Um, >> let's see. and want to play those um I think it's like I can't remember what's the name of the football variant where you just have like a scarf attached to your >> Oh flag football flag football yeah and um for those people who everyone knows what it is yeah anyone doesn't >> I mean like you just have a flag and instead of >> being instead of tackling you just grab the flag and that's that's an abstraction All right. And that's an abstraction of something that you well could physically do. You could grab this person and pull him to the ground. >> This touch football. >> That's another smaller level of abstraction because you can really hit someone pretty damn hard with touch with touch football. Um, but it's an abstraction of here's this thing that I personally physically could do, but I'm going to introduce a level of abstraction for I don't know safety. Uh, that's usually the reason. Um, and so you've got the human body and you've got all of its all of its values and virtues and all of its curses. You know, you've got issues of safety. You've got uh uh you know, you you don't want people to hurt each other and you can and but yet human beings and their bodies are extremely capable of hurting each other with no added implements at all. Even worse when it gets to a game and there and someone's trying to win something, you know, and and you know, if you don't have an explicit rule that says you can't punch this person, but you have a game that that's very athletic, someone's going to try. Um, that's why you get these sort of abstractions or uh and you can't to pretend in that military form like all right, I grabbed this thing off you now, you have just been attacked uh and now I've effectively tackled you. You can't move anymore. Um, so what I'm trying to draw attention to with these examples is that um, with live action games, the thing that you have to keep in mind all the time is at what point is the person who's playing actually the character who's playing? It's really, really hard to tell when it comes to live action games. If you're playing in um in sports, it's the same it's it's the same thing, you know. Um name any given athlete, you know, and and and their performance in the sport is who they are. It's the same person. If I'm role playing, then the person that I'm playing is not supposed to be the same. But there need to be a whole bunch of rules that basically specify that the character that I'm playing is not actually the charact the person that you're seeing in front of you. Um, you know, Philip Than the player is not the count of Monte Crystal or something like that. One interesting exception to that is like uh like wrestling like like like the not like wrestling like actual like high school wrestling but like wrestling that's on TV like I don't remember what it's called. >> Oh yeah >> cuz everybody puts on a persona like they're never the same person that they are. I just thought it was interesting when you said that any sports person but like that's one exception >> that's true and well it's and and that leads a lot that creates a lot of discussion about whether is wrestling is a spot a sport. It's athletic. Everyone agrees that it's athletic basis artists are athletic but you wouldn't call consider that sport right. So um in fact if I understand correctly wrestlers are insured as circus performers uh because they have the same risks and they're sort of playing the same role as a performance. Um but you're right that that's that's that's one of those things where it's a persona. Um the really really good wrestling networks play around with what's real and what's not, you know. Yeah, sure. This these two people are putting on these ridiculous uh personalities, you know, threatening to kill each other over the most trivial and made up of of circumstances um and uh and crazy accents and costumes and everything. But when they're bleeding, they're actually bleeding. that there's no denying on that and no doubt occasionally they actually get angry at each other and you know people actually get get hurt and playing around with that line is actually some of the appeal that you get in in things like professional professional wrestling I guess that's what's the term the terminology um that we use very different from something like mixed martial arts right you know there's no >> it's I don't watch mixed martial arts >> I don't think so I'm pretty sure it's just But they are very associated with the person. >> Yeah. >> So they are the person stage personalities but they do have strong personalities. >> That's definitely a sport. I mean they're actually fighting. >> Yeah. I mean I mean that's I mean if you take if you look at Muhammad Ali for instance you know half you're extremely athletic person but the personality had a lot to do with it with how successful that he was. you know, the way that he taunt people uh you know, on TV and on cameras before the game so that people would get all worked up for the game made him a star. Sure, he was athletic, but you know, that's most part of it. Um so where that line is and as designers, you get to you get some control over that through the rules that you that that you're writing. Um, and there are a couple of tactics that that that uh that you can focus on, but um I want to segue into that. That's attention. That is one thing that's pulling your design in one direction, which is how am I going to figure out what the difference between the person who's playing this game and the character that they're playing or the role that they're playing is going to be. um you know in your games for this next assignment. You know you if you got people playing mental patience then you've got to figure out how you're going to draw that line. You don't you don't you want to be kind of clear whether it's the player who's actually upset at you or the characters who's actually upset at you. Um, but if you draw that line too broadly, then you got this situation where I'm supposed to be angry at you, but I'm laughing all the time because this is a ridiculous situation and emotional pretending to be really emotional can possibly can usually make a lot of people react by laughing just to release the tension in space. Um, in fact, that happened when uh Dion was were playing with Cesar, right? I mean, sure, they they were laughing. They were trying their level best to take it as seriously as possible. And everybody else in the room was trying to um to relieve that tension and sometimes that's okay for your game. In fact, sometimes that's great for your game and sometimes that's detrimental. Depends on what you're going for. Um but you have to understand that that that is something that's pulling all your design, why your rule exists, why your game mechanic exists, and why your game mechanic is written in a certain way. That's one of the tensions that's pulling it in the in a certain direction. In reality, that's actually two different tensions because on one sense, you're trying to make an experience as as immersive, as you know, feeling like you're actually doing it as possible. And on the other hand, you don't want to make it so associated with who you are and what you're actually doing that people start to think, "Oh, wow. This person, this this player is actually mad at me, you know, or this player could actually hit me at this point." Uh, you know, whereas they say, "No, the character could hit me, but the player is not going to hit me, you know." Um, so I call that um uh very simplitude. Uh these are just words that I that I picked up from dictionary to to describe these things. This will be during my master's thesis. Um, jurisditude is basically the um when you're trying to it's it's it's a tension when you're designing a game mechanic. And that tension is telling you I want to make this experience as immersive and as true to life as possible. Um, and the opposite of that is uh what I call dissociation. Um, which is really hard to pronounce. So sometimes I just call it separation. Um, but how do you draw that line between who I am and who my character is? Uh, and I I'll give you a couple of examples. Uh, just just just to get these ideas down. Um, in in a live action role playing game, uh, actually, who doesn't know what a live action role playing game is or doesn't have a good a clear idea >> how they work? >> Okay. Um, okay. Okay. So, so some so some so maybe a little bit of background on how on ju just so that I I can use the examples. Um do you know do do you know do you folks know how a tabletop role playing game generally works? You know like a D and D game. >> Not really. No. >> Okay. All right. So start from scratch. Imagine improv theater. Imagine you have a environment where you have a bunch of people who want to enact some sort of scene together. This scene in on theater, the scene is usually something like five minutes, maybe half an hour. Uh in a live action role playing game, that's more likely an hour to 10 days to 30 days long. Uh a much longer uh period of of time, but the but the motivation is the same. We're in this space to enact some sort of shared reality, shared created reality to together. Now, in a role playing game, that's done by, you know, the usual additional rules, uh, uh, and usually some sort of world setting and some sort of character description. And how these things are told to you could be as simple as the game master walks up to each person and explains what's going on. You know, you are all cats in an alleyway, you know, and that and some of you are, you know, are hungry and looking for food. you're on top of the packing order and you kind of make sure that you get all the food. Here's how here's how you eat food. Here's how you move food around. Go, you know, that sort of thing. A GM, a game master could could just do it at that level. And you've got a live action role playing game. There's usually some sort of win condition or at least some sort of time limit to tell you when the game's over. Um, when you get a little bit more detail and when you start mixing and matching it with thing with the conventions of other kinds of role playing games, computer and tabletop role playing games, you have things like character sheets where you're given your information on a piece of paper or you create your information in a piece of paper. Um, and that information's information is only available to you and the game master. Um, the secret information for intents and purposes. Um, and uh, and you will use different means to convey chunks of the information to the rest of the world. Like um, I'm actually not female, but I'm playing a female character, so maybe I'll wear a badge or something that has my gender on it, and that tells the rest of the world, treat me like a female. Uh, that's that's that's one example. Um, I may actually be psychic, but the rest of the world can't necessarily see that except for maybe other psychic people. So, maybe I'll have a little Greek symbol or something. Um, not not sigh. That would be too obvious. Omega um or or you know or maybe my badge is just a different color or something. And people who are not psychic have no idea what it means. And people who are playing other psychic characters now say, "Oh, that person has a red badge. you know, I am sensing psychic ways. Um, and maybe then now there are game mechanics that I can do with that person. It's like actually all the psychic people know each other's cell phone numbers or something. We can talk to each other. Uh, that's that's an example. Um, >> that's awesome. >> That would be an easy way to to manage it. Um uh then um so so the connection with improv theater is actually stronger than a lot of people may generally assume because a lot of people think of it think of live action role playing games and they focus on the games part of it you know and they and they think of it as an RPG uh in the computer sense so you ro your character um in the sense of I have my character stats my character's abilities A lot of these stats and abilities don't necessarily need to be stuff that's written down because again you're dealing with a human body. So um how strong is your character? I don't know how strong are you? You know um how long you know how long a sword do I have? Well how long is that piece of foam over there? Like that's your sword now. >> You got to when I left the assassin skill I played a character that's supposed to be very very strong. I'm not very very strong, but I had like as you describe a little badge, the way that it manifested itself in gameplay was that at some point I challenged someone to an arm wrestling duel >> and they made sure to like looked at my stat and saw, oh, I know what this means. And so even though they were about twice my size, they pretended to lose. >> Yeah, it was it was very entertaining. So, so that that's the spectrum of, you know, on one hand there are these games where uh well the the kinds of games that Jeremy describes allows you to play things that are physically very different from you and then there are games there are some live action role playing games >> it's just how strong you are. >> Yeah, it's just how strong you are. Um a lot of those are like buffer LARs. Um people uh will dress up in actual armor that they've decided to make out of leather or duct tape. Uh and you know they will swing around swords that are foam padded. They'll go out to a forest somewhere in typically New England and you know spend two two days three days in the middle of forest you know sleeping in in a cabin somewhere and pretending to do fantasy adventuring. And every once in a while there will be GM control volunteers who will be wearing like monster masks and people you know that's that's that's one for that that's that's that's on the other spectrum but it's all this it's a spectrum you know it's not like you know there's there's these life um there are bottle arps where you run around with sticks and there are um assassin guild type arps where your and where most of your abilities are governed by numbers and stats. Yeah, kind of this spectrum. You can think of the assassin guilt type things as being very much inspired by what you could do on a computer, what you could do on tabletop LAR because on tabletop LAR, how strong the character is has nothing to do with how strong the player is, right? It's what's that you just recently found out that in New England there are basically lots which get done with air rifles. >> Mhm. So >> military paintball people, >> but they're not they're not paintball. So institute people with plastic pellets. >> And yeah, airsoft is what they're called. And then and so like one team will dress up as US soldiers and the other one's like Middle East insurgents or something in town. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's elaborate but it's slightly distasteful. >> And you can go and look at their website. I think it's the New England Airsoft Association or something like that and they have like little excerpts that have been video cam of these >> but but the people who are >> when there's like negotiation between between the two sides and what have you. They actually could tend to take on the roles of the insurgents or the people sometimes. So yeah, sometimes they're just shooting each other. Other times they're like trying to find out who in the town is the person who's the bad guy. Sometimes it gets more elaborate and it's like, you know, we're all going to some of us are actually going to be civilians and some of us are actually going to be combatants and the other to figure out who's who. >> Um, that one will be really really interesting to have rules for IEDs. Uh, because I think that will that will that's something that I that I that that annoys me about games that involve Middle Eastern combatants >> is that they don't have rules for IEDs. And it's like that's the primary form of combat in that space. Anyway, um but yeah, but but actually that that's a good point. Military military exercises are actually a lot of them are basically live action role playing games. They all the way from I'm actually running around with a gun full of blanks or shooting pellets or shooting a laser beam that is going to register on some other soldiers gear uh as as being hit. >> We call them war games. >> Yeah. And Yes, that that's really um um but you also have the other end of military simulations where it's just a bunch of people in a room on looking at a screen uh or you not not even a screen a whiteboard uh with a world map on it and they're moving forces around you know like a tabletop LA but those are still considered sort of live action things because every person in the room is representing someone in the chain of command that would normally be in a war room at a like um you know I'm the commander, you're the lieutenant or something like that and I'm going to say give me the status of you know Washington DC has it been used yet that sort of thing and you know lieutenant says you know we have three three three missiles coming in or something based on some lookup um the term for that is typically called creek spiel especially when it's um when it's real people playing against real people uh like this is two or more player uh game uh where not everyone's on the same side. If it's on if it's just on one side, then just the war game terminology tends to be more a catchall. Um but when you have two players on each side and they're playing through these things, how results get resolved uh uh also uh can vary. There are obviously digital and mathematical ways to compute. Okay, I fired I have given an order to fire a missile at Singapore and and you know and it's going to take you know two hours for it to land and there's a percentage that it might land and things like that. you you you could do it you could do it that way but traditionally what's actually been done is that you say this is what I'm going to do and someone far more experienced than you usually your instructor or one of several instructors takes that information and goes into another room and talks to the people who are actually doing the same thing with your opposing team and they're just saying okay in this in this event what's going to happen and then they go back to each team and they report, you know, your missile missed or, you know, your troops engag you found your opponent's troops in this location and you lost 50% of your troops. This sort of thing. And that's kind of the traditional pre- creature game. The nice thing about that that takes advantage of the fact that not just the players, but everybody is live action human being because you have flexibility. You know, you can do ridiculous things like, you know, uh that that programmers or game designers may not necessarily have assumed were possible, but happen to make sense in the heat in the heat of that particular game. Uh and you have real people deciding this is what's going to happen. So, we'll we'll make up a logical uh uh solution. In military, that's why you want people who are really really experienced. um in a non-military live action role playing game by the kind that has played around in MIT. People will still still do that, you know. I So I'm in a game where I know it's a steampunk setting and I don't have all the equipment I need to build this machine of death that I'm trying that I'm supposed to be completing, but I could take apart some of the other machines that are in the world. And then the game master says, "Wait a minute. If you're going to put rules about that or we never thought about anyone taking a part of the abuse quick, but it makes perfect sense in this world. So, okay, it's going to take you two hours and you have to be in this room, but after that, you all the parts you need, you know, and and that's one of the the other side of live action role playing is that often the people who are controlling the game are also live action. They're also there uh and and and they can they can improvise along with the players. Um, so you have that bit of flexibility. You're limited by how experienced those people are. Um, people who don't tend to be terribly experienced tend to make rash decisions uh that end up hurting the playability of game. Sometimes they get lucky, sometimes they don't. Uh uh let me see one example in early on when I was making live action role playing games was I had a game mechanic where if anybody um if if one of the police officers you know in in this sort of detective scenario wanted to do a background check um they could they could ask the game master and some amount of time actually you'll spend instant because a fairly modern kind of uh system and the assumption was that they find a computer and they will look it up and I will give them information and that led to two problems was that first of all what happens if I'm not have physically in the same location as a person who has the information and it's just weird to think of a computer with legs walking around all stuff it's not a science fiction game um and on the other hand it means that I needed to have all the information about everybody at my fingertips at all times uh which often was not true. So someone will come here, I need the information about this character, you know, I'm performing a lookup and it's like I'll get back to you in two hours because I do not have that information with me. I'm going to look it up and I'll give it to you later. Now I don't make that mistake anymore but that was the kind of mistake that I used to make when I was a when I was a VGM because I hadn't really thought about about what that will require from me as investor. Now that's a different tension. Um I am actually going to take a chunk of this to sort of figure out the tensions while I'm discussing them. I talked about very simplitude. I talked about dissociation or separation and and what I'm talking about with that mistake that I made is just plain old feasibility. um some something that you probably have already run into with the games that you've designed, >> but you know, in many of the games that you designed, feasibility could be thought of as just playing on scope. You know, it's like how big is this game? Uh how long is it going to take us to put all these bits together? I'm looking at you. um you know can we order these bits in time and are they going to be delivered in time for the class? I know multiple teams had this problem. Yeah. >> Yeah. Uh one thing that the uh Okay, so here's let me see whether I can combine some of these ideas together. Um, one thing that the uh that the assassin guild likes to have are people who kind of have locked memories. You know, they know something, but they don't know that they know it. >> Memory packets. >> Yes. Little memory packets. Little pieces of paper that they print it out and fold it up and staple. You know, takes you about 20 seconds to make one of those. Um, now imagine a game that has maybe 60 people and about and each person maybe has five locked memories because the GMs really love this idea. And how long is that? 5* 60 300 >> that's only about an hour. >> Huh? >> Only about an hour. >> It's only about an hour. Does it ever actually only take an hour to actually produce that? You You get like staple codes and paper towels. It's like 2 hours. Oh yeah. >> Okay. It's it's a little less than 2 hours actually. >> Yeah. But >> by the end of it >> 20 seconds >> 20 times. >> And then and then what happens is that oh wow we have 300 pieces of paper all of which are now folded and almost indistinguishable from each other. And we've got to figure out who gets which. >> And this and these are the the the concerns. You know it's like when when you know that that's a feasibility issue. It's like um doing something for doing something like that for one or two players is extremely feasible. Takes almost no time from the game master's point of view. Um doing like that for your entire player base if you have a 60 person game and on a large scale you know becomes the majority of your of your prep time. You know s c suddenly you're setting aside a whole day just to deal with that and your game's only like three days long or or something like that. You know exactly that that level of effort. um things to preserve the game master's sanity, you know. Um the MIT uh janitorial staff, the facility staff are pretty ruthless when it comes to picking up stuff that has fallen on the floor. So, say that's a really important piece of paper that you've taped up on the wall somewhere here in MIT. Uh and uh you know, this information and this is the place that your players are looking for. They've combed all of campus and they need to find this location. And that tape that you used just wasn't that strong. It fell on the piece of giant stuff just vacuums it up, throws it away. Now, what happens to your game? You know, can your game even end? You know, um are you going to just have a whole bunch of really tired pissed players on your uh you know, chasing you down as a game master? Um so that the way how you resolve this can be built into your game mechanics. You can build things like multiple redundancy. You know it's like in addition to a sign that will usually be this other thing in that same area. If you find one and don't find the other, it means something has dropped off. You know, inform the game master and the game master will go and fix it at some point in time in the future. Um, you could give people, if you have a game that has no secret locations and you're making it, I don't know, campus wide, you could just give people a map of all the information. Sure, you still want stuff on the wall because, you know, it's kind of neat to be able to walk into a classroom like this and say, "Oh, mortuary, that's where I am." And then you're suddenly reminded, okay, maybe I should be role playing for the fact that I'm more, you know, that sort of thing. Um but uh you know instead of like walking through a space and you had a map that told you that you were in mortuary but you weren't looking in your map so you just walked through the space and you entreated it like classroom like yes I am going to do my tooling in this room. It's a bor what you doing. Um, so it's really neat to be able to have those things to give players information about what's going on in the space and to help them make believe, help them imagine what they could possibly do in the space, maybe even give them clues about what they need to be doing in order to advance their goals. But, uh, but then you also want to be able to have backup plans for when those things fail. Uh, that's that's part of feasibility. you know, you don't want your game to break halfway just because janitorial stack came to or the glue, you know, the wind blew or something and now you your your your um so that's that's another information and that's not entirely unlike the information that we've discussed in this class uh back earlier this semester. Um but uh with live action games, especially live action games that don't have any kind of turnbased thing, they're happening in real time. You're you're moving in real time. Um information overload on the player becomes something that you have to be very careful when you're designing a game mechanic. How much is someone is someone expected to know at any given time? Um, this is going to be very applicable for any of the games that you design for the third assignment bin. Um, if you decide to do a live action game, you think about here's somebody who's moving around in a space. Maybe it's a hospital or maybe it's a doctor's office. Um, and this person is trying to remember ex uh some number of stat of statistics, you know, about their character, how agitated I am, how um what's what's my current uh the the a number that determines how many drugs I've got in me right now, you know, that that sort of thing. um that you've got these stats and once you get too high then what happens is that you've got a character standing there trying to do all the math in their head and not role playing. If they're role playing anything they're roleplaying like a mathematician or or a deer in their legs. They you know you're losing their immersion. You're losing the diverse meat of the I'm supposed to be an angry person but I'm instead I'm standing here trying to do math about how angry I am. um and you've got the attention of information and person. Um there are times where you actually kind of want that though. Uh this there are ways to take that to uh turn that into to your advantage. Um uh this the in particular when the thing that you want people to be doing the kind of activity you want them to be to engage to engage in are the things that players will generally be uncomfortable doing with each other. Physical violence would be a good example of that. You know, I want to be able to hurt this other character, but I don't want to hurt this other player. So, what are the things that I can do to to bridge that gap? >> Insult is another >> verbally. Sure. there there are ways to to do that but you might need rules or at least some guidance from the GM to say take that seriously you know because that can very easily drift into the realm of yeah that's just a joke you know um >> rockiss rock paper scissors you know it's like that that could mechanic that that could be a mechanic for a fist fight for instance you know or or just a fist do you succeed in avoiding that >> nerf guns >> Nerf guns things games of >> shoot pieces of plastic dice. >> Odds or something. >> Odds and evens. Yeah. Okay. >> Health tokens like football. >> Say what? >> Health tokens like in fact football. >> Give me some more detail. >> Tokens football. >> I mean like in if someone has like a certain number of like flags and so you hurt them by taking one. >> Oh, I see. So like you might have like multiple flags for instance. Okay. Yeah, that's an idea. Yeah, it's like a health bar almost. Okay. Uh >> uh so CR ratings, dice rolling and or sorry ratings, dice rolling and puffers. >> Yeah. So so dice dice rolling in sort of the general term of like things randomizing uh numbers. In fact, rock paper is kind of randomizing thing almost. Um and then you have like toy weapons, right? you know um probably not so relevant for the V uh for the Yin virus but you could imagine a setting up a room full of foam things and which you will be quite happy to throw at each other. You know that this cylinder of foam of pipe insulating material is not going to hurt anyone when you throw that. Um which makes it more likely that I'm going to pick it up and throw it at someone. you know, it's like clearly it's something that was designed for me to throw that the GMs put there. Um, and if you want your players to be engaging in that kind of activity, that is technically you could have put a real bottle there. You could have put a real bug or or a computer or something like that. Um, there's no reason why you as a GM couldn't, but they are deliberately deciding to put something fake there to clue the player into maybe there is something I can do with that that I wouldn't necessarily want to do if it was a real thing. I wouldn't want to throw a real bottle at somebody, but I could easily throw a full model at somebody. Um, same thing for uh for Nerf I mean for Nerf guns, dart guns, this guns, you know, it's like you put this something with a trigger and somebody's hands going to launch a little cheap piece of of plastic at someone that they're itching for a chance to use it. Uh really um um let's see what else. Dice are difficult. Uh the problem with dice is you kind of need a flat surface to roll it on and you may not you might not have that and >> much more frequently people do card drawing. So you have to get >> card of currency. >> Still a little bit risky. It could end up going all over the floor. >> Another thing that I've seen people do is um some kind of resource management style thing where essentially you have like set of like might cards or something you might have three of them. You can win a challenge by just by giving one to the other player that you're you're fighting with. >> Mhm. >> And then kind of when you run out of them, you can't like overpower people anymore. So >> So it's like the amount of energy I've got. >> Yeah. It's like the amount of energy you've got. >> Yep. >> And also if you discard them or give them to another player, then it's kind of the difference between these things are just gone and the they kind of circle circulate around. >> There's a limited amount of resource. >> Yeah. Yeah. So if there's the circulation thing then you can get whooped a few times but after being whooped then suddenly you get a chance to whoop back >> then it becomes >> well that that one's interesting um this is the this is the biggest point that I want to talk about which is just competition you know a term that you guys are already very familiar with but you know at what point do your game mechanics are you designing your game mechanics not necessarily to enhance the reality ism or to encourage certain behaviors or to give the player enough information about what they're allowed to do or what they should be doing and you're just going into the realm of how do I make this competitively interesting. Um, real fights if you've taken a bunch of blows, you do not get stronger. But from a game point of view, well, well, if a Bruce Banner maybe I but you know, but from a from a competitive point of view or at least from a game play traditional gameplay point of view, that sounds like a great idea. You know, it gets you back into the game. Uh whereas um you know, whereas any very realistic fight mechanic is really probably going to be a positive feedback mechanic. you win, you you keep winning. Um so so you can think of these five different things as you know not not it's not like game balance but these are decisions that you have to make either as an individual designer or as a team about what any given mechanic in your game is trying to accomplish. It's you is rarely mutually exclusive. It's usually trying to hit multiple one of these things. You don't want to fall down on any of these things, especially not feasibility. You know, it's like, yes, this is the perfect game mechanic if we had two years to be able to put together this uh all all the things that that we had. Um, and there are games that have failed to run because of that idea. Um, especially uh live action games that have a hidden computer component uh very rap especially if they're designed by MIT students, rapidly designed into a software engineering project that never finishes. um and the the game kind of disappears and it's all about this damn website. Um that won't have solved everything else. You know, it's completely realistic because it's a hacking mechanic. It actually happens on a computer and the skills scale to your ability as a character which the computer already knows and you don't have to remember because so you can feel really neat and it's competitive because it's like you know you know what your opponents are doing but not everything that you're doing and it's going to take us five years to write this code. Never game's never going to happen. So, so let's see. Let me think of other examples just to sort of uh put some ideas in your head. Um, back to the idea of things that you might be that players might be uncomfortable doing with each other. Uh, seduction is one of those things that's if you don't have a game mechanic for it, it never happens in the way that you want it to. uh and that that that helps the game. You know, if it happens, it's happening between the players and that causes all kinds of problems to the game. Um so you so you come up with a rule, come up with a game mechanic that feels nothing like real life seduction. We're going to play a game of blackjack now. If we win, you're now in love with me, you know? It's like that's not how seduction actually works. But it actually makes it easier for players to say I can I can do that. I can play a game of blackjack. There's no social awkwardness in playing a game. >> I mean, you can associate that with like, hm, I I win this game, so I slipped I slipped inside your glass a love potion, so now you're in love with me. >> Yeah. >> Something like that. >> Yeah. I mean that that's but you see in that particular case you're describing uh you're describing an action that people might be more actually willing to do uh through some sort of simple mechanic like okay instead of love potion we're going to mechanic that with maple syrup or something you know we're going to actually give you a vial and if and if you drink something in the game that tastes like maple syrup talk to a GM because you probably just to drank some some magical potion. Um, but if you're going to if if if the goal is all right, you're playing in a film no more game and you're supposed to ex you're supposed to be engaging in constant witty banter lead anyway. A lot of people have a lot of difficulty with with with with that. Sometimes they sometimes it works. I I I've made it work in some games. uh but uh it makes it a lot easier if the success or failure in that is not going to be bottlenecked by whether the players feel comfortable doing it, you know. So creating a game mechanic that actually feels a little bit less than what what activity you're trying to to to represent uh may make it easier for people to engage in in the activity. The same thing goes in combat. Playing rock paper scissors feels nothing like an actual fight. But people will be much more willing to play rock paper scissors with each other than to punch each other. So, you know, come up with that rule. You know, give them a little plastic gun, give them something to make it easier, and they'll be willing to engage in that activity more often. Uh, violence will probably be the thing that comes up a lot in the next segment. Um, so let me see what else we can get into. Um, how many of folks here have played some variant of Mafia or Werewolf or Okay. Um, who's who's played Mafia in particular? Okay. Who's played Werewolf? Um, so, um, those are live action games, too. And those are live action games that specifically don't try to draw too sharp a division between who you are and who your player is. >> You're you're given a role that's, you know, that that that's a card that basically says whether you're mafia or whether you're you're you're a villager. I think those are >> civilian, >> right? And the whole idea is that everybody who's that that's a character sheet that tells you that gives you private secret information about the role that you're supposed to play. But that's in my opinion those these particular games and we're going to play uh some variants of them. Um they are there what what you are told by the cards is only what you're allowed to do. What actually gives you the role is what you decide to do. It's what it's like I'm playing mafia and I'm going to say Patrick gets you know you know and other people in in in a room agree with me and you know Patrick's character gets taken out of the game. That decision is the decision that actually made me and that's and that decision is the decision that other people are trying to catch cuz that's because that's why you know that the the they're trying to find a person who's actually responsible for various acts when everybody's eyes are closed. Um the general model for these games is you know there are cycles there for werewolf is a day and night cycle and for mafia it's also day and night but the idea is that um during the night everybody who's not mafia gets to have their eyes open uh everybody who is mafia sorry everybody who's not m mafia keeps their eyes closed everybody who is mafia keeps their eyes open and the people who are mafia can communicate through some GN mediator some game master mediated way to specify a player to be taken out of the game. It's point. It's usually a point. Yeah. >> Uh I I I I've seen things with links with with because as the GM moves around sometimes that gives you clues because you can hear even with your eyes closed you can hear where the GM is. Um but uh the and and then and then you then that's like the night cycle and then during the day cycle everyone opens their eyes and then the whoever's been taken out of the game you know is is is informs you and everyone knows and then everyone starts discussing and accusing each other of being responsible for it. And the whole point of the game is uh for the villagers to identify who all the mafia is before everyone in the village does. Um so um you know that's a it's a live action game that doesn't have a lot of action I would say. You know this is one action which is closing well there closing your eyes opening your eyes and it's pointing um uh there are variants where uh sometimes there is a this godfather there's AI've seen websites with whole list of different roles that are just ridiculous like this gravekeeper necromancer or something like >> yeah it's like there's like people can bring characters back back from the dead there people who can basically do a background check you know I think that angels I've heard of angels in cops um who have, you know, and then you you go from two cycles to three cycles per round, you know, four cycles per round where different people have eyes open and you get different bits of information about what what's in the what what the world stated is like, you know, the fact that killing somebody is pointing at them, you know, that's that's a dissociation mechanic, right? It's not that you're actually being asked to engage in physical combat with with with them even though the fiction of the game is that you're assassinating this person in a build tonight. Um but uh the very similitude I would imagine and and compet and competition largely comes down in the discussion phase. You know, they're trying to put players in an environment where you got a paranoid group of villagers, a paranoid town, and they're all mutually exclusing uh uh uh mutually ex accusing each other. And um both the the act of trying to not be accused and trying to deduce who is the right person to accuse um is a compelling competitive experience. That that's what all these games are really about. Um so all the emphasis is all all the time of the game frankly is devoted to that phase of when everyone sits down and discusses with each other who could be the mafia in this in this environment. You want to um walk us through one of the the the variants maybe? >> Yeah. Do you want to like actually play it or just describe it? >> Uh if it we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. >> We could have two groups or one big group. One big group will rest. Yeah, take a while. Yeah, >> let's let's do two two groups, but how many different rule variants do we >> Well, I I only found one I thought was really interesting. Although we can certainly like even the Wikipedia page has a million variants. We >> could the one I normally would play would be the one where there's there's mafia and there's cops. Maybe there might be a medic, but >> inspector angel and prostitute. Oh, I was >> Where's the pro? >> If you sleep with the mafia, they don't tell anybody. If you sleep with inspector, they get incorrect information. If you sleep with the nurse, they don't heal. That's just the most interesting prostitute rules that I've heard so far. This this is why it's very important to make sure that you know what rules that you're playing with before the game starts. >> Um so so walk us through the rules and then what we'll do is we'll break this into two groups. Uh and we'll have two groups play separately and uh uh that's probably the end of the class activity. >> Yeah. Well, so I had I had found a variant today called thing, which is based on the John Carpenter movie, which it seems interesting because it takes out one of the roles. The idea is um one person is the shape-shifting thing and at night they infect someone else and that person becomes a thing as well. So they're not knocked outright. And then during the day, the group votes and decides on one person to test. And if they test a thing, that person is killed and they get to test another one. >> And the idea is the things are trying to outnumber the people, >> which to me sounds interesting because it takes away that kind of inspector role. >> Do you do you know who gets thing in the middle of the night or like just >> So I was I was thinking about this. What you would need is like for the person who's the thing to kind of indicate to the moderator and then maybe the moderator could tap them or something and just >> Okay. So, if you're a thing, you know, you're a thing. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. >> Yeah. The things are spreading as opposed to just >> then if there's two things, do they both agree on another >> presumably the only So, this is really interesting because apparently it's played at like um this conference for science fiction writers. >> So, there's little snippets of it on the web about um the rules from like different blogs and stuff and it sounds interesting but of course the problem is how do you Google for mafia thing >> but it sound interesting to me and then it seems like there's >> probably the thing mafia >> to try and like trust me I spent a while >> so it might be fun actually to have two groups figure out how to play that game just from the description that you just given I mean I think if we split this path to two there's going to be enough people who traditional mafia to know how that works and uh and then we'll just reconvene at the end of it to see whether what each version people came up with uh what what were the similarities and what were the differences. Um again that's the flexibility of doing a live action game where the people who actually coming up with the rules are actually in the rule the same rule as the players or or the players themselves. You get to make stuff up on on the fly as long as everyone agrees. Um so let's give that a shot. Um while while uh uh Jason is sorting out the cards, any questions about the stuff that we Yeah. So the two biggest challenges that I come across in coming up with like good mechanics have to do with social challenges and and like intellectual skill. >> So um let's go with intellectual. So, it's easy to play a character that's stupid than you. It's really hard to play a character that's smarter than you. >> And it's and in particular, it's really hard to play a character that's smarter than you if you don't have a GM around all the time to tell you >> stuff. Yeah. >> So, I don't know if you have any ideas about how to deal with that. No, the other one is um arbitrating social social conflicts. Like this is this is hard in any role playing game. Mhm. >> Um because it feels like if you want to be able to persuade a character of something, you just want to persuade them because you're role playing, right? >> But you're supposed to be playing a character who is more persuasive than you. >> Um but it feels really cheap. >> Mhm. >> Um if you can just sort of >> you believe me, >> you believe. >> This also ties in with a with another issue which frequently pops up in in LS and role playing games in general, which is like use of metagate knowledge. Mhm. >> So frequently if you've been persuaded to do something, then you come across players who know using their metag game knowledge that they don't want to do the thing that they've been mechanically forced to do. >> So they try and find loopholes constantly. >> Um I don't know if you can really force people to abandon their navigating knowledge mechanically, >> but uh I don't know. if you have any behavioral >> I I I I have some examples on how the Assassin's Guild in particular has dealt with that. Um and um and in some ways it's cheating because they they decide in some in some we're not going to try to do some of those things. Um in particular, let's take persuasion for one of those things. Um the I the problem with persuasion is that whatever mechanic you come to use other than what you see is what you get. you know, it's like, well, if you manage to persuade someone to do it, then I'll get persuaded. Um, any other mechanic that you come up with has runs that risk of the wait a minute, this is not what I really really want want to do. So, um, the assassin skill has replaced that with brainwashing, which is the whole idea of you are not being persuaded, you are being forcibly your goals are being forcibly changed, but now you have other goals and that's the big difference. um uh you now have your old goals are no longer your win conditions. Your new goals are now your win conditions and you can still win the game by obeying your new goals. So, um >> that's cool. >> Yeah, that's that's the brainwashing mechanics, >> right? It kind of aligns the interests of the player with the interests of the character. Yeah, it's like you want to you you you want to go with your new goals now because uh and then um how this came up typically uh in the Assassin's Guild, the Assassin's Guild actually grew out from Circle of Death games, which is kind of like getting to know you. I've got a name of somebody and I need to shoot them with this water gun. Uh who's this person again? I don't know. I'm a freshman. I haven't met everybody on campus. I'm going to figure out who this person is. That's where those games came uh uh came from. The assassin skill kind of grew out from that. Then they became teams. Um, and brainwashing was basically the game the set of game mechanics that were used for recruiting people into your team. You know, it's like, all right, everyone's got one target, but there are a few people out there whose job is destroy everybody on this opposing faction, but there's only one person in that opposing faction right now. There's only one of me, but I have this brainwashing mechanic that recruits more and more people. So what you thought was one uh I'm just against another individual becomes a my group is against that group. Um and it comes it feels pretty awesome actually because what it actually feels it's it's a weird game mechanic way of making your character have some sort of development in the game because if you think about a role playing game character development means your goals now change somehow. But it's really really difficult for players to give players a a means of doing that themselves. Brainwashing was one of the few ways that seems to actually have worked as I'm actively going to knock out this character, put this blicky helmet on them for 5 seconds, and if nobody catches me in this process, I give them new goals and the person who's reading it, dude, this is way more exciting than anything I was doing earlier. You know, um and um you also avoid the metag game problem of loyalty, right? It's like, "Yeah, I've got this information from this other group, but I've been brainwashed. I don't want to tell you." It's like, "No, if you want to tell me now, because it's actually going to help you win." Um, but metagaming um in the in live action role playing games, all kinds of live action games is a big thing is that you know things about the player that or you know things about the games that they not really supposed to know. You know, if a person is supposed to be able to teleport from one end of campus to the other end of campus, unfort the character may be able to do that, the damn player is going to walk all the way in between. Uh, and you happen to run a player halfway. I now know that that player is probably on this side of campus. Uh, even though they your character really had no idea on how to deal with that. That's just one of those like um there are game mechanic designed there are ways to design game mechanics to sort of avoid those situations but in many many live action role playing there is a there is a honor system that really has to kick in. The nice thing about it is that if everyone decides to go by the honor system and agrees that that this honor system is necessary for the world to be reinforced um it actually helps reinforce that mutual illusion that this world is real. you know by by by by saying I know that I'm not supposed to know this thing but I am going to play this game as hard as I can in uh in a way that does not take advantage of that information actually reinforces the world for everybody else it's the same thing for improv theater you know it's like um anyone here involved in improv improv comedy ro yeah so you know yes and sure so you know what what's what's what's the basic concept behind that Um, yes. And is an idea where if you give someone an offer, they'll take your offer. Uh, so if I say, "Man, we're all out of tomatoes." Someone will say, "Yes, and the big tomato cookoff is tomorrow," or something like this. You cannot contradict what was said. >> Yeah. Not only do you not contradict, you all you always add information. Every line, at least in the beginning of the scene, you should be adding information to the scene. And then after a few lines, you have very very elaborate setup that's kind of ridiculous. >> Yeah. >> But mutually shared. >> Exactly. >> So, so in that same that same situation of like metagaming is one of those things that's actively working to destroy the reality of your world and as all of your if all your players agree to try the damn hardest to not let it interfere with the world. that actually strengthens uh the illusion um in a way that it strengthens the scene for for improv theater. Um hold on just just one second. There was the other concern that you had before the persuasion issue which was characters who in particular this comes up a lot in superhero type situations what have you where you have somebody who's either a super genius or >> so abilities that are just much better than you >> and like how to do mechanic that >> the best way that you can do that is to the right person. But uh what I've generally found is is that old role playing game chestnut of separating intelligence from wisdom makes it a little bit easier. You know, there's intelligence which is your ability to think on the feet. It is wisdom which is how much you know about the world. Um and if you are as if you in as a game master designing a game can figure out when I say someone's really smart, what do I mean? Intelligence or wisdom? It helps you a little bit on thinking what how I can use game mechanics or gamew writing to uh to fix that problem. So if it's intelligence, it's just like um I have the ability to do stuff that other people can't do because I am so smart and you can literally just give them abilities to act on things that other people do not have that people just don't have. I am able to build a telephone out of this co because I'm the freaking professor of pilot, you know. uh quite smart, you know, it's like doesn't mean that I act have to act terribly smart if I'm capable of doing things that other people can't because I have I've been told specifically I have these abilities. But that's like the intelligence side of things. The wisdom side of things is a little bit harder which is basically you dump you dump a whole bunch of information on somebody and you hope that they are capable of making the associations between what's happening in game and what they read in. That's a lot harder. Um it's it is a problem but uh but I find that by separating those two it makes it makes it a slightly easier problem. >> Uh Patrick um >> yeah this is a bit of a notice question. Uh are LARs usually played in real time? >> Typically um they have rules about when to hit the pause button. Basically uh in MIT those are usually enacted when safety becomes an issue. um people are running too fast. Uh somebody just fell down and you want to be able to stop everyone from running, you know, and so they so they shout halt. Um but typically they have they're happening in real time because it's really hard to do turnbased stuff that doesn't quickly feel like a board game. >> I mean like when you uh when you say someone would want to do like a background check and you say I don't know come back in two hours, but you literally was like two hours. So yeah, it's it's it's like often that that literally means just two hours. And and and that's an interesting thing of the it's real time, but it's kind of a time delay at the same time. And so so you as a as a game master, you can build in game mechanics that take advantage of real-time delays to be able to give you give you as a game master some time to breathe. Uh typically they're happening in real time. Uh, I wrote a game where no where the clock stopped somewhere between midnight and 8:00 a.m. like like the like the game world literally froze. Well, not literally figuratively froze at 12 and um and and 1 minute after 8, the clock will practically uh in game terms have moved one one one minute even though there were eight in the meeting hours in three so that people could go and take a break. Um, so which will be great for like an army of darkness type type of scenario, right? Because those three people I don't know how familiar people are with the dark time, but those three films are supposed to all happen like within 48 hours. >> Um, so Andrew and I just are moving across. >> So I guess two good things. One is in terms of wisdom, could you possibly have little note cards start flipped over everywhere and then the wisdom person or person with high wisdom could read about like information in there? >> You could you you you could certainly have you know take advantage of oh you know if you have piece of paper tape on the wall just put them on the back right you know it's like some people can are given the ability to read the back of the paper some people aren't uh which will be a little bit easier than trying to keep it all in your head at once. Um, you can also give very limited wisdom like the whole like the psychic example, right? You know, I I am sensitive in some way. I can tell when certain things are cursed uh by giving them clues on printed pieces of paper that nobody else knows how to interpret. You know, like I see this there is a there is a number associated with each one of these rooms. If that number happens to be even, this is not a place that that any sane person will want to be, you know, and there are people who have the wisdom to tell that and there are some people who don't. Um, so that that's another way that you can put little environmental clues. uh the there are in particularly um in MIT the sort of like hiding clues in plain sight uh and every single way that you can possibly do that uh is uh is really exploited. So the numbers for instance I I've seen games where where everyone has like five digits on their badge and every single one of those digits means something if you happen to be the you happen to have the ability to interpret that but each one of those digits means something different. Um, so that's an example. >> And just really quickly, in terms of space, how much space do like Assassin's Gild? >> Assassin Guilds. MIT Assassin's Guild has the advantage of the MIT campus. So it it can go anywhere from uh main campus uh you know by Mass F and A Street to all of freaking campus. Uh but players hear that. Players walking all the way across campus. it kills their feet. Uh so um often it just turns out to be the few rooms that they could res could get room reservations for MIT campus activities complex and the sort of general vicinity around there. Um outdoors is really not used much because MIT Assassin's C loves shooting little plastic things at each other and with the wind blows that just sucks. Can you tell us a story or anecdotes of games that have like gone really horribly slash fallen apart >> and just how much time have we got and then just more specifically highlight like what are the like mistakes that made everyone who's doing these especially MIT they're all smart people and they're written by smart people so what kinds of mistakes do smart people still make that result in these games like falling apart >> well or or or bad things >> the most common thing that happens is not even an issue of how smart the game writers were, but how much experience they've had in seeing things go horribly wrong. Um, >> and I'm asking >> just as this class, you know, has given you experience making games, you've seen how some projects can go wrong, a lot of it is just system dynamics, right? You know, it's like I put together a bunch of rules and I did not expect those rules to interact in that way. But because a live action game is difficult to run multiple times, uh >> the first time you see it, >> you play test a live action game that lasts two a month. >> Uh that actually came up in the forums. I believe somebody was asking about this. Um you can at best play test given mechanics. Uh you can you can play test certain game mechanics and write down a stripped down version which takes out all of the plot motivations and just test say combat. This is our combat play uh play test. I did that for a matrix game once. You know it's like I'm writing a game about a matrix. Combat is really freaking important. Uh so I just made an entire game where all it was was you want you want to go in and get this thing and then get out. That's the whole rule. And here's your three pages of combat. And people like holy this is a lot of memory. Um but uh and that showed me the problems uh that I had. Unfortunately, it's not one of those. It didn't it wasn't so catastrophic that I would use it as a catastrophic game example. So >> tell us about catastrophic examples. >> Catastrophic game examples. Uh okay. I think >> someone tripped and hurt himself. That's what I'm not. >> No, no, no, no, no, no. That's that's that's uh that's that's that's not what you're looking for. I understand. It was a game where everyone was uh was was playing undead. I can't remember if they were vampire. I think they were vampires. So, they could get knocked down if they got shot uh and they will get up again in five minutes because they were immortal. Unless they got staked or something, they would get up again. Unfortunately, there were a lot of vampires in game. Often of them, many of them were on different factions. So, they were going after each other with guns. So when two people who were obviously against each other shot each other, fell over, they would get up in five minutes and shoot each other again repeatedly begging for someone to show up for a certain to come and do something to break this deadlock cuz and that's one of those things where it's like game mechanically you know what's supposed to happen but it sucks, you know, and and then was it really Right. So that's that's funny. >> We have to wait five minutes. Can we just do can we just continue like shoot? >> Well, but but that's the but the issue is again these games are happening in real time. So the five minute rule is there possibly for a reason you know uh uh while you are down for five minutes those five minutes may become very valuable for someone who wants you down for for those five minutes. So you know I you can't kill me I can't kill you but both of us can knock each other down for five minutes. That's a great delaying tactic. If I can send one of my friends and do something that I don't want you interfering with. Um, and if that's the case, then that's great. But often it was just that, oh crap, there's just no way to break the deadlock. >> You'd fear the the limiting factor of the ammunition, though. >> I think that game actually let you pick up your ammunition while you were >> because because it can be a really annoying limit limitation to run off to run off ammunition, especially if you're playing with the little rubber dart guns. uh cuz carrying a whole pile of them is really annoying. So if the if the rule is I can I get to pick them up then you you have the illusion of having a lot of ammunition without having to carry a lot of ammunition. Uh so that's one example of a catastrophic failure that there's a really funny quote regarding u brainwashing actually which is you know um who were know what where were you I was not being brainwashed. Who are you with? Not with the people who are brainwashing. This is exactly the problem with the persuasion thing, right? You know, it's like, you know, I I I want to tell you something because my goals haven't changed far uh far enough to want to align me to my new goals. So, I'm going to do everything that I can without breaking the rules. I'm not allowed to tell you that I was being brainwashed, right? So, I can say that I wasn't being brainwashed. Other catastrophic How long does the thing take? Probably >> I don't know. >> Probably about as long as half an hour. >> Yeah. >> Depends on the people. >> Well, if you put a time limit on like discussions then >> cuz I plan on a password where it's less hours just because there was no cap and people just went to these long discussions in between rounds. >> So if you put a cap like okay we're going to it's going to be this long discussion and then we're going to kill someone off. So something Let's see. I have one. Anybody here played online mafia? So totally different experience. >> Yeah, for sure. >> Pinball or something >> on forums usually. >> Oh, >> yeah. So anybody? >> So basically when you can look at the history of what people have said and who they've accused and what order they did it in changes how mafia pans out, right? Mhm. >> Because all of a sudden people start going back and look at the history of compiling statistics of who says who and who said what and then who must be on their side if that's the case. But then there's this kind of meta knowledge that you can use of this if you're a mafia >> because you can kind of tell your m so in in our particular case with forums we were able to kind of communicate at the mafia privately. Mhm. >> Um, and that meant we could, for instance, do things like making sure that we were never the first people to accuse anyone. >> So, as a mafia, you should never do that because it immediately makes you look suspicious later on if somebody turns out to be or not be in the mafia. >> Like, there's no way that you can admit if you're the first person who accuses, but bandwagoning somebody who's not in the mafia is always great. So, so you can kind of coordinate to do this sort of thing and then like try and defeat the statistical analysis that somebody else is doing. >> You've got you've got this whole shadow governing feeling. >> Also, a great like tactic to get to draw get you away from being on team someone else is to execute someone on your team and hope that if they they don't actually like vote. that. Yeah. I mean, I've definitely been in a game where we purposely killed off one of the people on our team just so that we wouldn't be accused. I like, "Oh, you he cannot be on mafia because he killed off a mafia." >> Okay. He's And then we end up winning because no one no one figured that out. I I mean that's one of the best things about all kinds of live action games is that it almost encourages people to look for these kind of slightly out of the box illusions. These sort of emergent I'm not really going to expect that but still fits within the rules because you're dealing with real people for the most part. You're not you're not limited to the cards that you're allowed to play or the turns that that you're allowed to take. Uh so taking advantage of that. Um I I have one more disaster story. Uh >> I want to hear >> there is I I'll I'll limit it to just one for the people who don't. Um the the this is a game where there is a virus that was spreading. People who are in the assassin skill might have really heard of this one but um the whole basic idea is that there was a explosive nano virus. um people who got infected after a certain amount of time will explode and anybody in the room with them will now be infected. Um of course this was a game, you know, this is kind of a game in set in science fiction kind of thing and they've got doctors who are capable who have mechanics to be able to research cures. Um however when the doctor happens to be one of the first people to die game um what rapidly happens is that what should have been a one night game turned out to be a one-hour game when everybody exploded. So you know um I guess that might come down to feasibility but that that I mean you can think about it as as a you need a certain amount of redundancy when you're coming when you're designing any game but particularly live action games because happens. Um and you've got to expect that to happen. You there's always this fear about oh I put in too many resources into this game then the players are going to find it too easy. And it's most more often than not, yeah, there are some players that are going to say, "We breeze through that." But rarely do people get terribly upset in a live action game when something is slightly too easy. Um, they get really upset when it becomes when it's even near possible. you know, it's like, oh, so the GMs only made it possible for only made one made it possible for one person to fix this problem and that person and they didn't think about that person just dying in the beginning of So yeah, that was that was another example. None of which were my my games. I'm sorry. I feel really bad about bring not bringing examples for my games, but I don't know which ones were the ones that I generally Oh, I do have one more. So, this was after The Sims came out and and people should already be worried about that. Um, I I I thought having a blatant stat would be a really good idea for a game. This was a game that was set on a train. >> Oh, >> this was this was a game that was set in a train. It was steampunk. So, tea was a game. I think tea was in fact a combat drug. Um, if you drank tea, your combat stats will increase, but so would your bladder stat. every once your bladder stat was past a certain point uh all the combat stats went down and you really had to get to the restroom. Um which was really interesting. Most people just reviled that that game back me back me back me back me back me back because it was one more number they had to hit cold in their head that was stupid annoying and really didn't do terribly much for the immersion of the game. You know, I I was thinking, oh, it's a game about traveling on a train. So, you use the restroom all the time. That's the only thing I do when I'm traveling. I use the restroom. It's the most momentous event. Um, but um but then that even that led to some interesting emergent situations because when this train gets attacked and everybody needs to find a safe place to hide, what they all do is they get into the washroom, barricade it, and drink tea until all the combat stats go up the roof and then win the fight. Um because we were right there in the restroom, we could afford to do that. >> It was hilarious. >> These people come up with exploits and >> that's fun. >> They may hate the rules, but once they understand how the systems work, they're going to come up with ways to to to use it to their advantage. And that can be some of the most enjoyable. >> I saw a squirrel this past weekend and figured out it stood under a bird feed. um >> ah >> thing that was spending the tree >> it could just get pre-cluded because when the birds ate it once every two three minutes they would drop a grain accidentally >> and and there was this really fat squirrel in it just sitting there and spent the entire day just sitting under you know >> so I mean like it's so natural to just try to find exploits everything and >> there is there is a moral >> like it doesn't work for immersion but you still do it anyway >> there is a moral to that though is that for live action games especially if you're playing a live action game community. Uh there is whatever you write down as a rule, you may put it up on the wall, you may put it in a piece of paper, someone's going to try to do it. And uh and you you have to think of I'm going to put in a rule that's so ridiculous that that people are not going to want to try to do it uh because it's going to hurt them. Something like jump on this jump jump on the spot 100 times and you unlock this door. Or you could find someone with lock with lockpicking, you know, and you would just assume that person's going to find someone with lockpicking. No, someone's going to jump on the spot 100 times and they're gonna hate you for it because you put a rule in there for it. So, um, you know, try not to hurt your players. It'll be tomorrow, you know, because they will do what you tell them to do. >> Disclosure form. >> All right, that's uh cards. Um so um before we go I want to like clarify the in this version the um investigation mechanic. So the group gets to the group of scientists gets to test two people. Um if you catch the thing then they're dead and out. If you if you catch them on the second time, this is what I've read. If you catch them on the second guess, you get another guess. Um I'm not sure if that means you can have infinite guesses or not. So that's something to play around. If you test your wrong person is not a thing, they don't die. >> No. Okay. >> So, I test someone the first time they're a thing, then they're out. But I have someone a second time. >> Yeah. >> Regardless of whether or not I've tested a thing the first time. >> Yes. >> At least two guesses. >> But if you test someone on the second one, they don't die. >> If they're the thing, they're dead. >> Thing dies. But if you test someone on the first time and they're the thing, you don't get an extra guess. >> Well, not necessarily. >> No, you get you get two. >> You always get two of these two. So you have if you guess anytime I'm saying if you get a thing only one person a knife. >> Yeah. >> But if you guess a thing and then not a thing and you get a thing. >> Yeah. Like you can catch the thing. >> Yeah. I think you can catch the thing without actually doing anything other than like making a system where you automatically catch the thing >> and you're getting two guesses. So the ratio of like by randomly guessing you'll certainly change it, right? I mean this is just what I found and it seemed like an interesting way. part of the point, right? >> Which which which means do you start with? >> No, you're not perfectly because you could then >> as I recogn like bias towards the nonffected Appreciate something.