The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So uh a lot of folks uh for instance they'll run online poker or something and they will say that oh we we don't fall into the tax bracket for gambling because we're a skill based game and but literally agon is about you know competition and some ways you can consider sport but then the reason why um why I was asking entirely um is because the way how Ka writes it or at least the way how uh Roger how has been translated kind of makes it sound like he's actually drawing hard divisions between all these categories when really they're all like adjectives. Uh >> what was the original language? >> Uh French I believe the original uh version correct me if I'm wrong. >> The original >> if anyone can confirm that that would be awesome. Write write a forum post about it. Yeah, I I'll I'll try to confirm that. If it's actually French, I'll confirm it and then write an obnoxious post about translation errors. >> Um, yeah, I'm sure it could have been translated in far more interesting language because it's kind of double the branches going on if it actually is. >> And then we have more reading on Wednesday. Yay. >> But it's it's it's an important text. Um uh so that's uh but it but elinks will be um I use the word vertigo a lot because it sometimes gets get sort of like substituted but vertigo kind of I think people sort of have a very specific understanding of vertigo um you know as getting dizzy because of heights and obviously not all games are about heights um but you know people sure they they use it to describe the sensation of taking a roller coaster which literally is about heights but it's also about speed and you know you can use the same thing of uh everyone played a game called Descent uh on the PC back in the day. Um so imagine a first person shooter uh you're in you know you the the game is filling up your entire screen but there is no up um that uh gravity that that there's no gravity whenever you want you can turn yourself this way and you'll just stay that way until you want to turn it. Um otherwise the controls work just pretty much the same way as first person shooter. Um that that that was that was descent. And uh the whole the whole pleasure of that game was that you'd be doing this all the freaking time. I'm going down a straight corridor. I and I never walk and I never just go down a straight corridor. I go down a straight corridor. I turn into >> Inception. Yeah. That's what I was saying. Imagine playing if you ever get a chance to play the game Prey, which is probably like five bucks on like pre-owned nowadays. You have that same sort of thing. And Portal has a lot of that kind of like loss of control, you know, physical sensation that they're trying to get at, but obviously real physical experiences, you know, uh, you know, have have an edge, right? You know, they're talking about uh, three-legged races or um, that coral game where you spin around on the back with your head. Um, I hate that game. Um, and you think can be used to describe any one of those things. Um, I like to use it as describing the sort of fun of loss of control, but that's not necessarily even the case. It's just the sheer physicality of of of the of the game as part of the experience in a way that digital chess doesn't really have any of that, you know? I mean, even real chess at least has I'm moving my face. So um actually I'm just going to write out those words for those folks who didn't get the chance to to read through that that that page. So it's agon kind of like gave the competition scale. Uh I talked about elix which is kind of jumping down to the last one of the user just am I spelling this right? >> Yeah. You know which is kind of like physicality kind of sucks. Actually, Jason, can you turn the light into control? Um, other ones were what was that again? >> Chance, luck, lot skill. You guys know the phrase um aliest mean you know >> the have been cast. >> Yes. Yes. The D has been cast right before Caesar crosses and then you know says and now they're going to attack some >> but uh but you know the you know Alia meets basically >> um match on the room. >> Say what? >> He matched on the room. much room. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, so the the um uh although I've heard two translations of the dye has been cast as a phrase actually because on one hand you know you can think of it as the die has been cast so you know we'll see where fortune takes us and you know it's not that we can be wrong. Um, but I've also heard it described as um the dye as in the um the thing that you put molten metal into has been cast. So that so whatever uh we were making is now set and uh and and it kind of has that same idea but it's weird because one one one way that you can think of this is this is now out of a out of control and the other way that you can think of this is and now this is set in stone which is the two fairly different connotations by both saying we don't really have any control of the situation. >> Ya means broom >> throat right? Yeah. Yeah. But the but the English phrase >> are there words >> in English that have as a root to mean randomly >> in French like the word for random is coming straight from >> Sure. Yeah. Uh >> which is undoubtedly why you chose that word. I just checked he is French. >> Oh yeah. I mean uh obviously that's why Yeah. >> Uh kind of want to use it. >> Yeah. I can't think of any um English words that use that as a root. Although there might be some uh uh I know there's a game company and actually they actually make strategy games which is kind of weird. Um, and there's and there's one more which is >> memory. Which is kind of odd because that in English uh but not in French. Um, mimicry is mimicry. Uh, it's, you know, it's actually in English. So, you know, role playing, dress up, let's pretend, um, simulation sometimes, uh, you know, might actually fall into that. So you you you you can imagine you know a tactical simulation for instance you know being very much about competition and skill uh but then but then if it's a tactical simulation about you know Russian penet or something that then you know and then upon the actual famous war and then you're starting to get into into baby territory sort of like do you it's part of the pleasure of believing that you are something else I suppose. to I am this guy playing go, you know, as opposed to I am this 17th century scholar playing go and you're making a game about that instead. Um so so these are the adjectives that he talks about um to describe games. But in the bit where we actually asked you to read it's more about why you know the these words give you a clue to think about why are people playing games. Now um these are types of fun much in a way that uh that that gets touched on by uh the NBA paper that that that definitely highly last week. You know, what are these aesthetics that people are going for? You know, are they going for the thrill of competition or the thrill of luck? Are they going for, you know, physical motion and how that feels or are they going for the feeling of being someone else? And and it's not, again, these these are not mutually exclusive terms. These are things that you you could have one game that has all of this. You could have one game that that has two in some strong composition and the rest and and the rest all minimized. That's fine. But understanding that this is what people are enjoying the game for and more importantly this is what people are enjoying playing with each other for. Um, one one nice thing about this is that for the for Argon and for Mimicry, it's really really difficult to think about those two in particular without thinking about the players. You know, the competition kind of sucks if there's no one else you're competing against. Uh, sure you can play against a computer nowadays. Um, but you know, traditionally you couldn't. um at at least you're playing against the designer, especially when kid puzzles, you know, it's it's really really annoying to pretend to be somebody else when there's no audience, you know, even if that other person is someone pretending along with you to play against you. Now, luck, you can completely play a game, you know, flipping a coin or something like that. uh but even when it comes to luck and it comes to you know experiences of physical mo emotions these things tend to be measurable when when there's people around that's why these part four particular divisions that that color picked out are really really good for thinking about social um that game where is is there a name for this game where you put the bat on the ground and you go around >> that irritating Wait, wait. And like someone gets picked and then >> so so it's like a relay race where you like you take a baseball bat, you put your head on it, you go around it three times and then you you run back to your team, >> carry the bat, and try to hand the bat off to somebody else. >> Usually ending up >> because you're not heard bats. Dizzy bats. Dizzy bats. >> Dizzy bats. Yeah. So, so that game, you know, it's a lot more fun when there's somebody yells around. >> I do that by myself. >> Handing it off to yourself >> and even with games of chance. I mean I mean sure you could you could play games of chance by by yourself but the most part also my my my enjoyment playing games of chance are usually with a group of four people and actually uh either playing poker or playing something like macho you know so so these are all very social experiences and to think about when someone's going to come down sit in front of your game you know and and what what sort of frame of mind they're going to be in uh to to to play your your game. What what sort of frame of mind you want to put them in uh in order to enjoy your game, think about why they might want to hang out with other people because most of because actually for assignment one, your game has to be. So, you know, there's this other person that you're playing with that you may or may not know, but try to try to think about how you're going to construct enough clues to sort of get them to enjoy it. So, the game is about pretending to be someone else. You know, I'm going to play I I'm going to make a game where I am playing a negotiator in a hostage situation for a card game. Awesome. And you know, I'm going to be negotiator and they're going to be the uh the guy taking hostages. Um that and then you want to play that up and on um Friday we had the game crunch where people were playing CEOs, I think. Uh yeah. And the whole bit basic idea that you were already a corrupt that was awesome >> corrupt and you think about you know how does the game even from the rules even from the design of the box you know get you into the mood of thinking okay I'm going to get into I I'm going to whoever I am in real life I'm going to take on this persona and I'm going to enjoy taking for a while. Yeah, they did a really good job of that because they had this game kind of built in where you can actually hide cards on yourself. >> Did you guys catch anyone doing that in the act? >> I got caught. >> Yeah, >> I got hit. I feel like argument that's part of the rules. >> cuz he he'd already got it. He had already hit him away and then the cards were saw like way afterwards, you know. >> And and even arguing arguing over whether something was illegal or not, even when there's evidence that it is, no one caught you doing it. It's kind of appropriate for the theme of, you know, being a CEO of a failing bank, right? You know, it's like, well, so we have all of these uh CPOS, you know, that are working. Yeah, we purchased them at some point, but nobody caught us while we were doing it, so now you have to help us fix it. That's that's what the game is about. Um uh was there a game that was particularly competitive uh that people played on Friday? The game was pretty competitive. >> Pick one. >> Yeah. >> There was a competitive moment in in Sabaturur when Alec >> revealed himself to be a sabotur and ruined >> our attempts to find the gold. >> Sabotur is a is is what I would describe as cutthroat. Uh it's it's it's a game that's deliberately about winning by other people losing. You know, it's like that's >> it made me upset in Alec made me proud >> and and and um John Nash actually, you know, a lot of it or >> Okay. All right. >> I keep thinking that he was involved in MIT at some point. Anyway, um I mean Oh, because he he he did spend some time here at MIT. uh possibly when visiting. Uh but he designed one game uh called Hex which is ostensibly designed based on the washroom tiles of one of the building 39 or building 37 bathrooms. But anyway, um that game and another game called Screw You Buddy. Uh >> are both cut games. Yeah, it's like it's the only way that you're going to win this game is by screwing over the the other percentage. >> Um, screwing in particular, it's kind of just like boiled down diplomacy. You know, the only way that you're going to win this game is to betray someone else. >> Yes. >> Um, let's see. Games of Chance kind of chanty on Friday. >> It can go. >> Yeah, it can go. That's 17 card. >> Every threat was on the board. Two people go in 17 drops. Oh my god. >> It's a pressure of luck game, right? You know, is the do you dare, you know, do you think do you feel lucky now? >> Um, but it's, you know, I I enjoyed the game a lot. I I had a lot of fun. Cool. I don't think that we had any games that were specifically uh it's hard to get really physical in card games. Uh >> maybe like that game falling falling. >> Yeah, that was hit >> cuz it's like pit actually right two weeks ago some of the games that we played were really kind of kinetic. >> So those so so even with card games you you you already have fairly good examples of that. I want I want you to kind of keep uh keep in mind this one because today we're actually going to start the process of like getting you folks to think about what you're you're going to do with your first assignment and and breaking you up in teams. Um before we completely leave Jason here, do do you have anything to raise anything? >> No. Or anybody else? >> I was still confused about the whole Eskimo part. >> Agreed. I'll have to look through misos. >> Take a look at the French actually. >> Yeah, I'll take a look. He actually went to the same one my dad did and went to university somewhere a good friend of ours did. So I mean we might know someone who knows him. I'll I'll find out tonight. >> He's dead. >> So why just have him like come over chill at MIT for a little bit. Yeah, >> we can talk to him about the Eskimos and >> we just have to we Does anyone here know cuz he's so we need to raise him? >> Yeah, he he is dead but I might >> necromancy. It's okay. >> All right. So, so this is this is what we're going to do. Uh we're basically going to do brainstorming today. Uh the the basic idea is that we're going to hand out cards and one job to sort of make it easier on the job of the uh of the secretary is that you is that you'd actually be reading out stuff that you've written. So especially while other people are throwing out their ideas, you know, and you get something and that person is still talking, you might as well just write down your idea. Um so we'll have a whole bunch of cards. Um the but uh I also like you to write start off by writing your name right on top. Um and the reason for this is because I don't think every single person in this room knows each other's names yet. And but as we do this process, it's more likely that you remember, oh yeah, that guy who came up with that idea. Uh and then oh, and that person's name is, you know. Um so now you want to have all the ideas from each person on one card or have one idea per card? >> Uh all on one. >> What if the professors took the notes and we could just bounce out ideas? Well, that's what they regarded as well. But but the thing about writing your ideas down is so that people can then look at the card and say, "Yeah, that guy, I want to follow up with this guy." Because we're not actually going to form the team uh uh for you by the end of this class. The idea is so that after this brainstorm uh this brainstorming phase, you've got a pool of ideas of which you guys can make games. It actually frankly we we don't care if two teams ended up making you know pretty much the same game out of the same concept because I know that two different teams and two different people two different sets of people are going to end up making different games anyway even from the same u that's that's not a requirement you guys you folks can make uh uh you can can take any set of ideas from the boo today obviously if you're the one who pitch an idea and somebody else thinks, "Hey, that was actually pretty cool." And, you know, take that opportunity to talk to the person and, you know, maybe team it. >> Um, that pretty much is going to happen between classes. So, by Wednesday, um, I wanted you folks to come in. This is basically one of the pieces of homework is to is to tell tell me which team you're on, who's on your team, and what's the general oneline, you know, uh, idea that you're working with. Now the idea that you're giving us is what you started with. It may not be what you end with. That's fine. I I we're very comfortable with that idea change while you guys work with things. That's fine. The team shouldn't change. So you you're working with you know these three other people. So for a team of four then that should be you know be intact for the rest of this uh for this assignment. >> 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 perfect. So keep it for Oh, great. Um, now the um one more clarification about the project. Uh, the card game for all all the cards need to be identically sized. Um, we do like cards that are going to be legible, but you don't need to spend a whole lot of time making them pretty. Uh, I would just uh appreciate it that by the time you actually hand in your cards, you have them written in ink. handies. Uh um pencil is great when you're prototyping because you can erase and you can make things but ink is great for grading because it's not white. Um your game can be uh uh playable by two, three or four players. It does not need to cater to any grouping other than what you decide that it needs to be. So if you say this is two-player game, we will test it with two people. If you say this is 224, we'll test it with some number with however many people we manage to wrestle with two tests. Uh if you say it could be two or four but not three, that's fine. But you need to make that clear because there are some games that work really really well. >> Um keep it keep it for uh four and under uh or at least make it possible for us to grade it uh with maximum of four people. Because if you give us a game that requires five people, we have to find five people and get them together in order to create your your >> Okay. Minimum requirement. >> Uh that's um I think there was one more requirement for how long the game could take. >> I think it's probably 10 months. >> Oh yeah, it was short. >> Super short. Falling is really short. >> Yeah, but crunch is not. >> Yeah, it's about crunch is over. So when you're brainstorming for game ideas, how much of the game mechanism does that come up with brainstorm? >> Uh >> it's a cool idea. Zombies in space. >> I would say the game mechanic is the thing that's that's encouraging you to that's the thing that you about this assignment. I have this cool game mechanic in mind and then that's then that's the thing that you're throwing out. And obviously if if if instant is you know I want to make a game about fish I have no game mechanics in mind but I think fish are awesome then uh okay that's what maybe that's the first you know the first bad idea I'm throwing up if we have like several game ideas should we take several index cards and write one per >> actually no I would rather see them all on one if you can't fit them and if you run out of space them Um again the idea of the index cards is not just to record the ideas down uh because what I am going to do is I'm just uh I'm going to try to type them all out so that uh you can refer to them on on forum post just to remember what people discussed but also to find find you you folks again. So I said yeah that was that guy who had this idea about fish. Who was that again? Yeah. Okay then. So, uh I guess I need to leave. >> You want me to write down? >> Um I think I think you're not a facilitator. >> Yeah, I'm facilitator. >> I like better secretary. It's almost like the beginning leader. >> But I am actually wondering whether we should divide this into two groups. >> They would get to see the cross. >> We did some crossation. >> That's why it's a whole fast. Okay. So, >> I know there were some folks who actually started off with ideas already on the forum. So, uh, why don't those folks throw, uh, throw in your ideas first because you you mentioned before? >> Yeah, I I wasn't quite that forum. >> Well, to start off, I mean, Jeremy and I have been sort of discussing an idea. You want to go ahead? >> Sure. >> Two ideas, I guess. >> Well, yeah. So, I'll start with the titles one. So the basic concept is a game in which players are forced by some mechanic game mechanic to refer to each other by name uh constantly throughout the game and at a rap very rapid pace and that players accumulate uh their name is generated by the game and accumulate increasingly longer and more wordless games as they succeed. So you would start, you would be like lord of something and you could accumulate extra title son of this like bringer of flame and you could just like have all these modifiers that just kind of accumulate and accumulate until your title becomes ridiculous and then people will start screwing up and as they say your name and and it just hilarious. >> Okay, I'm just going to write down like memory jobs. Uh >> so like procedurally generated names, titles, >> name one. >> Yeah. Can I go in the second one more uh while we >> Okay, so I had this idea of like sort of like a survival horror game kind of inspired by falling. Like the premise is, you know, you have a group of like player characters that are like charging through a building and you can have like a dealer that is putting down like hallways as you're going through. Occasionally threats come up and you have to like react really quickly and be like, "It's a zombie. We have to like go upstairs and throw down a car to like do that." And you have to keep doing this until you get to the end of it and people can like die and get eaten and stuff. That's good. >> Kind of like >> should we be writing his ideas down? >> No, I'm writing mine down and then >> write on your own. >> Yeah. Um, >> so I have idea I thought made this up like a year ago when I took game design. Oh, not game design. >> It showed video game studies. It's actually it's like majority rule. So you can it's kind of like a crunch where you can just hide cars and stuff but as if you if you get caught then you get called out and in order to be penalized for it you have to be you have to a majority rule has to be by everyone playing and so you can actually bribe people to vote for you. >> It's more of like a Yeah. And then the way you get points is depends on how we describe it. >> Okay. Uh I'm just going to go around this way. >> Okay. So I had an idea of a card game based on like having success in life. So the beginning of the game all the players are randomly assigned different different goals in order which are like wealth and uh uh adventure and love and things like this. And then all the cards represent different activities that take up a different amount of time. So like you have all these activities you can keep in front of you and then however much free time you have you like draw that many cards looking for new opportunities. So it's like you like take opportunities and kind of leave opportunities and things. >> Okay. I put it right on opportunities. >> Sure. So I have a very mechanically oriented idea. Essentially I'm stealing and trying to improve the draft mechanic from um from Magic the Gathering booster draft for those who don't know. The idea is the idea is that you're trying to collect a set and um so let's do it in terms of regular card games. You're trying to collect a straight flush as long as possible, as high valued as possible, but other people may be trying to collect that same suit. So you want to collect a different suit from other people. And you do this by um looking at the cards in your hand, picking one of them, passing it the rest to the person on your right, and then continuing to do this. and then going back in the other direction with a new hand and then in the same direction again with a third hand. And the object is collect straight flush. Um, also guess what the person to your right was collecting and guess what the person to your left was collecting. So you're trying to signal to other people what suits are open and collect the suit which is open. >> Let's see who's next. Uh, >> yeah. Um so it's going to be uh there are different types of cards like action cards like pickup cards or loose cards but then so you know where they have cards where so you have like oh from stock pile from your friend hand from discard pile people play different cards in different order so the rule always changes kind of mess up or help yourself out. >> How would you describe that uh the rules are constantly changing? >> Yeah but you get like so there's actually an order to it. So you can choose. So if like it's going to be your turn that says pick a free card, you can put down like oh from a friend's hand like lose three cards or something like that. >> Makes a lot of sense in my mind. >> So rules changing with cards. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Uh >> all right. So uh one idea I have is a game about uh character growth through narrative arc. So, at the start of the game, you're given a character, and the idea is you want to follow a certain narrative arc so that they grow in terms of the hands of the game you're playing. So, if you start out with a cocky character, then you may want to actually lose a couple of the hands of the game such that your character experiences failure and his character growth increases. Um, and so basically, the winner of the game is determined by who manages to get their character to grow the most, like emotionally. >> Very deep. Um, so I had this idea for like a poker like game except it's played with more than one deck, but the normal rules still apply. So if you get dealt five aces, you can't actually play that hand because that would be cheating. So you have an incentive to try and, you know, like slip cards into your sleeve and slip back and forth. So you're almost forced to cheat at the game to be able to actually play it. >> So you can mix that with like >> Yeah. and you get caught, then it's pretty much you have to figure out how to get out of the cab. >> Oh, so the idea that I had was kind of like bananagrams but with a card game. So you have uh cards with like lines or preset lines or shapes or something on the cards and you have to try to connect them all in some way on like on your personal board so that it it forms a closed shape and once you're done, you know, you have to take another card from the pile and try to fix your shape so that it's still closed while trying to beat everyone else. collecting cards make shapes. Okay. >> So idea was just using normal poker poker cards and doing a trading game. You just like trading like four kinds of pattern as four kind of stocks and you can randomly draw the draw the card to be your own stock and every day you randomly draw card determine the day price and you can trade with bank or other players. I think you can use A to 10 as the as the stocks and the JQ and Kas special cards and install some so >> Okay, >> so this one's another procedurally generated idea. Uh the game generates for you encounters and it's supposed to be ridiculous and somewhat humorous. So you'd have like a a base card like you you know a bear and then there various modifiers that would that you would that you would draw to create that encounter. So, it could be like a ninja zombie bear in space wrapped in bacon and uh and then and then those would all give different attributes to that encounter and then you'd have to find a way to beat it. And your characters might also maybe be procedurally generated in similarly ridiculous ways and you'd have to counter it with just you know basically I like procedurally generated ideas. Card games have never played the same way twice. So, >> um I need something. >> Sorry. with laser beams. >> Of course. >> So, my idea was a musical RPG in which um players cards are musical notes and you uh build chords. For example, to raise your character strength, you might make an augmented chord, etc. And then you can chain chord progressions to attack players. >> Diminished your life. >> I I just dominated yourself. All right, I got obsessed with drafting. I have another drafting bit. Another drafting game uses the same drafting mechanic except that you're drafting tiles. You play the tiles in front of you and they make a machine. um drafting the same color of machine bit or same type of machine bit and then laying it in in consecutive blocks um multiplicatively makes them better and then your machines like attack other people or do crazy >> But but the challenge being you have to draft the piece that fits into your machine. >> They can do crazy >> They can do crazy. It has to be pronounced like crazy. Uh, anyone here? >> Oh. >> Um, so my idea is kind of like a monarchy type thing. So it starts out as everyone's a heir to the throne except the king. Like everyone wants to become the king or queen, I guess. And then um the point is either to get the king to really like you or to assassinate him. But if you want to um assassinate him, you have to kill off all the other players first. So it's kind of like a betrayal and deceit game and stuff. >> So betrayal Okay. >> Uh, yep. So, another game is about uh reducing your opponent's mo mobility by placing cards that represent walls and placing other cards to uh rotate various walls and your opponent is doing the same thing. So, you could sort of envision the uh Tron life cycle game without any hint of reflex uh removed completely. So, >> oh that would be really cool. So, it's all just a strategic uh placement of walls to reduce your opponent's mobility. Cool. >> Uh yeah, I think you can just make a lot of Tetris boss and then like every time you select one, give to the other player, let them play some of the Tetris. See who got the most rows remove. >> So, so Tetris blocks. Got it. >> Okay. This is kind of like Pokemon except now it's you have you raise zombies or you catch zombies except so you have different types of zombies. So may like maybe take some from like the Left 4 Dead universe or something or just Resident Evil or something and you have and then you could do like a like versus like other people or something. >> Um I thought of having cards. I I don't know whether there would be like words or a few words linked together, but you would go around and each round you would the goal would be to build a story. So each person would play a card face down or something. So it' be a mechanic like apples to apples except you're like progressively building a story and if people like the the your addition to the story >> then you get points. >> Apple story. >> Yeah. >> All right. Uh, >> sure. Okay. Moving away from drafting. >> Okay. So, I have another game idea called Are You Asylum? Um, >> it essentially uh >> Are you a Sylon? >> Are You Asylum? It essentially like broad brush strokes steals the um skill resolution mechanic from Battle Star Galactic for the board game and then strips it down to um secret sylons sabotaging people and then people accusing them and then everybody crying. >> Uh so I really like Harvest Moon. So, I was thinking that maybe there could be like a harvest moving card, competitive card game, and like uh I guess you have a certain like amount of stamina each turn and like cards are actions and stuff and whoever has like the biggest harvest at the end of the game would win. I don't know how many turns it would be, but yeah. >> So, like farming. >> Yeah. Okay. >> All right. So, sort of building on the monarchy and betrayal idea. This is game about the heir to the throne. the king is dying. In X turns, you and the other players are going to compete um to prove who is the correct heir to the throne. And you can do so through combat directly with other players, assassinations, or political uh minations such as like accusing other players of being baseorn. So >> um actually uh just as a a favor uh when you uh throw out your idea also throw uh also mention your name because I'm still learning everyone's names. >> Okay. So I'm Ian. >> Uh so I had this idea for a game called Admiral Snack Bar. So, the idea is each it's a competitive game where each player is building up their own sort of like snack shop and they make a certain product, right? Um, and the other players need that product in some way to like enhance their own things, but you can secretly poison parts of your product so that when they purchase them, they'll like get messed up in some way. So, it's it's sort of like a trade-off and you can like make alliances and stuff like that. >> You can say it's sort of like a trap. >> Yeah, it's a trap. >> There's the tagline right there. Oh, no. It's a snack. >> I don't know. Maybe. So, I was thinking of a game, I guess, kind of like um when like the Total Wars mixed with Nazi Germany. And so, the point of the game is you you want to snatch up uh territories. And you can do this by maybe attacking other players. Well, by territories is like cards. And you can do this by attacking other players or maybe making alliances which you can easily betray or maybe have like all the cards in the pile and you have to every turn you can take one and and try it and you get points by getting certain like combinations of lands I guess kind more like a risk right there as well. >> Compose the city like compos. Okay. Um, so I was thinking of like a trick taking game, but uh the idea is there's four players and you're trying to get the second most tricks each round and then there are cards that like allow you to swap out other cards at the end of a round and like other things that are tricky. So, >> it's the second best trick or second most tricks or something like that, but yeah. Okay. >> So, I think sort of AI guess put succinctly, scrabble means chicken. So like you have a bunch of people playing and they play cards in the middle and you have to make words out and then if you make longer words you get more points and so forth and so forth. Maybe your letter is more rare and get more points. But the catch is that the word is longer you're you can't gain as much point like your point gain like is dim is dim for it's proportional to how long the word is you make. Uh, I'm Beto and I wanted to combine like Mario Karts and Chronauts. So, like the idea of like you're racing like through time like somebody has some like somebody's like the main guy that's trying to get to some place, everyone else is trying to stop them and your like abilities or weapons only work in certain time periods and stuff like that. And so you have like the time travel and the items from Chronauts and then like the racing and attacking from Mario Kart. Michelle. >> My name is Michelle. Um, so I was envisioning something like ricochet robots, but where the two people basically, so the point is that everyone has uh a set of like uh cards that have pathways or grids or walls that you can bounce off of and you build a grid with your opponent and the there's one robot piece that you have to try to bounce off the walls to reach some specific goal. You can go to the other player. Bill Walt and Robots are >> Patrickhead. >> Okay. >> Patrick and Charlie. >> Um, so this is a game where the players are uh owners of businesses and depending on the nature of the business, they might have mutual dependencies that would be beneficial for people to get more money. But then uh as the market goes bad, they'll have to play cards to uh cut off the ties between companies. And so I call it objectivism game. >> That that was probably a better term than what I write down. Uh so there's a slight variation on the uh precision beast idea, but uh I'm now imagining it possibly as a as a sort of falling real time type deal. So every turn you're getting dealt cards and you have cards that can modify the the dealing pattern so that can discard other players cards or can get them to be skipped so on and so forth. And you also have cards that can add various modifiers to your beast. And the goal of the game is that by the end, like by the time the deck has been entirely dealt, you have the most badass um creature that you've created and that you'd have to figure out and there might be an optimal way to rearrange things. So, as you're getting cards, you have to try to figure out how to rearrange them. And at the same time, other players could be discarding stuff and you have to deal with all these things at the same time. And then at the end of game, you have to freeze, see who has the best one, and it could be really bad, you know, quick game and very hilarious. >> Say procedural classes. kind of like building creature plus >> um okay this game is monkey or Shakespeare. >> Okay, so there are several different several different piles of cards. Each of them has words on them in Shakespeare and English. Um the object of the game so some of them are going to be played by players. Some of them are going to be like random number generators essentially. So the players that are playing as covert Shakespeers select cards and then place them face down in a common pool. Then the top cards from all the other decks get placed in the pool and then everything gets shuffled up. And then each of these different um piles is going to be a different color. And so you'll spell out sentences in the color progressively based on the card draws. And the object of the game for the other players who aren't hidden Shakespearees is trying to try and work out who is the Shakespeare who's a Shakespeare. They're just trying to spell the pre-arranged sentence beforehand is and who are just monkey piles. All right. Well, there that was so detect the random number generator. Um, Beethoven. I want to take that like tanks versus robot game that we played before on the paper and make it into like a card game between players and like the tanks can like level up and like you can change your uh specific strategy and that kind of stuff. >> Would the robot still be like deterministic or something? >> Uh, up in the air. Um let's see who who this side hasn't gone yet actually. >> Um so one mechanic is uh any game that has a high amount of trading of cards. Uh I mean you can imagine anything from a go fish type thing to something more complicated. However, you don't mechanically enforce uh the trade of cards. So there is basically lying in that narrative. Um also playing off of the uh robot tank idea a game where basically your strategy is mitigated by the cards you play rather than the actual characteristics. So the cards play dictate how another deck or another mechanic is run rather than you directly interfacing with that. modification with an adjusting. So I just have idea about like your silon game. I think it's really interesting. That's good thing maybe it's even it will help if you can play two characters instead of one like if so if four people you have eight characters that determine the identity first and you can play either of the character. So, two player silent not two play two characters. >> Two characters. >> Sure. Uh, Andrew, so you can have something that's sort of like a MIT game. So, you're an MIT student and you're going through pizzas. We'd be doing like energy drinks to help you along through the night. Social events can hang out at Harvard for a night. Career fair. >> That would be a debug. >> Yeah, exactly. Sorry. You force other people to hit for a night. >> Uh, anything else? Second one's got Okay, Dion, this is I guess it's so MIT or Harvard. So this one is a you have to decide there's some pl so let's say you you're in design class and you're trying to build a project but so there's some students that some students are MIT most of them are but then there's one or two Harvard students and so everyone's trying to build this project but the Harvard students is messing it up or maybe it could be from MIT or Caltech and so the the other student that's not MIT is trying to screw up your project and so you by the end of the game you want to figure out who that person is or or like maybe I don't you take turns and you make an addition to it's something like that. >> Uh so this came up only a few seconds ago in my brain. I'm setting I imagine this for this might be something like a dark elf realm underground and there's like various houses or various families of dark elves and there's one that that is not controlled by players. I guess it's deterministic. It follows a set uh set rules. And players every turn can can play certain cards to influence the behavior of this non-player entity the next turn. And basically players are buying for influence over this non-player entity which can then do benevolent or malevolent things towards players. And it might be only semi-obvious depending on how cards are played who exactly took certain actions to get the um this this like master house to to give favor, remove favor from one player or another. And so it' be a game where you're trying to beat other players at the same time trying to figure out who's on your side, who's not on your side, and forging alliances and betraying each other. >> Uh so everyone's a guy at a party and the objective is trying to get a girl at the end of the night. called a fret bowl. Is that a card? >> You could screw other people over by like going up to them and bringing them embarrassing stories or you would be like really nice and like try to meet the girls friend and based off an AI kind of move. >> Yeah. Okay. Um, so Ian, uh, you have a game where the objective is is all the players are sort of actually trying to build a physical house of cards out of the cards, but each card has like, uh, an an in-game mechanical effect as well. And then there's like possibly the actual structure determines something as well. You'd have to do with like really thick cards. Okay, so House of Cards Jenga with the cards of cards. >> There would be a mechanic. Actually, my idea was building a house, but not with a house of cards. But that's a better idea. Adding a mechanic would be like you can play an action card that's like a a storm destroys the west wall of your opponent's house or something. In your case, it has >> like your favorite. >> Okay. Uh Jason uh Jason so the idea is you're on a student project or corporate project where some team doomed to fail. Uh so your objective is to make you look as good as you can whether by making the project better or by making sure other people are responsible for it being worse. >> A terrible microcosm for the first design. Don't fail too badly. >> Brian Brian, >> um, there's all this talk of drafting. I started thinking about auction games. So like an auction game where there's like some some different points and maybe if you collect certain types of points, it's good. And then also like some of the cards you can add additional mechanics for yourself. So you can like bid for a card that later you can play and have everyone else bid and then you have to go bid like after them or something like that. But everyone has the same amount of points at the beginning. >> Yeah. Points from >> Jason by the way. Yeah. going back to my guys that are party one. Uh there's a way a mechanic where people could bring in real stories um and real >> but you can obviously lie and make it work for someone else but then you lose points for lying guy. >> Do you see that for people? So, a game it's like a it's like an RPG card game where you know you each have your set which is like of of things you can do and like equipment you have uh and then there's like an encounter deck and these keep getting flipped over and then people have to react to this but it's not quite coop cooperative because at the end there's like something that only one person can get. Um so, you know, maybe they have to like duke it out at the end if there's more than one person left. Yeah. Um, so bringing up auction mechanics, uh, there is a bidding mechanic that is interesting from a theoretical standpoint that never implemented where, uh, if you have some or if you have a thing that's being bidded for uh, or you have everyone assign something that they get from some pile and then if someone feels that they aren't happy with what they have, they trade it with someone else's and either put some amount of money on the other item or some decremental uh, type object on their item. The bidding system comes out of pirates trying to spill out booty and instead of >> making everyone happy to win. >> So bidding bidding by by reducing other people's bids. Is that a good description? >> It's a bidding system in which everyone has something and then you trade and add value until everyone feels it's equal. Uh let me >> So my idea was like it's so you have two team maybe like four players but and you have it's like an RPG and so before you start you have to draft or you have to yeah draft like equipment and like spells you can do and so then you you have two like team battles against each other and the way you determine Like what happens is maybe like a warlike system where you have each opponent has a deck and we just shuffle take the top card of the deck with the top the highest card wins and so that determines damage and such done. >> I don't like it. Uh, so sort of taking off the RPG idea, but adding on like a randomly generated like board or castle that like one player has to defend and everyone else is trying to attack into and he has to like set up his defenses around and like but he's also a controlling character. So he can move his guy around the board to like choose one of the guys to defend I guess. So essentially an RPG with randomly generated board as well. >> Defender castle. >> Yeah. >> Castle defense. >> So I like so sort of building off of the idea of pirates booty. I like the idea that you have a bunch of items within the game which uh the value for them is chosen randomly so that it's unknown what the value of the items are. So you just have the items and various players can make various moves like choose to appraise an item by paying some gold. And the idea is you want to try to get the item that's worth the most amount of money during any round to like get the most amount of gold. >> The most get the maximum value. I'm running out of space. So, I'm gonna be ending this soon, but actually I'm too interesting factories with different products and so you can either um so you want to b different items, but for some people it might be necessary to have a certain raw bit not necessary. So, it's going to things are going to have different values for different people. Then you can also get highend stuff for low-end stuff and the randomness is going to come in where if you have low-end stuff a user behavior product then you kind of lose money and stuff like that. >> M >> um in a bidding sort of game you could be bidding for space and say uh for like space to use the Hubble telescope but before you can do this you have to pass a couple hurdles like taking Jab or >> use the Hubble. That's awesome. >> One of the first hurdles I I don't got a video for that. >> Uh tower defense the card game. >> That's a lot of math. >> Um >> slight variation dungeon keeper the card game. So, I' I'd imagine that there would be several lanes down which uh uh enemies would come and you would collaborate with other players to create buildings on the other of those lanes that would then generate either traps along the way or your own units that would mark down the lanes to encounter the enemies. And every turn you you run the game yourself. So, you run your opponent and it it automatically advances and sends stuff at you that's you know drawn from decks and you have to be able to time stuff right and all that not to get your core destroyed basically. Okay. >> I'm just thinking of the idea of tower defense, the card game. Combine that with falling. The idea that uh turns are happening at the same time. So, you have one player who's playing like the zombies invading and he's just basically going like 1 2 3 four. That's like a zombie advanced four steps or something by placing cards down. Then the other player is trying to place defenses just as fast, but has to like discard cards as well. So, it's really a game of how well you are able to handle cards. But >> I had another idea in the in the vein of falling, but it would be like Russian roulette. Um, so everyone's like trying to have everyone else die and not them. And then you can play excuse cards, be like, "Oh, I have to go to the bathroom. I'll be right back." Or like calling somebody else out and calling them the chicken or something. Maybe play with macho points. Uh, I think that's Russian excuses. this. >> So players take turns being a prospective high schooler who wants to go to college and the other players take are therefore admissions officers and as a student you're trying to get into the college that gives you the most >> swag anything and as admissions officers you're trying to give them the least. So admissions are usually like >> admissions offic mechanic for his idea. Um so you could kind of have a ball where you say I'm going to the bathroom and then someone else will call you call you out. You either have the bathroom card you actually go to the bathroom. >> So I mean that's a mechanic a bunch of games. >> Yeah. The full bladder card. >> Yeah. Uh this is a very simple mechanic but you're try you basically place cards down to try to create a path from some predetermined point to another. But in that way you can you know block other players by placing cards. >> So creating pass and blocking them. >> Okay. I think it works. >> I think we're done. >> Because I can't I'm not tall enough to >> All right. at the bottom. >> So yeah, I guess I could write down at the bottom, but that would be a painful for folks to look at it. So I mean these are just, you know, memory junks what we got up here. You know, um none of these ideas need to be taken wholesale for your initial idea for the team. But those were some of the things that folks remembered. Um, I would actually like folks to grab one of the uh thumb tacks over there once you've written down your ideas on the card uh and pin them up on the wall. Uh, you don't have to be closely tied. In fact, spread them out a little bit so that people can look at so that a few people can look at the wall at a time. Uh, and the rest of the class basically is just time for you guys to talk. You know, you you you talk, get to know each other's things better. Um and uh start discussing about you know projects that you should work together over there.