we have seen I would say three sets of tools applied to the problem of projection theory. So at the beginning of the class first we talked about like double counting and then we talked about methods from 4A analysis and then in the last week we started our our third set of tools which are tools from combinatorial number theory. Um so um so this week we're going to finish our unit on tools from combinatorial number theory and projection theory. Okay. So uh the the goal for these two weeks is this projection theorem of banan cats and tao and it takes place over finite fields and the cool thing about it is that it distinguishes what's true over prime fields from what's true over other fields which none of our previous methods could could distinguish. Okay, so this is our goal says that if x is a subset of fp^ 2 and it has size p to the sx, you can think of sx sort of like a dimension and sx is in between zero and two. So it's not too tiny and it's not everything. And we have a set of directions in FP. set of directions has size P to the SD and it's not too tiny. um then if I take the maximum over all of the directions of the size of the projection in that direction so at least um so the square root of x that so far that's not difficult to do um but then plus times a little bit more time p to the epsilon I'll call it epsilon p to the epsilon so this epsilon depends on these dimensions but it's positive Okay, so that's our goal and it's significant that this would not be true in other fields. So this is false in um f q^2 if q= p^2. Um and the example is that x is fp^2 and d is fp. And so then this thing is always fp. cool. So, even though this epsilon is a really tiny number, which we could make explicit if we worked hard, but we would then be disappointed. Uh, even though it's really tiny, um, this theorem is qualitatively an important improvement and it it has lots of applications. This and the version overr have lots of applications and almost everything in the rest of the course would will be based on that kind of whatever most of the directions we might go in. Okay. All right. So last week we introduced combinatorial number theory and sum product theory and we proved a theorem which is in this direction. It's kind of the special case when x happens to be a product set a cross a. So our theorem one was last time if A is in FP and the size of A is P to the S A and D is a set of directions in FP. Uh and size of D is P to the SD. Um then if you take the maximum t of a + t * a which would be like pi subt of a cross a then that's at least um the size of a * p to the epsilon 1 that's a little bit bigger and this again would be false in other fields. So if if if our field had a sub field, you could choose these guys to both be the sub field and this would stay in the sub field. Okay, cool. All right, so uh our goal today is to get from here to there. And we were talking about it last time and I wanted to So at first this looks like a very special case. Um I'll try to argue that it's only a little bit special case and we'll see what what the issue is. Um, so let me call this an attempt at BKT using uh theorem one. Okay. So we're going to do a proof by contradiction. We're going to say epsilon is very small and it's to be decided. And so then we'll assume that pi t of x is less than x * p to the epsilon for all the t's in d. So proof by contradiction. So we can assume that um and also without loss of generality we can suppose that zero and infinity are in our set of directions d. So in other words we include the horizontal projection and the vertical projection. So then we can make a set a so that a * a contains x and x is most of a * a. So the set A is pi 0 of X union pi infinity of X or the size of A bounded by size of X to the half * P to the epsilon and and X is contained in A * A. Okay. So x is a big subset of a product and we can apply theorem one to our product. So theorem one tells us that the maximum t and d of pi t of a * a is big and even bigger than that. So it's this is this could be epsilon 1. Um and epsilon 1 is much bigger than epsilon. So epsilon one came from a theorem that's already proven. It's some number and we get to choose epsilon as small as we like. So we choose it much smaller than epsilon. But this is not yet the projection theorem that we're aiming for. And the issue is we would like pi t of x to be big. So the issue is maybe pi t of x is much smaller than pi t of a cross a even though x is is a big chunk of a cross a. Let me make a picture of this enemy scenario. So here's the end of the scenario. All right. So there's a set X which has a small projection. So we're going to be doing a projection say in this direction. projection at x is small. Okay. And x is a big portion of this larger set a cross a. So in blue we have a cross ax. And when we project that down, then we see a lot of stuff. Pi t a cross a without x. So we're worried that we may be so unlucky that even though pi t of a cross a is quite large and even though x is a big chunk of a cross a, nevertheless pi t of x is small. We're worried about that. Okay, so that's where we left off before vacation. And now what I'd like everyone to do is to try to think of an example where this happens. Does this ever actually happen that inside of a cross a you have a large subset x and the projection of x is small even though the projection of a cross a is big? Can you think of an example where that actually happens? >> Yeah, >> you could choose X to be like a diagonal. So like all the values like guess I I is in FP, >> right? Okay. So, so here's an example. So X, so X is going to be contained in A cross A. X is the set of all A comma A and A cross A. And so then if I take the projection um I guess in the direction minus one of X I just get zero. A minus A is always zero. So this is extremely small. Um okay but in this case this X is quite a bit smaller than the whole A cross A. So let me make a more pre uh precise question. Um so let's say a has size n and x is a subset of a cross a and it's really quite big. So I'm going to say x is bigger than well we're going to call it for now k inverse time n^2. Um but then maybe k is order of n to the 1 over,000. So it's really a big portion of a cross a and pi t of x is like way smaller than pi t. We could make that more precise too if we wanted to. And that that's the situation we have in our attempt, right? A is only a bit bigger than X. And so um let's say the size of A is N. It's just the definition of N. And then X would be bigger than like P to the minus a few epsilon size of A plus. So it's really a a good portion of that. Okay. Right. So, could it still happen that the size of the projection of X is way smaller than the size of the projection of the whole thing? >> Like can you like pigeon hole principles like the fibers of the projection cross? >> Yeah. And that like if X is big enough, you know, it has to be at least some nice number of those, >> right? So the suggestion is we can look at all of the fibers of the projection of A cross A and then we should pick X to be the union of of the big fibers. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. That's right. So in this enemy scenario, there have to be some very big fibers and some much smaller fibers. They have to be kind of different from each other. Yeah. Um Okay. But let's see if we can think of an example where this happens. That should erase some space. Okay. So, um I just going to continue below the line here. Okay. So first of all, can we even think of an example where the projection of of X or something would be small at all? Um so so an example um maybe X could be the numbers from one up to N cross the numbers from one up to N and then pi 1 of X is pretty small would be basically introduced from one up to 2N. So this would be quite small. Um, so you could make you could make this a so x would be all of a cross a. Then the projection of a cross a would be small. But you could also inflate a to make it bigger than that. So we could take a to be the integers from one up to n union a tilda. Maybe the size of a tilda is also n but a tilda is unstructured or random. Okay. So now if I take pi 1 of a cross a, it's at least as big as pi 1 of a tilda cross a tilda. and a tilda has nothing to do with numbers from one up to n. I could build some set where that's big. Okay, but pi 1 of x is only around n. So there could be a big gap between these guys. Um but this example is not so not such a problem for our strategy because in this example we just should have chosen the set A smaller. We'd like a to be we could we could choose a as we like. We could choose a smaller set a so that a actually with the smaller choice of a just these guys x would be a cross a and then we would be happy. Okay. So the key to the proof of uh of banan cat's tao is a theorem from cominator. It's called the balog sum gowowers theorem and it says that this example is pretty much the only way that pi 1 of x could be much smaller than pi 1 of a cross a. Okay. All right. This is called the balag seme gow theorem and it's uh another of the kind of uh central tools in the toolbox of additive combinatorics along with the plunicarusa inequalities that we talked about last time. All right. So it says if a and b are contained in an aelion group and they have size at most n uh and I have a subset of a cross b which is significant. It's a significant fraction and the projection of this subset in some direction is small. So, so here I want you to imagine that K is a lot smaller than N. So this is a big chunk of all the pairs A and B. And the smallest this could possibly be is around N because if you just fix one element of B, you'd have around N choices for this element of A. So that would already give you a round N here. So this is almost as small as possible. And then the conclusion is it's not necessarily the case that pi t of all of a cross b is small. We just saw a counter example to that. But we could find big pieces of a and b so that the projection of the big pieces is small. So then there exists a prime and b prime which are subsets of a and b. A prime and a b prime and b. So that um I'll say x prime is defined to be a prime cross b prime intersect x and x prime is still a big fraction of n^2. So k to the minus some constant power time n^2 and if I take pi t of a a prime a prime cross b prime that is less than k to some power* l. So this is small. So in this example here where a was like this, this part here would be the a prime and it would be symmetric in the a b prime and a prime would both be this. Okay, take a moment to digest that statement and see if you have questions or comments. Okay. Um so we will prove this probably starting later today but but most of it next class. Um but for the rest of this class we'll explore uh explore why this is useful and in particular we'll use it to prove the projection theorem. Okay. Okay. Um, all right. So let's do the proof of the Borgan textile projection theorem. Okay. So let's say epsilon is small to be decided. We're going to prove there's some small epsilon where this is true. And I'm going to write I write C less than tilda tilda D. It means that C is less than P to the big O of epsilon * D. Okay. And now we're going to do a proof by contradiction. So we can suppose pi t of x is less sim less than or equal to p to the epsilon * x to the half for all the t and d. Okay. Um without loss of generality I can suppose that zero or infinity are in my directions and I'll take a to be pi 0 of x union pi infinity of x. And so now I know that x is a subset of a cross a. Um I'll say a size of a could be n and that is tilda tilda the square root of x up to some powers of p to the epsilon. Okay. And uh therefore x is greater tilda tilda n^ 2. So x is a big fraction of all of a cross a. Oh, next um I choose some other t1 in D and I know that pi t1 of x is less than tilda tilda n. And so when I once I know this the bality gowowers theorem tells me that it this comes from a product a prime a prime cross b prime. So sarity gow theorem says this a prime and a b prime and b and x prime is the part of x in this product a prime cross b prime. So first of all, x prime is still quite substantial and pi t1 of a prime cross b prime is small. And this means in other words that a prime plus t1 b prime is small. And this here is um this information here we c uh is is is is strong in a helpful way that's stronger than this because here we can use the pluna rou inequalities. So once we know that a prime plus t1 b prime is small then plunicar rouia inequalities tell us that lots of other things are small. So for example a prime plus or minus a prime is also small. Um if I wanted to uh I could do a triple sum a prime plus a prime plus a prime is also small dot dot dot. You could do the same with B prime. Okay. So, so now we have see that A prime and B prime have a lot of structure. Have a lot of structure. And actually, I'll use the word symmetry. All right. Right. Okay. Okay. So I actually I'll draw you a picture in a minute of how I visualize this and why why I use the word symmetry. Okay. So next so I have to make space I'm going to erase the statement of the theorem. We're going to try to prove that one of the projections of x is big. All right. So now have a lema. It says if I have a subset y and a prime cross b prime, the subset we're going to care about is just x prime, but the lema is more general. Um, okay. And um a prime and b prime have these nice properties. So I'll just copy these two. So a prime + t1 b prime is small. A prime minus A prime is small and and Y itself is is is fairly large although I don't need to write it in the statement. Um then pi t of y so this is for any t so t is just anybody in fp different from t1. This guy is bigger than tilda tilda y / n^2 times pi in a different direction t over t1 of a prime cross a prime. Right? So we have a the biggest y could be is it could be have size around n squ in which case this would disappear. And so I say if we have a large subset of a prime cross b prime then the projection of that large subset y is bigger than the projection in a related angle of a whole product a prime cross a prime. This is good for us because we can apply theorem one to this. Um and um this is uh this inequality kind kind of ruling out the enemy scenario. We're ruling out the possibility that there's a big chunk of a prime cross b prime that got compressed even though the whole thing didn't. Okay, let me put over here some uh intuition. So my intuition is that a prime cross b prime is very symmetric. And so let me draw an exaggerated version. Suppose that a prime cross b prime just looked like a lattice. Okay. And inside of there we have some substantial but kind of unstructured set Y. All right. So if there were some angle where the projection of Y got compressed a lot. I claim that compression of the the whole lattice should get compressed a lot. Why? Because the lattice is symmetric. So I can cover the lattice by some translates of y and if each of those gets compressed a lot then the whole lattice should be compressed a lot. So recover a prime cross b prime by a few translates of y. And then we would get that the projection of the whole thing should be bounded by a few times the projection of y. Okay. So now let's carry out this intuition. We are going to cover y uh cover a prime cover something uh by Um so let's consider y + t1 t2. These are some translates of y set of these guys where t1 is an a prime cross a prime minus a prime and t2 is in um this slightly weird looking thing there. Okay. And so these are a bunch of translates of y. And these translates of y cover uh cover somebody a lot of times. So for every um every y1 y2 let me do it this way. So for every a1 a2 in a prime cross a prime and for in y there is a unique t1 t2 which is in this list. Um so that uh a1 so that y1 y2 plus t1 t2 is a1h. So this is easier to prove than it is to write down. Just solve for t1. t1 must be y1 a1 minus y1. And uh and these these guys both live in a prime. So t1 is in there. Um and uh um ah wait yeah sorry. So this is going to have to be -1 over t1 a prime. Okay. Now how does y2 work? um for every uh so t2 is going to be a2 minus y2 and the uh the a2 lives in b prime and the uh Um yeah. So the a2 lives here and the um y2 lives here. So the difference lives here where it's supposed to. Okay. So So these translates of y cover a prime cross -1 over t1 a prime. They cover it y times. I cover each point in here y times because for each point in here I have y norm of y cardality of y choices for this guy and then uh there's one one in translation a set of translations that that lands here. Okay, does this sentence make sense? So we have rigged it that we've taken a bunch of translations of this set y and we have covered a nice uh product many times and the product we actually could have arranged the product to be a prime cross b prime that would have been a little easier than what we did but we have arranged that the product that we've covered is a prime cross a um dilation of a prime and that's a little bit better technically because it's going to be closer to theorem one. Okay. Now notice that this guy is small by hypothesis and this set here is also small. This is uh just a dilate of this. So these sets are small. So we took a few translations of Y and we covered this um product many times. And that means that at least typically each of the translations was covering a lot of the product. Okay. So that matches this intuition. So then we can say that pi t of a prime cross -1 / t t1 a prime that guy is bounded by um okay so um so we're going to take a prime minus a prime times um a prime plus t1 b prime. This is how many copies of y we took. For each one of them we have a projection. So that has the size pi t of y. And after doing that we've covered every point here y times. So we have this guy. Okay. These are hypothesis bounded by n. So this is n^2 over y pi t of y. And that's basically our final inequality. Put the pi t of y by itself. Pi t of y is greater tilda tilda y / n^2 times the size of this thingy which is equivalent to pi t / t1 a prime cross Okay, take a moment with that. Okay. Um, so now let's finish the proof of the DK theorem. All right. So, we would like to estimate the maximum t in our direction set of pi t of x. That's at least the maximum t in our direction set of pi t of x prime. We're following up from over here. And here's x prime, which is a big chunk of a prime cross cross b prime. Okay. And now we can apply our lema. So the lema says that is at least as big as the maximum t in our direction set x prime / n^2. And then we have pi - t / t1 a prime cross a prime. Okay. Now x prime we already determined has size about n^2. So this factor disappears. And now we are looking at projections in many different directions of a prime cross a prime. That's exactly the thing that theorem one told us about. So by theorem one this is now greater sim sim n times um p to the epsilon one and that's the proof. So one of these is significantly bigger than the square of x * p to the epsilon Okay, let me put up on here a little summary of what we did and then uh and then I'll let you look at the look down from above at the whole thing. So we're trying to get from theorem one to theorem bkt. And the enemy was that we have a set x in a cross a where x is around the same size as a cross a but the size of a projection of x is uh much smaller than the size of the projection of a cross a. That's our enemy. And we learned two pieces of wisdom about this enemy. One in the BSG theorem and one in the lema. So wisdom one in the enemy situation um X lives in a smaller product and the projection of the smaller product. So this the projection of the smaller product well it doesn't live in that but it has a so the enemy situation implies that X intersected with the smaller product is about the same as X. So a good chunk of X lives in a smaller product and the projection of the smaller product is about the same as the projection of X. Okay. So then we look at that situation and the second piece of wisdom was that if uh the projection of a smaller product of a product um if this is small um so if this is around the smallest it could be would be one of the factors for one t1 then this product becomes very symmetrical and Then the conclusion is for any subset X prime in the in this thing which is substantial then the projection of the subset actually is around the same as their direction the projection of the whole product. So the enemy situation can only really happen because X was mostly in a a smaller product that had a small projection and this situation is very symmetrical. So if a smaller product has one small projection then when you project it in other angles then um the projection of a big piece of it can't be way smaller than the projection of the whole thing. All right. So, the whole story is on these boards. Uh, take a take a couple moments to look it over. >> Yeah. >> Have a question. So, should it be the case that the a prime there depends on t? >> Okay. So, the question is whether a prime depends on t. Um, so let's see where a prime appeared. So we have uh our set with many small projections and um okay and then in particular the t1 projection is small and so the balag summarity gow theorem says there's a prime and a and b prime and b so that the t1 projection of a prime cross b prime is small and this a prime depends on t1 >> right >> now later we're going to look at pi P of X for other T's. Um, one could, I guess, apply Boxed Gowers again to those other T's, but that's not what we're going to do. We we use T1 to find A prime and B prime. And then we're going to run with these same A prime and B prime even when we look at other T's. What did we learn? Once we have this one small projection, we learned uh Alex Gar told us this and then we learned from it some other stuff. So that what we actually used is this. So we so we then we use this stuff. So this is telling us that a prime cross b prime is quite symmetrical and that's what's helpful in the second part. >> Good. Other questions or comments don't we know that it's also kind of Yeah, the question is why don't we know that a itself is also kind of symmetrical? That might depend on exactly what we mean by symmetrical. But um an important thing an important way that a prime is better than a is that at this moment um a prime minus a prime is small. And we didn't know that about a. A could be, you know, you can think of A prime as A as being A prime plus some garbage and the garbage minus garbage is is not small. Why the the epsilon >> like the epsilon is different between the two because >> of the a prime plus minus a prime has like there's like a hidden factor there right? >> Yes. A prime plus minus a prime here there's a hidden factor which is p to the order of epsilon >> and you're right it's very important that the epsilon is different between the two theorems. Um so epsilon one is the epsilon in theorem one which was already kind of small if we had unwind the proof of theorem one and then in theorem bkt there's an epsilon and the epsilon and bkt is way smaller than the epsilon one and the reason we need that is um okay we started with this where we have a factor of p to the epsilon then um we did some stuff most important stuff is bsg so bs SG will lose like there'll be like a factor of 10 epsilon here uh that comes out of the proof of balm gowers. So here the these these things will be something like p to the 10 epsilon if you did them carefully and then you go along and we're following our proof. So here there's um we did a little bit more work in the proof of the lema. So there's p of this is hiding a p of 10 or 20 epsilon and then but here we have a gain of p to the epsilon 1. So the p to the epsilon one needs to dominate the p to the 20 epsilon that we lost at various steps in this process. So epsilon should be like 120th of the size of epsilon one. Yeah. So we have to do a whole sequence of clever things to prove briang cat's ta theorem and each time we do something clever our epsilon gets smaller by a factor of 10 until you know we're so clever that we really can't see the epsilon. Yeah. >> Is there a conjecture bound for what possible epsilon could be? >> Ah, that's a great question. Yeah. So, the question is, is there a conjectured bound about the right epsilon? Um um yes. So, yes. So the conjecture so we're working right now over finite fields and the conjecture is that the worst case is a lattice and we wrote it down let's write it down again but we we wrote it down at the beginning of the course um okay so I think we're moving on I'll put it here okay so suppose we have x which is a subset of ft^2 squ and then we're going to take the maximum t and d pi t of x. Um, and this is bigger than I think it was d to the half x to the half. Um, maybe you should check it. I don't remember these. I don't quite remember these off the top of my head. So, I think And the way to remember it is that the example is that X is a lattice and then D is the set of rational numbers of small slope. Right? That was the case where the pro the case that we've seen so far where the projections are small. So if you compute with this you can check whether this is true or whether it needs to be modified a little bit. And then if you rewrite it in the language of BKT it gives you an exact formula for epsilon right and that is a wide openen problem um over FP but the version over R has been proven and and uh um I'll try at least to say to say at least some of the main ideas of the proof in the in the class. Yeah. Okay. Um so the the ideas that we've just been talking about when um going back and forth between whether a projection of the whole product is small whether a projection of a big chunk of the product is small um that is a theme in additive combinotaurics and I want to describe to you some of the other key words and ideas behind that theme to to flesh out the lecture and see how it I don't know how it fits in in general. all right. So section is called additive energy versus the size of a plus b. So these are two points of view about measuring the additive structure involved when you add um numbers in a to numbers in b. This one we've already met. Let me tell you what additive energy is. So definition if A and B are contained in an Aelian group the energy of AB is the number of quadruples A1 and A2 are in A. B1 and B2 are in B. So that a1 + b1 is equal to a2 + b2. So if you add numbers from a and b, how many coincidences are there? Does it frequently happen that you get the same number? So another way of thinking about it is we could say r a b of z. the number of representations of Z as a sum somebody in A and somebody in B. So this is the number of ab + b is z. And the additive energy ab is also equal to the sum over z r a b of z squ. So if this is large it means there are a lot of numbers that can be written as a plus b in many different ways. There are many additive coincidences. Okay. So um so for reference if a and b both have size n then think about how big or how small the additive energy could be. it's at least n squared. Um that happens if so there are n^2 obvious solutions to this which are a1 equals a2 and b1 equals b2 and um if if you have kind of a random set of integers or random subset of a big group those might be only the the only solutions. So here we have only trivial quadruples. Okay. And energy is at most n cubed because once you've picked three of these, the fourth one is determined by this equation. So there's at most n cubed of these additive quadruples. And um and this happens if a= b equals a subgroup of z. A and b are a subgroup of z. Then there's always a choice of b2 you can pick to solve this equation. Okay, cool. So having large energy is sort of having a lot of additive structure. And before we were sort of thinking that if a plus b is small then that would mean there's a lot of additive structure. Um how are those related to each other? Okay. Um, so there's a lema that says a * b a ^2 * b ^2 is at most the size of a + b times the energy between a and b. And this is uh the proof of this is just Koshy Schwarz. So if I add up on Z R A B of Z I get the size of A times the size of B. This is by double counting. So every time I add somebody in A and somebody in B I get some Z. I add this up I get all the pairs. So now uh a * b is the sum z of r a b of z and in this sum I only need to count the guys in a plus b because if z is not cannot be written as an a plus b at all it means that this was zero. Okay, now I koshi Schwarz. So I'm going to write it as the sum or a + b of one to the 12 and the sum r a b of z squared to the 12. Okay, so that's the size of a + b to the 12 times the energy to the 12. That's the per. All right. So we see from this that if the if a plus b is small then the energy must be large. You know we could bring the a plus b over to the other side. So people usually write this the energy is at least a 2 * b ^ 2 over a plus b. So for instance, if a and b have size n and a plus b is almost n, then the energy would be at least around n cubed, which is as big as it could be. All right? So a + b small implies that the energy is large. Now, do people think you can go the other way? If the energy is large, does that imply that a plus b is small? >> Good. No, because you could have some garbage. Okay. So energy of a large does not imply that a + b is small. Uh the example is that a = b equals numbers up to n. Somebody with a lot of additive structure union some garbage. Good. Now if you look at the definition of the energy, if I add some extra elements to A or to B, it can only increase the energy perhaps not very much. So the energy of this example is at least the energy of this example which is large. On the other hand, the garbage can make this a lot bigger. And this is basically the same example that we've been grappling with all class. Okay, cool. So now we'll leave that up. Right. Okay. Now if the energy of A and B is is small that implies that the size of A plus B is large. That's just the contraositive of what we wrote before or you can see it from this formula. If this is small then this one must be large. Right? Now um right now suppose I have a set x in a cross b and I look at pi 1 of x right. So remember that pi 1 of a cross b is just a + b. So when I take pi 1 of x it's sort of like a plus b. But I don't take all the pairs. I just take the pairs in x. Um and um so if even if pi one of x were small, if x was a large set and pi1 of x were small, that would still produce a lot of energy. um because that would still be um a lot of numbers a bunch of numbers Z that have many representations of A plus B. Let me just write it down. U okay so yeah. So, so actually so let me recall that a + b large and x being a big fraction of of a * b that does not imply that pi 1 of x is large and this is again the main thing that we were struggling with but with energy this is true. So, lama um check exactly what it says. So lema um x² is less than or equal to p1 of x times the energy of ab. So if the energy is small um then pi1 of x is pretty big for every subset x or every large subset x. The proof is the almost the same as the previous proof. So proof rx of z is the number of ways of writing um a + b equal to z where the pair ab is an x and that's smaller than representations of z is a general sum of somebody a and b because we're only taking a a portion of the of the sums. Okay. So now x is the sum um on z of rx of z. And here in this sum we only have to take z's in pi 1 of x only have to consider those z's that can be written as the form a plus b where a and b are in x. So now we can koshy schwarz this and we get the size of pi 1 of x^ the 12 times uh a kind of energy thing which is smaller than the standard energy. So we have the sum rx of z ^ 2 to the 12 that's smaller than the sum ra of z ^ 2 to the 12 which gives us the energy. Okay, cool. So to summarize, having small energy implies that the subset is large, but it's stronger than that and it also implies that um that pi 1 of x is large for all substantial subsets of a cross b. So it's stronger in a way which is exactly what we need in our discussion. Okay, so that suggests a better version of theorem one that we could have tried to prove. Um, let's erase this lema. So remember theorem one said that if we take the projection of a cross a in many directions, one of them has a large cardality. But we could have proved could have tried to prove something stronger that one of them has a small energy. Let me write it down. It's true and it's a theorem. Theorem two says um right so if a is a subset of fp size of a is p to the s a z less than s a less than one d is in fp size of d is p to the s d 0 z is less than sd then um I'm going to consider all the directions and pick the best one. And instead of looking at at the size of a plus ta, I'm going to look at the energy of a comma ta. And I'll take the minimum over all the t. Okay. So the biggest this energy could be is p to the 3 sa. It's the maximum possible energy. And we're going to say it's a little bit better than this. Okay. Now because of this lema we automatically get not only a lower bound on pi t of a cross a but we get a lower bound on pi t of any big subset of a cross a. So this would automatically gives the BKT theorem. So in fact this easily implies a strong version of the BKT theorem which I think was also proven by BKT. And it says that um uh so x is p to the sx and d is as above. So not only you can say the maximum t and d pi t of x is large. So this so that that's the regular theorem and this follows from theorem two and using our lama but we could say that um uh that there so this is true but even better there is some t and d so that if y so if y is a subset of x and it's a substantial subset of x. Um then uh pi t of y is big. Okay. So the proof from here to here is you know we observed earlier that uh we can reduce to the case wow. Okay. Yeah, I guess I should say using ball ready gowers, we could reduce to the case where x is a big subset of a cross a and then y is a big subset of x. So y is a big subset of a cross a and then you use the energy bound to get this. Okay. Um so let me say proof of theorem 2 plus bkt2 are similar to what we did in class and so they could be they're good optional exercises uh or they could be some some pieces of it might be required exercises. Okay. Um, cool. And I thought I should mention this. One of the things that Pablo impressed on me when we were talking over the vacation week was that this slightly stronger version is is is very is important in applications. Most of the applications actually depend on being able to say this slightly stronger thing. Okay. So now you might think you might ask yourself um maybe energy is actually a better thing to be talking about because a bound for the energy is is kind of stable under taking large subsets. And so maybe we should have been talking about energy all along. And it's reasonable to ask if you take our proof of theorem one and you just try to change all the cardalities to energies, could you adapt it and prove theorem two instead? Okay. And you you can't do that. Um and it's a good moment to recap the main idea in theorem one and also sort of uh a way of reflecting on the different big tools and how they're related to each other. All right. What should I erase? Maybe now I can erase the BSG theorem. Um, okay. Actually, before I erase the BSG theorem, let me make a little comment about it. So, it's of it's there are a couple of closely related forms of the theorem. And another way I often say it is that if the energy of AB is large then there must be A prime and B prime so that the cardality of A prime plus B prime is small maybe I should yeah maybe I should me put it here. So theorem the SG variant this is the the way it's most commonly said so I would be a bit remiss not to show it to you. So if A and B are in the group and let's say A and B have size at most N and the energy of AB is large um energy of AB is greater than K inverse N cubed then it may not be the case that a plus b is small because of the example with garbage but we can get rid of the garbage. So there exists a prime in a and b prime in b so that um uh a prime a yeah so that they are substantial. Um so a prime and b prime are greater than or equal to k to the minus order of 1 n and a prime + b prime is less than or equal to k to the order of 1. So if we there's we can locate the correct structured parts then their subset is small after we remove some garbage. Okay. All right. So now let me remind you of one of the key ideas in the proof of theorem one. key idea in the proof of theorem one. So the key idea was based on the plume corusia inequality and it was an idea that I called contagious structure. So it said if a + t1 a is small and a + t2 a is small then a + t1 + t2 a is also small. Not quite as small but still pretty small. So this was the key thing. If um a plus a if a plus ta is small for a bunch of t and d then it would have to be small for an even bigger set of d by adding d or by multiplying d or by taking negatives and then there would be a huge set of t's where a plus ta was small and then that contradicts basic double counting. That's the proof. Okay. So what if we tried to work with energy throughout? So instead of trying to prove that a plus ta is big, we're going to try to prove that the energy is small. So we're doing a proof by contradiction. So the the analogous question would be if the energy between a and t1 of a is large and the energy between a and t2 of a is large. Then does that imply that the energy between A and T1 + T2 A is large. Okay, the answer is no. uh and it is the same issue that we saw before that when the we say the energy is large it means there's at least a piece of A and a piece of T1A that are very friendly with each other but it doesn't have to be all of them. So one piece of A must be very friendly with T1 A and one piece of A must be very friendly with T2A. But those could be two different pieces of A. And in that case we can't really learn anything more. Doesn't mean there's any piece of A that's friendly with both of them. So here's the example. Answer is no. Here's the example. So a might be the numbers up to n union t1 times the numbers up to n union t2 * the numbers up to okay so then uh t1 a be t1 numbers up to n union dot dot dot t2 a this t2 numbers up to n union dot dot dot. So these two guys are very friendly. Not just because they're the same as each other. Not everybody who's the same as each other is friends, but because they have uh they're have a lot of additive structure. And therefore this guy is large. And uh these two guys are very friendly and therefore this guy is large. But there's nothing going on with T1 plus T1 and T2 are totally arbitrary and T1 plus T2 we would not typically have this large. So all right if a T1 + T2 a is typically small. Okay, cool. So, it was actually kind of crucial in our proof of theorem one to talk about the cardality of the subset instead of the energy because in that setting we have the Pluna Roua inequalities and we get a great deal of structure from a single subset being small. We get lots of other things. On the other hand, it is nice eventually to get to theorem two because theorem two is stable if you replace the actual product a cross a by a subset which is almost all of it. So energy so so both so both looking at cardality and looking at energy has it have have good features. Energy estimates are stable undertaking subsets and the cardality estimates have this contagious structure thing. Those are both very helpful. And so um uh okay and um and bal this is important because uh okay even though having a big energy is not synonymous with having a small subset balm gar says they're very closely related and so by using balag samuris you can often get the best of both world worlds so if you were to pretend that you could have all the good features of of an energy bound and all the good features of a cardality bound. See what you could prove. Very often you can prove those things by using balacrated gowers to move back and forth. And Pablo gave the analysis seminar a few weeks ago and he gave an overview of recent developments in projection theory and he made the claim or suggestion that this theorem might be one of the most important or most used theorems in math in the last several decades. It was a It was a little provocative. I thought it was interesting. Uh and I have gradually been appreciating it uh more and more. I'm learning about it. Uh anyway, I would gradually appreciating it more and more. Um and um yeah, probably as we keep going, we'll see how this keeps being important.