The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Okay, welcome back. Well, sorry, I wasn't here on It's more dramatic for me, I guess, than if I had been here on Tuesday. I hope John did a did a good job uh covering for me. I'm sure he I'm sure he did. So, um you learned about walking robots. You've learned about lots of robots. You learned with a handful of very powerful uh techniques, I think, for designing motions for these robots. Um some of my favorite these days are things like the durall type methods. So let's consider um the problem of taking some robot described by our standard some nonlinear dynamics form and taking that robot from an initial condition x0 and getting it to some final condition. I don't even care about the time. Say just getting it to um some other state x goal. So what tools have we already got um that could help us drive this system from some initial condition to some goal state? The answer is a lot of tools, right? Um, if the systems if the state space is small enough, you could imagine designing an optimal control cost function that we could do dynamic programming on that would get us to that goal if we only rewarded ourselves from being away from the goal. Um, we could do a shooting method, right? Um we can even in if we if we if we're using our SQP um our snapped type interface to the shooting methods then we could provide a final value constraint um which says I want the end point of my trajectory to be exactly at the goal and that would that would solve this problem in some cases. Okay. But both of those methods have problems right? The DP doesn't scale. the shooting methods scale nicely, but if you ask your shooting method to drive you from X0 to X goal, um there's some chance it's going to just say I can't do it, right? I can't satisfy that constraint because it's a based on a local gradient optimization. And if there's local minima, um, snap will just say, I can't satisfy the constraint, um, x at time final equals x goal. Happens a lot. If you're looking at hard enough, interesting enough problems, it'll happen to you. Okay. So, what do you do? Do you just say, you know, find a new research problem, tell my adviser, I got to find something else. Okay. There's more things you can try, right? Um the methods I want to talk about today are the feasible motion planning algorithms. Okay. So motion planning is a is a very broad term. It's used all the time in robotics. I'd say roughly everything we've done to date has been a motion planning algorithm. It's like saying it's a control algorithm. It's a very general term. Some people um debate when something you know whether whether an algorithm is a motion planning algorithm or an optimal control algorithm or whatever. I think that's sort of a waste of time. I would say they're all motion planning algorithms. Most of the things we've talked about so far I would call optimal motion planning, right? where we actually had a cost function flying around to do it. Often times motion plans go from a start to a goal. Oftent times they're open loop but that's not really defining. You can do feedback motion planning and motion planning is just a very general term saying I'm designing the the motions of my machine. The reason I want to use motion planning in the title for this lecture and next lecture um is because there's another set of motion there's an important class of motion planning algorithms that are not covered by the optimal control algorithms and that's these feasible motion planning you know algorithms. So the optimal motion planning algorithms try to get me from X0 to X goal in some way that's good by some ascored by some cost function. Feasible motion planning algorithms aspire to do less right they I just say I'll get me any state any trajectory that gets me from the start to the goal. Okay because they sacrifice their claims on optimality oftentimes these algorithms will work for more complicated systems. Okay. So the the the message I want to sort of deliver today is that there are a lot of good feasible motion planning algorithms out there in the world. We'll we'll talk about a some of the most exciting ones I think. And actually even if you care about optimality, even if deep down in your core you say this is a cost function that I must optimize for my life to be complete, you still should care about feasible motion planning algorithms. because they can do something like seed a durall method, let's say, uh, and get it out of local minima. So, let's say I have an Acrobot that I'm trying to swing up and I've got a a table right here, so I can't swing that way. And whatever my my initial um my initial guess at the trajectory, the system keeps banging up against this. It can't figure out a way to to turn around and go back the opposite way to get to the top, right? Or maybe there's a, you know, a table that you have to go through it just in a certain way, right? I would say if your if your shooting method is having a trouble finding its way to the goal, maybe you should back off on optimality. Just find any old trajectory that gets to the goal and then take that result of that motion planning algorithm, hand it to Durall, and let it then do the rest of the optimization. Okay, we'll we'll say more about this. I just wanted to to give you some context about why we want to talk about this extra set of algorithms. In general, we're going to expect these um these to scale to slightly higher dimensional systems than the optimal control algorithms we've talked about so far and to be more global than uh than the shooting methods. There's a great book on all of this stuff. Um called uh I guess it should be underlined, planning algorithms. So I pro I just spelled planning wrong, right? So I'm I'm completely sleepd deprived. If I do stupid things like that, uh call them out. I'll fix them. something about kid number two, the the first kid stays awake while the other kid sleeps and vice versa. It just makes it that much more interesting. Yeah. And planning algorithms, the book by Steve Lavel is actually Steve's got it on his website, the full version. uh you can download for free. So it's nice accessible text that you can check out if if you like it. Okay. So before we get into our first feasible motion planning algorithm, let me give you just a little sort of culture. The motion planning algorithms I think um actually grew up not so much in the controls community but in the more the artificial intelligence community, right? Um and there's a reason for that. Um there are serious people out there that think the only thing there is to intelligence is the ability to do search. Okay. So I I I think that uh artificial intelligence via search to some extent sounds ridiculous but it's pretty hard to disprove and some people really think that that's that's uh that's the way it happens. So let me give you some some cultural examples of where that came from. Right? The the original some of the original um efforts in artificial intelligence. They thought um I can my computer program will be intelligent if it can play a game like checkers or chess, right? And as early as like the 50s, Art Samuels building checker playing robots that are basically doing search in order to try to figure out how to to beat their opponent in in chess, right? So or in checkers, sorry. Um like checkers there's Samuel in the 50s. um chess we can leap forward to uh IBM's deep blue let's say uh in the last decade right um these are computer programs that at times can play with the sophistication of a trained human right and they're based on simply having the rules of the game programmed some databases of of moves that they've stored up a lot of them in the deep blue and search, right? Finding um the way to move my robot from X0 to X goal, you can imagine being very very analogous to finding my uh take my taking my computer game and finding from an initial board configuration to a a winning board configuration. They're exactly the same problem. Okay. So because of things like computer games, the artificial intelligence community really started building up these these search algorithms and and they were very fundamental. The other um um the other big uh push I think from the AI community was in ideas like theorem proving, right? So a, you know, an AI zealot of of 40 years ago might have told you that mathematics would be obsolete by now because all you have to do is program the basic rules of mathematics into a into a a set of rules that your computer program could uh could evaluate. and then proving where whether something was true or not is just a matter of finding the right chain of of small logical deductions to put together to find to be able to prove that P equals NP or something like that, right? Okay. Uh and actually, you know, I I joke, but that's actually a very powerful thing that works today, right? If you've used Mathematica or Maple and you've asked it to simplify, right? That's a result of of theorem proving work that people did in artificial intelligence a long time ago, right? And again, it's a matter of designing the rules of the game, which is a collection in that case of mathematical primitives and finding a a path from from your initial uh knowledge to some proof, let's say. But even going beyond that, there's people out there that um my favorite my favorite instance of this is there's a guy um David Lynette who's um somewhere in Texas right now typing well he's got teams of people typing random factoids into computers um he's got this project called uh sick. How many people have heard of sik? Yeah. So, I think this guy believes that um if I can get enough people to type in things like dogs chase cats and you know balloons go up or something, I don't know, enough random factoids into this computer and he builds up an ontology of knowledge, just some big collection of facts that and a good search algorithm to back it that his computer will will achieve intelligence. You'll be able to answer any query, be completely indistinguishable from a human. You could ask it any query and as long as it's got the right chain of factoids stored away and a good search algorithm behind it, then this thing is intelligent. Mhm. And it's been, you know, people have been typing things in for a really long time. And you can actually, you know, you can go and you can get the student version or whatever and and ask it questions and you can get the research version and and ask it questions and people use it. And um I mean Google I think works better because it's accessing word net which is a basically an ontology of of synonyms and things like this. These sound crazy. Um but they're the backbone of some of the things that you use every day right? Okay. So for whatever reason, you know, for these kind of reasons, the search algorithms, the motion planning algorithms that that we're going to talk about, which are today used a lot in robotics, grew up under the computer science umbrella, under artificial intelligence. Mhm. So the term motion planning, you know, typically implies that you've got some dynamical system you're you're shoving around, let's say, but it's it's clearly just an instance of this search problem. When people talk about motion planning in robotics, um there are problems that that people care about a lot. Um a majority of the motion planning literature in robotics is cons concerned with kinematic motion planning. um often with obstacles or something like this. So, if I have a a robotic arm with 10 degrees of freedom and I want to reach through some complicated geometry to get uh to turn a a doorork knob or to to reach down and pick up some apart from assembly, then that's a complicated geometric problem. Um, typically you assume that the systems are fully actuated. You don't worry about actually handling the trajectory once you get there. that's are normally assumed away and they assume that all trajectories are feasible. They're just trying to find some um path through the obstacle field. Okay. So um one of the key problems that you can sort of think about in in that um world is a piano movers problem. How many people know the piano mover's problem? Okay. How many people have ever moved a couch into a dorm room? Okay. You all know the the piano movers problem then, right? Basic task is you have some 3D shape. You have a bunch of obstacles. You have to find a position and, you know, position and orientation trajectory that will maneuver your big piano through a world of obstacles. It's just like going up the stairs with your with your uh couch, uh, you know, marking the walls and bending your couch as you go. Okay. And that's sort of the the um some of the driving problems in uh in the motion planning space. So it's things like that finding a collision free path for a complicated geometry uh through a an obstacle um based environment. Okay, just trying to give you a little culture here. There's and and in that world um one of the most important concepts I think is the uh is the configuration space concept. which actually you know who came up with configuration spaces he's sitting right upstairs it's Tomas Lozano Perez is is I think credited with configuration space idea and the idea is that these problems can get a lot um simpler let's say I have a a square robot going through some complicated obstacle field. Um, and I want to find a path from some start to the goal. Well, instead of reasoning about um the geometry of this relative to the geometry of this all the time, the configuration space tells you you should actually add the volume of this um of your robot to your obstacles, coming up with configuration space obstacles. Yeah, if you if you actually add the volume of your robot to the obstacles, I'm doing this very um hand wavy here, but then you can turn the problem of finding a a big geometry through another geometric field to taking a point and driving it through the the geometric field. And that's a a critical critical idea in the world of kinematic motion planning. We don't really care about kinematic motion planning uh in this class, right? We've got enough troubles without obstacles. We just care about having interesting dynamical system uh to move around. Okay? So the things we're talking about uh in this class fall under the heading ko dynamic motion planning. And of course the uh the non-holinomic uh motion planning ideas are are very related too. Okay. We care about the dynamics. care about things that are forced to follow some trajectories like non-alomic systems are too. Okay. So, if you're out there seeing papers and talks and everything about motion planning, I just want you to to sort of see that they're they're certainly related to the optimal control things we've talked about, but sometimes they let go of optimality. They're often about kinematics, but there's a good subset of them, which is thinking about exactly the problems we care about with these kenodnamic motion planning. Excellent. Okay, so now let's do some motion planning. The culture is there. Um when we did dynamic programming, I already sort of forced upon you the idea that we could potentially at great cost uh discretize our system and state and actions potentially. So let's do the same thing when we start off with motion planning and start with discrete um planning algorithms. So let's say we've got our our uh phase plot of our simple pendulum and we're going to just for for kicks right now let's just start off with the trivial discretization. Let's say we're going to bin up our space like this. call each one of those a state, right? And try to start talking about um a graphbased representation of the dynamics of the system that tries to find a path. Let's say from our initial state to some goal state, right? This isn't the only way to do discretization, but it's a good way to start thinking about it. Okay, so that turns the problem into some uh graphical model where the control actions determine our our state transitions and I like to actually call them S and A in the discrete world. Okay, so people know a lot about doing search on a graph and I'm certainly not going to I don't want to bore you with it, but I want to at least know the algorithms that are out there and be able to call upon them if you uh uh if they become useful. Okay, so let's say we've we've butchered up our system like this and we wanted to do uh we want to find a path from some starting discrete state to some goal state with a with a discrete set of actions. How can we do that? Off the shelf search. AAR is a perfect example. Yep. Dynamic programming is is on the table too, right? The dynamic programming. That's actually the way I the reason I drew that picture before is because we talked about that as a way to think about dynamic programming. Yeah. And dynamic programming is incredibly efficient if what you care about is knowing the optimal feedback policy, right? The the how to get to the goal from every possible initial state. Yeah. If what you care about I mean the problem with that is if you have to look at every single initial state then it's not going to scale to high dimensions because there's going to be a lot of states. If you have a slightly higher dimensional system and you want to find a start to the goal but just a single path, you don't care about every possible state, then you can do not better than dynamic programming, but you can be more selective with your um with your dynamic programming algorithm um by doing these Dystra type and AAR type algorithms. So, let me just sort of do that quickly so you know so you know that that's there. Okay. So dynamic programming again is definitely um uh it's very efficient. It tends it it goes to a global optima. Um but typically DP is is used to describe the the version where you're trying to solve for every state. simultaneously, right? You can do a bit better. Um, you can be more selective if you just care about um from a start to a goal x0 to xg. It's a It's actually a little bit surprising to say that I can actually find my path from from a start to a goal and know that I'm at a global optima without ever expanding every single node, right? Okay. And then sometimes we don't even care about optimality at all. Like I said for some of these algorithms are just trying to find any old path to the goal. And then you can certainly imagine uh finding your path to the goal without expanding every possible node. Okay. So, um, they all have a very simple recipe. Basically, you keep a a prioritized Q. How many people know what a prioritized Q is? I should say it's often called Q, but it means Q. Yeah, it's another sleep deprivation thing there. Okay. So, I prioritize Q as a data structure that we use in computer science to um um that I'll I'll describe quickly here. So um we basically have a list of nodes that we that we want to consider expanding next stored in some list. Okay. But there but they're stored in that list in an ordered fashion ordered by how likely it is that we want to uh uh to to check that node next. Depending on the ways that you add nodes into the prioritized queue, you can do um any number of the standard um algorithms. The breadth first search, the depth first search. Dystras. Let me make sure I spell it right. It's DJI, right? What is it? Dig. Okay, good. Thanks. Um, and you could do a star, let's say. There's more. There's iterative deepening things like this. Okay, they all go basically like this, right? I take my um my I have a queue of things I'm about to explore. I start off with the starting config, the starting state. I put that in my que. Okay, next step of the algorithm, take something out of the queue, consider its children, right? And um and then take the first one out of my priority queue, repeat. Okay, if I consider the children in a first in first out kind of way, if I add nodes and just say as soon as I uh as soon as I pick up a node, I'm going to go ahead and stick um those nodes into my queue in a sort of an first in first out kind of way. Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to proceed to look for the goal by going here, then here, then here, then here, then here, and write down the tree. That's a breath first search. If I do a prioritize queue where I when I add the the children, I just do a a last in first out. Yeah. Then I'll I'll go here, then I'll go here, then I'll go here, and I'll go as deep down the tree as I could possibly do before I come back and and go down the the other nodes. If I keep along um a uh let's call it a cost to come to differentiate it from the cost to go. Right? If I keep a record of how much cost I incurred um for my cost function getting to that node and I always select to expand the node that would be the cheapest. Okay, then that's called Dyster's algorithm. It's exactly equivalent to to dynamic programming, but it's in the forward sense. Okay, and then a star is a is a even nicer way to do that which combines a cost to come um plus some heristic. Okay. My goal is to make sure you guys know these are out there. There's lots of good easy places to read about um about these algorithms uh especially Steve Laval's book. Okay. The s- the only surprising thing really about these algorithms is first of all that you can often very efficiently find your way to the goal without expanding as many nodes as you might think. Okay, AAR in particular if you can find a good heristic a heristic in this case is an estimate of the cost to go a guess at your value um function. If you can guess your value function in a way um where you always underestimated again I'm not going to bore you with all the details here then actually you can you can sometimes expand very few nodes and find your way right to the goal very efficient algorithms. Okay, people out here use AAR all the time, right? For uh for the Grand Challenge, I think half the teams had AAR planners running on their their vehicle, right? For Little Dog, uh in our, you know, we're picking footholds to get from the start to the goal. We have an AAR planner in there, discreet time planners. These things are are real. They're good. They're fast. Um, if you can find a good heristic, they can be very, very efficient. If you care about a continuous time, a continuous state, continuous action plan that gets me from the goal, then they're not as satisfying because they relied on this discretization. Okay, but again, um, so we know when we're discretizing this thing, we're going to have some problems, right? We're going to um I'm going to just assume that there's a control action that gets me sort of squarely in the center of this um this next discretized cell and then go like this. If I were to execute out my actions from my discrete planning algorithm on the continuous time system, I'm going to quickly deviate from my plan. But these things are an excellent way to start to seed something like a direct collocation method, right? Find yourself a feasible optimal plan and then stabilize it. Let's say with the LTV feedback. Okay. Good. So that world of planning algorithms is out there. But about I don't know 10 years ago now something big happened in robotic motion planning world. Um people started using uh sample based motion planning algorithms and there was sort of a revolution in people using motion planning in robotics. Okay. It's also sometimes called randomized motion planning. And these we are going to dig a little deeper in because they're I think they're a we use them all the time. I think they're an important class of algorithms. Okay. Okay. So, two of the most notable um sample based motion planning um ideas are the rapidly exploring randomized trees and the probabilistic road map. Another poll. How many people know about RTS? Awesome. How many people about know about PRM? Awesome. Okay. They're pretty related to each other. Let's talk about rapidly exploring randomized trees first. Okay, so both of these are an attempt to get away from these very coarse um discretizations like this and sort of embrace the fact that we're working in a continuous state space. Okay, instead of discretizing it at at some known sites, we're going to discretise sort of at randomly chosen samples. Okay? And as we add more and more samples, we're going to worry less and less about the discretization, right? And eventually we're going to have some nice to say about the continuous space. So the rapidly exploring randomized trees, the RRTs are a very simple algorithm to explain. Okay, let's think about it in terms of moving a piano through a a 2D piano through a a 2D world in configuration space. So, we got a point moving through a a world. It should really be 3D actually if there's an orientation to the piano, but let's let's just look at the 2D problem here. So, um so I've got a point um an initial state, an initial goal in a 2D world. Let's call it XY. And I've got some obstacles. I like to find a path from the start to the goal without explicitly discretizing the space. Okay. The RTS do it like this. Pick a point from random at the state in the space. Yeah. try to connect your current tree which in the initial state is just this x0 to that um that new point. Okay, if I if I uh let's make it exactly clear that I can't do that. Okay, so that's going to actually my attempt to directly connect this is going to fail because it goes through an obstacle. Okay, so I can't add that node sample again randomly. Okay, at some point I'll get a node like here and I'm going to connect my um I'm going to make a branch of my tree that connects those two points. Okay, pick a new random point something. Let's say you get something here. Now you have to choose between these two random points. Decide decide which is the closest. The closest isn't always an easy thing to decide if you have complicated dynamics. In this problem, it's pretty easy. We could just use something like a ukitian distance. And I'll connect it up like this. I get a r another random point, I'll connect it up like this. I get some random points that go whatever way. If they end up here, I just throw them out. If they end up something that I can't connect, I'll just throw it out. But at some point, I'll start filling the space with these these trees. Okay. Lo and behold, if I do it enough, it doesn't actually necessarily take that long until I get up here and and get close in the vicinity of that goal. Okay, very simple random algorithm, right? Do you understand how it's sort of avoiding the the curse of discretization, right? It's just picking points at random from this continuous space. So there's no um no constraints uh no explicit constraints that it lies in some the center of some bucket or something like that right nodes could be arbitrarily close to each other I can get arbitrarily fine sort of discretization what's really cool what makes these things tick is that the idea is so simple the code is so easy to write and they really really work fast Okay, let me just show you that basic example. Okay, this this time I'm going to do it even without uh um without any obstacles but just to show you the basic growth of these kind of um planters. Awesome. Okay. So, um my uh initial condition is just that blue point and I'm going to start growing a tree in every random direction. There's not even a goal in this problem. This is just to show you the basic growth of the tree. Okay. Every point I grow at random. Every time I pick a point from a uniform distribution covering the space, I'm going to find the closest point in the algorithm and I'm going to grow a closest point on the tree and I'm going to try to grow my tree towards that um that node. Yeah, sort of understand what's happening there. It's pretty faint, I think, but all right. So, watch what happens if I just let that run. Okay, trivial algorithm. It has what a lot of people like to call a fractal expansion of the uh of the coverage area. Okay, this happens if of course if there's obstacles it'll take a little longer to get around there. But the algorithm probabilistically covers the state space as I add more and more points. Yeah. And it's actually some people call them uh dense trees because they do this. Yeah. Um if you noticed something about them, they have sort of surprisingly nice qualities. Okay. Um it filled the space pretty uniformly pretty quickly, right? It didn't just go off in one corner and start adding nodes on one side, right? Um or something like that. It actually has a property that people call the the voronoi bias. the voronoi region of a graph. Well, the voroi bias implies that the tree has a has a um has a bias for always growing into the biggest open regions of the of the graph. Yeah. And that just comes from uni sampling uniformly, right? If I have some um some tree that has a big wide open area for whatever region, then with very high probability, I'm going to I'm going to pick a point that's inside this the biggest region, right? And the biggest regions in the space are the ones that have the highest probability of being chosen. So probabilistically this thing fills the biggest spaces the biggest open spaces in the uh in the search tree. Okay. Just by the virtue of of um of sampling uniformly. Okay. So you get these very very dense um fast uh trees. Okay. Okay. And you can imagine if there's obstacles or something like that inside there, it's going to work its way just around the obstacles. Yeah. Does it slow down as you get more and more nodes in there? Good. So, so what is the computation that goes into it? What's the expensive part of the computation, would you guess? Finding nearest neighbor. Good. Right. So, um so yeah, it slows down with the nearest neighbor, but not as much as you expect. There's actually there's two expensive parts. Only one of the only the nearest neighbor one shows up here. The other one potentially is the collision checker and in some complicated systems checking if you're inside a collision in inside a region especially if you're a big robotic arm or something like that can be actually the dominant expensive thing right so um so these things in mat lab everything's vectorized it actually doesn't grow that badly with the number of nodes but certainly the the nearest neighbor calculation gets more and more expensive by default it's just checking every possible the distance between every it the new the sample point and every possible node could use like a KD. Yeah. Good. Yeah. So there there are different um some sort of structures that you can use to to make that look up more more efficient. Right. So RTS have gone kind of come in and and and done things to robotics that uh people hadn't done before. So this is a two-dimensional example. Um, people would have said before I can do sort of motion planning effectively in maybe five or 10 dimensions, a little bit more than I could do with just DP, but but you know, not a lot more because I'm still doing these sort of random factorizations. Um, the guys that came out and started doing these RRTs, Laval being one of them, Cuffner being another one, started showing examples of robots with 32 degrees of freedom doing pretty complicated plans. Um, see if I have that the Cuffner video there. Yeah, it's a animated GIF. So I should, you know, this is a this is H7 at the time. This was the um University of Tokyo humanoid entry before everybody started giving out ASMO. beforehand to start giving out asmos. This is um and it's doing things like taking that 32 degree of freedom robot, finding a plan to have it bend down and pick up a flashlight under the table, right? And that sort of that sort of shocked people. Okay. Now, people have gone off and used RTS to do things like protein folding. It's a pretty is a pretty hot topic in the motion planning community and these other very high complexity geometric algorithms, geometric planning problems that people just hadn't done before. Okay. But even this guy, even though it's a it's a robot, um his feet are flat on the ground. Yeah. And they're still just assuming that you can search in position space and then find some controller that'll stabilize it. So they're not doing the underactuated um planning example. All right. So I wouldn't be talking about it if I didn't think it was relevant for underactuated planning. So let's show you the um the basic story here. What happens if we do it on a simple pendulum? There we go. So you see I'm plotting only uh every 30 nodes or something like that. I pick a point at random. I start growing the tree. The way I grow the tree now is I don't go all the way towards the goal because I can't necessarily go all the way towards the goal. I just take a step in the direction of the goal. How do I take a step in the direction of the goal? I just try five random actions, let's say, and pick the one that got closest to the goal. So, if you look closely, every time it expands a node, you'll see a bunch of different arrows coming out and it picked out it picked the one that got closest to that s random sample point. Okay? And it's still just using the uklidian distance to try to um find its find the closest neighbor. This one's not I think I I didn't wasn't careful about doing the terminal condition, but I want you to to see what the most important thing about this is. What do you see in that plot besides a mess as it gets adding more and more? What I see is I see the fundamental structure of the pendulum. Yeah. I see these spiral trajectories, right? It's amazing to me that trivial random randomized algorithms like this can probe the basic dynamics of my underactuated system. Yeah. Right? So if you see the algorithm is now very simple, right? So I pick a point at random. That's actually a good example I just happened upon. Right? Pick a point at random. The blue, the red is my random sample point. The blue is the closest point in the tree in the uklidian sense. it happens to be a horrible choice for the closest point uh on the tree in the dynamic sense because I know in state space my dynamics can only go that way, right? So really uh I'd like to have picked up a point back there that was farther in uklidian distance but closer sort of in dynamic distance and I'll actually talk more next lecture about how you could do that. Okay. But from that node, I try 10 different actions, see where it would have taken me, and pick the one that ended up closest in uklidian distance, which happens to have been the one that happened horizontally. That's enough to let this thing just sort of spread itself out into the world like a like a disease or something, right? Going just covering the the space a and probing the dynamics of the system. And you wait until you get close to the goal. Mhm. RTS are a very very powerful way now to to start um trying to find reasonable plans uh on a robot. That's the vanilla RT algorithm. There's a lot of ways you can quickly improve them. Okay? And actually any of the the graph-based search algorithms um do this. So if I wanted to to u do some simple things to try to speed up that algorithm, what might you suggest? The only real reason it felt there's a couple reasons why it felt inefficient. One of them is because it's it's not doing a very nice job of of chasing these sort of intermediate goals, right? It's like like that example showed. The other thing is it it seems like it's not really making any effort to go towards the goal. Okay, so there's a handful of huristics that people use to make these things tick. Okay. Um, one of them is a goal bias. Okay. If um the way the go I mean there's lots of ways to implement it. The standard way to implement it is um with let's say um probability um uh 0.5 or something like that 0.05 5. Um, choose my random sample to be the goal. Otherwise, my random sample is just the uniform distribution. Okay. That would certainly encourage the system to find its way to the goal a lot more efficiently. What's another what's another possible way to speed this up? Birectional. Yeah. In fact, all of the search techniques, the breadth first, depth first, AAR on discrete graph searches, a lot of time, one of the standard things people do is they'll do a backwards search, right? start while you're growing out from the start to the towards the goal, might as well start from the goal and go backwards. Um, it feels a lot less like this. The problem with this is it feels like you're trying to find a needle in a hay stack, right? If you can grow a tree in both directions, then at least you got a lot of needles to look for. Yeah. And you just wait till the the trees come um fairly close and even backward search sometimes by itself can be faster. It depends on the system. Is that because like you if your goal is an unstable point the backward search is more likely to find that like intuitively what why sometimes a backwards search would look work better in cases like under it's a really good question because it you might have trouble going to some type of fix points but the backward search already starts you off there. I I will I won't I won't put my weight behind it, but that that sounds like a pretty good explanation. Yeah, in practice we always do birectional trees, right? You always want to do both, right? Yeah. You'd never just go back. Yeah. But certainly in the kinematic case, you could definitely exam imagine cases where the backwards would could be faster. Let's say it's it's hiding in some little uh island, right? And you just want to get out and that much easier than finding your way into the island, let's say. Um the the instability. So certainly we've we've noticed um uh sensitivities to growing RTS around stable on very unstable fixed points. Um and it might be it might be exactly what you said. It might be. Yeah. Um is the uklidian norm the best metric for this? Good. The uklidian norm is a horrible metric for this. Okay. What do you think would be a better metric? Awesome. So, energy is a good candidate. In fact, I think depending on what we put on the problem set, we might ask you to to try an energy metric. um to do it. Um so almost everybody says this would work better with a better distance metric and almost nobody can tell you a better distance metric for these kind of systems. Okay. So uh we actually have a couple ideas uh that we've been working on in in lab. Elena has been uh been working on some LQR based distance metrics for instance. Okay. So what you what did you just say? You said um time to arrival. How would you compute a time to arrival? Yes. Do you like a million time, right? Exactly. So, you just guessed the one that's that's one of my favorites right now, right? switches. So, um, one idea here, not fully proven yet, but it's still in the oven here, is that um, that every time I pick a random sample point, yeah, I'll linearize a system around that point, let's say that's a cartoon of a linearization, yeah, compute a uh, LQR stabilizer around this and then use the value function for a minimum time problem. Yeah. So, so comput a um min time LQR actually around this point and then use the value function as a distance metric. The the Okay. So, I like that idea a lot. Yeah. There's a couple subtleties that go into it. So when you pick a random point in state space, if it's got a velocity or you know most points you pick randomly in state space are not stabilizable. So you can't do an infinite horizon minimum time LQR. You have to do a finite horizon and then potentially search over horizon times. But you can do that actually pretty pretty efficiently. The other issue about it is that it's actually not a proper distance metric. Um, why is it not a proper distance metric? Anybody? It doesn't follow the So, I think it probably doesn't follow the triangle inequality. It certainly does. It doesn't even have symmetry, right? If I were to linearize around this point and comput its distance, linearize around this point, there's absolutely no guarantees that it would be the same. Um, but I don't care about that actually. I just have to put it in the paper. Yeah. As long as it works, right? Okay. Um, it's also more expensive a little bit, but it can make a dramatic improvement in in the way it uh um it it spreads. There's another idea. I was actually planning to not to talk about some of the the more subtle ideas um uh next time, but why since we're at it, the other way to do it is to change um the sampling distribution. So, Alec Skull in our group has got um a very clever way to uh to grow these trees. Um where it uses um a sampling metric that doesn't try to to go where it can't go. Let me just see if I can say that more carefully since I told DARPA about it 3 days ago. So, might as well show you the picture. Okay. So, um, this is Alex's, uh, algorithm for, uh, being more clever at expanding. Uh, he changes the bias to the point where this is the tree we just saw, right? Basically, right? Um, and his new tree looks like that. So, that looks pretty compelling. Yeah. How did he do it? Um, he does this thing. Um, he calls reachability guided RRTs. Okay. Every time he uh expands a node, he also expands what what would happen if I had applied maximum torque and minimum torque. Okay, so he expands a couple nodes that that represent a cone of feasibility. The algorithm turns out to be trivial. Okay, so so now I take my uklidian distance metric or whatever it is, um pick my random sample point. If the closest point is one of these boundary feasible things, then that means there's room to grow the tree. If the closest point, however, is one of the nodes on my actual graph, that means I'm already there's I'm not feasible. I said that quickly, but long story short, there's a trivial check here which changes your s effectively changes your sampling distribution just by saying sample a point. If the closest point on there is not one of my boundary regions, but one of my normal tree elements, then I know I can't grow there. Okay? And if I get that, I just throw that point away. Pick another point. What that does is it effectively changes the sampling distribution to be the green region. it just throws out all these unnecessary points that you can't get towards and changes your sampling distribution. So, it's only trying to grow in places that it can actually go to where the trees got a a chance of growing towards. Okay. So, I think the the the world is still sort of small enough that people are still finding pretty clever little tricks to the RTS that make them grow a lot better in constrained systems like this. Okay. Okay, so that's happens to be I think a very good one for um for our kind of problems. But it also points out what RTS are bad at, right? So um so what kind of problems would you expect an RT to work on and what would you not expect an RT to work on? The classic case of something you shouldn't expect an RT to do very well on is something uh that looks like this. Let's say uh X start is over here, X goal is over here and my obstacles look like this. Right? In general, I think uh it's fair to say RRTs don't like tunnels and tubes, right? What's going to happen if I run my RRT on this sort of a system? All right, so I I pick, you know, I got my tree here. Pick a point here. Fine. Pick a point here. I'll quickly cover this area. Pick a point here. I throw it away. Pick a point through here. Throw it away. I pick a point here. Can't get to it. Doesn't do me any good. You know, after my after a very long time, maybe I luck out and I pick a point here, right? Okay. But then I have to wait and pick a point. Yeah, I pick a point here. I can't get to it. Just throw out, you know, I'm just completely hopeless. If it's in two dimensional space, then you can imagine sort of getting lucky enough or or designing a sampling distribution that does this. But let's say it's in some you know 14dimensional space that you have no idea where the tunnels the tubes are. Um there are some problems where RTS just choke. So in general when your space of solutions feasible solutions is small is that fair to say because like this is a small very small set of your total space. It's a little hard to say that, right? Because I I mean lots of trajectories work, right? They this one works, you know, right? This works, you know, but I think when there's narrow passages, that's when it really I think that's a a more clear way to say it when it chokes. And so when you say chokes, I mean it's, you know, as time goes to infinity, it'll finally find it. It is actually Santa. Yes. Okay. Good. So these algorithms um mostly what you look for in a planning algorithm is completeness. You want to know that as you as you expand all the nodes, you're eventually if there's a path to the goal, you'll find the path to the goal. And even if there's not a path, it'll tell you there's no path, right? RRTs have probabilistic completeness guarantees. They say if you expand enough nodes, then you'll with the probability one, if there is a path, you'll find it. Probabil probabilistic completeness doesn't do as much for disproving the existence of a path, right? it would take a very long time to disprove it. Um, but probabilistically these things will find a path to the goal if it exists. That's good. That's that's um maybe that'll make you sleep better at night. But if you wait if you have to wait, you know, for something to be probabistically complete, um it's not going to be useful. The reason these things are used like crazy is that in practice it they're very fast. They can be very very fast for finding good solutions. So really, I mean, the the uh the Grand Challenge vehicles using RTS all the time to consider possible future paths um along the street, trying to avoid obstacles. It's doing it fast enough um in sort of in a receding horizon way. It's always planning, you know, a minute ahead. I'm not sure exactly what the window is, you know, in driving time and it's doing it every DT roughly recomputing its plan, right? Right? These things can be really really fast in practice to some extent. Um the dynamic constraints which we're talking about on the pendulum are exactly this problem, right? Because the because the pendulum like we said it's it's coming here. We know what the the phase portrait of the pendulum look like and we know that if we're torque limited there's only a handful of places we can go to some extent kodnamic constraints like this dynamics um can look exactly like this. So if you take your vanilla RT you saw how effectively it grew on the pendulum. It took a lot a lot of nodes to to find its way out. Um the hope is that we know enough about this sort of dynamical system from our some of our other tools like LQR to do a distance metric from tricks like this then we can that we're effectively guiding this thing down down the differential constraint tubes. Has there been any work with relaxing the number? Like for example, if you have like 15 dimensional robot, you want to get to go position and you relax some of those dimensions and then use the rest of it, design a control in a very low dimensional state space and then use that as a heristic. Awesome. Um, yes. So uh so Alec also had tell you what my next slide right uh this is Alex's other thing about uh planning in a task space which is exactly what you said I think there's lots of ways to do it I think Alec found a really good way to do it um this is just an example of a um a fivelink robotic arm just in configuration space that had to find its its way from that endpoint effect to the the goal endpoint. So you see at the top that little green arm is the resulting configuration of the robot. The standard RT looked all over the place to try to find that solution. If you instead just you it's a little subtle how we had to do it. You had to basically change the Voronoi bias to live in the in the uh task space but still sample uniformly from the other space. So that's not enough to tell you how to do it but that's enough to tell you it's not completely trivial. Uh then then he found these really really elegant solutions um to to plan in task space. And the the results his his sort of killer plot is that this is the number of um number of links in the robotic arm, right? Versus the number of nodes it took to find the goal. And the standard RT went like that. And after, you know, 10 links, it just was hopeless. And after uh with with n going to over a thousand dimensions he was just planning in constant time basically right so yeah there's there's structure in the problems right um we also have a using the partial feedback linearization task space have tried doing it in underactuated systems um uh and and that sort of works too. Yeah, but it's not the norm. Actually, it's not the accepted version of the algorithm yet. RTS are beautiful things, right? They just grow on out, find their way to the goal. What potential complaint is when you're when you're done with it, you've got this sort of choppy uh disc discretized path that gets you to the goal, but then just hand it to your trajectory optimizer as an initial condition and let it smooth it out. Right? still satisfying obstacle constraints, torque constraints. We know how to do that and smooth it out and you've got yourself a good trajectory that gets from the start to the goal. It's a beautiful thing. People didn't I mean I think I to the point where Tomas Lozano Perez, right, invented configuration space, did motion planning for however long. He actually stopped robotics, went off and did computational biology for a while. And he says he came back to robotics this a few years ago because these kind of algorithms made a difference to the point where it was worth doing motion planning or robotics again. Yeah. I don't know a a more dramatic thing to say than that. Yeah. Okay. So next time I'm going to go a little bit um um more into the using these planning algorithms and and also feedback motion planning um applied to our model systems. But I I don't want to completely satur I mean the idea that a randomized algorithm can do better than our our explicit algorithms. It's all these these funny things. There's classes on randomized algorithms here. Every once in a while these things just really work nicely. Randomization can help, right? And the reason roughly maybe is that it's it's actually pretty cheap to pick a sample point. It's pretty cheap to evaluate if it's in a in a collision. Um and and so so why not just pick a lot instead of trying to reason about the geometry of your obstacles, right? Building configuration spaces, that's hard compared to just saying, "Okay, what if my robot was here? Was that a collision?" "Yeah, that's in collision." Okay, throw it out. And just sometimes randomized algorithms are better. Okay, see you next week.