So today is the last day of our unit about random walks on groups and um the main the goal of the day is to digest think about the banan gamber theorem about mixing on SL2FP um so we stated it at the end of last time first I'll Remember, remind everybody what it says. Okay. So it's about mixing on SL2FP. So it says if mu is a probability measure SL2F actually maybe we it doesn't matter that much but maybe we said it in ter in terms of subsets. Okay. So the question is when when does the random walk coming from a u mix? So um um so then the conclusion will be the singular value of this walk is less than 1 minus c of epsilon meaning that it does mix. Okay. Um so and um to see that this happens we need to know that a doesn't lie in any subgroup. And so we have a hypothesis that's related to that. It says that for any borell subgroup B um A intersect GB. So any G in our group and this guy is bounded by K of epsilon P the minus epsilon* A. So only a small fraction of A lies in any co-et of a burell group. Okay. Um, and we'll put in parenthesis that a is symmetric. We don't really need it, but it also doesn't matter that much. And, uh, it will make things a little cleaner. >> Yeah. >> Question about the difference between hey, is a sub or a subset versus a measure. Is it possible to kind of pass between the two cases by just waiting by different subgroup sets? >> Yeah, that's right. So the question was what's the difference between taking a subset or taking a measure? I think there's not that much difference. I think if you can use this as a black box and prove things about measures, I think we also could just use measures through the whole proof and it would work fine. Okay. So this proof breaks into the proof of this theorem breaks into two important pieces which are both interesting and which are both connected in different ways to themes of our class. Okay, so the first part says that if if you just have any pretty much any set and you do this random walk, the only way it can fail to mix if is if it gets stuck in something which is sort of approximately a subgroup. So, so it can fail to mix if it's literally contained in a subgroup. And a little bit more generally, it can it can only fail to mix if there's a set which is a lot like a subgroup which contains a lot of the mass of the measure. Okay, so let's try to write this down. Um, so this is probably true for any group. I'm going to write it for SL2FP for now and then as we talk about it more let's keep our eyes open of what we actually used symmetric um and sigma one ta it's bigger than 1 minus here I'll put 1 - epsilon Um then there exists uh some kind of approximate subgroup called H yeah hold let me adjust a little bit. Let me also say that a is pretty big and is not not too tiny. Um then there exists some H. Um so that mu tensored to some power of H is pretty big and this H is sort of like a subgroup in the following sense. So h if you multiply it by itself many times for example five you could do more um this is less than p to the o of delta * h and h also is not too big. Okay so if you had another group you would have to adjust these things but I think that that that's sort of minor I think that's all you would have to change. Okay. So if you have a set which is a decent sized fraction of our group and let's say it's symmetric um then either that random walks mixes or there is some subset which is sort of like a group and when you take K steps of your random walk you have a high probability of being in this set. Um and this set is sort of like a group in in this sense. Okay. All right. And so there's delta and epsilon. Maybe at the beginning I should say this and delta depends on epsilon. That's possible. All right. Any questions or comments about theorem one? It's theorem one is is gamber essentially. >> Yeah. >> Where does the two >> Yeah. So um um what's significant here is just that this is is less significantly smaller than the whole group. Um and if we yeah >> like power group less than one or like little of the group >> um right right yeah okay so so this comes last time from this um uh so actually it's also important that this is bigger than two so we had this um important property of SL2FP that it's um uh that it it's um ah yeah so this actually this wouldn't work for any group. So we have this important property for SL2FP from last time that every non-trivial representation has a large dimension and that had the property that if you got if this thing had a small L2 norm so it was like kind of decently well mixed then we would get a spectral gap and then if you kept going it would become really really well mixed and that's crucially being used here. Um, and so here you could put anything bigger than two. Um, and the the point is that it can only go wrong by getting stuck in something of size really smaller than P squed because we know once it spread over something of size bigger than P^ squ then it's going to keep going and spread all the way. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Okay. Well, this theorem raises a question. um who are all the subsets H that are like this it becomes a much nicer theorem when we can write them all down and um or at least say something meaningful about them. Okay, so theorem two says something about that. So this theorem is due to healthcott and it builds on rushski. Okay. So it says if h is a subset of sl2fp um and it has these two properties. So all of this stuff is smaller than p to the delta h. Um and h is at least p to the epsilon. You can kind of read that off from here. It's not going to get stuck in something smaller than a um and at most p to the 2.5. Then the conclusion is that h is concentrated in a burell subgroup or burell coet. So then there exists a burell subgroup B with an element G in our group. Um so that H intersect B is bigger than some small constant times H. So our approximate subgroups basically have to sit in a burell subgroup. This isn't a complete classification because some of the subsets of B are approximate subgroups and many of them aren't. Um but it's a meaningful piece of information. Okay, cool. So um you you put these two theorems together, you can prove that theorem pretty quickly. >> Yeah. >> Um if this C does it depend on anything or is it universe? >> Does it depend on anything? Let's put this here. Um let's see. I have all these epsilons and deltas. don't think it depends on anything. So I guess here there should be this we can do this. So this is getting stronger as epsilon's getting smaller. Epsilon's telling us that our thing is not too small. Um and uh and then I think that this is just a constant. Um I guess that does suggest that we could have said something stronger up there. Yeah, this is definitely H, not B. >> I think it's right. >> Yeah. >> Um, this is a question about kind of the choice of G. If point H is a symmetric subset, would that kind of imply that the sort of optimal G is always going to just be the identity because you think of H as kind of being centered in some way around the identity. So shifting a subgroup by by kind of non identity element wouldn't change the intersection. >> Yeah. So the question is if maybe if H were itself symmetric which in fact I think will happen in this setup um then maybe you don't need this G and maybe it's actually only actual subgroups. Um I think that may be so let me just describe that I'm not sure we need G. Um, correct. Yeah. So, so a good example to think about is if you just take a co-et of a burell subgroup and in the aelion world a co-et of a subgroup will be very small when you add it to itself. But in the nonabelian world it's not so clear. So I'll make a remark if H is a co-et of a group then um how big is just H * H? Well it's G * B * G * B. And because it's not commutative I can't bring this across. So it's not obvious that this is small. So I I think this is in fact large. So based on that, I think it's likely that we don't need this. Um but it made the proof it makes the proof a little shorter. Okay, cool. Okay, so I have a couple of big picture comments about this. Um one comment is um let's compare to the perhaps simpler setting of an aelion group. So we maybe have the group of the integers or the group of the integers modulo P. Suppose we had a subset in there that had this property and this property. So when you add it to itself many times it expands but only by a little bit by a small power of the size of the set. Then what can we say about the structure of such things? That's a big open problem in additive combinatorics. Um that's the sort of friend and rouia problem. If you have something even smaller here like log p or or so um then there would be a classification that would have to look like a generalized arithmetic progression. But in this range there's there's not a whole lot there's nothing like a structure theorem that currently exists in this range. So in a certain sense it's this is stronger information in the non-commutive world than we have in the commutive world. Of course you might point out that this is not a complete structure theorem either. Um but this is a really strong piece of information about our group and I think in some ways it's stronger than any what we know in the community world. Yeah. Um another comment so I'm not sure. So so Rashki and Hut both worked on this. Rashowski came from logic and I think that he was interested in the idea from the point of view of logic of like an approximate subgroup. You know like a a basic thing we have axioms for is that you know axims for a group and what happens if you uh relax those axioms a little bit. What can you say? So interesting question from the point of view of logic. Okay cool. Uh all right. So the goal for the class is to discuss each of these things in moderate depth probably without giving complete proofs. Um uh and and they're they have quite different ideas but in both cases the ideas are related to stuff in in our class. Okay. So first let's talk about theorem one. Um so on the board okay so we start with the measure mu which is mu aa and we notice that mu l2 is one over the size of a. So that's like is at most p to the minus epsilon because it was it was built into our assumptions here that a is is at least p the epsilon. Okay. Now let's start convolving mu with itself and we want to see if we convolve it with itself enough times um is what will happen to the L2 norm. So let's say mu2 so that's let's call this mu1. Mu2 is mu1 convolved with mu1 and in general mu k + 1 is mu k convolved with mu k. So we're convolving with this thing with itself many times and we're going to see what happens to the L2 norm. Okay. So recall um that if at some point mu k l2^2 were to be smaller than 1 over p the 2.1 then we would get um that sigma 1 of t mu k was bounded by well bounded by okay and then we would get that sigma 1 of t mu So mu k is mu convolved with itself 2 the k times. So that would be um p the minus1 / 10 * 2 the k. So if k is not too big we would get a spectral bank. So that's our plan. Okay. So we keep doing these convolutions and we watch what happens to the L2 norm. And at every step maybe the L2 norm goes down significantly. In that case we're happy. or maybe it doesn't go down. In that case, we're stuck. And the stuck situation, we'll try to analyze it carefully and see that the stuck situation only arises because of this situ this structure, this setup. So, let me write that out. So, let's say G stands for our goal, which is that mu k L2 is less than 1 over P 2.1. If we get there, we're happy. P will stand for progress. We're not necessarily there, but mu k + one l2^ 2 is bounded by p the minus delta mu k l2. Okay. And then s stands for stuck which means we are not at our goal and we are not making progress. not goal and not progress. Okay, cool. Okay, so as long as we don't get stuck, we will reach our goal in about one over delta steps. So if s never happens we reach the goal and less than one over delta steps and no matter what delta is delta is just a large constant and that still that is enough to to to give the conclusion. So then if you if you do a little calculation using this you'll you'll get a spectrum. Okay. So suppose we do get stuck. Let's think about what that means. Okay. So, there was a comment at the beginning of the class that perhaps there's not a big difference between a set and a measure because if you have a set, you can turn it into a measure. If you have a measure, you can look at the points that where the measure is pretty big and you get a set. Um, and that's actually what we're going to do. So um let's say that a lambda of mu k is the set of group elements for our group sl2fp where mu k of g is approximately lambda. Okay so we can decompose our group into pieces where muk has various sizes and one of these sizes must have a decent fraction of the measure. So we choose lambda so that muk k of a lambda is around one. So we've we've cut our whole group into maybe logarithmically many pieces. They their total measure is one. So one of them has to be pretty big. All right. And now let's say a k is defined to be this set. Right. So what we've learned is that mu k is roughly uniform on ak and ak has a good fraction of the total measure of mu. Okay, great. Um okay so more or less you could imagine that mu k is just the uniform measure on ak. Um all right so now what would we learn algebraically about ak from the fact that we are stuck? um that actually has a nice interpretation in terms of a previous character in our course which was the idea of energy. So let's recall what what energy means and put it in a non-commutative context and we'll see that it sort of exactly fits here. Okay. So let's say that so if we have two subsets A and B in our group the energy of AB is the number of uh A1 A2 B1 B2 these guys are in A and these guys are in B. So that a1 * b1 is the same as a2 * b2 energy a. Now we this is the same definition that we saw before in the context of a commutive group. A group is now not commutive which means that it matters what order I wrote those things in. And so it matters what order I wrote those things in. So eab is not actually the same as eba. Okay. But it's otherwise it's a very similar looking definition. Um and um um okay and and we can relate this to what to what to to this setup. We can notice that EAB is I take the characteristic function of A and I convolve it with the characteristic function of B. When I do that, if I evaluate this at G, it will tell me how many ways are there to write G as little A times little B. Now I'm going to square it because I want to how many ways and that many choices for this and that many choices for that and sum over B. So this is this. Okay. So notice um I took something I convolved it by something else and I took its L2 norm that's the character that's involved in being stuck. So something we can say um okay actually so before before we do that let me make a little normalization um so remark EAAsis in between A cubed and A squ right. So the A squared comes from I could take these to be equal and I could take those to be equal and a cubed upper bound comes from once I've chosen these three there's at most one choice for the last one. Okay. So the these ones are have a lot of additive structure and the typical example is an actual subgroup and these have very little additive structure. Okay. Um so now let's relate to being stuck. So if we are in the stuck case for ak for mu k and we could see um this um okay so mu k is essentially 1 over a k this characteristic function of a k and if we want to be rigorous I guess we say something like this. And um if we say mu k convolved with mu k is smaller than is larger than p the minus delta mu k. This is equivalent to saying that the energy a k with a k is smaller than some p to the delta time a k cubed claim. If we unwind this we'll get this. So we unwind this we'll see an energy the energy of AK and this you know this is almost the minimum possible value of the L2 norm and so it's almost the um sorry it's almost the this goes the other way. So the the um there let me say that again. So this is encoding this energy. It's a lower bound for it and the lower bound is almost um the biggest it could be. So this energy is almost the biggest it could be. Yes. >> That be ak lower bound for energy. >> Uh right. No. So no it's ak cubed and this is a minus sign. So this is possible. Yeah. >> Okay. So this just got copied there. And um uh all right. So okay. So if you look at this L2 norm, these are probability measures. So this L2 norm is at most that L2 norm. So when you look at this inequality, this L2 norm is really pinched. It's at least a small fraction. It's at least a large fraction of mu2 and it's at most mu2. So it's just about as big as it could be. So this energy is just about as big as it could be. Okay, cool. All right. So if we get stuck there must be a subset of very high energy and that is step towards being an approximate subgroup but it's not as strong as the conclusion of theorem one. Um okay so at this point the story connects to some characters that we talked about when we were doing projection theory over finite fields. um it relates to the balag summary gow theorem and the punicarusa inequality. So first of all let me just recall what they said um in the commutive case and then this is a non-commutive case. So then we'll have to talk about you know what's actually true in the non-commutive case. Okay. So you recall that if we have a contained in z a commutative group um then we have two important theorems gaus says that if a has a lot of energy then it has a large subset And the large subset is actually has a small subset. So this set has additive structure in one sense but it has a large subset which has additive structure in a stronger sense. And then once we have this there's another important theorem the plunicus theorem that says if a prime plus a prime smaller than l * a prime so l will be this um then you can also look at the sum of three of them or four of them or whatever. So I'll write I'll just write this guy is bounded by L to the 50th. You could put other things. You get the idea. Okay. So this is a sort this sequence of theorems is important because it gives a sort of amplification of structure. So this has this assumption is that A has some additive structure in some fairly weak sense and that implies that a big subset has additive structure in a stronger sense and then therefore it has additive structure in even stronger sense. Okay. So if we were allowed to just apply these two theorems then from this moment we would get the conclusion of theorem one. Conclusion of theorem one would be that there's some set H which could be could have been AK which obeys this. Okay. So um so we we can't we can't do that because this is for a commutive group. So we need to talk about what happens in a non-commutive group. Um but I thought it was we'll talk about that. But I also thought it was a nice moment to recall these theorems and uh reappreciate that they're important and useful and do something kind of neat. Um in our halfway through the course check-in email when I asked people uh you know what what things that we did do you feel like they really sunk in and you understood them and what things you feel like it was sort of maybe hard to remember what actually was happening. um these this theorem in particular was cited as something where it was hard people did not feel like they remembered very well what actually happened so okay so we get to talk about it again cool um yeah oh I guess another thing you might you might wonder is okay this is logically is stronger than this but does it really matter later when we look at theorem two we'll have a good example theorem two like really requires this as an input so we'll see an interesting example of why you might want this. Okay. So, um let's talk about the balac summarity garish theorem. Um so I will tell you okay yeah I guess first I should tell you what is true in the non-commutive world which really looks pretty similar to this. Um, and then we'll actually remember the proof a little bit um to to see if we can get the proof to sink in a little bit deeper. So, I'm going to erase this and what I want us to remember is just that to finish theorem one, what we need is a good version of balag sum dows and plunker rouia in the non-commutive fold. All right. Um so theorem non-commutative balance over gallons. So it says if A is a subset of a group G um and the energy a A is at least K inverse A cubed. Um then there exists a subset a prime and a so that it's pretty big and um there are a few different things we could write but actually let me call this a tilda a tilda time a tilda inverse is not too Okay. So it looks very little different. Um, but let's take this opportunity to remember how the proof worked and see if we can get it to sink in a little bit more deeply. All right, so proof sketch. All right. So, remember that the energy AA is the sum over all of our group elements of R A of G squared where R A of G is the number of pairs A1 A2 squared. So that A1 A2 is G. That's the energy. Okay. So for the energy to be large, there must be a lot of group elements G where this is pretty large. We'll call those popular products. So um P the set of popular products this is the set of G where R A of G is greater than K to the minus something. times the size of a which so the size of a is the biggest it could be and so they're almost as big as it could be. So they're quite popular. Okay. Uh all right. So it's an exercise to see that if the energy is really big most of the energy actually comes from popular So energy aa is pretty much is yeah is more than half comes from so half of the energy of a is less than the sum over g and the popular products of ra a g. Okay. And so this is this is having popular products that's almost equivalent to having a line of energy. Those are basically the same thing. Um, all right. So then we'll do a little thought experiment. Suppose that every product was popular. Every product in the product set of A had the same number of representations. Well, that number of representations would have to be pretty large because there's a lot of energy. And that would tell us that A times A was small. Okay. Um, so then we would be done. and a tilda could just be a but that's not true because it's it's not true that the every every element can be written as a product in the same number of ways. Um so what we want to do we're hoping to find a subset a tilda so that all the products in a tilda a tilda time a tilda they all can be written uh as a product in lots of ways or something in that space. Okay. So now let's make the popular product to graph. So the vertices are G cross G. Here's a copy of G. Here's a copy of G. And um we put an edge from A to B. edge from a to b if um a * b is a popular product. Okay. And um right actually this is not a g by g graph. This is an a by a graph taking elements of our set and looking at their products. Okay. So not every pair is a popular product. They might not all be popular. Uh but there are by hypothesis because of there's a lot of energy. There's a lot of popular products. So the number of edges is at least there are lots of edges in this graph. Okay. Um so a tilda is going to be some subset o over here. And the good feature of a tilda is that for every a1 and a2 both in a tilda there are many edges there are many paths. So let me let me draw it. Um okay so let's say this is a1 and this is a2. And then we're going to think of paths of length four that go from A1 to A2. So there are many are more than something paths of length four that go from A1 to A2 in our graph. Okay. Um and how many? Well, the from a typical point there are about maybe one over k times a uh edges out. And so uh so we have you know a choices a choices a choices and then we have to go to a2. Okay. So there was a graph theory lema that we can choose a substantial set a tilda here that has all of these edges and that was the hardest part of the proof but it's exactly the same as before. It had nothing to do with anything being commutative. So I I just uh that part I won't repeat. So there was a lema that we can choose a tilda so that this is true. Um and a tilda is pretty big. Okay. Um cool. So, let's name everybody in the middle here. Um, name these. Let me actually rename these. I'll call these a a and a prime. And then we go over here to a1 to a2 to a3. So we know a a1 is popular. We know a2 * a1 is popular. We know a2 * a3 is popular and so on. And what this allows us to do is to write a over a prime in many different ways. Okay. So a over. Okay. I have to be careful because I'm in a non-commutive group. I think I want to write a let's call this a tilda a * a tilda inverse. So that's a * a1. And now I'll put a2 * a1 inverse. And now I'll put a2 * a3. And then I'll put a tilda * a3 inverse. So if we do this out. So this guy here is a1 inverse a2 inverse. You can see cancellation cancellation. And this guy here is a3 inverse a tilda inverse. Cancel that. So that's this equality. So not difficult. Um but we've written it in terms of four guys that are popular. So this um a2 * a1 is not just a2 * a1. It's a popular product. It can be written in many different ways. So a tilda a * a tilda inverse can be written as um z1 z2 inverse or maybe p1 p2 inverse p3 p4 inverse where pi are popular. Um and so um right okay and it and this can be done in many different ways and and the number of choices for the pi is at least uh a cubed. Okay. So the conclusion is that the size of a tilda time a tilda inverse is bounded by I'm going to choose four popular guys. So that's p to the 4th and then I I've overcounted because each person has now been represented a cubed different ways and ignoring some factors of k. And so that's a Okay. Okay. So, I remember the first time I taught it, I struggled a little bit with the intuition of this. Um the first thing you might hope to do is to choose a tilda so that every product in a tilda can be is popular. they all can be written in many ways just as a product of two things in a and then there are clearly not so many of those but I think it's not possible to do that it's not possible to choose a tilda where every one of these products is popular in that sense but by take by by by being a little bit more flexible we've chosen a tilda so that every quotient can be written in many ways um not just as a quotient of two things in a but many ways in this in this uh slightly more flexible framework. Okay. Any questions or comments? >> Yeah. >> So, why can't you get the same result for a * a if you just choose paths of length three? >> Yeah, I think you could get the same result for a * a if you choose paths of length three or a * b. Yeah. So, okay. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, I maybe was not transparent about um so the the thing with positive length three still still works. Um I think that might produce two different subsets. Um actually maybe in the commutive case I actually should have had two different subsets. Um at least initially um it works fine and the and the reason that I have a tilda* a tilda inverse the motivation for that is going to come in a moment and actually I'm going to try to argue that this is better than a * a And uh just a clarifying thing the way you stated it before the popular products here is the subset of a * a with a small projection right it was stated in terms of uh a subset having a um large projection then that leads to you can choose a subset of a such that the um subset is small. >> Yeah that's right. That's right. So in the projection theory version the this would be the small projection and there'd be some big piece of a cross a that that projects here. Yeah. Okay cool. Um so this is the non-commutative analog of bacity gow. It really looks a lot like bacity gus and this inverse is because we want it. We probably could we could also have had a tilda time b tilda if we want. Okay. Um the situation with Pluna Caruza is actually a little bit more complicated. So non-commutative All right. So let's ask a question. Suppose we have a is a subset of a group and a * a is small. Does it imply that a * a * a is small? So this would be that natural analog of plumus inequality. And the answer to this is no. Okay, here's the example. So let's say H contained in G is a subgroup and A is H union one other element which is not in the subgroup. Now what happens when I take A * A? A * A is H * H. That's good. plus or union h * g union g * h union g * g. Okay, there's nothing special about these, but because g is only one element, all of this stuff is small. So we can see that a * a is smaller than 1 2 3 smaller than 4 a probably 3 a. Okay. But now what happens when I take a * a * a? Okay. Now I have three factors. And so that concludes h * g * h. And in the non-commutative world, I cannot slide this over. And this is not so good. There's no reason for this to be small. And so the size of h * g * h is could be could well be the size of h squ. Okay, so that didn't work very well. Um what to do about it? There is a theorem that if a * a * a is small then a * a * a * a is small. Yeah. >> Does the time example that you show have an example in s of p? >> Yeah it does. Um so h could be any any subgroup say a burell subgroup and g is not in there. Yeah this will happen. So this this could happen in SL2F. Okay. Um so there is a theorem that if you assume that a product of three copies of A is small then the product of four copies of A is also small. Um but that theorem is not immediately useful to us because we don't have any input that a product of three things is small. Um okay there's another fix to this. Let's just suppose think about this example and how we might fix it. Um so this example has a lot of algebraic structure and this is the algebraically structured part and this is garbage. um and we need it would be helpful to separate a into the structured part and the garbage. So how might we do that? So let's let's look at um so this is the continuing in the example. Let's look at a * a inverse You could do a time. Anyway, this works a little bit better for a time a so what do we have? We have h * h actually. Yeah. So, so we will eventually look at a * a inverse. But um let's think about how we how we might separate this. So, so this set has different pieces and we can if we want to separate the algebraic part from the garbage. So, we'd like to find this part and distinguish it from that part, right? How are they different from each other? Well, let's think about how many representations there are for each product in this product set. Any product in here has many, many representations. And the products here have only one representation. So this guy here is the set of popular products. And actually that if once we identified it, the popular product set then is an actual subgroup. It has a lot of algebraic structure. Okay. So now let that motivate the following proposition which is an analog of plate. It says if um a * a inverse is less than or equal to k a so a inverse that means take each element of a and take its inverse. Um then okay and then if Q is the set of popular quotients so it's the set of g so that um r a a inverse of g is bigger than k to the something a then you can raise q to any power you like q let's say we do L times. So Q has a lot of algebraic structure and their proof has a similar idea of writing things in many different ways. Okay. So proof um Okay. Oh, actually I think it's a little bit tricky. I think it should be that. Okay. So the proof is let's look at a * Q * Q say I'll illustrate the proof in L= 4. Let's illustrate with L equ= 3. That'll give you the idea. Times A inverse. So somebody in here can be written as little a and now this is a popular quotient. So this is little a2 inverse little a3 and there are many choices and then actually let's illustrate with l equals 2 and then we have uh here we'll have little a4 inverse little a5 We have many choices here. How many choices? We have about a choices have about a choices and then at the end I'll do this A6 inverse A7 about eight traces and then A8 inverse. All right. So, so to say more better what I'm saying, suppose that I have an element of this set, then I can write the element this way. And so I can say that X belongs to um a A inverse. So x can be written as um all right okay so x can be written in in many different ways and for each way of writing it we'll notice that this guy lives in a a inverse that guy lives in a aa ina inverse and so on so can be written in around a cubed ways as b1 b2 b3 b4 where the b i are in a a inverse. Okay. So the size of this set this is bounded by the size of a a inverse to the fourth. So I get to choose these B's and now I've overounted because each for each X there are around a cub different choices of how I could write it / Aub and that is smaller than Um, okay. There's one thing I hid at the beginning. Um, let me do it properly and then pause and see what people think. So we were given a * a inverse is small and that implies that the energy of a a inverse is large. This is stronger than this. And now I'd like to switch these. And this is is actually the same as this. So even though I don't know a inverse time a is small, I do know that a inverse a has a lot of energy. And the reason I can switch them is if I have a1 a2 inverse equals a3 a4 inverse, that's a quadruple that's being counted in this energy. Uh let's just rearrange things a little bit. I divide by a3 a3 inverse a1 a2 inverse equals a4 inverse. Then I will multiply on the right by a2. So that's a quadruple that's being counted here. Yeah. >> Didn't you know that big inverse a has to be small because it's just the inverse of any element in a inverse or a a >> Oh. Um yeah, maybe that's true. Yeah, maybe I made this too complicated. So these are equal but you you claim that actually a inverse time a is a a * a inverse. So over here I have a1 a2 inverse. If I invert it if I invert that I get uh what's the inverse of this? Should invert this one. I don't think this quite works. >> So I didn't manage to switch the order when I did that. But I can switch the order when I look at the quadruple. Okay, good try. Okay, so so this is large. So therefore there are lots of popular quotients. So Q is large which is what we used here. Okay. So both both of these proofs have a following highle idea. Um there's a lot of energy around. So it frequently happens that you can write a product or a quotient in many different ways. And if you could arrange a set where every product could be written in many ways then you estimate you could get a clean estimate for the size of the product set. And um by uh playing around with the sort of products that that you consider and by some experience and craft and skill we we can get that to happen. Okay. So this is the analog of Plunka's inequality and the reason that it was sort of desirable to put a tilda a tilda inverse in bali gowers is that that thing is designed to fit into to this thing. Okay. So this Q is the approximate subgroup that we were that we were looking for which is the you know the conclusion of of of theorem one. Okay, so this finishes the discussion of theorem one as a pretty detailed proof sketch. Um, and it is a fair somewhat different setup that shows the significance of the idea of like balm garrison and plarusa and this cominatorial methods. Okay. So now in the 15 minutes that's left, I'd like to I'm going to try to say a little bit about the proof of theorem 2. Uh and the proof of theorem 2 it also connects um with um with themes of the of the class and especially with how some estimates are different in the case of a prime field or the case of a non-prime field. Okay. So let's have so let's do discussion of theorem too. All right, I'd like to put us in the following framework. We're going to look at SL2 of KAR where K bar is an algebraically closed field. Could imagine it's the the algebraic closure of FP. All right. And we're going to look at subgroups of SL2 and K bar. Um, okay. So here let's remember the some easy ones have a subgroup like this where a and a inverse are in this field. Um we have the burell subgroup. So that's a a inverse t and we have the unitary subgroup. So those are some subgroups. We can take uh conjugates of them actually. Let me come back to that. Okay. Yeah. So then we can do two general things. We can look at sub fields. So I can take SL2K where K contained in K bar is a sub field. Or you could take this any of these with a sub field. Those are subgroups. And you could take conjugates. conjugate any any subgroup you get another subgroup. Okay, so that is a bunch of subgroups that we can identify without too much trouble that sit inside of SL2 of K bar. Um, okay. And there is a theorem that says that this is not exactly but reasonably close to the to the full list. Um, okay. So Dixon in 1901 gave a full classification of these subgroups and it's a little bit messy. It includes a variety of finite subgroups in certain cases and so on. Um and his theorem implies that if H is an actual subgroup um then either um H is contained in a conjugate of SL2K where K is a sub field uh or most of H is contained in a conjugative. Okay. And if we know from the beginning that we're talking about a subgroup of SL2 of FP, a proper subgroup of SL2 FP, it eliminates the first case. So we must be in the second case. All right. but Dixon's methods are are some of them at least are not very robust. If you replace the hypothesis of being an actual subgroup by something like H* H is pretty small. Um, so here's a here's a common example of a technique that we use to classify subgroups that does not do very well if we replace it by approximate subgroups. example is there's a uh the order of the subgroup divides the order of the group. That's really useful in 18701. You want to classify the subgroups of some group with eight elements. Um but it is something like that is not going to survive an approximate subgroup in any useful way. Okay. Um so the the proof of theorem two is based on a rather different strategy for for this classification that's due to Larsson and pink. Um okay so um so let me say part A which is the Larson and pink strategy. All right. So we're going to think about how a subgroup inter intersects this these uh these subgroups. Uh so if you take SL2K and you intersect it with one of these, it will either be empty or it would just be identity or something like that or it will be a subgroup that's like t0 of K. Um okay. So we're going to study H intersected with T. T of K bar H intersected with B of K bar. H intersected with U of K bar. And we'll see the following behavior. The h intersected with t of k bar is roughly h to the 1/3 or big o of 1. So if I take sl2 fp and I intersect it with this I'll get t0 of fp there'll be about p of those which is about the cube root of the size of sl2fp. if I take some crazy Taurus in algebraic closure that it may not intersect this except at the identity. Um so so these these are the two things that could happen and then similarly with these Right? So they first proved that if you take an arbitrary group and you consider how it intersects these kind of fundamental algebraic subgroups that it behaves a lot like it were SL2 of a sub field and then building from this they were able to see that actually it it would have to be SL2 of a sub field. So that's their approach to the rough classification. Um yeah so this so this was a a cool paper um in pure group they they weren't interested in approximate subgroups they they were interested in pure group theory problem classifying subgroups of SLD of K or other other like le groups over finite fields. Um and the complete classification is clearly hard because any finite group embeds in a permutation group which embeds in SLD of FP. So all finite groups occur as subgroups of SLD of FP for sum D and sum P. Um and so it's so so it's it's not really plausible to give a complete classification or anyway it would be at least as hard as classifying finite groups to give a complete classification but they were able to classify um I think it's like subgroups of SLD of FP which have at least some size like P to the epsilon or epsilon* d or something like this the ones that are decently large um and uh and that was in you know around 2000s really is a hard thing Um, okay. But it also turns out that their method uh interacts well with just assuming that h * h * h * h is small. So here this whole argument works if we just assume that h * h * h * h * okay I may or may not have like two minutes to try to describe what they yeah how this part works significance of the algebraic closure like why if if we only care about subgroups of a sub2 to FP. What is the what what information are you gaining from intersecting with that? >> Yeah. So the question is why bring into play the algebraic closure >> also what is the algebraic closure of FP? >> And what is the algebraic closure of FP? Yeah. Um I am um right. Okay. you you do you do need this for the following reason that should that should be familiar to us even as analysts. Um so suppose you have a matrix in SL2R and you would like to diagonalize it. You'd like to look at its IGEN values or whatever. Well, you can't necessarily do that in SL2R um um because the IGEN values could be complex. So in order to diagonalize it, you might want to move to SL2C. And diagonalizing matrices is is useful because um you know you can you can classify matrices by their Jordan canonical form. And this is a convenient way to organize things. And that's the same thing that's going on here. >> But like the intersections look the same though, right? Like the intersection of if H is just a subgroup of SL2 K, then the intersection of T K bar is the same as the intersection of TK. >> Yeah, that's correct. That's correct. But um okay, so the comment the comment was that if if uh okay so what did this so um if h is in sl2 k then h intersected with t kn of k bar is the same thing as h intersected with t kn of k. Yeah. Okay. I think the problem with is that I I forgot to say something about what's written on the board here. This t is not t. Um the conjugates are really important. So t of k bar is a conjugate of t kn of k bar. >> Yeah. Are the kind of elements that are being diagonalized like just elements of SL2 or kind of bigger linear operators on SL2? >> Uh think if it's just SL2, you only need the degree two extensions. >> Yeah, that so the comment is that if we just want to diagonalize matrices in SL2 FP, we probably only need a degree 2 extension of FP, which which we might feel more comfortable with. Uh I think that's probably right. I think we could probably work with the degree two extension. Okay. Um All right. So the output of the Larsson pink argument is um after conjugating. Okay. So yeah. So first so first of all we can arrange that um our h intersected with some unitary guy is pretty big. And after conjugating we can arrange that this is you not k. So so h contains some guys like this where t is in sub subset that I'll call e and e is pretty big. okay and moreover this part is still should not expand too much when we take products. Um so here let's call let's call this thing sort of a unitary piece of h uh * uh also this isn't completely obvious but it's not that difficult. It shouldn't be that much bigger than uh H. And that tells us that E plus E shouldn't be that much bigger than E. Also, we should have this this U is in some B and H intersect B of K bar. Uh well, so we've we've already conjugated so that U is U not. So this is going to be b and this should be around um h to the 2/3. Okay. So uh and inside of there we'll have a t and h intersect that should be like h to the 1/3. So h intersect t k bar. Um that's going to be some guys that look like this. and these A's live in some set that I'll call F. Okay. So then if you think about how these matrices act on these matrices, um we should get so T0. So let's call this guy uh T the T part of H and U here. Wow. Okay. and um and and and and this thing here is the B part of H. Okay, so the B part of H times the B part of H should be not that much bigger than the B part of H. And if you unwind what that means, you multiply these you'll have things like a a inverse a T where a is an F, T is an E. So the conclusion is that E* F is also not that much bigger than E or F. So in other words once you have like a unipotent piece where you have have these guys then this multiplication operation just gives you addition of the numbers in here. So you have a like a simpler thing. And then once you have a bunch of upper triangular guys um then um uh um then this multiplication just gives you this matrix multiplication induces this regular multiplication and we have small products. Okay. So this is consistent with the pro possibility that E and F could both be just some sub field K or some approximate sub fields. But the sum product theorem says that FP has no approximate subfields. And so the subproduct theorem rules out the possibility that this could happen. So the conclusion is the sum product theorem that this can't happen. Yeah. Yeah. So, so what's on the board? Let me I I should add one thing. So, we're going to assume that H is not contained in a BL guy. Right? So this this whole thing would that that wouldn't be true for the burell subgroup. Um it's only true once we assume that our subgroup is not not contained in burell. And then we get this and that tells us that it has to look uh uh like the intersection sizes have to match SL2 of a sub field. And then if you look more carefully at what the matrices that appear in the intersections, you see that the entries there have to be kind of like a sub field. And then it becomes a question of whether there are approximate subfields. Okay, let me say it one more time and then we will break for the week. So the theorem says that if you have a subgroup which is not pretty much contained in a burell subgroup then it must be SL2 of a sub field. Okay. Uh so we take and and it's going to be true for honest subgroups but it's also true for approximate subgroups. So imagine we have an approximate subgroup. We're going to gradually prove that it has more and more properties of SL2 of a finite field. So the first property we will consider is uh how it intersects various algebraic subgroups of SL2 of KAR and the sizes of those intersections behave in a way that matches what you would expect from SL2 of a sub field. There's this there's a substantial thing to say about this proof that we we won't have time to do in this class. Um okay but once you know that um these subgroups are useful because the matrices in here are simpler than general 2x2 matrices. So the unitary subgroup has matrices that look like this. And when we multiply them you just add the upper right hand corner. And so now if you just look at these upper right hand corners you see that adding those numbers it doesn't change very much. That's a property of a sub field. So it's behaving like a sub field. and the upper diagonal matrices um you are the multiplication rule is only a little bit more complicated. It's a it's a pretty simple mix of multiplication and addition. So you could see you know that that that these diagonal entries they should be almost closed under multiplication and they interact with each other and and so you would get something like this. Anyway, all those things being consistent algebraically with being a sub field. >> Okay. Yeah. How did we use 2.5? >> Uh, where did we use 2.5? Yeah, that's a good question. Actually, I don't see where we used that here. um ah yeah we used that um here so so at the end we have to say E and F cannot be approximately a sub field so and that requires that they're significantly smaller than FP so if you take FP and you remove like two or three elements it is almost closed under addition and multiplication so that would be this could happen then if you were allowed to take a really large subset of FP a really large subset of sub 2 FP. Okay, cool. I apologize for going over. Thanks for your patience. Uh, have a good weekend and I will see you next week.