All right, we'll get started. Um, what I wanted to do today was to make sure we thoroughly cover the theory and application of regression modeling. And so um to begin there's a recap which is the theory for if we have linear regression and we have in particular a normal linear regression model. Then uh we have these properties of uh beta hat being distributed as a multi-normal random uh variable with mean the true regression parameter and coariance matrix given by the xrpose x inverse multiplied by sigma squared. And we also have that epsilon hat is a multinnormal distribution. It's actually not a full rank but it's in n dimensions with mean zero a zero vector. And the covariance matrix is sigma squar times the identity minus the hat matrix. And with these properties um we can show that they are independent random variables if we have the normal model assumption. So these are independent if the error vector is multinnormal. And with that um we're able to get an estimate of the error variance very easily from the residual vector. uh the sum of squares of the residual vector can be solved for having expectation equal to n minus p sigma^ 2 and that leads to dividing the sum of squared residuals by n minus p to get an unbiased estimate. Now what's interesting uh mathematically is that um because this estimate of the error variance depends on the residuals which are independent of beta hat. We can then use this information to construct tstistics for the le squares estimates. So we have uh t statistics for the j component of the le squares estimate. So beta hat subj minus beta j divided by sigma hat cj where cj is the uh jth diagonal entry of the variance inverse variance and actually this cj should be equal to the square root of xrpose x inverse subj. So there's a square root missing there. Um and this distribution under the normal linear model has or this test this formula has a t distribution. So this is distributed as a t distribution with n minus p degrees of freedom. Degrees of freedom equal to n minus p. And this is true if we plug in the true beta j. So normal or or centering our le squares estimate at beta j allows us to write that out. So if we look at our beta hat value and consider it around the true beta j, we basically have a t distribution for the outcome. And why this becomes very useful is that if we want to test the hypothesis that beta j is equal to zero then if this is zero um we can basically define a an interval around zero and consider rejecting the null hypothesis if our t hat with beta j equaling zero in magnitude is greater than some critical value say some constant c and um so so this t statistic is commonly applied uh in judging different regression models of particular interest is whether factors can be excluded from the regression. So if a beta j component is equal to zero that means we can just exclude the variable. Now interestingly if we want to test whether multiple beta js are equal to zero. A special case of that is just to say let's assume that the first k beta j's are non zero. We'll just assume that that's true. But let's test whether the beta js for j above k are equal to zero. And what we can do is calculate residuals under the two hypotheses. First assuming that they're all nonzero, we get an RSS1. But if we assume the submodel is true, we can get a second set of residuals. And because the full model is more um sort of it minimizes the sum of squares further, we can look at the difference in residual sum of squares. Normalize that by p minus k and compare that with the residual sum of squares under the full model divided by n minus p. So this is an estimate of sigma squared using the full model. This numerator is also an estimate of sigma squared based on the uh null hypothesis being true. Now um what's interesting to highlight is that the F test when K the number of non zero coefficients is P minus one then this F test corresponds to testing whether the P beta J is equal to zero. And so it turns out that um if we have t sorry t hat yeah p of beta uh of the true beta the beta with beta p equal to zero. um this squared is actually equal to this F statistic. Um I'm just going to there's a huge rumbling in the room right now and uh if anyone finds out that it's something serious we should be thinking about please let me know or let the whole class know. It sort of sounds like an earthquake. uh which which I experienced when I was at UC Berkeley. Um anyway, all right. Well, we'll I'll continue unless I get warnings from you all. Anyway, it turns out that this T squared statistic is actually equal to the F test formalized here. So, F tests um are very useful in special cases. They're equivalent to uh the square of a t a t test statistic. Now let's see with um the notes from last time we went through these um we uh highlighted how um with generalized le squares this is another key takeaway in regression modeling. So, so generalized le squares with generalized le squares we have an error vector which is not uh a a diagonal identity time sigma squared but it's some base matrix sigma times little sigma squared And with this setup, we can actually transform this regression model into one which satisfies our Gaus Marov assumptions. And then so with xstar and yar being the model equation multiplied by the inverse square root of sigma then this model satisfies the gaus markov assumptions zero mean constant variance and so this estimator uh with the x stars and y stars but the same beta gives us our best estimate of the beta a hat best in terms of minimum being unbiased and having smallest variance. Okay. Well, uh, a next important aspect of regression model modeling is looking at maximum likelihood estimation, MLE. And for maximum likelihood estimation we use the probability model of the regression which in this case is normal linear regression models. So if we have normal normal epsilon vector um then we compute the density of our data y given the explanatory variables in x and the beta uh regression parameter uh beta that should be a beta there and uh we simply identify by those parameter values that maximize this probability. So we're looking at the parameter values that make the data we observed the most likely and intuitively that's may be a reasonable thing. If you take mathematical statistics next term, you'll learn that that in fact is an optimal estimator in terms of having smallest variance in large samples as large as the sample size the number of cases n increases uh this will lead to the best estimator and this MLE for the best or the the best estimator being the MLE will be true for different distributions as well. We're going to show what it is for the Gaussian distribution. And what we can see on this slide is that the log of the likelihood is the log of this density on the top line. It can be equal to minus n /2 log sigma^ 2 minus a half sigma^ 2 q of beta where q of beta is our le squares criterion. So maximum likelihood estimation for normal linear regression models can proceed in two steps. First we can see that the beta regression coefficient enters in only through a factor of Q of beta. So minimizing Q of beta gives us the MLE for beta. And then once we have the MLE for beta, we can plug that into the likelihood, the log likelihood or the likelihood um for varying sigma squared. And when we do this, we actually can just maximize this uh sort of partial likelihood with beta fixed at beta hat. maximize that over sigma squared. And that turns out to be a very easy computation calculating the first order equation for the uh log likelihood and we get the maximum likelihood estimate is simply the sum of squared residuals divided by n. Now with maximum likelihood in this case we have actually a biased estimate of this error variance and um it's important just to to note that that's the case. All right. Um well what's interesting to generalize is to find estimators which minimize a Q function which may be different from least squares or sum of squares. And so we can consider a Q function which minimizes the sum of a function H evaluated at case I. So let's see here this down. So so with with generalized With generalized M estimators, we think of Q of beta being the sum one to N of H of Yi the Xi beta and sigma squared I guess. Um and the choice of H. Well, if we choose h to just be the square of the linear estimate of y given x i that's le squares. There's no reason in principle why we should use squares. We could use absolute deviations and sum those. And if we wanted maximum likelihood estimates, we could choose H to be minus the log of the density. And there are robust estimators in statistics. And these uh robust estimators uh con consider variations basically of lease squares and mean absolute deviations um as special cases that yield estimators that are robust. Now what's to me very interesting is that if we were to know what the density is of the errors then maximum likelihood estimation would say use that. When we don't know the distribution then these others may be very useful as alternatives and robust estimators um were originally proposed for models where we may have a normal distribution most of the time but some contamination distribution with large errors uh a small percentage of the time. Now um and another interesting example of this generalized M estimator is the quantile estimator where we consider sort of mean absolute deviation but we scale that for positive residuals by a factor tow and for negative values of the residual ual we scale the absolute deviation by 1 minus toao. This uh h function uh basically is equivalent to the uh mean absolute deviation when tao is equal to 0.5. But when tow um is uh if we have h let's see so h of yx when this is equal to um to yi minus x i beta um when this is positive and it's equal to 1 minus toao when this is actually it's equal to uh minus this when this is less than zero. Then for example when TOAO is equal to 0.9 this turns out to be um a a quantile estimate that is try working to estimate the 90th sort of percentile of outcomes. So when we have a regression model and we are sort of um it just if we have a bunch of points and we consider a linear regression model this would be you know y uh equal to or y hat equal to sort of the mean absolute deviation estimate. um we actually can get estimates of the 90th percentile of outcomes of the uh regression model. Now um what's interesting mathematically is um how how would one calculate sort of the mean absolute deviation estimate or this quantile estimator? Well, we would want to minimize the sum of these h functions. And these h functions actually are convex. So, um, as James Shepard said, you know, this is like a bowl-shaped problem, but it's a bowl with sort of square or with with straight edges around around it. And so if we take this Q function with this H um we can't minimize it by solving the first order equations. So um if we have q equal to the sum 1 to n of h of the arguments we can't solve this uh we can't solve for this equaling zero but we can solve for what the derivative is at any guesses and we can move our guess to a lower value of the q function. uh with that and that's in fact how we learn that the median of a sample is the best estimate of the center of the data if we consider mean absolute deviations. Okay. Well, let's um consider another extension of uh regression. uh it's famous enough to have its own name ridge regression. And so with ridge regression we are estimating the regression parameters where we have um basically it's sort of le squares plus a penalty for our criterion. So the left argument of this uh expression is simply the sum of squared residuals. But then we're adding to that a penalty depending upon the squared length of the beta vector. And so in order for this to be a reasonable thing to do um we actually need to or it's we don't need to but it's useful to consider standardizing our independent variables X making them have mean zero and also centering y. Um, and then consider the regression where we rescale the columns of the predictor matrix as centered with the inverse of the coariance matrix between those. So in this formulation this is the uh uh the statement of uh how the ridge regression parameter estimate is specified. Now the centering of the independent variables and scaling them to have unit variance is important because it places all of the variables all of the predictor variables on an equal footing. If we are looking at the sum of squared beta js then if we just use different units we could make any j beta beta j as large as we want. Um but with this uh standardization uh we basically eliminate uh that aspect. So there's no dependence on the original units of X. And let's see with this ridge regression. The notes go through how we compute these. Um I want to uh highlight though how this ridge regression is actually related to basian models where we would assume a prior distribution on our regression parameters. And so the uh the if we consider a B prior on beta and that B prior is uh basically multi-normal in P dimensions with a mean vector of zero. and a covariance matrix that is um let's see I'll call it omega and omega is proportional to the identity matrix with in p dimensions then what we've done is we have a criterion that corresponds to the exponential part of the log likelihood for plus the log likelihood of the prior density. So, so this ridge regression is is interpretable as putting a ba a prior distribution on the betas that have this form mean zero and co-variance proportional to the identity matrix and what that suggests op priori is that sort of any direction in that pd- dimensional space is equally likely as any other for characterizing the regression parameters and this beta hat which minimizes this argument ends up being the mode of the posterior distribution. So that's a neat connection uh to be aware of. Um the notes here go through with ridge regression how we compute them. Um the minimization basically leads to formulas for the ridge regression estimate that look almost like le squares except we have this additional factor lambda times the identity inside that braces before we take the inverse. And with ridge regression, we can look at the singular value decomposition of our independent variables that have been centered and standardized. And when we do that um we basically have these this final formula for the ridge regression. Um and uh we end up basically having the fitted values y hat just being equal to a sum of factors times cj uj where these factors are one when lambda is zero. So when lambda is zero least ridge is equal to le squares and so the least squares fitted values are given here but with ridge regression we have shrinkage and what's curious is that there's less shrinkage for the larger squared singular values and there's more shrinkage for the smaller ones. So if we think of the independent variables or predictor variables being in pd- dimensional space then ridge regression will not shrink much those regression coefficients that are correspond to regressor variables that are along sort of the first principal component axis. is and there's much more shrinkage in those dimensions where there is very little variation. So, so these are actually connected to principal components variables which is actually covered sort of in the next uh section. Um so you know it was we introduced ridge regression using the singular value decomposition of x but um we can motivate principal components regression using the same singular value decomposition. So with our data predictor matrix X um we consider the sample covariance matrix of those row vectors um and we can compute the igen value IGEN vector decomposition of that and with these IGEN vectors which are normalized to have length one. We simply multiply our matrix X by the J igen vector and we get our J principal component variable. So this is familiar to us in terms of how principal components sort of manipul uh computations work. And with principal components regression, one has principal component variables which are orthogonal to each other. And so the computation of their coefficients is very simple. We can calculate them separately and we can consider using maybe just the first m principal component variables in our regression. And so if we do this um we can see some easy formulas for the estimates. Um ultimately uh we get fitted values of y from principal components regression which are a projection of the y vector onto the space spanned by the first in this case the first uh m uh principal component directions. what's curious is just how these three methods le squares ridge and principal components regression are estimating the uh response variable or dependent variable using essentially the same fundamental pieces the CJ and U.js J's but are um either sort of skipping the last P minus M for principal components shrinking those based on the size of the igen values for ridge or using all of them. Now uh as you might expect um researchers have extended u estimation methods uh beyond these. Uh the lasso regression model uh or regression estimate is one where instead of having the uh penalty be the sum of squared beta js or the length of the beta j. It's the sum of the absolute values. Um and this penalty is a really interesting one. Um, and some of let's say I'm sure some people here have perhaps used lasso regression. Has anyone here used lasso regression? Nobody. That's fine. That means this isn't a sort of repeat information. But um it turns out that um well let me just draw this uh suppose we have beta 1 versus beta 2 and we're considering penalties. Um so the sum of the beta j squares equal to a constant. This is the sort of ridge penalty. So um and so if uh if we have a beta hat say a beta hat here point that we observe um it basically is sort of shrunk towards zero or we have beta hat and the beta hat ridge will be shrunk towards this sort of prior mean some amount. With the uh lasso penalty, we have the sum of the magnitudes of the beta js is equal to a constant. Then we basically have sort of diamonds where along each of these diamond edges the penalty is the same magnitude. And so with lasso regression, we basically consider finding an estimate that is minimizes the least squares but also is constrained uh to have sort of sum of absolute magnitudes that's smaller. And so this kind of uh penalty ends up actually leading to uh sort of shrinkage which tends to concentrate at the vertices of this uh penalty function. So um so what we end up getting often is a lasso estimate that has some null parameters zero valued parameters. So, it's a way of excluding variables from the regression depending on what lambda is. All right. Um, well, let's see. There's this uh ETF case study that I posted um which it's sort of a long document to sift through but I guess what's important is just to look at the table of contents to see what's of interest to check out in this. And um what I set up as a problem was to consider collecting uh prices on exchange traded funds that correspond to different sectors in the US market. And so in the US market there are about 10 sectors consumer staples, energy, financials, health and so forth. And then um there are also um exchangeraded funds that correspond to market indexes like the S&P 500 or the Dow Jones Industrial or the NASDAQ market. And uh I consider regressing a sector ETF on the index ETFs. Now, why would we be interested in regressing a sector index on these um market index ETFs? Well, let me just uh go through here, okay? or this this document goes through listing the symbols for all of these different ETFs, plotting them and actually then converting the prices to weekly returns and then looking at how they're correlated with each other. So in this example, I believe it was the uh consumer staples sector fund that I'm thinking of regressing on the SPY which corresponds to the S&P 500, MDY, which is a midcap U index, QQQ and the diamonds. And if we look at these sort of cumulative returns of these different ETFs, you know, here's the cumulative return over AI don't know 14-year period or something. Um, well, any other any any any more thoughts on why we might want to regress this on these indexes? AJ >> the index return should be the entire variant should be explained by their sectors like assuming not everything you generates is contained within market index they should explain perfectly >> right okay so that's looking at almost the other way around if we were looking at the ex index ETF as a function of the sectors we should have almost a perfect explanation of that in a regression model. What can be useful with this regression is if we wanted to invest in consumer staples but we wanted to have our investment be hedged against the sort of market risk that is um large. And uh and so if if we could eliminate the dependence on the S&P 500, eliminate the dependence on the midcap and the QQQs, then our sort of hedged investment, we'd be less concerned about major drops in the market. So we'd be reducing the market risk. So this is where it can it can be very useful. Now this kind of approach has also been used to try and mimic uh hedge fund strategies. And so there's uh some papers out there on hedge fund replication where hedge funds basically may be have most of their returns attributable to um liquid market instruments that one can trade um in a portfolio. And so uh hedge fund replication methods have actually done that kind of regression as well. Anyway, with this um with this uh setup, we can just regress this XLP on the index ETFs and we get this regression coefficient table here. Um what's important to see is whether the regression coefficients are significantly different from zero or not. And the t value and p value columns basically tell us that that all of these uh explanatory factors are are useful here. And let's see when we um when we study uh the uh let's see when we study uh the regression model okay we have the R squared of this multiple regression the correlation of the fitted and actual values is given by uh or the square of that is given by the R squared And we can do various regression diagnostics which are used here. What I'll let you go through these details. Uh this a bit repetitive from what we talked about in the last lecture. But um let's see we can also model the uh independent variables um or do a principal components analysis of those. And if we compute a principal component analysis of our independent variables in this case the index sector uh exchange traded funds. We then have a sort of decomposition of variability um which indicates that the first principal component variable explains 90% of the variability in these data. the first two 97%. So we're actually explaining a lot of variability with just the first two. Now um in looking at the regression on the PC variables um let's see we can consider well each of these PC variables principal component variables are orthogonal to each other. So in estimating the regression coefficients, we can do so with simple linear regressions of the ETF uh fund um y on that on each variable. And so the first principal component variable has an R squar of 0.545. Um and the second principal component variable has almost no correlation. And so it's um while it's almost none, its p value is still 0.0518, which is almost statistically significant. With very large samples, we're able to judge small correlations as being statistically significant, but maybe it's not practically significant. And then the third has um a small R squar as well. And the fourth again rather small but what's um what's of interest um is whether the uh or basically just how statistically significant are the principal component variables. And in this sort of updated example, um the uh let's see here. Well, if we consider the regression parameter based on only the first three variables, um we basically get these results. Now, when I did this um a few years ago, it ended up being the case that the uh p values for I think it was the second principal component variable was not significant at all. And so in choosing to um in in choosing what factors to include in the model, the principal components regression approach of basically including successive high uh en value principal component variables in uh successively so long as they're significant. um that actually uh sort of doesn't doesn't include really necessarily the important regressors in in the model. So we can have statistically significant high order principal component variables that don't have much variability in them but they actually are explaining uh significant uh factors affecting the response variable. So anyway, this uh this note goes through and uh in additionally uh considers ridge regression and less so regression. And so with the ridge regression uh results, the display of regression parameters um is traced out as we consider different constraints on the uh L1 or on the well on the L2 norm. Um and uh if we look at the L1 norm of these estimates, one can see basically how as one sort of decreases the penalty for the complexity of the regression parameters, we get final estimates given by these ending values. But if we increase the penalty on those then they basically are shrinking towards zero uh although the shrinkage isn't necessarily in a monotone manner. And then if we look at the lasso regression with a same L1 norm sort of scaling, one can see how as that lambda parameter associated with the penalty is increased um we basically have the L1 norm getting smaller of the resulting estimates. And this shows you how I guess the third variable is the first to be excluded. Uh then the second and then uh finally uh the fourth. So um all right. So, so anyway, so this note goes through an illustration of lesso and principal components regression and it also provided a comparison of different coefficients by method. And what this uh final sort of chart shows is the comparison of beta estimates by method. And one can see that most of the methods give similar results but using just the first three principal component variables gives us a very different estimates of regression parameters. So um the uh so there's sensitivity of the estimators um to the data and it's perhaps useful to um let's see well it's useful to consider these alternatives with very large sample sizes you generally don't get much difference in the ridge or the less cell results. It's usually in smaller sample sizes that that you get differences. Um with the principal components regression, um in this example, the first three principal component variables um end up giving estimates that are in the yellow. But if we chose which principal component variables to include based on their statistical significance, then the uh the more significant uh principal component variables ended up u leading to this green values which are comparable to the others. So, so this suggests that um well actually in this case the the green values are equal to le squares um just because all the principal component variables were statistically significant. All right. Um well the next uh thing I wanted to go through um is this linear regression modeling for the capital asset pricing model. And in this note, um, we first review what the capital asset pricing model is, how it relates to, uh, returns on stocks and returns on a market index. And what we're going to do is go through the computation computations involved with an empirical analysis of this capital asset pricing model. and then consider testing hypotheses about individual uh coefficients and then conclude with actually fitting this capital asset pricing model to all stocks in the S&P 500 index and comparing the results of the capital asset pricing model parameters for that. So with this we begin with basically a description of what the capital asset pricing model is. We went through this I think in our third lecture which says that in an efficient market the expected return of a stock asset J should equal the risk-free return plus a beta factor times the excess return of the market. And so beta j is the uh sort of the the market risk factor. Um and the excess return of the market portfolio is simply how much bigger that market return is compared with the risk-free rate. Now with this with these parameters, if we have data consisting of empirical returns R for stocks J at different times T, different values over T of the risk-free rate, and we consider the excess return of each asset and the excess return of the market. Then this data can be used to specify a linear regression model where we have an intercept alpha j and a slope beta j for the regression. So, so we're looking here at RAR market and this is R* J. And we'll plot values over time T of these excess returns. And we can basically fit a regression model where we have y hat or rstar jt is equal to alpha j + beta j r star mt. And if the capital asset pricing model holds then the alpha js should be zero because the alpha js if we take the expectation in this equation with residuals that are mean zero constant variance then um we get the capital asset pricing model equation. when the alpha j is equal to zero. Um so what we can do with real data is fit this model and then test whether alpha j is zero or not. And if if it is consistent with a zero value then the pricing of the asset can be judged to be sort of in an equilibrium um described by the capital asset pricing model. Um, and so let's take a look. I think what's perhaps useful is just to see the code for doing these computations that's included uh in the note here. But if we pick a particular stock GE stock and fit the regression model, um we basically in this code the only thing we need to do is specify the symbol for the stock and then extract from our data object the uh excess uh market return and the excess asset return and then fit that regression and we get this coefficients table here. Now in this example, the intercept coefficient is the estimate of alpha. And if GE is being priced consistent with the capital asset pricing model, then that estimate should be consistent with the null value. And the p value for testing whether that intercept is zero or not gives us evidence supporting the capital asset pricing model. Now the market the excess return of the market has an estimate that's about one with some standard error. It has a huge t value and a huge p value. Those values being large or a huge t value and very small p value are not surprising at all just because they're correlated and a zero value for the slope is sort of meaningless here. What could be useful is testing whether our beta coefficient is consistent with sort of the average market risk of beta equal to one or not. Um but here's uh basically a plot of the linear regression model for GE and a discussion just of getting comfortable with R squared values and calibrating our views of scatter plots to those values. Um and then there's residuals analysis that is very important as I introduced at the beginning of our regression study. Um we make assumptions about our model and we then once we fit the model we check our assumptions to see whether those are satisfied or not. And in this case, um, we might assume that the residuals are normally distributed. And here's a histogram of the residuals from this GE uh, regression. And there actually are two bell-shaped curves here. There's one that's in green that corresponds to the maximum likelihood estimate of the mean and variance of that normal. Um, but there's also a blue curve which corresponds to a robust estimator of the normal distribution parameters. So, and we just talked a bit about normal linear regressions and there being optimal. Well, they're optimal so long as the normal distribution is applied and one can calculate what's called a QQ plot of the residuals where the theoretical distribution is normal. We can think of ordered samples of normals from smallest to largest and pair those with our ordered residuals from smallest to largest. And this plot will look like a straight line if the residuals are Gaussian. And the green line corresponds to the MLE fit of the Gaussian basically. the slope will equal the standard deviation of the distribution and the median roughly will correspond to the mean value. Um but what we have is uh a robust estimate of the standard deviation of the residuals um gives us this blue line and the robust estimate of the residual variance is based on the interquartile range of the residuals. So the middle 50% you know what kind of standard deviation would match the middle 50% range of the residuals. And uh there's an argument that um this robust estimate might in fact be better. And another way of evaluating the residuals is to compute fitted percentiles under the residual model. So if we observe an epsilon hat with mean mu hat and standard deviation sigma hat, we can do the probab the inverse of the probability integral transform and get the percentile of that outcome. And so uh it turns out that these percentiles should be uniformly distributed from like 1 to 99. um if the if this normal model is correct and so we can actually consider different estimates of sigma hat from robust to uh MLE and with the MLE here's the histogram of the uh fitted percentiles it's basically underestimating that are close to the mean or the median. And um and so it really isn't fitting the residuals very well across the whole range. And if instead we consider fitted percentiles from the robust estimate of the variance, then the residuals fitted the fitted percentiles of the residuals is consistent with uniform in the middle of the data except in the top 1% and the bottom 1%. So it's very possible that our data has a non-normal uh residual distribution or error distribution. Um and perhaps that non-normal distribution could be well modeled with uh a mixture model. Now um okay, there's regression diagnostics which I'll let you read through. Um, and then there's this section on testing hypotheses about individual model coefficients. Let's see. If you have this on your computer, you can probably see it a little better than seeing this this screen here. But with the normal or with our uh testing of individual coefficients um we basically use the fact that our le squares estimator is multivariant normal with mean equal to the true beta vector and covariance matrix given here. So, so we can make various tests uh of different regression parameters. So, we have the t statistics for testing whether a parameter value is zero or not and use the t distribution to judge how statistically significant that is. In our capital asset pricing model case, we actually are interested in testing whether the alphas are zero or not. And um one could also consider testing for whether the beta factor is equal to one or not. One for the beta is actually what the average beta is across all stocks in the market. And so one can consider judging whether var whether assets sort of have significantly high risk high betas or low betas. uh using a test of whether the uh estimated regression coefficient is significantly different from one or not. And so um with this I've basically uh computed this for GE and it turns out that um I guess the t stat for uh GE which corresponds to a beta of 1.083. That's fairly close to one in terms of absolute magnitude but it's actually a bit it's statistically significant according to the arguments given here. Now um there are uh many packages in R but one of them is the car package which allows one to conduct tests of linear hypotheses like these. And so it goes through and performs the same kinds of tests for whether the intercept is zero or not. And in implementing these hypothesis tests, this car package uses the sort of F test approach. So one has results that give us different residual sum of squares and F statistics um and P values for the F statistics corresponding to these. Now um let's see with let's see before showing the results for all the stocks in the S&P 500 there's another note um on regression analysis hypothesis testing and what's interesting to think about is we can consider testing whether a submodel, a model with out as many factors in it is suitable. But one can also test for whether there's a change in model parameters with a regime. So that maybe there's an initial period with a given set of model parameters and then a regime shift following that where the parameter values have changed. And so the mathematical theory for this is covered in section three and one can consider testing with the capital asset pricing model maybe whether there's a change in regression parameters over over our entire period. And so what I want to just uh go to is the results. Actually the linear algebra for these uh hypothesis testing methods um is very straightforward and I encourage you to read through these just to see how they play out. Um but um let's see what's interesting I guess is with this change between two periods if we consider sort of an original regression model y = x beta plus epsilon for a very long period. um we might consider splitting it up into the first part period A and the second part period B and have two equations for the respective sets of data. And in thinking about the two periods, um, we basically can test whether the regression parameters for the second period are the same as the regression parameters for the first period. And we can write out the model equations uh with appropriate matrices. And then uh we basically have an F test statistic for seeing whether these regression parameters um are different or not. And one can also instead of considering separate parameters for each period, one can consider a beta value here for the entire period. and then use that beta value together with the change in parameter values in period B from period A. And so one can set up the regression model where one is interested in whether this change parameter delta is equal to zero or not. And so mathematically we get f test from that. Now with the um GE stock I subjectively chose this period split for A from B. If we look at the cumulative sum of uh standardized residuals from the regression model, then we basically have residuals that are consistently negative accumulating to a lower value around 2019 and then later expanding beyond that. So this sort of time series of cumulated residuals sort of highlights that there's strong time dependence in the residuals. Um but if we fit the regression models to these uh separate regression models to these two periods, we end up getting highly significant results for the change in the two periods. There's basically an intercept which is the alpha which changes from negative to positive and the market risk uh basically changes um from 77 3 beta uh in the uh first period to 773 plus 3537 in the second period. So these capital asset pricing models are not expected perhaps to hold over really really long periods of time and if we wanted to uh apply them we'd likely sort of choose a rolling window approach perhaps which then leads to questions of how do we decide on what rolling window is appropriate opens up other issues to study. So um anyway, so with with that background for hypothesis testing, let's go back to the uh fitting the capital asset pricing model to all stocks in the S&P 500. Um let's see the code here basically fits this capital asset pricing model regression for um all the stocks that have data going back several years. So there were I think around 380 or 400 stocks and they're grouped by sector and we can see how the R squares of the regressions vary from 0 to one. Um they typically are above 02. So there's some reasonable uh R squar relationships that are being explained. Um and if we look at the alphas by sector, um here's sort of parallel box plots of the alphas, the alpha estimates within each of the sectors. And so this highlights how uh some let's see some sectors like uh I guess construction sort of had positive alphas as did computer technology. let's see the conglomerates uh tended to have negative alphas there. And we can calculate uh the p values for testing whether the alphas are consistent with zero or not. And this graph here shows how the p values for almost all the stocks exceed the p value threshold of 0.05. So if we can't reject the null hypothesis of alpha equaling zero, the p value is above 0.05. And one can see that there's basically sort of a handful or a couple of handful of stocks that have a significant alpha. And if we use a 5% threshold, well, we'd expect 5% of the results to be statistically significant when there's no statistical significance. And so maybe these in fact are consistent with um the capital asset pricing model pretty well. Now um let's see one can plot um the alpha versus the beta across all the stocks and get this result um which suggests that when you have higher beta you may get higher alpha as well. Um and when you have very low beta, maybe the low beta is partly due to a lower alpha potential. Um but this chart doesn't show how alpha varies by sector. And so if we try to look at alpha by sector, we get sort of different fits for different sectors, which is too complex really to interpret as graphed here. But um it sort of as a first step at trying to understand how alphas might vary within different sectors. Um perhaps interestingly, here's the beta coefficient. by sector. And here one can see that certain sectors like consumer staples have much lower beta values and other sectors like computer and technology have very high betas. So in terms of identifying those sectors that will have low market risk or high market risk, these these uh properties, you know, play out quite well. And let's see in terms of looking at the top and bottom stocks by beta. Um well we have consumer discretionary computer technology sector stocks are the have are the sectors where the top 10 betas are. And if we look at the lowest betas ranging from 37 down to 0.18, most of these are in consumer staples. Finally, if we look at the top 10 stocks with significant alphas, okay, here is the table of alpha values that were highest and one was in oils and energy sector ENPH U with the alpha value of 0.003. Let's see here's so if we have an alpha value of 0.003 03 it's actually that's it to three whatever I won't have the extra but but this is a daily alpha um if we wanted to annualize this daily alpha what would that annual how would we compute that annualized alpha If you're earning this alpha every day, it sort of is an increment of return that you're expecting to get every day. And so if we have 1 + alpha hat to the number of days there's roughly 252 days per year um and then subtract one then we end up getting let's see I computed this it's it's uh 2.12 two minus one basically. So this is like a 100%. So this stock happened to just deliver huge amount of returns. Um but um what's interesting to see though is that this relatively simple model the capital asset pricing model appears to be consistent with the stocks over a long period of time. That being said, um you know the uh more complex models are um warranted and um the data collection phase of this our project um included importing FMA French factors that are extensions of sort of the market risk that can be used in these models. So,