Okay. So let me first remind you uh about so we we'll be looking so last time then we were looking at we had a sequence of functions uh on a interval I uh and we have a function f on that same interval. And then we talked about two notions of convergence. Uh one is was the pointwise convergence. So this meant that so we say that this sequence converts to f pointwise if for all x fixed you're looking at the sequence fn of x right so x is fixed and that this here converts to f ofx right so that was the pointwise convergence And the second uh convergence that we talked about was a uniform convergence. So this is two uniform convergence, right? And so we say that this sequence here converts to F uniformly. if um for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a n so that if you're further out then n then the difference between fn of x and f ofx is smaller than epsilon and this here has to hold for all uh X right and so again uniform uniform uh refers to that is that is for all for all x right so it's uniform in x okay and and so there was one example that was particular illuminating uh and that was that we took so if I here was the interval from 0 to 1. And if we're looking at the function f(n) of x that was just x ^ n and f of x is then the function that is uh that is zero uh unless zero if x here is between zero and strictly less than one and one uh if x is equal to one. Right? And so the picture was that um right so the picture was that so that you have this sequence here they are defined on the interval from zero to one they all end up at one and then as as n go as n become larger and larger these functions become more and more steep towards one right like that Right? And so then we had that this sequence fn converts to f pointwise because if you fixed x then really these values here converge either to if you know if x is not equal to one then as n become large uh they converge to zero. If n is one then the fn of one is that's always one right. So, so it's clear that it's converging pointwise, but but um but fn does not converge does not not converge to f uniformly, right? And the reason why it didn't converge uniformly was that we saw that for each if we by the intermediate value theorem if we were looking at a half here then for each of the function there would be an xn so that the value at xn was one right and so was a half sorry the right so you you define x xn so that the value of this is a half. But now if you're looking at f of x minus f of um of xn like that. And if this here sorry is n then this here this difference here is is is is actually just a half. Right? And this difference here should be small. If n was sufficiently large, it should be small for all x. But it's not there. We used one particular x to show that it wasn't right. Okay. Um that was just a quick uh review of some of the things we talked about last time. Now let's get to a theorem. And so maybe also one more thing about this example is that you see that these functions here these functions fn they are all continuous right but the limit is not continuous right so pointwise so note that uh so note that pointwise convergence Um is not enough to guarantee that limits of continuous functions uh um that that the limit of continuous function is continuous. Right? Okay. So that's what this example illustrates. So now instead we have the following theorem that so we have this interval and we have a sequence fn and we have f all defined on this interval and if we assume that uh that all of these that these fns are uh continuous and B. We assume that the convergence here the convergence of FN to to F is uniform. Then the claim is that then then uh f here is also continuous. I'm okay. So let's try to prove that right. So so point mass convergence is not enough to guarantee that the limit is continuous. Uniform convergence is enough. Uh now uh let's see. So let's prove that. So uh given given epsilon gradient zero uh there exist there exist uh capital n such that if little n is bigger equal to capital n then fn of x minus f ofx is smaller than uh epsilon over three for all x. Right? This is just this just follows from that the sequence converts uniformly. Right? So this is the first thing and the second thing is so so this was was since fn converts to f uniformly. The second thing is that's that. So now we have a n this here holds for all little n bigger equal to capital n but in particular it holds for capital n. So now since f capital n is continuous so this is a fixed function. Now uh then then given then for any for any fixed X0 we have that uh we have that there exist uh delta greater than zero such that if x - x0 is smaller than delta then uh this function the value at these two points points differ at most. So this is for the fn. Um the value at these two points differ at most by um epsilon over. Right? So again, so we have a sequence fn f little n that converts uniformly to some f. We want to prove that this f is continuous. So we just need to prove that for each x0 fixed it's continuous at x0 right first I'm using that the sequence is converging uniformly so given this epsilon there exist this capital n so that if you're further out then you have this I'm not even going to use the part that is further out I'm just going to pick this capital n right and so then I'm using that this f capital n is continuous and it's continuous at x0. So I have this right and so now we need to estimate we now need to estimate the difference right so what we really interested is in f but the f capital n that's going to help us estimate the difference between these two numbers and so these two numbers so x here x was this x0 was this fixed point that we want to show that that f is continuous uh at that point and the delta well the delta came from f capital n. So we're looking at this x this close where the delta was given by f capital n and now we have we use the triangle inequality. So this difference here is so you may as well think about this one here and you could compare it with the value at the same point. So I'm just writing down I'm writing this difference down as a sum of things. So and then afterwards I use the triangle inequality. So here minus f capital n of x0 and then I'm adding back this here again f capital n of x0 and I'm comparing this with f of x0 right so you see that here this is really the same because here I'm subtracting this thing that I didn't have but I'm adding it back subtracting this thing that I didn't have but I'm adding it back so I'm just left with those two things which is that And so now we use the triangle inequality that this is now bounded by f ofx minus f n of x plus f n of x minus f capital n of x0 like that plus and then f capital n of x0 minus f of x0 with absolute value sign like that. Now this thing here is smaller than epsilon over three and that came from that it's at this evaluated at the same point and the convergence was uniform. So it really was the first part here right so that is less than epsilon over 3. This one here comes from that the difference between x and x0 is is less than delta and that this function fn was continuous at uh x0. So this is another epsilon over delta. This is this second part here. And then the last here is again the same that gave us this bound namely that the convergence was uniform and is evaluated at the same point. So you have that right and so what we've proven here is that so for this given x0 if the difference between x and x0 is less than delta then the difference in the images is less than epsilon. So this means that the function f is continuous at x0 um and x0 was was was arbitrary. Okay. Now um now the first application of this is that suppose you take suppose you're looking at the following example uh uh x n of x is the sum here from k = z to n of x k over k factorial. Suppose you're looking at xn like this. Then uh then the xn here of x uh they are all are all continuous right? They are sum of polinomials you know they're just a polinomial actually the sum of of um of of of of what's called homogeneous polinomial but they are themselves polomial so they are all continuous um and via stress M test so and by v stress M test that we proved last time by a bias M test the convergence here to E where E here is the exponential function. So it's this power series sum from uh k = 0 to infinity of x to the power k over k factorial. The convergence this convergence here is uniform. It's uniform assuming that you that you do it on a compact interval. So it's uniform on any fixed interval. of the form say minus L to L right so if you're fixing a interval like this then the convergence is is uniform and so this means that since these guys here are continuous then it implies that this one here is also continuous Yes. Right. So this is this is implied by the theorem that we just proved. uh so now this will uh this will uniform convergence. There's another way of thinking about uniform convergence that in a way is this makes it makes it more natural. So because so remember that if we looked at so if we take a interval let's say that this is a interval from a to b a and b are real numbers then we looked at the space of continuous functions on this interval right and this space had a natural metric so uh so so I'm using here that both end points are included included. This space here has a natural a natural metric and that metric is that if you take two functions, two continuous functions on the interval, then the distance between these two function is just the max of the um of the the max of the difference between the two functions, right? The difference again why is this by the difference is continuous. So this means that the maximum is the difference is continuous. So this is a continuous function and it's still continuous. If you take absolute value and so this means that the maximum by the extreme value theorem is achieved. Right? Right. And so this here was a natural uh distance between them. Right. Now to say that the sequence here to say that the sequence f little n is converging uniformly you can think about that in terms of this distance. So, so we have the following proposition. FN converge uniformly to F if and only if uh FN converts to F in the metric space. with this with this metric. Okay. Now, why is this the case? So this is just that uh so proof of that it's really just a oneliner because the you see that to say that the so that so that f ofx minus fn of x is lesser equal to uh uh to uh epsilon for all X. If this here is the case, well, this is equivalent to saying that the distance between FN and uh NF is less or equal to epsilon for all X. Right? Because if this here is the case for all x then the maximum is less or equal to epsilon. This was the maximum. And on the other hand if the maximum well then it holds for each x right. So this is sort of a tology. Okay. And so now we see of course that if if the sequence so you have that but this means so this means that if the sequence therefore if this sequence fn converts to f uniformly well then it means that for all epsilon. If we're sufficiently far out, then this here can be for any given epsilon. If you're sufficiently far out, this here can be made lesser equal to epsilon, which means that this hair can be made lesser equal to epsilon if you're sufficiently far out. So you see that if this converts uniformly, then it implies that this thing here converts to zero. But that's exactly what it means that this sequence fn converts to f in in the met in the metric space and the other way around. If if this sequence converts fn converts to f in the metric space, this is equivalent to saying that this hair goes to zero. But if this hair goes to zero, right? This means that if you're sufficiently far out, but given epsilon, if you're sufficiently far, this hair is lesser equal to epsilon, but it means that this hair is less than epsilon, right? So that means it really converts uniform, right? Okay. And that's a in a way that makes it much more natural. Uh I mean yeah the so it's um un it makes uniform convergence much more natural. Okay. So now let's prove the next theorem. So for this theorem we're going to think about uniform convergence in terms of this metric and in terms of convergent in this metric space. So the theorem is then this next thing that say that if you take a interval from a to b and you're looking at the continuous function and you equip it with this metric that we talked about then this here is this space which is a metric space. So this metric space is a cushy complete. Okay. So remember kle in a metric space means that if you take a cushy sequence so just let me just record here over here. So uh cush so if x comma d is a matrix space. Then C complete means that any secret uh is convergence, right? That's what it means to be a cushy complete. And of course, an example of of a cushy complete um metric space was just if we took R with the usual with the usual metric Okay. Down. So what we have here is so let's try to prove this. So we need to prove so so this here is now we need to prove that if this here is a cushy sequence then uh then there exist an function that is also continuous. And so this sequence here converging to f uh in the metric D, right? That's what we need to prove. Okay. So in in in in particular we need to first construct a function f right. So now so let's try first to construct a function. So, so we first construct f as follows. Well, if you fix fix x, right? So x is something a point in the interval. And now look at this sequence fn. This is now a regular sequence. And so but if you're looking at the sequence then we have that fn of x minus f m of x. If you have two n and m like this, then the difference here is lesser equal to the max where this is for all set in the interval of um of f mn of set minus uh fm um of set like that right because of course you know it means like in particular if x set was x right so you have clearly this but now you see that uh so I claim so I claim that this means so there so I claim that this implies that the this that this implies that this sequence here. Sorry. This sequence here fn of x this sequence here is a which is a sequence of real numbers. is here real numbers that this here is a cy sequence of real numbers. Why why is that the case? Well, it's the case because because given so this is just because given given so this is the case because given epsilon greater than zero since fn N is a C sequence. In the metric space in this metric space then um there exist capital N. So that if little n and little m are bigger than capital n then the difference between these guys sorry the difference between this function here and that function is less than epsilon right this is because the work sequence and so now this thing here is of course this thing here that's what we just saw this is like the maximum form. So this is bigger than when you evaluate it in just one point like that, right? And so so this proves this proved right that that this when x is fixed these guys here is a cy sequence of real numbers. So now we use since r here is cushy complete and fn of x is a cushy sequence. then it means that uh that the sequence fn of x that this is converging and it's converging to some number right so just one number and that number we can call f ofx right so we just defined f to be the limit of this sequence right and that's what defined because there's just one number right so for each x it gives you a number. Okay. So now what we have proven is that so now we have a candidate so namely we have shown that so now what you have we've proven here is that we have found a function. So we have now proven that this sequence here is converging to some function f the convergence is just pointwise and we don't know whether this function is continuous or not right it's the convergence is pointwise this is just because it convert for each fixed x it was f of f ofx was defined so that it was a limit of these guys fn of x right okay so now we need to promote this convergence so the point was pointwise and we need to promote the convergence to uniform convergence right and so so now we need so now uh given so given epsilon greater than zero again Since since these guys FN was a CC sequence in the metric space in in this metric space then then as we saw over there they exist there exist capital N. So that if little n and and little m are bigger than this capital n then uh then the difference between these two then fn of x - fm of x this thing here is lesser equal to and I'm using epsilon / two for all X. Okay. So you have that but now this here holds for all M and N, right? Let's just fix N. And now we can use that it's it's still true. I can still let M vary, right? And so if you let m go. So now letting so fixed fix n bigger than capital n and let little m goes to infinity. Right? Well this here is just some fixed number. But as m go to infinity this here go to f ofx. Right? And so since this difference is always less or equal to epsilon / two, it's also the case that the difference here of the limit is lesser or equal to epsilon / two. So you have this here for all x, right? This is just letting m goes to uh to the limit. But this of course say this say that that the max if you will. So you have that. So this implies that the max of fn of x minus f ofx that this thing here where x is now in this interval that this is lesser equal to epsilon. Right? And but this is like the same this here is just the distance between fn and f right. So say that this distance here here is less than uh I guess I had epsilon / two. So it means that this thing here is less than strictly less than epsilon. It's actually less or equal to epsilon / two. So it's strictly less than epsilon. But that's exactly what it means for this sequence here. So this is the same this is the same as saying that fn converts to f uniformly. right here. Sorry, here I should have taken the soup. The reason why I should take the soup here is that f is just a function. It's not necessarily continuous at this stage. Right? So, but it was clearly the case with soup. So, the maximum appro may not be achieved yet. But now you see that they converge these fn converge to f uniformly right. But then and these these guys here was continuous. Right? These are continuous. So this implies that by this theorem we just proved that f is also continuous. Right? And so you see that so now you have that the limit is indeed in the space and we already proved here that the convergence to this limit is is is in is uniform which means that it's it's in that in the metric. Okay. The next thing is that right so this is this here was just a little bit different way of thinking about uniform convergence that you think about it sort of more abstractly as a convergence in a metric space right and it's a useful way of thinking about it the next thing we want to look at is how this uniform convergence uh gives you a way of uh computing things. So in particular if you have some power series um and so and we talked about that a little bit last time we didn't prove anything but one of the one of the motivation for this is that suppose you take a power series like this and we we'll return to this in just a second but suppose you take a power series like this and You are inside the radius of convergence. So inside radius of convergence. So you know that this thing here makes sense, right? That this for each x gives you a number. And so it gives you a function. And so you're interested in what is the derivative of that function and what is the what is the integral of that function. How do we integrate it and how do we take the derivative? And the thing that worries you a bit is that it's if it was just a finite sum, it would be trivial. But it's a infinite sum, right? And so is it okay? So the the natural question is is it okay if you want to take the derivative, can you interchange this infinite sum with taking derivative? And likewise, if you want to integrate this infinite sum, is it okay to inter interchange the infinite sum with taking the integral? And the and the answer is it's okay. Okay. And so let's see that. So we do this. So we have two versions of this. One that's dealing with taking integrals and another version that deals with taking derivatives. Okay. And so the first thing is that I take so first theorem is the following that I have some interval from a to b. Um um and then I have a sequence of functions fn that are um that are integraable. They may not be continuous. They're just integraable. So in particular they are uh they are bounded. And then I have that uh fn here converts to f uniform. Okay. And I want to prove that. So the claim is that that fm is also integraable and the integral of f is equal to uh the limit of these integrals. Okay. So, so in particular, of course, those integral here has a limit, right? It's part of the statement. Um right. So now um Right. So what do we want to what do we need to prove? So prove remember that. So we want to show So we first want to show that f is integraable and we had a criteria for doing that. So we're using the criteria. So we can use that's uh all we need to show to show is the following that given given epsilon greater than zero there exist there exist a partition P of of the interval from A to B so that uh so that the upper sum of f with respect to this partition minus the lower sum of f with respect to the same partition that this thing here is less than epsilon right that's all we need to prove we need to prove For each epsilon we need to prove that there exist a partition. Right? So if we have that then we already know that then f is integral. Okay. And then then so that's just achieve this this first task and then afterwards we need to prove that. No, right. Okay. So now how do we prove that? So um so the first thing we observe is that if we take uh if we're looking at uh suppose that f n and f here suppose that this um suppose that fn of x minus uh f ofx suppose that this thing here was less than uh was less than epsilon over 3 b minus a. Okay, suppose you have that and you can of course this here can be achieved, right? This here can so epsilon is now given, right? And so you have that so so maybe I should just say that uh so epsilon is given. So since fn converts to f uniformly this means that there exist there exist capital n so that if you're further out than capital n then actually you have this thing here right b minus b b and a are fixed this is just something fixed. So this is just another epsilon, right? Okay. So if you have that now suppose you take uh so remember we defined when we do uh did the when we had the partition the partition had the dividing points with dividing points x i. So we were looking at these small intervals x i from x i minus one to x i and we're looking at the soup of the function. So if you're looking at the soup of suppose you're looking at so this here is on this little interval but it's for f right but the function f here you see the function. So you have that f of x this function here sorry I don't need the absolute value but f ofx is less or equal to uh f uh n of x uh plus of course uh f of x minus f n of x right and so this means that this thing here is by this thing here is less or equal to fn of x. This thing here is bounded by the absolute value of it, right? And and so this thing here so this is fn of x and this here is just epsilon over over 3 uh b minus a like that right so this means that if I take the soup on this little interval of f then it's bounded by the soup of this function plus that number right so I have that so I have that that's So I have that the again the soup of f on this little interval. This is what we call m i of f. that this is less or equal to because of this inequality is less than the soup of fn of x on the same little interval plus epsilon over 3 b minus a right and likewise likewise so so likewise for for the in. So again I let little mi of f this is now the infom on this little interval oops on this little interval of f right sorry here here here I wanted to I wanted to insert what this thing was so this is m right I just the notation for this soup here is m I FN and uh the infreum the interim for f on this little interval the notation for that is that is is this little m i refer to the interval f to the function and so similarly if you take the uh infom infom So and you compare it to the infom of this fn on the same interval then the same argument with obvious changes means that m i f here is now bigger equal to m i fn minus epsilon 1 over 3 B minus A. Okay, it's the same thing. Okay, maybe I'll just explain it, but it's the same sort of thing that you take. Oh, maybe I shouldn't erase this one. So, it's a sort of the same thing that you're looking at. You have f ofx again uh is equal to fn of x plus uh fn plus f of x minus right. So you have obviously this. And so this means that f ofx is um is big or equal to fn of x minus. If you think that this here becomes negative and the maximum it can become negative on this little interval here on uh this little interval the the worst this here can become negative is epsilon over uh actually for any interval is a is this like that. So you always have this. Okay. And and so if you take now the infom on this little interval then you're getting m i f bigger equal to m i fn minus epsilon over 3 b minus a. Right? So you have that. So that's what we claim over there. Okay. So, so we have we have this thing here and we have the corresponding thing. This is less or equal to the maximum of the function on the same interval. And then that's and the uh and then this equality here this equality here was that it's bounded by this guy here plus epsilon / 3 b minus a. Okay, so this is for the little M's, the little MIS and the capital MI. And now we need to sum these guys and we need to uh multiply those with a delta XI. So this means that if you're looking at So what we're interested in is we're looking at this times delta XI. This gives you the the the sorry this gives you the lower sum of f with respect to this partition right where you're summing here over the i if you're summing the soups then you're getting the upper like there, right? And so now, so you take you take this equality, this inequality, the string of inequality, and you're just multiplying by delta xi on both sides and then I'm summing right so if I multiply so let's call this here star so multiply star by delta xi and sum over i right if you do that then what you get is you're getting mi fn um time minus epsilon over 3 b minus a times this time delta x i this is less or equal to m i f delta xi which is less or equal to this one here. Sorry. And I should also sum summing over I like this. And then I have one more inequality namely this right hand side. Uh so less or equal to I'm summing over I uh and I have this is m i f + epsilon over 3 b minus a time delta x i. Okay, so we have that. Now let's try to figure out what this means. So this here. So now if you multiply this out the first thing right the the the top left corner that gives you when you multiply the bracket out the first term you get is the m I fn times delta xi but that is just the lower sum with respect to the partition p for fn Right? But then you get an another term which is you get one other term. you get this minus and then you're summing over the i of epsilon 3 b minus a * x i right and then the then it's less or equal to the same the the the term uh up there that's just the lower sum of f with respect to the partition. The next term is the upper sum of f with respect to the partition. And then the last inequality, the first term when you multiply this bracket out the first term here is and unfortunately there was a missing n I copied it from here. Sorry, there was a missing end. I just copied from this one. Right? So now when you multiply this bracket out, the first term you get here is um is so you're getting less or equal to the first term you get there when you're summing over the i. That's exactly u fn p. And then the second term you get is this I epsilon over 3 B minus A delta X I now this thing here when I'm summing here right then uh I this is just a constant so I can just pull that constant out and the sum of these differences that just give you B minus A Right? So if you put that in and this exactly the same you get on this term then you have that L fn P minus epsilon / 3 is uh is lesser equal to LF uh P and which is lesser equal to U FP And this is less or equal to uh u fn p plus epsilon over three. Okay. Now what have we used so far? So far we have just used P was any partition and all we have to you all we have used is that the FN converts to F uniformly and then for this given epsilon we chose this capital N sufficiently large right but now now you see that now we can just fix so now we just Let uh little n we just set let this be equal to this capital n. Right? We just need to use it for one uh for one little n. And so but and then we can and now we have that since this particular function this one function was integraable then there exist a partition but this is now a partition that is that's comes from right it's determined from this function here but there exist a partition position so that so that the L uh sorry so that the difference between the difference between the upper sum for this function minus the lower sum for this function is less than say epsilon / 3. Okay. But so you see that this number here uh right so you see that the difference now I can erase this thing here. So now the first so we observe now that that this number here this number here because of this this this number is always larger than that. Right? And so this means that this thing here is u by this inequality it just tells you that this is less than that this thing here. Let me continue here below that this thing here is less than l fn p plus epsilon over three. This is coming from that this one here. Just moving this over on the other side. Then you have that this is bounded by that and then you have another epsilon over three. Fine. And so you see that those two things this here and that here is squeezed in an interval of length epsilon. Right? So it means that the difference between these two is is bounded by epsilon. Right? So, so LF with respect to this partition and U FP right they are in a in both lie both lie in an interval of length epsilon right so it means that the difference between the two right so the difference between so this here which is always positive but this here the difference must be less than less I guess less or equal to doesn't matter right okay so and this proves so this show right so this show that that f here is integraable it's integraable Right? Because to show that this function was integral, we just needed to for a given epsilon, we needed to find a partition so that the upper the difference between the upper and the lower sum was less or equal to epsilon. Right? So the function f is is is is uh is integraable. Now I claim that it also proves that um it also show that that the limit is what it should be right because you see that we now know we now know that the function so Now, so we have now that this integral of f dx this exist right because we prove that it's integral so it means that this exists and this is always squeezed between for any partition it's always squeezed between these two things, right? But now you see that so this means that that it would have to lie in this string of inequality. It would have to lie here between these two numbers. Right? But this thing here um you know if you make this right so we have also right so so what do we have we have that that so so we have that this integral here from a to b of f dx is less less or equal to u f with respect to any partition. Same thing here. And now if we if we um right if we let the if we looked at if we used this uh if we we used that for this given epsilon that n here was bigger than capital n big or equal to then we have that this thing here was bounded below from this inequality l fn p minus uh epsilon / 3 and we had that it was bounded from above. So this is just this inequality u fn p plus epsilon / 3 and so now we we made use of and so we do this for this capital n. So in particular it holds for capital n. And now we made use of that. Uh so now all I want to do is here I want to estimate the difference between this integral here uh and this integral here and the integral from a to b of f uh capital n. Right? And I want to prove that if I'm very far out this this here is very small right but I now make this one here. So if I take if I when I choose my partition so that this number here so then I can just make sure that this number here when I prove the when I uh choose the partition then I just said that I choose the partition so that this thing here minus this lower here for this capital n that this here was smaller than epsilon over two. Right? And so this means again but now you see that um this integral of this integral here this is always squeezed between these two numbers. So this is always squeezed like this. Right? And so now you see that this means that um that this integral is in this interval here. Uh but in fact um in fact of course in this interval between these two numbers between actually the these two numbers by by you know even if there wasn't a plus in that interval that uh this integral here would also lie right so it lies even more comfortable in this larger interval where you adding epsilon over 3 and subtracting epsilon over 3. So, so this integral lie between these two the same is the case for this and this interval again have length epsilon. So this means that this difference between these two number is also less than epsilon right and so this really proved that if it was sufficiently far out then the difference between these two integral was bounded by epsilon right so this this prove that the integral are converging okay let's look at So how do we use this? So what we were interested in was uh using this fact uh in the case of a power series. So let me just look at an example for that. So suppose that en of x so this is the same as in the previous example um where I'm summing here from k =0 to n xn over x k sorry over k factorial right so these are the function xn and x is just sorry e en and and the function um to this is the function Here the function e is just the exponential function. So which I think about as the infinite uh series the power series like this. And now I had so we already observe that by the bio stress uh so by bio stress M test uh uh by V size M test the EN converts to E on any interval you have to restrict the interval. But if you're fixing an interval like this then it's converging uh uniformly right so this is what bio size m game right and now these functions here they are polomials the en are polinomials so it's easy to integrate them so you have that that the integral here of en dx x from uh let's say some interval from a to b. This thing here is now uh equal to the sum here. So you can so now it's just a finite sum. So you can exchange that and then you're integrating from a to b of x k over k factorial. And of course that's very easy to do, right? uh so dx and and the theorem with that we just proved that this thing here is because the convergence is uniform each of these is integraable. This means that the limit here is also uh integraable and the integral of of the exponential function is the limit of these integrals right and so this the point here is again is that um if you have uniform convergence then you can sort of I mean you're using the uniform convergence that we have from bias size M test then we can interchange this infinite sum with taking integrals. Okay, let me just I I I I had wanted to do one more thing but I I don't have time to do that quite uh so I I'll pick up on that next time but let me just observe that when you're integrating here when you're integrating this this thing here right so what is the integral of this so when we're just calculating this so you're integrating uh x to the k over k factorial. When you're integrating a polomial, you're looking for you're using the fundamental theorem of calculus. So you're trying to look for a function whose derivative is this, right? Such a function is often called the anti-derivative. And so what is that function? So a function so if you're looking at x to the power k + one right so you know that you have to because it's a polinomial you have to add one right to the exponent and then this as when you take derivative this come down so you have to look at k + one factorial right because if you take when you take the derivative then k plus one come down and it kills the first one and the rest is this right and so so when you evaluate this integral then it's this here is the anti-derivative and you have to ex uh insert the boundary values like this right so that would be the integral okay so I'll just stop here and next time I'll go through the one theorem I didn't get to which is how to interchange the differentiation and uh and uh right if you take a sequence of functions that converge uniformly and you want to take the derivative of these um how do you relate the derivative of the sequence to derivative of the limit okay so but it's in the notes I already posted the notes but I'll go through that next Any questions? >> Yeah. >> That's okay. Right. Because um right so I um I'm not 100% sure I I needed epsilon less or equal to epsilon. It doesn't really matter, right? because you just picked that I I had chosen it uh with the epsilon over three and epsilon over three * b minus a that was just to have it worked out. So it was epsilon in the end but you could of course have chosen it even smaller than you would have had strict inequality. It's possible it was actually strict inequality anyway.