So so let's recall where we were last time. So we are trying to prove protection theorem. I guess I will state it again uh later. But uh last time we hopefully accepted the following fact as true. Uh okay. So maybe if a subset of 01 is a okay so given s there exist ea and epsilon positive depending on s and if we have a set which is a an S delta delta to the minus EA set then there exist a little A in the set such that the size of A plus little A a grows by delta to the minus epsilon compared to the size of A. So Larry pointed out okay so initially instead of this we have some polomial Q of A such as AA minus AA. So Larry pointed out to me that if you follow exactly what you did in the finite field setting to go from Q of A to this you need to use the non-conentration condition that we are trying to prove but it is possible to do it in a way which is not circular. So okay so I said I was not going to cover all of the details. So using pruning corusa so pruning corusa is the main tool and switchable double counting one can really improve this without using something that we haven't proved yet okay and the goal is to improve this by showing that a plus a satisfies a better non concentration condition that will allow us to iterate. So the goal is to show that a plus a a actually contains because it is not true that it always is but it contains a delta s plus epsilon delta to the minus maybe let's call it prime um set. So the can get worse when one iterates but one iterates finitely many times. So this is not serious. Okay. Um, okay. Maybe for a different So the epsilon is also going to change. Okay. So, um, so suppose so I'm basically going back to what I did at the end of last time, but I was rushing a bit. So I'm going to be a bit more precise hopefully. Suppose that a is a delta s delta to the minus ea squar set. Well in particular it is an s delta delta to the minus so I guess the delta goes first. Um in particular it is it is a delta s delta to the minus ita set because it is a very small number. But why did I square it? Because um then it is okay. And as we saw last time, if we take a subset of a which is uniform, delta m uniform for some good choice of delta, delta will have to be chosen small enough in terms of EA but nothing else. uh then so we may assume let's call it delta uniform or delta depends on ea so that basically this doesn't change maybe one has to multiply by two but essentially doesn't change well then uh this uh set because it's uniform now is also a row s delta to the minus ea square for every row and then this implies that it is also a row s row to the minus ea. So the problem here is that now we have row here but we still have delta here but we replace it by it squared so that so that we can have also row here and this will be for every row between delta and delta to the ea right because we started with delta to the minus ea squ okay we don't go all the way to one but almost it is very very small. So morally this is almost one. So from here to here we use the uniformity. So one consequence of uniformity that uh I explained last time is that a uniform delta set is also a row set for every row. And this is just trivial inequality assume that row is at most delta to the ea. Okay. So this in this means that we can apply what we already know for every scale row between delta and delta 2 theta because it satisfies the assumptions. And another thing that I explained last time is that even though a priority we only know that there exists an a so that a plus little aa grows by applying that to the set of exceptions we get that this is true for almost every a in a strong sense. So if you put all of this together, what we get is that okay so maybe let's recall what I just said. So in fact um the set of a okay so let's work with some finite set of rows which are powers of delta again. So we have delta delta square up to delta to some maybe m prime. So that this is equal to delta to the recall that little delta is delta to the m. So m prime is less than m but it is close to m. And again this is a finite set of scales. Well, not really finite because okay this it is finite but it grows with delta but it grows logarithmically with delta. So m is logarithm of little delta in base delta. Big delta is fixed. So it's it's logarithmic in delta and m prime is smaller. So it's also logarithmic in delta. Okay. So uh for each row we know that the set of A's so that A plus row A doesn't grow sorry little A but measurement scale row doesn't grow by row to the minus epsilon has size at most row to the eater times the size of a. And why is this true? Because uh if this was not true then we could apply the statement above to the scale row to the set of exceptions to this set and get the contradiction. Okay. And this is very small in terms of delta. So row to the EA is at most delta to the EA squar sorry here. Okay. Okay. So here we are counting a set of A's. So the only way in which we can really count a set of A's is by measuring it at some scale. otherwise could be infinite. So we always have to choose a scale. Um so scale row okay row to the EA is at most delta to the squared and this means that um sorry this is wrong. Let's go back and fix it. So delta is is is too large. So delta is a constant. So I want to be away from one. Uh not away from zero but away from one. So the rows that we consider are delta to the m delta to the which is little delta delta to the m minus one. And then we stop at delta to the ea. Sorry about that. Okay. because we are only looking at logarithmically many um values of delta. Okay, one has to work a little bit more because here we are measuring things that scale row but uh row is far away from one and there are only logarithmically many values of row. So putting all together what we get is that for all aside of a small set. Maybe something like a set of size delta to the ea I don't know cubed times the size of a we get that a plus little a grows for every scale in this family. Okay. And now it looks like we are getting close because well we want to show that this contains a delta s plus epsilon something set and a necessary condition is that we have growth at every scale. So if you have a set with that, so if you have a delta s plus epsilon something set, then this will be true. And if we knew that this set is uniform, we would be done because for a uniform set, the condition of growing at every scale is necessary and sufficient. But we don't know that this set is uniform. So we are not done yet. So we are getting closer, but we are not done yet. Any questions? So, this is more or less where we were last time. Okay. So, in order to be able to finish, we still have to work a bit and uh there was a claim that there was explaining last time that we can improve this. So here we are projecting a * a. So this is pi a of a * a. So we can improve this to project an arbitrary dense subset of a * a. So claim uh if g is contained in a * a and it has size at scale delta let's say delta to the square or something like this relative to a * a then pa of g already grows and in fact we this we will also want to apply at many scales or maybe not. We'll see. Okay, let's start with scale delta. Then we'll see what we actually need. Uh then this already grows let's say by epsilon / two. Okay. And I guess at this stage uh we claim that there exists such an A. But once again, if there exist an A, then it is true for nearly all A by applying the fact that there exists an A to the exceptional set. So we can play this game as many times as we want and we want to play it many times. Okay. So uh last time we were in the middle of proving this. So let's start the game. Uh assume that one is in a this is just tool to okay just for notation and simplicity it's not not important. Well, if a equals 1 works, we are done because we are trying to show that some some element of a works. So, if the element one happens to work, we are happy. Otherwise, one doesn't work. And the fact that one doesn't work means that there exists G which is dense in a * A and such that pi 1 of G doesn't grow too much. And this okay the f so all of these together are exactly the assumptions of alumericic hours or rather the delta covering number of Alexic hours but as I explained a couple of lectures ago valuic hours works exactly the same for delta covering numbers. So maybe let's recall the hours for delta covering numbers. Um if uh a a scale delta has size n and there exists g contained in a * a such that the size of g at scale delta is at least 1 / k times the size of a plus a at scale delta And if we project in the direction one the set g uh this doesn't grow a lot compared to the size of a. If all of this is true then there exists a set a prime contained in a which is fairly dense. So the size of a at scale delta is at least k to minus a constant times the size of a and a prime has a small subset. The doubling constant for a prime is at most k to a power to to a constant power times the size of a prime. Okay, this is valuic hours. Well, here we can take well n is just the delta covering number of a and we can take k to be the minimum between ea square delta to the minus ea square and delta to the minus epsilon / two which is really delta to the minus ea square. You should imagine that is smaller than epsilon even before squaring. Okay. So we apply maluic hours and let a prime be the corresponding set. Okay. And then uh a prime is dense in a and has more subset. Okay. So, A prime is a dense subset of A. A is a delta S something set. So, A prime is also a delta S something set because we saw that subsets of delta S something sets are delta S something sets where the constant. So basically we have to multiply the constant by this but a was a delta s delta to the epsilon square set. So this is still a delta s delta to the minus o of epsilon square set. So we can apply what we know to a prime. So a prime is a delta s delta to the minus o of it square set. So there exists a in a prime in a prime sorry such that a prime plus a a prime grows by applying the fact from the beginning to a prime. It still satisfies the assumptions. We have lost a constant here but this is harmless. Any questions so far? Okay. And now we apply something that you've seen in the finite field setting. And again, it works. This works exactly in the same way for delta covering sets. What you saw in the finite field setting is that if you have a set with a small sums set, so small pi 1 projection and large pi a projection, then in fact the pi projection remains large if we pass to a dense subset of a prime time n prime. Okay, so this is another recall from the finite field story. If a prime plus a prime let's say again it goes by at most k and a prime plus little a prime let's say so a prime has small doubling but if you apply projection by a it grows by something then in fact this implies that for every g in a prime * a prime which is dense let's say dense with threshold 1 / k everything measured with delta covering numbers the projection is still large and I think it's K to minus some constant and DL basically survives. Does this look like something you've seen before? Okay. Does it look like something that Okay. Well, go back to your notes and or otherwise just believe me this is true. Um Larry told me you've seen something like this. Maybe with different letters very likely with different letters. But the point is you have a set with small doubling but large PA projection. then the PA projection is large even after passing to a subset. Okay, so it looks like we've almost won because look at the claim and look at what we have here. Okay, have we really won? Not exactly because the claim was for A and we got it for A prime which is a dense subset of A but it is not A. So one has to work a bit to really win but you will have to trust me that one can win from here. So the claim was that what we obtained for a prime is true for a and we got it for a prime not for a. So I will briefly explain how to get it for a but I will not do all of the details because otherwise we'll be here forever. Uh maybe let's keep the objective inside. Okay, we can upgrade a prime to a and the idea is well either a prime is a in which case we win or if a prime is not all of a but it is almost all of a in the sense that a minus a prime is really small we still win uh because so if if the difference between a and a prime is really small you just apply trivial bounds on the very small part and we still win. So if a minus a prime is very small very small maybe of size less than delta to the plus e to something like this times the size of a we are fine otherwise do the same so apply the same argument to a minus a prime. If a prime is not very dense in a, then a minus a prime is still the delta is delta to the minus theta square set. And we can do the same and get a new a prime. So maybe the original a prime we can call it a prime one. And if we apply the same thing, we get an a prime two. Now uh at the same time we have to play the game that if something is true for one a is true for nearly all a because we found that there exist an a and there exist an a prime but in fact there are lots of a but the a prime could depend on a so one has to be a little bit careful but but one can play this game and eventually uh one gets so all of these sets have large size because they are dense in a prime. Where is it? A prime is dense in A. So at some point and they are all disjointed. They are all disjointed because we take away the previous ones when we apply this again. So at some point we reach a step where we have exhausted almost all of a let's say something like this and then we stop. Okay, but I'm cheating here because and then then we stop and then basically we win because if we have a set G which is dense in a in a * A. Okay. Uh we still don't really win yet. But if a set G is dense in A* A, it will be dense in AI prime time A G prime. Maybe a different prime. Okay, so one still has to work. Okay, plus some work plus more work. And I'm basically ignoring a here, the little a here. But it's okay to ignore the little a because everything you prove from one little a is true for nearly all little a. Maybe forget what I said. But okay, this is one thing you have to do. Just iterate. So iterate this. Here we get a dense a prime. We want to get all of a not the dense a prime. We iterate plus some double counting. We get that claim any questions so one has to work here so I I haven't proved it so I don't expect you to see the proof so one thing you have to do in the proof is iterate but you have to do more things and double count carefully um but eventually one gets that so one is able to upgrade a prime to a okay so that claim is True. So that claim says that there exists an A and once there is one A there are many A's nearly all A's. So that the pi A projection of any dense subset of A plus A grows and now we are really close to the to the end of that goal. So a prime a plus a a plus little a a is not necessarily uniform but we know that it contains a uniform subset and when we pass to a uniform subset we can make it large for any sub additive function set function mu. Okay, so this is the mu we are going to use now. So mu of b is going to be okay. So fix little a for which the claim holds. So this is the clean star. So we fix a little a so that this holds and then let mu of b and here b is a subset of 01 so it's a subset of a really is the delta covering number not of b but of pi a inverse of b. So this is sub additive right because what is mu of b1 union b2 well uh if you take pre images you get something which is contained in the pre image of the in the in the union of the pre images and then the delta covering number is sub additive. Does this mean pi a inverse of b intersect a cross a? >> Yes. Sorry. Thank you. So this is finitely subjective because delta covering number is subjective and we are just taking delta covering number together with the pre-image which is already subjective. Okay. So by lema from last time by the uniformization lema from last time there exists an a prime contained in a uh which is uniform. Sorry, not in A. Ah, there existed B contained in A plus little A A. So we are going to apply uniformization to A plus little A A. We are trying to show that this set contains a delta S plus epsilon set. So this is our ultimate goal and we know that if this set was uniform, it would be enough to show that it grows at every scale to reach the conclusion. So we want to make it uniform but we need to know that the uniform subset grows at every scale. Okay. So by uniformization there exist a b in a plus e a such that this mu of b is larger than delta to the minus ea squar times the measure of a + a a. And what is the measure of a plus a a? This is just the delta covering number of a * a. Okay. So this is the delta covering number of pi a inverse of b. So this is a sorry again I forgot to intersect with a * a. So this is the g to which we can apply the claim. So this is a dense subset of a * a. And we know that for every dense subset of a * a the pi a projection grows. In particular, the pi a projection of this grows. But this is pi a inverse. So if we apply pi a we land in b and in particular we land in a plus little aa but in particular we land in b which is uniform. Okay. So apply claim star to g equals pi i inverse of b intersection a * a is does satisfies the density assumption and this is because uniform sets can be taken deaths. So again here I have to choose maybe a different delta than before although I guess the same delta works because it's the same numerology. So that this is true. We can make we can take uniform sets which are as dense in the exponential sense as we want. This is exactly what's going on here. Okay. And the conclusion is that the delta covering number grows sorry not by a b ah by a of a * intersected with B, I guess. Okay. So, um, okay. So now we are getting so we are one step closer uh because now we have a uniform subset of a * little a a and the delta covering number well I guess B is a subset of this. So here one could have just B. So the delta covering number grows. We know that if a set is uniform and the row covering number grows for every row and in fact we don't need every row we is enough to consider rows which are powers of delta then they are h delta s plus the growth set. So we just repeat. So here we have something for for delta but then um okay let's see what is the right order to do this. So I want to claim that what we did for delta we can do for any scale. So there is nothing special about delta because a itself is uniform. All of this that we did for delta we can do it for any other scale uh row. But uh the uniform set that we get can depend on the scale. So what is the right order to do this? So the goal is to use the lema from last time that says that if it is uniform and the row covering number is large for every row and in fact one doesn't need every every row. It's enough to consider powers of the delta based in the uniformity. then it is a delta s set where the s comes from the size of the row covering numbers and okay by using this idea for every row so we did it with for delta but the assumptions hold for every row at least for every row which is not very close to one so we can do the same uh the only danger is that we could get a different b for different rows we could get different beasts. And I'm not very happy about this. So, how do we deal with this? One thing one could try to do but I think we lose too much is okay delta is delta to the m. Now we want to go to delta to the m minus one. So we could just replace a plus little a by b. But then we will have another subset of b and we are going to lose this factor logarithmically many times and that is too many times. So yeah I don't want to do that. I will lose too much. Um, okay. So, there is something I'm missing and I'm not going to figure it out right now. So, uh, because I told you that Yes. >> Um, can you prove the claim simultaneously for all scales, replace that delta by rows, all the different rows, and then then I think that would fix it. >> Yeah. You want to have the same G for every scale. >> Yes. >> Yeah. uh >> if you conclude that's stronger claim then it will solve >> yes but why can't we get the same G for for all the scales okay because I told you I wouldn't give a complete proof and just a sketch of some of the ideas well here is a sketch of some of the ideas and is is something technical that so really the ideas are what I explained and what I'm missing is something technical it's not fundamental I would just to summarize what's been what's been going on. I still have to explain once we prove that goal how to continue with the rest of bans the proof of the rest of bans theorem but really this is really the most difficult step where things really change from the final field setting okay so let me uh sort of briefly explain again everything that's been going on uh so we know that a plus a grows but we want to show that it also satisfies a stronger non-conentration assumption that the S in the non-conentration assumption also grows. Okay, first we can take A to be uniform. If A is uniform, then we know that A itself is a row set for every row. And this allows us to reach conclusions for every scale row, which is something that we have to use in the step that I'm missing as well. We use it we used it before, but clearly we have to use it again. And then we know that a plus little aa grows at every scale. If it was true that a plus little a a was uniform then we would win because for uniform sets we saw last time that if they are large at every scale then they satisfy the corresponding non-conentration condition. So we have to take a large uniform subset of a but large with respect to what? Well, large respect to this because this is what allows what allow us to use the fact that if we project something dense in a time a then we grow and how do we know that if project we have to combine two things firstic hours and valid hours. So for valued hours we just take an arbitrary element of a in this case we took one but it can be an arbitrary element of a we apply hours. So either that element already works and we are done for that go for the claim star or if it doesn't work then we are under the assumptions of valuic hours. we apply valuic hours and then we end up with the set that satisfies the assumption of something else that you've seen in the finite field setting which is that if you have a very small subset an expansion under pi a then this expansion under pa is robust under passing two subsets. So in either case we get that pi a of d subset of a * a is large and this allows us to use uniformity with this mu. So that's a bit of a summary of the main steps to show the goal. Okay. Plus technical details I can recall right now. Sorry about that. Uh this implies the goal. the goal that goal. Okay. Why did you spend so much time towards this goal? Because now we can iterate. We knew that if a is a delta s delta to the minus epsilon set, then a plus a a grows. But not only it grows, it contains a delta s plus epsilon delta to the minus ita prime set. And then we can iterate. So a plus little a is our new a. So iterating a goes to a plus little a for every epsilon uh maybe let's not call it epsilon for every toao there exist a polomial that depends on toao is a very large degree if tow is close to zero such that qa of A is a delta 1 minus toao. So the s can become arbitrarily close to one. Delta to the minus some eat tilda that depends on how many times we have to iterate set and by is I mean contains. Yes, >> you said that epsilon is going to change a >> yeah I think instead of epsilon is epsilon over two >> so but then if the epsilons are shrinking how are you getting arbitrary close to >> yeah that's a good question so epsilon okay epsilon in some sense is shrinking but okay so there there is one epsilon which is the epsilon for the size of a plus little aa and there is potentially a different epsilon If we want to find a delta s plus epsilon set inside a plus little aa those two epsilons I think one is epsilon the other is epsilon / two but the point is that they depend on s continuously both of them so they are continuous they can be taken to be continuous functions of s because they are continuous functions of s as long as s is less than 1 minus toao s is bounded away from zero so we reach 1 minus towa in finitely many steps Maybe let's write this here because it's important. So epsilon is or can be taken continuous uh function of s. So remains bounded below as long as s is bounded away from one. So we can do we can achieve this by iterating finally many times. Okay. And why is this good? Because this allows us to do instead of a plus little a a now we can do x plus little ax where x is potentially much bigger than a. So the next step and I think this step is the same as in define a field setting. So I'm basically just going to state it. Uh if x is a delta t uh okay x in 01 still and x is a delta uh maybe let's call it u. So u is going to be t / 2 soon. uh delta minus epsilon set and a is 01 is a delta s maybe let's write ea here for consistency delta to the minus ea set. So now instead of one set we have two sets potentially of very different sizes and okay they are both strictly bigger than zero and strictly less than one and the interesting case is when s is less than u. So this is the case that that we don't already know. Then there exists little a in a such that x plus little ax grows. It grows by some epsilon that depends on s and u Okay. So uh just briefly so the idea and again I think you've seen this in the final setting but the idea is that it's true for maybe not for a but is true for Q to of a and here you have to take toao uh so that q to a is bigger than X. So we can take toao for example to be 1 - U / 2 something like this. Then this is much bigger than X in size. So these are sets but it has size much bigger than X. Once once uh the set of directions has size much bigger than X we can do double counting and get growth with this instead of this. But once we get growth for a polomial instead of a we apply pruna one million times and we go back down to a. Okay. and then apply plunic triangle inequality double counting and then it is also true for a. So this part is really exactly the same. So we already had to go from Q of A to to little A uh before. So initially we proved that A a minus A a is bigger than A and we use that to show that A plus little A is bigger than A. So it's the same the same reduction here and I think you've seen something very similar in the finite field setting and modular technical details. This part is the same. But in order to get here, it's important that we can make this set bigger than x. This is what we wanted to iterate. Potentially x is much bigger than a. But we can expand a by a polomial so that it becomes bigger than x. And for this we have to iterate. This is why we worried so much about iterating. Okay. Okay, the next step is to prove Bans projection theorem. Okay, I'm not going to do the whole proof, but just basically recall what it is in the final setting and explain again where one where one has to be a little bit careful, but hopefully by now you will not be so worried about the part where we have to be careful. So proof of region theorem. Okay. Now I regret calling this xx but it's too late. So let x be uh in the unit b 2 delta t delta t the minus ea set where ea is very very small and t is between zero and two. Let d be a set of directions which is a delta s delta to the minus ea set and what is the goal? So what is the claim of protection theorem? It is that there exists some a in d such that pi a of g exceeds the trivial bound by some epsilon and the trivial bound is the square root of the delta. Okay, sorry. In the version we are that I stated the size of X is delta to the minus T. So it matches the non concentration condition. So here we can just write delta t the minus t / two. This is the square root of the size of x which is the trivial bound and we exceed it by some delta to the minus epsilon. And this is true for every g which is dense in a * a. Okay. So this is projection theorem. This is what we want to prove. Okay. So uh in the finite setting I think to prove a similar statement uh what you did is first consider three fix well just pick three directions in D in order to apply hours. So again it's similar to what we did before. Either things already work or we can apply hours. Here we have to be careful about how we choose the three directions. Uh because if the three directions that we choose are very close to each other uh this is going to be bad news. We are going to lose a lot. So um well even though this is in 01 we can sort of change coordinates so that 0 1 and infinity are in D and this can be done in a way where we don't lose too much using that D is spread out Because of these non-conentration conditions, there are three points in D which are far apart from each other. But that means that if we send these three points that are far apart from each other to 0, one infinity. So the are really the slopes. They are not the angles, they are slopes. So uh so this can be done with a linear change of coordinates. of distortion. So the distortion is the norm of the corresponding matrix delta to the minus O of EA. So this distortion is because EA is much smaller than epsilon. If we have a gain, well we have to decrease the gain by what we lose in this range of coordinates. But this is mild. >> A to be like pi 0 x. >> We Yeah, we are going to look at the vertical and horizontal projections of x and and the the pi one of x. Yeah, I'm just saying there's X and A in the >> Oh, sorry. Uh, >> sorry. In X in X. Sorry. >> X in X. X. X is in R2 >> in X. >> X is in X is a two dimensional object. >> And the point is you want to try to prove this using a= 0 infinity X. Yes. Yeah, that's the point. But yeah, so sorry there was a typo here. So x is already two dimensional in what we have been doing. We have a cartitionian product or here we have a cartitionian. Okay, bad board management again. Now it's hidden. So okay, we want to apply this which unfortunately is going to be hidden. Okay, so x this x is going to be some like the projection of x horizontal projection of the x in R2. So it's really similar to the final field setting. So I'm I'm going to I'm skipping details. I'm going to continue skipping details mostly focusing on the differences. So one difference is that we have to be careful with the three directions that we take. If they are too close to each other, the distortion will be too large and we will it can be so large that we lose all the gain. But because the set of directions is spread out by the non-conentration condition, we can do it in such a way that the distortion is controlled. Okay. So now x is contained in x1 * x2 where this is the horizontal projection and this is the vertical projection. So uh if because we are assuming that also one is in d. If one works we are done because we are trying to show that something works. So the claim is that there exist an a and d with this property. So if we are so lucky that one has this property we are done. if one doesn't work. So this is very similar to what we did a bit earlier but somehow we have to do it twice. Once to do the iteration for a plus EAAsand then again to conclude the proof. If one doesn't work then there exists some g which is dense in x1 * x2. Okay, sorry. Why is it dancing X1? Ah, okay. Actually, uh, yeah, this is more complicated. So, one has to be careful. So, okay. So, um, okay. So I want to assume that X1 has size roughly square root of the size of X with the idea that if he had size bigger than the size of X we would win. But in fact in order to reach this conclusion we have to apply the G already because the conclusion we want is not only that the projection of X grows but the projection of every dense subset of X works. So okay so what one really has to do is apply hours three times. So for zero one and maybe for zero infinity and one in this order either it works or we apply hours to replace x by x prime and then xp prime and then x triple prime. Okay, I'm not going to do all of the details, but uh did something like this happen in the final field setting? I think it also this part has to be done in the final field setting. So >> we didn't we didn't do this stronger version in detail. >> Oh, okay. So you didn't do the strong version in detail. Okay. Uh also I'm not going to do the strong version in detail uh because the 20 minutes I expected to take are turning into the whole lecture again. Uh but I'm leaving today. So now I really have to finish it over the next 20 minutes. So okay so we okay either zero one or infinity or I guess zero infinity or one work or in each case we can apply valuetic words and pass to subs to dense subsets of X of X and the corresponding projections of X. So evalu if the horizontal projection has the property we want, we are done. Otherwise, there exist a dense subset of a with a small horizontal projection. But we can imagine that the horizontal projection is some other projection. So it's the same thing we did last time uh we did a bit earlier and then we have to replace x by some x prime and then by some xp prime and then by some x triple prime. So I'm not going to do it in detail. I'm sorry. Yeah, I see many of you are confused and that's okay because uh one has to do it carefully. It's not obvious how to do it but it can be done. Okay. Okay. So eventually after renaming the set back to X, we are in the following situation. This situation where Okay, let me just write it here. where the horizontal and vertical projections have size at most delta to the minus epsilon t / 2 + epsilon. Okay, I guess um let's say we apply valuic hours twice. Uh so we don't apply to pi one yet. Okay. And just to see how this goes. So suppose that uh pi one So suppose that one doesn't work. Suppose that one doesn't work. And that means that pi 1 of g uh doesn't grow for some dense subset of x. And if it's a dense subset of x, it is a dense subset of x1 * x2. This is x1. This is x2. So this is x1, this is x2. Okay. Then we can apply valuic hours. So here you see that we are in the setting to apply hours. So we're going to apply hours. Okay. So uh it looks like after applying barometric hours lots of times and I skipped the details but you have to trust me that this can be done. We are in the setting where we can apply this and be done but not so fast. What's the issue? Why not so fast? So all of the part that I'm not explaining here, you also have to do it in the finite field setting. If you want to get the stronger statement that the projection of a dense subset grows, not then subset of the of the given set. If you want to prove that in the final field setting, you have to do this multiple values hours. So this is not a difference. Okay, you haven't done it in detail in the finite field setting. But this part is not a difference between the finite field setting and the ukian setting. But there is something which is a difference. So what what is the issue? Why can't we just apply? Okay, we we can apply this but why do we have to be careful about applying this? >> Yes. So if I balance separated we get like a prime cross a prime and then or call y cross y that covers a lot of g and then if I want to apply what's on the left board I would need to know that y is a delta u something x >> exactly so here we have a cartition product okay so one small issue is that instead of x1 * x1 we have x1 * x2 but this is not important the issue is that x1 One is a projection of X and we are assuming that the size is roughly the square root of the size of X. But why is it not concentrated? In order to apply this and conclude, we need to know that X is non concentrated with U equals to T /2. So it's is very similar to the issue that we had when we we needed to iterate. So we knew that a plus little aa is large but we didn't know that the non concentration condition also improves. It's a similar issue here. We know something about the size of these projections but apparently we don't know anything about the non concentration. We need these projections to be non concentrated. Okay. So maybe ignore all of these and just say the following. Using balmic hours many times in a clever way, we can reduce to the to the case where the set X is a product set. You can even assume it's a product set of something a self product set. So using many times we can assume that X is X1 * X2 and then using again. So BIC hours allows us to go back and forth between dense subsets and test everything. So this is what what allows us to do. So we can assume that this we are in a in in in a the setting of a product set and then we want to apply this but not so fast because we don't know that the projections satisfy the concentration assumption of priority. So we have this problem again. So it's very similar to the problem we had before and it is solved in a similar way but it has to be solved. So in some sense so you can think of it of it in this way. We say that t /2 is a triv trivial between codes bound for projections. What we have to show is that this trivial bound actually holds in the non-conentration sense. So we have to show that the projection. So here 0 1 and infinity are just generic projections. So we in fact if we picture three random points uh in D this will work because three random points will be separated. Three random points will not be too concentrated because of this. There are not too many points in in a single ball. So if you randomly sample three points in D the linear map that makes these points horizontal, vertical and diagonal will have small distortion. So we need to know that the random projection of X is a delta T /2 S set. In some sense the goal is to show that the random projection is a delta T /2 plus some gain S set. But to prove that we need to show that it satisfies the same thing but without the epsilon but the nonconentration version of that. And this can be done. It can be done in several ways. One way is a similar thing to what we have done today. Well today and last time but basically go from growth to non-conentration uh by uniformizing everything uh carefully and it can also be done by some careful double counting similar to but not exactly the same that you've done before. So there are several ways of doing it because it's like the easy case but but it has to be done. Okay. So maybe let's write that down. Okay, so we need a last fact. If x and d are as before as in bulans projection theorem then there exists some a and d and once again once there is one once we know that there is one a and d that means nearly all a and d have this property such that by a of x contains a delta t /2 Delta 2 maybe all of epsilon or va set again t /2 is like the trivial bound but it's not so trivial in this case because we are claiming some non-conentration for the projection but because at the same time for covering number so for the covering number version of this is is sort of obvious because again if we have one set you look at two projections in more or less orthogonal directions and most one of them can drop by more than square root of the size of the set and this is true at every scale. So you see that if we knew that this is uniform we would be done. So it's really very similar to what we have been discussing in the rest of the lecture. So this can be proved using a similar strategy as for a plus little aa or it can also be done without using uniformization by double counting. So okay uh I guess one needs uniform some okay maybe not uniformization but if one doesn't use uniformization maybe one is some sort of frostman's lema but okay so it can be done but I just wanted to point out that this is yet another place where we need to worry about the fact that so the difference between the uklidian setting and the final field setting okay and now once we know this we are really done because using balance three times we can assume that x is a cartitionian product and we just need to know that the projection uh in a given direction grows and it is given by Listen, hey, And then uh we apply double star. Okay. So since there are five minutes left, let me summarize what what's been going on. So what is the idea of like general idea of the proof both in the finite field setting and the nuclear setting? First we work with the set in one dimension and shows that if the set is not already everything then is expanded by some polomial. Then we simplify the polomial using plunicus. Then we iterate. In order to iterate one has to be much much much more careful in the uklidian setting in order to show that the hypothesis of the expansion are satisfied when we apply the growth once. So we can iterate but eventually we can iterate that means that we can expand the given set a to almost everything by some polomial. Once we can expand by a polinomial to almost everything we get this growth. It is still of some product type but the difference is that X now can be much bigger than A. And the fact that X is much bigger than A is not an issue because instead of working with A, we work with a polomial applied to A which has size bigger than the size of X. And finally uh we want to project something which is not a product but by looking at three projections to begin with which are far away from each other and applying bioicical hours many times we can go back to this setting. So that's the short version of the proof and they are again in the ukian setting one has to be careful to show that the projections uh satisfy the assumptions needed to apply this fact. So you have to be so really you need some at least some non concentration on x because again if x was a small interval then this never grows for any a so one needs some assumption on x. So one needs to prove something like that. But okay, one can prove it and then eventually one uses this. Any final questions? >> How many times have we used PSG? >> Uh so either four or six. I'm not completely sure. Uh I think no. I think the first time we already have a product. Yeah, I think once for a plus little aa and then three times uh to reduce to this setting. >> Okay. Like is it for like well we just want the projection of like x itself is big in one direction or it's like for the proof that's for any subs. >> Yeah. Okay. So indefinitely setting is as you are suggesting is much easier to prove that the projection of X itself is big than proving it for dense subsets. But in the ukidian case even if your goal is to pro is proving that the projection of X is large and you don't care about dense subsets you are still forced to care about dense subsets because you need the dense subsets to prove the non-conentration assumption when you iterate. So how did we prove that a plus little aa satisfies the stronger non-conentration assumption? By proving that the projection of dense subsets of a * a are large. So even if your your ultimate goal doesn't involve looking at dense subsets, you still need to look at them subsets along the proof and you cannot avoid that. Or maybe you can, but at least with this method of proof, you cannot avoid that. Yes. >> Can you say a little bit more about how to handle the issue that the uniform subset at different scales might be different? >> Yeah. So I unfortunately I didn't realize this issue would arise so I didn't check carefully. >> Um but yeah it's a it's a it's a very good question. Um yeah. Okay. So I'm not exactly sure but let me say something that might work in this case but it certainly works in other cases. So I explained an idea superficially of first getting an a prime and if that a prime doesn't exhaust a we take it away and find another a prime. One can do something similar for uniform sets. So rather than taking one uniform subset, one can so one is given a set and one knows nothing about that set and we can nearly exhaust that set by a finite union of uniform subsets. So one finds a dense uniform set takes it away finds another uniform set takes it away and in this way we essentially cover the set with a very small error by uniform subsets. Uh so this is one way to get around the issue that one uniform substate itself is maybe too sparse and then at different scales different things could happen. So that's I think that could be one way. I don't think that's what we do in the paper but I think that's one thing you could do to bypass this issue. >> Yeah. You said last time that there was possibly a way to simplify this. >> Uh we we are not sure yet. Uh we are hopeful. Yes. Yeah. again um this so bugan's original proof uh is different in the sense that he didn't construct an expanding polomial at all but it is similar in the sense that uh he proves this and then uses the many back symmetric hours to to to get the full statement but to prove this he did something different but okay other claim is more difficult than what I explained but I don't know it's a yeah now now we have this idea from last week uh that yeah might be a so basically it would be a much easier way of doing this to go from this to the full statement the only way we know how to do it is how Bang did it by doing the many barometric