Okay. So um so right so we're going to prove the picard lindel theorem and it may we'll see it may take us it may um we may need to continue on it also on Tuesday and then when we're done with it we will just do review on Tuesday but let's see how far we get so the picinder theorem is the following theorem and it say that uh it's it's a it's a OD so it's a what's called ordinary differential equation Okay. And so again a differential equation is something about an unknown function and its derivative. Right? So differential equation just mean it's an equation. So this here means that it's an equation in an unknown function uh and its derivative. ordinary just as we talked about last time ordinary refer to uh that is just of one variable. Okay. And so the OD that the picard line theorem is about is so the unknown function is y. And the od is is this that we want the derivative of this unknown function to be equal to a function of the unknown function plus another function that just depend on x. So y here is the unknown function and y is a function of x right x is x is a real number right and and it's just a yeah so this is the differential equation and then we have some initial condition so at zero we want it to take a value a okay so this is the differential equation and what we assume Assume here is so f and g are function on r and you should think about those as being known and uh they are an f here is differentiable and the derivative is continuous. and G is just continuous doesn't need to be differentiable and the pal Lindel theorem is so the again the pard Theorem is the following that given uh given f uh g as above and sorry n a was this constant. It's just a real number as above. There exist uh delta greater than zero. Um um such that and and and a solution why defined on the integral from minus delta to delta and and solution y to uh the OD right and so again meaning that is uh that is solution that means that at the in at zero it takes value a and then is satisfying that equation okay and Moreover, and I'll get back to that, but we won't, you know, that's it's quite possible. I won't get to that uh today. Moreover, uh um solutions are unique. Okay. And so, so right. So this is like a standard problem in when you're looking at differential equations. You have a differential equation that may describe something in nature and you wonder does this uh equation have a solution and uh and if it has a solution or solutions unique. Okay. So this is what this answer in this case and the interesting thing or part of the interesting thing I mean so this is a fundamental question u used all over science and engineering and one of the interesting things is that it's uses the proof of this uses metric spaces and so the proof is has been used you know various version of the proof have been used to prove existence uh and uniqueness of various differential equations. So the pro the proof uses the theory of metric spaces which is sort of surprising because it seems to have nothing to do with metric spaces. And so it uses in particular the metric space that it's using is uh the continuous functions on some interval here right and on the space of continuous function we have the metric that we talked about the metric so if f and g sorry f is so bad uh because it's the and g also let's call it h1 H1 and H2. Suppose that these are continuous functions. H1 and H2 are continuous functions on an interval like this. Then the distance is this that we have considered various times. This is just a maximum uh over uh x in this interval here of uh f of x of h1 sorry h1 of x minus h2 of x and then the absolute value of that right. So this is the distance on the space of continuous functions that we have looked at a lot. Okay. And it's actually not quite this space as I mentioned last time. It's a ball in this space that is using right okay so what do we need about this metric space? So one thing we've proven couple of lectures ago is that uh that this this space here of continuous functions uh with this metric here uh is cushy complete. So we're going to use that. Okay, another thing we're going to use is this notion of contracting map. So, um another tool will be that of a contracting map. And so but and remember this is a number of lectures ago we talked about a contracting map but we need a more general notion of contracting map because when we talked about it we talked about a map from R into R. Uh and then we use this notion of contracting map to u uh in to finding zeros with using Newton's method. Okay. And but here we're going to use it for something different and so we need a more general notion. So suppose that so uh contracting map. So this is the general version as opposed to uh the version that we talked about already that was for for the line for for R. So contracting map sorry. And so this is so you have a metric space XD. This is you know could be like this but it also just could be any metric space. And then you have a map from this metric space into the self. And T here is set to be T is set to be contracting. uh if there exist uh a constant C less than one such that if you're looking at the distance between the images then they are squeezed together. So this distance here between the images under the map is less or equal to this constant that is less than one times the distance before you apply the map. Right? So this means that under the map sinks get closer together. Right? So that's a contracting map. And so now we proved a theorem when we did the new measuring we proved a theorem but we needed a about fix points and we need a generalized version of that. So um so if you take a map just in general from a space to a space then a fixed point a fixed point is uh a point x in the space so that t of x so t leaves X invariance. So T of X is equal to X. That's a fixed point, right? Okay. And so now if you have a contracting map, so if if T here is contracting, then T can have at most one fix point. Why? Because suppose that X so if if X and Y are both fixed points. Well, then you have that g of x is equal to g of y. Sorry, g of x is equal to tox and t of y is equal to one. Right? And so now you have that the distance between t of x uh let me make make a little more space. Then you have that the actually we just continue down here. So that the distance comma t of y the map is contracting. So this is less or equal to this constant times this here. On the other hand they're both fixed points. So t of x is x. This here is x and this here is y. So if we write this out so this is x comma y. And so you see that this thing here is some constant less than one strictly less than one times itself. So this means of course that this number here this non- negative number must be zero. And so this of course implies by the actions of a metric space that X is equal to Y. Right? So a contracting map has at most one fixed point. Now the other thing is that if you take a metric space um if you take a metric space right so this here is cushy complete so now I'm going to take a cushy complete metric space so it could be continuous function on some closed interval and that's how we will apply it but it works more generally So we have a fin. So if if this here is a complete cushy complete metric space uh and t from x into x is Yeah. Uh contracting map then t has a unique fixed bot. We know it only have it have at most one. So the statement really is that that it has one right? has a unique fix point. Okay. So, so let's try to prove this. And you might remember and if you don't that's fine but you might remember how we used it in the new methods because the new methods was like it was a version of this on a So you had a map from R to R and to find the fixed point and so you wondered what you were there and you knew the message was something about finding a point where a function vanishes, right? And that was set up as a fixed point theorem. And so what you did is you made a good choice. I mean a choice that look reasonable, right? This is not exactly where the function vanishes, but something that looks close to where it vanish. And then you iterate, you took the image under the map and you iterated this. And so it's the same we're going to do here. So, and this time we we we don't even need to make a good choice. So, we just take um we just take let x here be any point in the metric space. So, you're just fixing some point in the metric space. And now you're looking at so you're looking at the sequence x t of x and then you apply t to t of x. So this is I write this as this. Then you apply t to t squared of x. So that's right like this. And so you keep applying t more and more times. Right? And so this gives you a sequence and so on. So this gives you a sequence. Okay? And now the claim is that this sequence here. So claim that this sequence here converge to right. So it converge and the limit here this here is a fixed point for G. So that's a claim. Okay. Now, so we wanted to prove first that is converging. Okay. So we're going to prove first. So we first show that TN is a cushy sequence. Okay. So now let's look at um so we're supposed to look if you're looking at a if you try to prove that something is a cruise sequence then you're looking at the distance between elements in the sequence where both of these elements is sufficiently far right that's what you're supposed to look at and so let me write the m here so I can sing about one of them as being further out than the other one. So I'm going to think about m here as being n plus some number k, right? Some integer k, right? And so I'm interested in estimating the distance between tn of x and t n + k of x. Okay. Now in order to do that let me start with something simpler first. Let me look at the distance between T of X uh let me look at the distance between T um L of X and T L + one of X. Okay. So two consecutive elements in the sequence. Okay. Now I can sing it. So this thing here well this is equal to the distance between t of t uh l -1 of x and then uh t of g l of of x like that. Right? I can write it like that. Right? I just But now of course, so you see here there's some elements in X in the spa space X. Here's another element. They both have T applied to it. T is contracting. So you get C T L minus one X uh TL of X. So you see that if you take two consecutive elements and you're taking the distance then it's bounded by this constant C times right where you have one less uh where you have have have applied t one less time on both right these are again consecutive elements but but the highest one is one less right okay so now if you iterate this uh okay so iterating this so let's see maybe maybe okay maybe let me wait with iterating let me just look at at what we need so we have this in here and this here I can write as as um so here you see here I can write this AST the distance t and then t n minus one x and then t t n -1 + k x like this right and so here I can use the same trick that it get c and then d t n minus 1 x comma t n -1 + k of x right and this one here I can keep going like this right I can keep going until there is the I' I've used up all my ends right and so I can keep going and so this is lesser equal to c to the n and then the last one I get is I get x and then I get t k of x right I want to show that this thing here becomes small as long as n remember k is a positive integer as long as n is sufficiently large right so I need but this. So this is a hopeful sign because when n get large this here get really really small right but I still need to estimate this here right now. So how do I estimate it? I using what I did over here. So I um so you're looking at so you have the distance between x and t k of x This thing here I can use this triangle inequality. So I can say that this is less than dx t of x plus d t of x g ^2 of x plus d t of x, you know, like cube of x. and then all the way up to d t k minus one of x t k of x right so this is just a triangle inequality right now this may seems ra rather bad estimate but let's see how bad it is so uh right so now this first thing here I'm just leaving it I can't do anything about that so I need to just take that this one here. So I'm using this with between two consecutive. So in this case it's just bounded by C * D X right and the next one here this one here is bounded by C ^ 2 D X GX and then and the next right and so on up to this one here is bounded by uh C K - one uh D X T X right and so you see that now this here factor out so this here is so this factor out and then in this bracket you get 1 + C + C^ 2 plus all the way up to C K minus But this is a geometric series right this is a geometric series and this is certainly less than when I take remember C is strictly less than one so it's a geometric series it's a convergent geometric series so this here is less than d xt of x and then this sum well it's less than when you're summing it all the way to infinity so this is less than one. This is the sum of the geometric series. C is strictly less than one, right? C is positive and is strictly less than one. Okay? So you see now that we have right so we have that so what we were interested in is we were interested in saying that as long as I choose little and sufficiently large then this thing here must be very small. Right? And we know already that it's bounded like this. And now I fill in this and you see this here. So this means that this is less than cn. And then what you get here is uh 1 minus c and then times d x g of x, right? x is fixed. And so you see that when n little n is sufficiently large then this whole thing here is as small as you want. Right? So this means that what we have proven here is that this sequence here is a cushy sequence. So we've proven that. Okay. Now of course this is where the assumption comes in that this metric space is cushy complete right. So, so uh since x this metric space is cushy complete and this sequence here It is convergent, >> right? Yeah. >> I'm sorry. >> Yep. >> Are you able to explain again how we got that for the DXDX or we're just saying that >> right? So I'm saying that X is fixed. You you pick any point you want. And I claim that if I you know it may be a very bad candidate for the fixed point, but it doesn't matter. It's okay. Uh it may just take you longer to get to the fixed point, but you fix X and then you're looking at this sequence and then I claim that this sequence will be a cushy sequence, right? And so x is fixed. And so we have this inequality here. And what we need is that when little n is sufficiently far, you know, large, then for all k is positive integer, right? This here is like further out than n. Then for all k and it should be independent on k. This thing here is small. But this is >> get rid of the whole thing from the previous step was now not a TK of X, right? So, >> so so so since X is fixed, X is fixed, TX is fixed. >> So, this is just a constant. >> Yeah. Okay. So um right so what we have proven is that so we have so we have this koshi complete metric space and we have this sequence x was fixed again that is a cush sequence and so since this metric space is cush complete this is convergent and I can denote the limits so I just call the limits x infinity right so if you have is now I want to show that uh that uh so so the next claim is is that x infinity is a fixed point for for g okay okay so if I'm looking at this sequence here. Suppose I take this sequence and suppose I take T of this sequence. So if I take T of this sequence, this here is nothing but the next element in the sequence. So this one here will still converge to X infinit, right? Because it's just shifted by one. But then on the other hand, so now if you're looking at um at so so you have that if you're looking at t so you want to we want to prove that um right so now uh so now if we're looking at t of x infinity the distance between t of x infinity and uh and t uh n + one of x suppose I'm looking at this distance here right well this here I can think about as the distance between t of x infinity and t of tn of x but here there are now both of these element you can about this is just some element applied t to it. Here there's t applied to that. So this is less than the distance x infinity to t n. There's a constant c less than one in front. So like this right by the contracting map property. But now you see that as n go to infinity this thing here goes to zero. Right? So this means that this thing here converts to this point. Right? So you have that. So you have that you have that that if you're looking at uh if you're looking at um right again as as n go to as n go to infinity uh Since since tn of x converts to x infinity then we have that the distance this is equivalent to that the distance here goes to zero. And then by this inequality it means that the distance tx infinity and t n + one of x goes to zero right and so this means that this is just some fixed point. It means that this sequence here, so this implies that this sequence converge to t of x infinity, right? But on the other hand, we already observe that this sequence also converge to x infinity, right? But you can't can you know there's the so it converges to this and it converts to that, but it can only have one limit. So those two things are equal. So you conclude that x infinity is equal to g of x infinity and so x infinity is a fixed point. Right? So this proved this theorem. And again we already knew that the limit was uh was unique. Right? Okay. So now what how is this related to the picar linda lift theorem and so it's related in the following way and again this is uh something that have been used to solve a lot of differential equations um and so we need to define space and a map. the spaces initially but we have to restrict it but initially let's think about some continuous functions on some interval let's start with just continuous function but it's not quite going to be this space I will have to look at a smaller yeah Right. That's a good question. So, so that's right. So, this comes with this Newton method. So, we used the so we used this contracting mapping for R in the Newton method to find a zero. Okay. And to some I mean that was a great idea. Uh Newton was a pretty famous guy for a good reason. uh but in a way this is more ingenious I think because it's like you know metric space what the hell does this have to do with differential equation right but and the reason why in the other one we had to restrict it was that the map we defined wasn't contracting everywhere it needed sinks to be pretty close initially for for there to exist a c strictly less than one right so that's where I came in it wasn't really it wasn't really because in in N or if Yeah. Okay. So now again so so we need to relate this that seems to have nothing to do with differential equation. We need to relate it to the differential equation. So again what is the space the metric space that we're going to look at and again it's not exactly this but it's just a subset of it. So, so, so, so it's it's this space and with the usual metric that we have talked about, right? That is going to be the the metric space. Now, what is the map T? And so the map t is so t here um so t here is going to be a map from continuous functions uh into the space of continuous functions and it's going to be defined um as follow and if yeah I'll come to this in a second so uh t of x t of y. So y think about y as being a continuous function on this integral, right? And t of y is now equal to uh a plus and then the integral in and then right then the inte uh integral. So this is a so t of y is of an element here. This one here is also supposed to be an element here. So this is a function. So we want to find out what the value is at x. And it's a this constant a plus the integral from zero to x uh and then of f of uh y uh plus uh g of x and this here is a function of x right also it's like this uh and I shouldn't write x because I use now x up here so I write it like DF okay that's how the map is going to be defined so again if you take so y here so y is going so y is a continuous function on this interval and I will have to restrict it and this is exactly when you asking what you know in Newton methods right why why did we have to pick this good choice it's exactly like this that it's this map is not contracting on this whole space. Okay. So we have to in a way we have to do the same stuff. We have to make a good choice first and so that's why we have to restrict the space. Okay. And it actually is I mean it's part of the beauty is that it's pretty much optimal this stuff this sort of general principle uh we can come back to that. So this is the map t. And so the first thing that you observe is that t. So this gives you a this function here. Right? Remember that. So if y is continuous, g is continuous. If y is continuous, f is continuous. Everything here is continuous. And so this means that by the fundamental theorem of calculus this function here is actually even differentiable right and the derivative this is just a constant so this function here is differentiable let alone continuous so it's definitely in the space and the derivative of this map by the fundamental theorem of calculus This uh so by the fundamental of calculus the derivative is just what is inside here. So this is just f of y plus g of x right and if you want to write x in then it should be like this right so that's so and then one more thing you observe which is also immediate that if you take a continuous function like this and now you evaluate this now you evaluate this at zero right if x is zero but then this integral it's over just a point so this here is zero so this means that the value here is a right okay and so now the next thing you observe is that So the next thing we observe is that um that if uh if you have a fixed point so if I mean I think this is another nice thing is that you know that the way it's set up is that you just need to use continuous functions. Right. But of course, if you want a solution to this, it means that the function must have a derivative. Yeah. Yeah. We don't know that yet. I mean, that's a major point actually, right? And again, just like in the Newton methods, we have to restrict where we're looking at it. Yeah. Okay. So but but the first thing I want to observe is if uh if y is a fixed point well then t of y is equal to y and so what does this mean? Well, the derivative. So it means that if this is the case, right? Then we have that t of y is of this form. So it has a derivative and that derivative is this. Right? So this means that y would have it because y is equal to this. So y is differentiable and the derivative is equal to this. And we always have whether it's a fixed point or not. We always have that t y of zero is is a and since it is a fixed point this is also this. So you see that if it is a fixed point then it is a solution to the differential equation. Okay. Now then then the the the point comes in the key point comes in with um proving that the map is contracting. Okay. And so so now so we need to prove need to show that t is a contracting map. So I define so set I I I I have to define a number of things because again I have to it's not t is not going to be contracting on the space of continuous function. So I have to look at some subset of continuous function and the right subset is just a ball. It's a closed ball. So it's so it's going to be so so we're going to maybe I'll just say first that we're going to restrict uh t. So t here will be restricted now to we will think about it as a map on some ball into itself. But it's not at all clear that this map takes a ball into itself. Okay. And what do I mean by ball? So I have this bar up here. So I just means that this thing here is going to be the function y that is continuous. Sorry continuous. And then it's not quite going to be this either. I have to restrict but I'll get to this in a second. So at the moment you can think about it as being continuous function on the interval so that the norm of y at each point x is less or equal to r and this bar here refer to that lesser that equal is also allowed. Right? Now this here is really like the board right these are are functions if you're thinking about the function in the space of continuous function that is constant zero right then these are the functions whose distance this is the same as the space of continuous functions whose distance to the constant function zero is at most uh this is the zero function is less or equal to sorry this is getting a little small over here right so it's just okay and again it's not it's going to be I will have to restrict the interval here to make to make sure that the map is contracted so but first I want to define and this radius here. Okay. And so the radius is so I'm setting r here equal a was just a constant. I take the absolute value of a and I add two to it. Then I define two other yeah and there's no way around it. Uh you have to define we will require to define several constants. First L1 capital L1 is going to be another constant. It's going to be the maximum and then you take uh then you take of over set where set here is less than R and then you take the value like this. Okay, remember f is continuous. So if I looking at where the norm of x is less or equal to some constant then this the maximum is achieved on this. So this a just some real number positive real non- negative non- negative real number and then I define L2 to be the maximum of where I of maximum on the unit ball here and where norm of X is less than one of G of X like there. Okay. And now what I want to do is so the first step is so the first step is the following. So first first step And the proof uh is to prove the following that there exist there exist uh uh uh delta zero. This is not the delta that I will use eventually. Um I would have to restrict it further. There exist delta serum. So that if you're looking at the space if y here is in the space of continuous functions on this interval here then t of y sorry if y is in this here and y is in the unit form and not in the uniform that y here is lesser equal to r right so it's a continuous function on this interval and the norm is lesser equal to r so this means that so this is of course the same as saying that y is in this ball here uh when I'm now thinking about this as a space but you can forget about that if you want it's the Okay. But I and I want to show that t of y is in the same space, right? So I need so t of y. So I need so I want to show so want to show want to show that t of y at each x here the norm is lesser equal to one right then it if I have that I already know that this function t of y is continuous it's it's actually even differentiable right But it's in particular continuous. And if I have this then I know that this space is taking into itself. Right? Okay. So now how do I do that? So I I that's where I need to restrict the interval that I'm looking on and and again we'll come back to it but there's a good reason to rest that we have to restrict otherwise it couldn't be possibly be true. >> Yeah. to be contracting. Do we need it strictly less than? >> So remember contracting means that there exist a constant C strictly less than one. This here had nothing to do with a constant C. This here is just the space that we're looking at the map on. Okay. So, so, so and the reason why I make here. So, again, so this have nothing to do with that C. But the reason why I want this lesser equal to is that I want to have that the space is C complete. Okay, sorry. So, let me just try to make that clear. So I take I have a to get a fix point for a contracting map you need a space that is cushy complete right that when we prove this for the metric space we have a good candidate right we have the candidate of continuous functions on some closed interval like this right this is cushy complete right with a usual metric but I'm not going to look at that space because my map is not actually contracting on the case it's contracting on a subset right and so I need that subset so so so in the end I sort of you know I'm not working on this but I'm working on a subset right and I need that subset to be complete so basically what I have is that this here is the metric giant metric space I start with then I'm looking at a ball in this and if I take the closed ball and and it happened to be at the origin but it could be just at any point right if you take a metric space and you're taking something like this if the metric space is cushy complete then this subset is also cushy complete and but this require I have less or equal to right because else it could kind of converge to something where where you got equality right so so that was why I I do it like Okay. So um so let's see. So we are trying we we defined we have already defined this radius capital R and then we have these two constant uh L1 and L2 and what I need to prove is the first step here is to prove that if I'm going to look again so the first step is that I need to restrict so I need to restrict so I'm going to look at are subs these spaces of this is a subset of the continuous functions and I need to prove that if y is in here then the image is in the same space. Okay. And so this is the statement that if y is continuous the norm of this function is less or equal to r. So at each point each x the absolute value of y of x is less or equal to r. Then you have the same for the image under t. We already know again that the image under t of y is continuous. Okay. Okay. And so but I and what I can do is I can restrict my interval. So I will restrict the interval as follows. So I'm going to pick delta zero to be the minimum of one uh one over L + one. L is non- negative. In principle it could be zero. I don't want to worry about that. So I just add one. And L2 could also be zero. Although it's pretty unlikely that any of them are zero. But I'm just to be safe. if I'm just adding so I don't divide by zero. So that's why and the so and and the first thing is that I'm so and then I'm going to look at the interval from this and this is not going to be my final I will have to do some further restriction but I'm going to look at this interval initially okay and the one here just comes in that I want this here to be a sub subset of this unit interval So now let's let's try. So now we are in good shape here. So now let's look at t y and we need to estimate this at each x. Right? We want to say that the norm is less than capital less or equal to capital R. But let's just look at what this is. This thing here is equal to this function t of y is defined to be a plus the integral from zero to x of uh f of y of s plus g of s ds and then I have to have absolute value like that. And now I can just use the triangle inequality of course sort of trially. I get absolute value of this and then plus and then the integral here uh like that. Oops. And then I can just take this absolute value in under. So I get less or equal to a plus and then the integral and then the absolute value of f of y of s. And here I can also take the absolute value using the triangle equals on each individually. So I can write it like this. Now this is where I use. So s here will have to lie between zero and x right and so x is between let me write just draw it here. So here I have zero here I have delta zero and then I have this is zero and here I have x. somewhere X, right? But since, right? So this means that that um this means that so here you have X but but right but X itself X has to lie X has to lie between delta 0 minus delta 0 and delta 0 and S has to lie between zero and X. So this means that s here lies between like x will lie in this interval also right but now you see that um so now if we're looking at so we have t of y in x again remember that x here is less than or equal to delta z. So we have that this thing here is less or equal to a plus and then the integral from 0 to x of f of y of s plus g of s ds. Right? And and the first thing I observe is that s here is is also just because x was in that interval, you also have that s because x is in that interval, s is also in this interval. The second thing I observe is that I'm assuming that the function that I start with at each point have no less than R. Now if I using these two things then I have that. So this means that g of s this one here this is how we define l2 right because this interval here is contained in the interval between minus1 and one this here is contained in the interval between minus1 and one right so we have that g of s is less than this l2 lesser equal to L2. Right? The second thing we observe is that because we have this here for each S we have this then it means you see by the first by the f by the definition of L1 that uh f of y of less this thing here is less than L1. Okay, L1 and L2 are are now fixed numbers, right? And so you see that this second thing here I can bound this thing here by so this is lesser equal to a uh and that should have been an absolute value somehow lost it when I copied from this line. um a absolute value of a and then on the first one here the length of this interval but that is of course bounded by delta zero right so this is plus delta 0 and then the maximal possible value of this that would be l1 and then likewise the length of this interval you're integrating over is at most delta zero and this one here cannot be larger than L2. So you have this right and now remember what delta zero was and I will just I have it I think on the both on board below here but let me just write it here. This here was what delta 0 was chosen to be the minimum 1 / l1 + 1 uh 1 / l2 + 1. Okay. So now, so now we have that this thing here is less than this here. We just keep this thing here. Well, delta is in particular less than this thing here. So you see that if you put plug in this so it's like plus 1 L1 + 1 * L1. Likewise over here you're using this. So you're getting 1 / L2 + 1 L2. And now you see that this thing here is less than one. This is less than one. So this is less than a. It's actually strictly less but it doesn't really matter. a + uh plus uh 2 like this. Okay. So this means that so then but this here this here was exactly the definition of capital R right and so you have that and when I copied it over I also forgot to put absolute on here right so you have that the if so you have that if so the conclusion here is that if y here is a continuous function on this interval here and the norm of y at each point is less or equal to r. Well, then you have that t of y at each point is lesser now lesser. It's actually strictly less, but we don't care about that. Okay. So, so, so what you have now is, so what we now have proven is that we have this map t and now I'm going to sing about this map sorry on the space of of y that is continuous on this interval here. Um and what you have is and also sorry and I'm thinking about with the norm at each point this here is less than r and again you can this is really a ball in this metric space but let me just write it out like this and what you have is that sorry this is the space and you have that t of y if y is in this space then t of y is in the same space. So t of y is also continuous on that interval and t of y at each point x is less or equal to one. So the map map this space into itself. Okay. Now the next thing we will we want to prove is that the map is contracting. Okay. Right? You see that you need you know if this space is not stable right so imagine that you take so you we're starting with some giant metric space this is the continuous function say on this interval this and then we're looking at some subspace of that. So these are continuous on a smaller interval. Okay. But this but if the and then we have defined a map but if the you know if if if somehow the map was taking us out of the space where it's contracting then we couldn't keep applying the contracting map right it wouldn't anymore be you know by and and the thing is that you want to just iterate. You want to keep you want to pick some point and then you want to keep applying the contracting map. So you want it to stay in the space where it is contracting, right? And so this is what we did in one, but we haven't yet proved that the map is contracting. And so now to prove that the map is contracting, we're going to further restrict the interval. Okay? And so this is so I'm going to set I'm going to define now one more constant. Sorry about that. So this is m here and m is going to be just the max of fprime uh of uh fprime of set absolute value of this where set here is lesser equals one. Fine. So this is my uh this is my um the the well almost the second last constant unfortunately and now I'm going to define this. So the last constant is going to be the integral that I'm going to work with. Right? So remember what I'm trying to do is I have this differential equation and I want to say that near zero there is a solution but near zero just mean that there exists some tiny interval around zero where I have a solution and again if I have time or else I will do it next time I will give an example where you can see that in general you would need to look at a very tiny interval for this to have a solution otherwise it doesn't have a solution on a very large set. Okay. So I define it like this and then I define delta here. So delta is now going to be the minimum of delta zero the one from before and then 1 over 2 m + one. And now I want to look at the space. So I want to look at t. And then t is going to be a map from the continuous functions. So y here is a continuous function on now this little interval. So this interval here because it's you have the minimum of this. This is interval is contained in the corresponding interval with the delta to zero. So it's y in this space such that the norm here at each point is lesser equal to r. That's a space I'm going to look at. And we already know that t maps this space into itself, right? Because there's really no new statement if the function is is right. So as long as you have this here and you apply t on it, t when you apply t on a function it's defined on the same interval. So it will automatically defined on this smaller interval and and we already have this property. Okay. So so t maps this space here into itself. Okay. And now I want to prove I want to estimate. So I take two elements in this space. So I have y1 and y2. So you're looking at so y1 and y2 are in this space. And you want to look at what is the distance between y1 and y2. Right? So we want this here and we want what I want to prove is that it's contracting. So I want to show and I want to prove I'm going to prove it. You know my constant C will be explicit. It would be just a half. So that certainly is less than one. And this is what I want. Okay. So now um So now let's look at then. So t of y1 minus t of y2. this thing here y t of y1 is defined to be a plus the integral sorry and let me write so I'm going to let me just make a little more space here I worried I'm running out of time but let's see so this thing here minus t of y2 and I'm just looking at the difference in some x and again x here is now in x here will be in the interval um you were looking at x in the interval in this interval and so I'm just writing down first here what this is this is the integral of from a to x of f of y1 uh s plus g of s Um and then you have minus this is what you get for a2 for y2 a. So minus this thing here. So this is the difference right. And what you see is the first thing you observe is that this a here cancels right but it not only does this cancel but this term here also cancel okay and that actually there's a good reason that there are lower order and and the point here is that right the the the the main point is in the unknown function anyway right and it's it's a what's called a nonlinear equation um So that's a difficulty. So but what you then get when you write when you have when you have after the cancellation what you get is f of y1 of s minus f of y2 of s ds. Okay. So you have that. Now I will now I will look at this thing here and that thing here and I'm going to and you have to now abstract. So, so now I'm going to look at this difference here. And then now the thing is that you have to kind of abstract from it and you have to think about S as being if you think about S as being fixed, right? Then this is just two numbers, right? You could think about this as set one and this here as set two, right? This is set one and this here is set two. So it's like f of set one minus f of set two. Right? Now the mean value theorem tells us that this thing here is equal to the derivative at some intermediate point. Say let's say set three where set three is between is between set one and set two, right? And then times set one minus set two, right? And but you okay? So this is so this is just for you just for any xs you have this. Okay, but this means that this means now we almost out of time. Uh so this means that the when you're looking at the norm of this f of y1 of s minus f of y 2 of s right that the norm here is so the norm is equal to fprime at set three times set one which is and set one I can write Again it's really this and this is set two. This thing here remember set is some point in between those two points right? But both of these points both of these points here both this one here and that one here have norm less than r. Right? So this here is so but now where the way that m was defined uh and it should have been on the same board. So m here was defined to be the maximum of fprime of set where set was less or equal to one. And so you see that this thing here where you take the derivative that is bounded by m right. So this thing here is less than m y1 s minus y2 of s like that. Okay I so I'm not sure where we should stop. I mean we're over and I probably need a few more minutes. Maybe we should stop and it's not a great place to stop, but uh but that's how it goes. Uh so I will uh keep you in suspension uh and um and so we'll pick up uh from here on on Tuesday. And so I I want anyway to explain to you why actually this method which seems a little crazy in a way because it's bringing in all these things why it turned out to be basically optimal. Okay. And then we'll do a review the rest of the time on on Tuesday.