All right. Well, let's continue with our discussion of linear regression modeling. And as we introduced last time, there are ways one can formalize fitting a model, which is to propose a model, specify criteria for judging different fits or estimators of model parameters, then find the best estimators, and then check our assumptions underlying the specification of the criterion. and possibly uh if necessary modify the model because the assumptions that we made aren't satisfied. So we either want to u add additional assumptions or consider transformations of the model perhaps. Um so um with ordinary le squares regression um we have this criterion for specifying regression parameters and we specify these in terms of a y vector and this has values of a dependent variable across cases in the data. an X matrix which will have n rows and p columns and we'll have sort of general elements x i j and then u our model will be that y is equal to x the matrix times a beta vector. So we can have a beta vector that has p components an error vector which has n terms corresponding to the n cases. So in specifying the regression model we have that our n vector y is going to be a linear combination of the columns of x and there will be a an error vector uh characterizing the discrepancy from that. So um so how should we specify this beta vector if we have a least squares criterion? We can look at sum one to n of y i minus y i where say y hat is equal to x beta hat and this criterion uh is basically a sum of squares criterion. So it's like a sum of squared errors. Now minimizing this can be done just with simple calculus. We can plug in for uh the in the formula and have this sum of squares criterion which is simply y - x beta transpose y - x beta. So we have Q of beta is basically Y - X beta squared. So it's the distance of our Y our n vector from the prediction or fitted value. I guess maybe I'll put the beta hat here to make it uh explicit. And we basically want our fitted values to be as close as possible to the actual values. Now, because this criterion is a quadratic, okay, it's a quadratic in the regression coefficients. We can simply take derivatives of Q and solve for those derivatives equal to zero. So that's the first order conditions and um let's see how do we know whether the solution to this equation actually minimizes the sum of squared errors criterion. A first order condition is one where the derivative of the function is equal to zero. That could be at a minimum, but it also could be at a maximum. >> Yes. >> You also want to check for the second order and make sure that it's positive. >> Yes. Right. We want to take the second order derivative. And if it's positive then we have AI guess it's a concave or sorry a convex function and so the first derivative will solve that. Now this is the first derivative equation. Um if we were to uh look at dq of beta by d beta j let's see is that beta j right um if we were to look at the uh second order derivative by d beta bet theta transpose then analytically we'll basically get this term times minus x and so that will end up being a positive term in terms of products of columns of x and the full x matrix and uh so so with that we have this set of equations um now if you read up on regression theory, linear model theory. Um, this equation of the derivative of Q with respect to beta equaling zero is equivalent to this equation here, which is just obtained by eliminating the minus2 factor and solving for beta. And this is called the normal equations. Um what is familiar to some people is that in statistics theory the names of important terms is often not very sophisticated in terms of here we have what we call the normal equations. There's nothing really normal about it, but it's a way of specifying a set of equations that we need to solve. And if the xrpose x matrix is invertible, then we have a solution by multiplying both sides of this equation by the inverse. And in order for this process to work, we need to have that X must have full column rank. And um all right. So so here if we plug in that le squares estimate. So we have beta hat equal to xrpose x inverse xrpose y If we plug that into our formula for the fitted values, then this becomes this formula time y and I'll put square brackets around that. um and this is called the hat matrix by uh some statisticians. Now this matrix H is actually a very special matrix. Um it has special properties and does anyone sort of know what those special properties might be? Anybody in the back? No. Kai, >> uh, >> from memory, it's a it's a projection on this column space. >> Yes, it is exactly. So, H is a projection matrix. um and it's onto sort of the column space of the X Now what are properties of a projection matrix? If we multiply the projection matrix by itself, we actually get the projection matrix. And what's um relevant is that if we were to take sort of h yhat um which is then equal to h * h y. If this first term is in the column space of X as a projection, then projecting it onto that same column space will have no difference. So this is sort of logically uh what it should be. And if we multiply out the projection matrix times itself, we get this um this property. Okay. Well, importantly in modeling is to look at residuals um which are sort of model errors. And so if we have epsilon hat is equal to y - yhat. Okay, this is y - or y * the identity matrix minus h y and this um this matrix here multiplying y to give us our residuals. It is also a projection matrix. So this is a projection as well. And if we multiply I - H * I - H and expand it out, we get I 2 - 2 H + H 2 and that equ= I - H. So you know we can mathematically verify that it's a projection and a very important property of this residual vector is that it is orthogonal um to the fitted value. So in the normal equations we have this equation must equal zero. This term here is the residual vector. And if we multiply that n vector by the transpose of x and it's equal to zero then we must have that um the error vector epsilon hat is orthogonal to x. Um, now let's see. I'm not sure if it's on the next slide or not. Um, and something to keep in mind that's really quite useful when we use linear algebra with leaf squares is that we have y being in n-dimensional space. Um the uh we have an x matrix n by p um which corresponds to sort of a column space of x which is a subspace of r to the n um let's see if we have yhat and epsilon hat these are orthogonal to each other. So if we think in sort of n dimensions of having a y vector have a yhat n vector um then y minus y sorry y not yhat y minus yhat So if we take the vector from here to here that's y minus y hat. Um okay this is going to be orthogonal to yhat. So we actually have right angles here between the yhat vector and the y vector. Sorry, we have the yhat vector and the error vector. And so from this we have that um the squared length of y is equal to the squared length of y hat plus the squared length of the residual vector. And then if we expand this squared length out, we actually get zero because of the orthogonality. So with le squares, we basically have a sort of Pythagorean theorem that generalizes from two dimensions to n dimensions. And that generalization is quite uh convenient and useful when we think about not the mathematical exercise of le squares but we think about having probability distributions on say the errors. Um so so that leads us to trying to extend the mathematical regression model to a probability model. And so with this we have constants assumptions for the independent variables and the X matrix constants for the regression parameters. But the error terms uh those will be assumed to follow some probability model. What's useful to think about is well what would be the simplest possible probability model to to apply to a regression? Well, we could assume that the errors are IID which means independent and identically distributed. And we could also for convenience assume that they are normally uh distributed. Um and so this is a normal linear regression model. And when we write out the model equation here, um the model equation basically is constants plus the error vector. and the error vector epsilon 1 to epsilon n being iid normal. This in fact is consistent or is equivalent to a multivariate normal distribution of dimension n with a zero vector for the mean and a covariance matrix that's diagonal with constant variance. So this is going to be a convenient model for us to work with. And what we'll see is that different inferences about how important different independent variables are in a regression model can be judged using this model as sort of a baseline model for that evaluation. So importantly um the distribution of the residuals leads us to a distribution of the dependent variable vector y. And so in this slide we use the notation of a mu vector for the conditional expectation of the y vector given x and beta. And we'll define this just to be a mu vector that's an n vector. And we'll define the co-variance matrix of the y vector for the conditional covariance. Okay, this is going to be equal to the product of y minus its mean times the transpose of y minus its mean. And so this is an n by one 1 by n term. So this is an n byn matrix and we'll call this capital sigma as a coariance matrix. Now for the special case of iid errors um this coariance matrix will be diagonal with constant sigma squared and it will turn out that um this conditional distribution of y given x and beta we'll have a multormal distribution with a mean vector mu and a covariance matrix sigma. So an n-dimensional multivariant normal distribution. Okay. Well, what we're going to do is show results of what distribution the Y vector is as well as show what the distribution is of the le squares estimate is using moment generating functions. So this um example u of the application of moment generating functions is really quite neat because the arguments are very simple and accessible. So if we have a an nvariat random vector y and a constant vector t, then the moment generating function of the y vector is equal to the expected value of the exponential of t transpose y. So this moment generating function has uh is a function of the t vector and we just plug into this formula. Now because the y's in fact are independent of each other then we have this expected product of terms is the product of the expectations. So we're going to use that independence property uh where expectations of products are products of the expectations. And then for each of the y's we can plug in the moment generating function for each y I and that's e to the ti mui plus a half ti 2 sigma squ. We went through this moment generating function you know in our section on on probability theory. Now what's important from this example is if we take this product of all the moment generating functions and then try to express it in terms of the T vector, the mu vector and the sigma matrix. we get this formula and this formula is in fact the moment generating function for a multivariant normal with a given mean vector mu and a given coariance matrix sigma. So that result is sort of trivial, not surprising. What's less surprising is that we can use moment generating functions to solve for the distribution of the le squares estimate. So this first formula here is the moment generating function for beta hat. And in writing that out m some sub beta hat I'm going to use a different argument toao which will be a p vector and this is going to be the expected value of e to the tow transpose beta hat. So this is the definition of the moment generating function. if we define the matrix A to be the basically the premultiple factor of uh A that gives us beta hat. Then our moment generating function for beta hat can be written as this expression just plugging in a y for beta hat. But then we can express to transpose a equal to tanspose. So this moment generating function of the le squares estimates beta hat is actually the value of the moment generating function of the multinnormal vector evaluated at t equal to arpose toao. And so we can simply plug in this value of uh t and get our result. And so tanspose mu is ends up being to transpose beta. and tRpose sigma t is equal to this product. And if we simplify it, we basically have a sort of mean vector beta for the le squares estimate and a covariance matrix for the le squares estimate that's given by sigma^ 2 xrpose x inverse. So this is our moment generating function of beta hat and by the uniqueness of moment generating functions we can recognize this as a multi-normal with the given mean vector and the given coariance matrix. So uh so we have multivariate normality of the le squares estimates which is very convenient and useful. Now from this we end up getting marginal distributions that are normal for each of the le squares estimates. So we're just thinking in this slide of the j component of beta hat. Well, it's univariate normal with mean beta j and variance given by sigma squar times the j diagonal element of xrpose x inverse and uh so so we get this nice distribution result. Um now there's more distribution theory here to go through but um let's see something just to think about that's I think very powerful is um in some examples um where we have this model we may have control over what our independent variable matrix is. And in a scientific experiment, we might vary different conditions of the experiment yielding Y for different conditions of X. And with these uh models, we might be interested in a particular sort of column of the X matrix and want to estimate the beta J the regression parameter relationship for that. And so if we had control over the X matrix, we might try to make the J diagonal the smallest we can so that the precision of that regression parameter estimate is as small as possible. suppose I guess for simplicity that the X matrix suppose that XRpose X is a diagonal and here's CJ the diagonal values of XRpose X inverse will simply be so if we do a minus one there we can do a minus one here. Our uh diagonal entries will be smallest smaller the more large the J column is. And so when you think of um regression uh models and and uh uh experiments, we basically would perhaps want to have the spread in an independent variable be as big as possible in order to specify the line. So if we if we think of uh a regression model of y on x and we have um if we have points of x and y um basically the uh if we look at the sample mean of the x's and we consider consider sort of concentrating our x values as far away as possible. That presumably will yield more accurate estimates of the slope parameter in the relationship. And so you can think of basically if we observe points that are far away from the mean then those points will sort of pin down the regression line the greatest and this u issue arises in uh experimental design. Um and in experimental design, one can think of how one can construct X matrices that have these these properties. And as you might expect, the properties relate to the igen values of xrpose x and uh looking at uh methods for maximizing those values. All right. Well, we have we can do some more distribution theory which is to look at what the distribution is of our error vector y vector but we can also look at any uh matrix A* Y and look at the distribution of that transformation. It'll be a linear combination of the Y's for each component of Z. And it will actually have an M dimensional multinnormal distribution with mean value given by A times the expected value of Y and coariance matrix equal to A times the coariance of Y a transpose. And so this matrix A will give us the distribution of beta hat as we just did. But we can also use different definitions of A and Z. And the normal distribution theory leads to these sort of key properties of uh normal linear model terms. We have the beta hat le squar's estimate is multinnormal. We have that the error vector epsilon hat is also multinnormal. Um and but it's multormal in n dimensions with mean vector zero. So epsilon hat which is equal to i minus h y is distributed as a multinnormal in n dimensions with a covariance matrix given by sigma squ times the projection. Now what's significant is that this co-variance matrix here is not a full rank. So um this is non-s singular actually. Is that the right word? No, it's singular I guess. Um but it's singular. It's not invertible. And what does that mean? Well, that means that there are linear combinations of the error vector that have uh zero variance. There's a linear dependence in the error vectors. And so if we consider xhat and xrpose this and this is equal to the zero vector this is the normal equations. Um we basically have that fixed linear combinations of these residuals the residual vector are identically equal to zero. So we don't have um n sort of independent error terms. And so um because of that uh when we look at for example estimating the error variance sigma squared well if we take the sum of the squared residuals that's the trace of the coariance matrix of the residual vector and that's equal to the trace of this projection uh matrix I n minus H. And so the trace of a sum is the sum of the traces. And the trace of a matrix is product is also the trace of the product with terms reversed. So this gives us sigma^ 2 n minus trace of h and we get n minus p sigma squar for the expected value of sigma squar. And in regression models with normal linear models, we use this relationship to estimate sigma squar dividing both sides by n minus p, we get an unbiased estimate um of the error variance. Now an additional property that's from part C of this theorem is that the error vector epsilon hat and the regression parameter beta hat those happen to be independent of each other and the independence follows by looking at the joint distribution the moment joint moment generating function of a y and showing that that is equal to the moment generating function of beta hat times the moment generating function of epsilon hat. So the product of moment generating functions sort of allows us to determine the independence there. And when we have independence of the error vector and the regression parameter vector, then we can compute tstistics for regression parameters. And we end up as stated in the notes there that TJ equal to beta hat J minus the true beta J divided by sigma hat times C JJ J. Um this distribution will have a T distribution. Now, when you studied statistics, if you took a statistics course, you I'm sure came across the t distribution. And the t distribution is uh rather uh remarkable. Um this this turns out to be equal in distribution to a normal zero. uh distribution mean zero and some variance divided by the square root of a ki squared distribution divided by its degrees of freedom where these two things are independent of each other. And so um the t distribution well who can comment on what properties a t distribution has compared to a normal. The t distribution is symmetrical. It's somewhat bell-shaped. Well, if this numerator is a normal and this denominator is random, it's random near one. Um, then we'll have a heavier tail distribution. with the t. And so we need to uh be able to quantify sort of how significantly different from uh zero the tstistic is. So if we have an H knot that beta J is equal to zero then this turns out to be um basically have a t distribution a t distribution with uh n minus p degrees of freedom and so we can uh judge whether our data provides evidence against this null hypothesis or not. And we can test other hypotheses as well, not only that the beta j is equal to zero. We'll be covering this in a little more detail um with uh one of the lecture notes that was passed out for today. But um the uh let's see does anyone know the history of the t distribution? how it was discovered >> through Guinness. >> Yes. Uh there was a a statistician who was working at Guinness with quality control and uh he he would look at um he would look at uh samples very small samples of size four from a uh so we'll just write here Guinness um he would look at samples say X1 X2 X2, X3, X4 of a measurement. I'm not sure quite what the qual quality measure was, but you would calculate Xbar and the standard deviation of X um which is the square root of uh the sum of Xi - Xar^ 2 over over um over three. Well, actually I think he did it. Well, I I'll write in three. And um what he discovered was that uh if we look at Z equal to sort of Xbar over SX these outcomes of the sample means which uh suitably rescaled should follow a normal distribution because we're looking at a zcore. um this was not uh distributed as a normal 01. there was much greater variability and so um the person who did this work they wouldn't allow him to publish under his uh real name and so he published a paper under the pseudonym student and so we call this the students t distribution now but what was really quite remarkable was to see that in small samples the variability of these kinds of statistics in theory should be close to normal but in fact are systematically different. Um and with let's see with uh other questions that come up in regression um one can construct an F test of whether all the regression parameters beyond the first P are equal to zero or not. And one can look at the residual sum of squares from fitting the full model and then the residual sum of squares from fitting a submodel using just the first K. Sorry, the first K. I misspoke. Um and then this F statistic is a ratio of normalized sort of sums of squares and differences thereof. and and this F test statistic comes up as uh an analysis of variance statistic where one can estimate variability using the residual sum of squares from the full model and one can then also look at the residual sum of squares from the submodel and if both models are true meaning beta k + 1 to p are equal to zero then these formulas here are estimating the same variance and they're independent of each other and so we get the f distribution as the ratio of two uh kaiquare distributions that have uh different degrees of freedom. All right. Well, let's take a look at some real data. Um, the uh the the example data set I want to introduce is actually not a financial data set. This is a medical study. But um this uh this example uh comes up in some work by Efron and Hasty, Brad Efine and uh Trevor Hasty and they have some books. There's the elements of statistical learning. Actually this is uh hasty and then there's um with Ephrine there's u an advanced book on sort of computational uh uh statistics um a book that I text that I use in 1865 um and uh in this data set um one basically has a response variable and independent variables. And what's really key to know is experience we have with one regression problem extends to other regression problems. Just sort of the names of variables change and uh but the same issues arise. And so with this data set um we're trying to predict the uh LPSA variable um as it varies with other independent variables uh for subjects in a uh data set. This data set happened to be a data set on uh patients or subjects with prostate cancer. And so with any data set one can compute summary statistics which help us sort of detect whether there are sort of issues with the data or not. Um there's this pairs function in R which is quite convenient for just displaying all of the data. And if you look at this pairs plot, every pair of variables in the data set are plotted in a scatter plot with the other variables. And so along the diagonal we have the names of the variables and then we have um different relationships of those. Now if uh LPSA is the uh dependent variable of interest, if we look sort of across this row, um we're looking at the scatter plot of different independent variables with that. And it looks like the LCA V is probably a very strong relationship. Some of the variables in fact are discrete and we're able to see that as well. Um and if we just fit a simple regression, we end up getting output from the regression which consists of an estimate. We have a coefficient table with an estimate column, a standard error column, and then a t value. And then finally what's called a p value column. This is the probability that we have a larger value of the tstistic being observed. And what's being tabled here is results of hypothesis testing for each of the regression coefficients equaling zero or not in the true model. So we have estimates of these different regression parameters. We can get standard errors of those. The standard errors correspond to sigma hat cj actually it's I think it's the it's the square root of sigma squar cj um and then uh the t value is just the signal estimate to noise ratio which scales u in magnitude how important those factors are and we can calculate the uh p value let's see so if we have say a beta uh hat j value and it has this t distribution ution which is centered at the true beta J and um the spread is given by C hat CJ J square root um we can calculate we can basically test whether beta J is equal to zero And so if we sort of set this equal to zero, if we observe a value of beta hat j, um we can calculate how likely is it that we get a sort of beta hat j minus beta minus 0 over sigma hat cj. This is our t statistic. We can look at uh calculating this probability that the uh t statistic or of getting a greater than a large a larger value of that t statistic. And um with this uh let's see if we sort of consider Changing the scale here to just be beta hat j / sigma hat cj square root. This is our t statistic. Then we basically have a t distribution for the outcome of the le squares estimate. and we're calculating how likely is it we would get as large or larger a t statistic if uh the true regression parameters were zero or not. Now in looking at this these estimates, one of the uh challenges in part is that the scale of the parameter estimates varies depending on the units of the independent variables. And so in some problems we have very diverse independent variables in the data set. And the units are a property of the data set, but they're not really an important part of the problem. Um, and so what we can do is standardize the co-variants by normalizing them to have mean zero and standard deviation one. So if we have our X matrix equaling let's see how do I want to do this. Um so if we have P columns in our X matrix um we can basically take X one and transform it to X1 - Xar1 * the vector of ones and divide true by the standard deviation of X1. And so this we'll call this a random vector Z1 of standardized values. And if we do this, we're basically shifting the X's and rescaling the shifted values. It turns out that our regression model on the zcores or standardized scores are the same as the regression coefficients in the original units. So it's sort of obvious I guess but um if we have uh y uh is equal to beta 1 x1 plus beta 2 x2 up to beta pxp plus an error vector. And we consider Zj is just simply equal to XJ minus Xar J * the vector of ones and 1 over say SJ where SJ is equal to the sample variance of the X J's. Um we basically can sort of substitute in for each of the x's the formula here. So xbar j is equal to s j z j plus xar j uh plus xar j. So this times this is xar minus little xar. So and this is times the vector of ones. So if we plug in to our XJ values here, this then we end up getting this equation with um the same uh regression parameters come coming into play. All right. Um well when we fit the scaled regression uh independent variables uh model. Then notice that the t values and the p values for these two regressions are identical. So if we pick say the largest t value SVI or that's not quite the largest LCA of all but let's do SVI 2.949. If we scroll back to the original units, the t statistics are identical across all the variables and so are the p values. So in terms of interpreting how important different variables are, we get the same judge judgments of what's important in terms of t values and p values. But what's particularly useful though when we use the standardized covariants is that the magnitude of the coefficients when we have the standardized scale that corresponds to the impact of a one standard deviation move of the independent variable. So if we have a an age value that's one standard deviation above the mean, it doesn't have much of an impact on the dependent variable. If we have the SVI a one standard deviation move above a zcore of one then um it has a larger impact on on the dependent variable. So this standard deviation units can be a very convenient way to rescale our data. All right. Um now in in in judging the quality of regression models um we can calculate fitted values and pair those with the observed values and look at the scatter plot of observed versus fitted values. And this simple scatter plot will have a correlation statistic. And the square of that correlation statistic is actually called the multiple R squared or a coefficient of determination. If you're familiar with simple linear regression where you calculate correlation statistics, um you can think of the squared correlation as being useful. In multiple regression, we generalize a single correlation um statistic with the multiple R 2 coefficient. And so it basically tells us how um predictable our dependent variable is given the independent variables. Um now uh in terms of evaluating the assumptions of our regression model, there are regression diagnostics that we can apply to uh fitted models and there are a number of different important uh measures that we can uh apply and uh in the stats package There's this influence measures uh general function which gives a table of different statistics. Um there's this r student for computing studentized residuals. Um if we have epsilon hat is distributed as multivariant normal with mean zero and covariance matrix i - h * sigma squar um our residuals may have very different variances because of this i minus h factor in the co-variance and so Studentized residuals um basically will divide the residuals by the square root of that variance and an estimate of that. And that estimate of the variance that's in the divisor leads to non-normal but t distributions for the epsilon hats. So we'll see that play out in a moment. Um and then there are other statistics like how much does the regression parameter change if we include or exclude different data points, different cases in the data. Um so let's just see some of the results. So here's the student residuals for this regression model. And we h have a histogram which is unimodal symmetrical. Here is the uh what's called a uh quantile plot of the residuals that um where the quantile plot will follow a straight line if the data are consistent with the normal distribution model. and uh the t distribution for normalizing the residuals by estimates of the variance. Um what's uh what's rather useful when you use these uh methods for different regression problems is that you'll see that um there's sampling variability due to just the data set we we're working with. If you were to collect a new data set under identical conditions, you would get different results. These red bands correspond to bands you might expect to see with variation from one uh example to another. Now um this uh here is a plot called the influence plot in the car package and uh it plots hat values versus studentized residuals. Um the hat values are the diagonals of the H matrix. And um what's important about the hat values is that um let's see if the hat values were equal to one. So if say h subi i equals 1 then we would have y i is actually equal to y i. And so the i case it would be the sort of only case in the data set that allows you to estimate that um that value. So, so that case would have very high influence. So, hat values generally um are some well are close to P over N um and uh lower values correspond to lower influence and studentized residuals um are uh given by these magnitudes. Um and I believe what is drawn in this slide is yeah is the circle size is proportional to cook's distance and so um let's see with cook's distance if we have beta hat equal to uh xrpose x inverse xrpose y Um we can think of beta hat sub minus i which is the le squares estimate if we were to exclude the i case. Um so this corresponds to excluding the i case. Then well we have that this beta hat is distributed multinnormal with a mean vector the true beta and covariance matrix given by this. Um, we can actually look at beta hat minus or beta hat I minus beta hat and then consider the distance of this or the magnitude of the change in the beta and this cook's distance um will actually correspond closely to sort of a kai squared distribution because of um the relationship. Um so we're basically looking at the distance of beta hat I from the true beta um and normalizing that by the coariance matrix. Now um let's see and there there's basically a whole slew of different diagnostics that we can graph and I think it's very useful to have graphical methods to highlight what's perhaps important. Um in looking at this uh plotting from the car package or plot.lm um we can see how the residuals compare with the fitted values and we don't like to see any systematic pattern in that plot. We'd like that just to be flat. How that will change sometimes is that as the fitted values increase the residuals might increase in magnitude as well. So that would suggest that the residuals uh are dependent on the magnitude of the fitted values. Okay. We can also look at the normal QQ plot to see whether the data consistent with normal or not. And then one can look at the um the scale uh of the uh the scale of measures of the scale of the residual. So we can take the square root of the standardized residuals or the magnitude and see whether those have variation depending upon whether the fitted values are small or large. Here it looks like there may be a nonlinear relationship there. When we discover relationships then that u leads us to sort of refine our model assumptions. Um let's see this uh residual plots function is uh actually a function that looks at the sensitivity of our linear regression model to potential nonlinearity in the model dependence on on independent factors. And so it actually tries to fit curvature terms in to the residuals in the model. And if there's residual pre if there's curvature present in the residuals, then we might have a nonlinear model and need to expand with nonlinear terms. Okay. Um let's see. Well, with this normal linear model, um, we can consider the assumptions underlying that minus normality and those are called the Gaus Markov assumptions. So uh if we have our regression model in our for our y vector and x matrix um we set that up as the conditional expectation is x beta and the covariance matrix is equal to sigma^ 2 times the identity and with this gaus marov assumptions there's a really important theorem in uh linear models which is that the least squares estimates of the regression parameters give us the best estimates of any linear combination of the true regression parameters. So if we want to estimate a parameter theta which is a linear combination of the regression parameters then if the gaus markoff assumptions are satisfied then plugging in the le squares estimates provides an unbiased estimator that is also the unbiased estimator with the smallest variability. And these are called uh best linear unbiased estimates. Um and what's important well I mean as as it's framed here it's quite general but think about this if if we have the constants C1 through CP correspond to specific values of the explanatory variables corresponding to a different case. then we can be estimating the sort of true mean value for a given case of the X variables. If we have two X values, X vectors for different cases and we're interested in what's the difference in it in val in mean values for those two cases, then we can have these C's represent the difference in the X's. and we're estimating the difference in y values, the difference in mean values for different cases. So it really is a very very general theorem and while it's a very wonderful theorem, it depends on the Gaus Markov assumptions. So what we can do is consider generalizing the Gaus Markov assumptions to again have zero mean errors but have the co-variance matrix of the errors be given by sigma squared times a capital sigma matrix. And this kind of covariant structure in error terms actually arises frequently in time series modeling where we're ordering our data by time and maybe near uh values of the error that are observed at uh nearby times are more correlated than those at far away times and the covariant structure of those errors might be systematically represented by a multiple of a known sigma matrix. Well, if this is the case, we can transform our original data by premultiplying by the inverse square root of sigma and do the same for our x matrix. And if we do that, we're basically transforming our model to the starred case where the Y star and XAR as we've represented here. The epsilon star will have mean zero and the covariance matrix of the epsilon stars will actually be diagonal with constant variance. So in this transformed case we have the same regression parameters. we have the epsilon stars with the uh with the gaus marov assumptions being satisfied. So by the Gaus Marov theorem we just can write directly our le squares estimate in terms of the x stars and y stars. And when we write that out it ends up giving us this formula for the generalized uh le squares estimate. And so if we have variable errors where we know the relative variation of those errors, we can accommodate that and get best estimates with this generalized le squares uh formula. And importantly, the generalized le squares estimate basically does sort of a weighted regression where we weight cases proportional to the inverse of the variance of the random variable. So if this sigma matrix in fact were diagonal with different variances, we would be downweing those cases with high variance and uh performing the least squares computations you know in a weighted way. So that's the generalized le squares estimate. All right. Well, we'll finish there uh for today and uh cover more regression next time.