The course essentially divided into three sections. Okay, we've got the first section on exponential of public goods, sort of the government regulatory approach. We've got a second section devoted to social insurance and all the things the government spends money on to protect us against various risks in society. And the third section on taxation. So today we'll start with chapter five and talking about externalities. Now we'll go into more detail next time, but the class example of what we call an externality is global warming and climate change. I don't need to tell you about the horrors of climate change and what the future looks like uh under world of a rapidly warming climate. You can see if you look at figure 5.1 on your handout, you can see the rapid rise in global temperatures uh that we've seen um in recent decades. It's only spiked massively in the years since this textbook was published. There's actually been an upward spike as you know that global temperatures have risen rapidly uh over the past uh century and will continue to rise rapidly in the near future. um that is unambiguously due to human activity. Uh like driving um that basically the more we drive, the more carbon we put in the air, the more the world is the world is warming. Yet when you last drove, did you think about that? Did you think when you got behind the wheel of a car that you were microscopically but measurably putting Bangladesh this close to being underwater? No, you did not. You did not think about that when you drove your car. Okay? And that's because global warming and emissions from driving are a classic example of what we call a negative externality. Negative externality. A negative externality. An externality in general arises. An exile in general arises whenever the actions of one party impact another party and the first party does not bear the consequence of doing so. Okay. Whenever the actions of one party impact another party and that first party does not bear the consequence of doing so, there's an externality. You do not bear the consequence of putting Bangladesh microscopically but measurably more underwater by driving. Therefore there is a negative externality in this case. So externalities are the classic if you think about the prototypical if you think about the term market failure in economics the classic example economists turn to externalities. This is the most this is sort of the most market failure of the market failures and that's what I learned about it first. So today we're going to talk about externality theory. It'll bleed over a little in the next lecture and then we'll spend the rest of next lecture and a lecture after talking about examples of externalities in the real world first in the environmental context and this and then in the health context. So we're going to start with the basic theory of externalities. Now for the in this case I'm going to do this primarily graphically. We'll do the mathematics of externalities in section on Friday. But basically your goal in this class as I said in 1401 for those who took it for 1401 with me is to understand every topic intuitively graphically and mathematically that's our goal here I will provide you the intuition and the graphics here in lecture sometimes the math where I don't do the math section will add the math but between lecture and section you should understand every one of these topics at all three of those levels and it's important that you understand all three of them uh to really get the full benefit of this course and to do well in the us. So let's talk about four types of externalities. Let's start by type one. Let's talk about negative production externalities. That's the first type of externality we want to talk about. Negative production externalities. Okay. So basically uh let's talk about an example a running example used this lecture which is the example of a steel plant that produces steel and sits on a river. And to make life easy, we're going to assume that each unit of steel sells for $1. Sells for $1. So the firm revenues and quantities are the same. This is called this is a trick in economics called making a numerator good. You think the price of something a dollar, then quantities and expenditures are the same. So a unit of steel costs a dollar. So the amount of steel produced is the amount of money made by the company. We're also going to assume that for every unit of steel produced, there is one unit of sludge produced as a byproduct of that steel and that gets dumped into a river. So me mechanically, when you make a unit of steel, you make a unit of sludge that falls into the river. Okay, that floats down the river. Downstream from the plant is a set of fishermen. Those fishermen are catching fish in the river, but when the sludge floats downstream, it kills some of their fish and the fishermen as a result make less money. This is a classic example of a negative production externality. Negative because it's having a negative effect on the fisherman, production because it comes from the production of steel, and externality because the steel planter doesn't give a He's just making a steel and some fish are dying. Okay. So, how do we think about that graphically? Well, we think about that in the context of the market for steel. Okay, so let's imagine the market for steel. You have some quantity of steel produced on this axis and a price and the price of steel up here. Okay, now we have some people get a benefit from using steel. There's some marginal benefit curve marginal benefit which we also call the demand curve. Remember the demand curve when you reviewed in chapter two the demand curve represents the marginal benefit of using unit of steel and then we have some marginal cost curve okay which is the marginal cost of producing unit of steel and the private equilibrium as we know are where benefits are where benefits marginal benefits equal marginal costs and that will be uh at a unit of production we'll call it Q2 2. Okay. At a price and a unit of production. Uh I'm sorry, P1. That's there's a typo in the book. We'll call this P1 and Q1. Um sometimes when I'm teaching, I'll catch typos in the book. Um Paul, can you send me an email telling me there's a typo with figure 52? >> Okay. Um Okay. Figure 52 is Q1 and Q2 mislabeled. Okay. So, basically what you see is that's the private equilibrium. That's 1401. Okay. Now, what we don't do in 141, I did in one lecture, but you generally do in 1401, is realize that we've made an implicit assumption here that these are actually not the marginal benefits. These are the private marginal benefits and private marginal costs. But in reality, society may value things differently than the private producer does. And in particular, every unit of steel that's being produced imposes damage on the fisherman. damage of an amount D. So we are going to draw a social marginal cost curve which is the private marginal cost shifted down by the amount D. Okay, we're I'm assuming that damage is linear. Okay, it doesn't have to be a parallel shift. In fact, we'll show examples later where it's not a parallel shift, but for now assume it's a linear amount of damage. So it's a downward downward parallel shift of the cost curve. The social marginal cost is what it actually costs society. What does it cost society to produce unit of steel? Well, it costs the cost of producing that steel. Plus, society loses by the amount of damage done to the fish. So, from society's perspective, the optimal level of production is here. Uh, I'm sorry, I did something wrong. Yes, that's what I did wrong. Okay, my bad. I'm sorry. Let's go back. Erase that figure. This is what happens when I try to do my own figures. I didn't make a typo. You can get rid of that email, Paul. I should trust my textbook. Okay, let's do this again, shall we? We have a demand, which is the private marginal benefit. We have a supply, which is the private marginal cost. We have a private marketer equilibrium at Q1 P1. Okay. Now, I'm sorry, the cost is of course higher due to the externality. The amount of damage D makes a social marginal cost that is higher than the private marginal cost. I of course should have seen that right away. The social marginal cost is higher than the private marginal cost. Therefore, the optimal social level of production is Q2. Okay? A lower level of production. Why? Because private producers here overproduce because they do not account for the damage they're doing to society. They stop at the point where their private costs equal the private benefits. But they should be stopping sooner. They should be stopping with the social costs equal the marginal benefits. As a result, they are creating a dead weight loss equal to this area. that dead weight loss is units that are produced where the social marginal cost is where where I'm sorry where the social marginal cost once again I did this wrong. I'm sorry I got to be looking at my notes more. This got dead weight loss of this is Q2. Okay, got to look at my graph more. This is Q2. So it is creating a dead weight loss of this amount. And how do I know that's wrong? Because what do dead weight loss triangles do? Dead weight loss triangles always point to the optimum and widen outwards from there. Okay, so the dead weight loss here is the triangle that starts here at the intersection of social marginal cost and private marginal benefits and expands outwards to the to here and ends at the private equilibrium. And that's the dead weight loss triangle. Okay, here's the trick with dead weight loss triangles. Drawing dead weight loss triangles. So I immediately saw I was doing it wrong. Dead weightight loss, remember dead weight loss infinitely close to the optimum is zero. Okay, if you deviate from an optimum by epsilon, it's a tiny dead weight loss because you're close enough. The further you move from the optimum, the worse the dead weight loss is. And that's an important trick to remember. That dead weight loss triangles are going to be smallest right by the optimum and they're going to get bigger as you move further away. Yeah. >> Ex. >> It's a loss to society. Let's be very clear. It's a loss society because the steel producer overproduces because he doesn't recognize the fish are dying. So, it's a somewhat more complicated version of your answer. You're you're right in shortorthhand, but it's important to understand the the full economics here. The deadway loss is the loss to society because the fisherman does not because the steel plant does not recognize the damage he's doing and therefore overproduces steel and that creates this loss to society. Good question. Okay, other questions about that. I'm sorry about the graph screw-ups but other questions about that. Okay, so that is how we think about a negative production externality because the private actor does not account for the damage they're doing. they produce too much and that creates a dead weight loss for the reasons that was just expressed in the answer to this question. Now on the other hand, externalities do not always have to come from production. We can also have what we call negative consumption externalities negative consumption externalities. Okay. So for example here we want to think about things where your consumption of the good affects me negatively okay and you don't account for it. The classic example of course would be cigarette smoking. Okay so let's think about the market for cigarettes. Here we have the quantity for cigarettes and the price of cigarettes. We have some private demand for cigarettes which is the marginal benefit. That's how much people value the next cigarette. there's some cost to producing cigarettes which is the private marginal cost the private marginal benefit okay and there's some private market equilibrium with Q1 cigarettes being smoked at a price P1 okay so that is the private market equilibrium now when you smoke a cigarette what you do is you impose damage on me. We'll talk about this more in chapter six. You pose damage on me by making me cough. You pose damage on me by raising my medical bills. There's a lot of negative external effects you impose on me by smoking. What that means is that the social marginal benefit of the next cigarette is lower than the private marginal benefit. So in other words, what happens is the social marginal benefit is here. The social marginal benefit is lower than the private marginal benefit by the damage you do to me by smoking. You smoke so you impose costs on me that you don't account for. Now this has nothing to do with production. There could be externalities in how we produce tobacco for tobacco leaf but I'm talking about that. This just what arises from your consumption of the cigarettes. So it's on the benefit side. So by consuming those cigarettes, you have a social marginal benefit that's lower. The social margin is lower, the private marginal benefit. So once again, the optimal amount of cigarettes is lower. And once again, we have a dead weight loss. This time the dead weight loss is this area. Okay? We have a dead weight loss because you in your decision to smoke a cigarette are not accounting for the fact that it's costly to me. So you overconume cigarettes. So, just like the steel plant overproduces steel because it doesn't account for the damage doing the fisherman, the smoker over consumes cigarettes because they don't account for the damage they're doing to uh to the people from smoking. Okay. Yeah. >> Did I get it wrong again? It's where private marginal benefits private Yep. You're right. Absolutely. You got that wrong then. Go ahead. Got that wrong then. You're right. It's here. It's pointing to the It's pointing to the new optimum which is here. Point new optimum which is here. You're right. Good catch. See, I'm just qu tricking y'all. Quizzing y'all. Good job. Okay. So, once again, how do we know it's there? Because once again, it points to the new optimum. Points to the new optimum. And it's the gap between where the cost curve is above the benefit curve. Okay. Other questions about that? Okay. Yeah. >> Wait, what? Uh, no. There's no new price. There's no market here. There's no mark. This is this is sort of an imaginary curve. There's no nobody sees this. Okay. So, there's no new market here. There's no new price arising. Okay. I'm going to come in a little bit to how a market can lead can lead rise to that price. But for now, there's there's no new price. So, it's just uh uh there's just a dead weight loss arising. Okay. >> No, once again, this has nothing to do with prices. This is just saying that you are imposing you basically you are your social marginal benefit. You're imposing a cost on others. The only reason you think you pay less is because you're looking at this intersection. But the intersection is irrelevant for prices. It's only for quantities. This isn't a market transaction. So don't worry about effect on prices. It's just quantities. Yeah. >> Well, well, once again, this is what it's a great question. Okay. There's no deadway lost the firm here because there's nothing in production. Now there may be production externalities from tobacco leaf but I'm ignoring them now. Okay. This is I'm just talking about the damage that you are doing by smoking. Cigarettes appear magically. The production is efficient but by using them you are creating a dead weight loss for society. Yeah. >> Well basically this is the damage. So basically this D sorry I covered it up here. This D is the damage that I do to you by smoking. So it's just like this D is the value of lost fish. This D is the value of lost health say to you from secondhand smoke or the value of your higher tax bills because you pay for more healthare. >> Price of the fish that are now gone. So >> this is the value of the fish that are now dead. This is the value of the lungs that are now hurt because you're coughing from zeon smoke is another way to think of it. Yeah, >> I just said this is we're assuming it's linear. We're assuming it's linear. More generally, a little bit later, we'll talk about a case where it's not linear. Right now, assume it's linear. Great questions. Yeah, >> basically it's the gap between the the private the it's the gap between the private marginal cost and the social marginal benefit. In this case, it's the gap between the social marginal cost and the private marginal benefit. The bottom line is there's no rule except that you want you're going to have the dead weight loss is going to be is going to radiate outwards from the social optimum and end at the private equilibrium. because we're going to see an opposite case in a minute. Okay, other questions. Great question. I'm glad you guys are engaged. Okay, maybe I need to make more mistakes because this gets people. You guys are way more engaged folks usually are here. Maybe it's just you're just a great class. I love it. Okay, now externalities do not have to be negative. They can be positive. Let's talk about a positive production externality. Okay. And the CLA an example positive prodctionality let remember here is it's when I produce something that gives positive benefits to you but I don't get those benefits and the classic example of that is research and development. When firms do R&D the lessons they learn spill over to other firms that can draw on that R&D. Okay, maybe not at first while it's secretive, but eventually when it be when when it when it becomes public knowledge. Okay, but the first firm doesn't benefit from that. So here I have a firm. I have a firm that's making whatever it is widgets. Okay, here's the quantity. Here's the price. There is some demand for widgets. That's the private marginal benefit. There's some supply of widgets. That's the private marginal cost. And there's some private amount Q1 P1 of widgets. Okay. Now when I produce a widget when I produce a widget I'm sorry this is not this is not production widget this is production of R&D this is the market for R&D so this is the quantity of R&D in widgets this is the price of R&D in widgets the price of R&D you can think of the cost of a scientist okay so this the quantity of R&D and the price of R&D now the firm privately decides the optimat of R&D is due Q1 that's basically it weighs how much it benefits versus how much it costs to hire a scientist What it misses is when it does R&D, it helps other firms and in particular the social marginal cost. The social marginal cost of R&D is actually lower by an amount B is the private marginal cost. Why is it lower? Because when I do it, I'm also helping other firms. So the total cost society I think of what does it cost me to hire a scientist. I don't think but by the way when I hire a scientist I'm helping a bunch of other firms too down the road. I don't think about that. So effectively societ the social marginal cost is low and the private marginal cost. >> Why would you think of that in terms of cost? >> Great great question. This question I do get every year. It's a hard question because this is the consumption side of the market. This is the production side of the market. Costs and benefits are confusing. Okay. But think of this as the consumption side of the market which is could how much R&D you're consuming. This is how much R&D you're producing and you're not producing enough R&D. Now it's harder because the firm consumes and produces this R&D together. It's a joint decision. So it's really just in this sense you got to lean more on the technical thing which is basically it's through the production production of R&D that this externality happens as a result. Okay the social optimum of R&D is higher. Let's come to your question of which curve is lower or higher. Okay, in this case the social optimal level is higher. Okay, and as a result we get where the marginal cost is above where where the uh social marginal cost is below the private marginal benefit we get this dead weight loss. Okay, we get this dead weight loss because in these units the private marginal benefit okay is above the social marginal cost. So firms should be doing that R&D but they don't because the private marginal benefit is not higher than the private marginal cost right so you take a unit like here okay you take a unit there the firm says wait a second at that unit my private marginal cost higher than my private marginal benefit I'm not going to do R&D but what it should say is my p my my private marginal benefit is above the social marginal cost so I should do R&D so it's not doing R&D it should do creating a dead weight loss from too little R&D Okay, questions about that. See, this fits my See, this I do empirical modeling. See, I made mistakes. You guys asked a bunch of questions. I didn't mistake. You didn't ask questions. So, my theory that my mistakes lead to questions is proved empirically. That's, by the way, that's macroeconomics. Um, okay. So, um, sorry. Sorry for my macro friends. All right. Oh, wait. Good question. Go ahead. >> I have an understand Okay. >> Exactly. >> I can see that. But I don't >> Well, basically because production is about supply and consumption is about demand. I mean, that's just that's and you're right. It's confusing cases like this because we think about the benefit of R&D yet we're moving the cost curve. But once again, it's about something you produce. So it's going to be a production externality. Now let's come to a final example which you can guess what it is. It's a positive consumption externality. And here let's not do a graph because I won't always do graphs. Sometimes I'll do math and examples. Let's do an example here. Okay. I have a neighbor. Actually, he moved away. But I had a neighbor I was not particularly fond of. Okay. Um, I might have in previous classes called him my neighbor, but he's moved away, so let's not speak badly of him now. Okay. Uh, I had a neighbor I was not particularly fond of. That neighbor had a habit of getting about halfway through projects and then stopping. And in particular, probably 20 years ago, he got halfway through a major landscape renovation, then stopped. And he stopped at the point where there was a gigantic dirt pile directly outside our kitchen window, which he then left there for 20 years. Now, this was not great for us, but imagine his thinking. Imagine that to remove that dirt pile would have cost $1,000. So, that's the marginal cost, the private marginal cost of removing the dirt pile. Now, imagine to him, since it was actually an awkward angle for his house, he couldn't see it very well. To him, the benefit of reducing that dirt pile was only $600. So, the private marginal benefit was only $600. So, he evaluated that and said, "I'm not going to remove the dirt pile. It's a shame I didn't finish my project, but what do I care? I'm not going to pay the grand. That's a net loss to me." What he missed was that there's also a $500 benefit to me, which is the which is the additional benefit. So, that the total social marginal benefit equals,00. So in fact it would be socially efficient to remove the dirt pile but he doesn't because it wasn't privately efficient. Therefore we get underconumption of dirt pile remover services. Okay under consumption dirt pile removal because he's not accounting for the social benefits of doing so. Okay. So I realized the graphs were tricky even for me. The main thing is the intuition. Okay. If you got the intuition you everything else will come. mainly intuition which is a negative externality is going to lead to too much of something and therefore dead weight loss from too much production. A positive external is going to lead to too little of something and therefore dead weight loss from too little uh goods being in the market. Okay. Yeah. >> Well, oh that's a great point. But what am I receiving a better view? Right. So it's worth the point is I'm not getting the 500. Great question actually. Remember when we learn about welfare in 1401 we talk about the fact that we can't really measure utility. So what do we do as a trick we what we do is we use a compensating variation measure which is or we use a reveal preference measure which is we say well I can't measure how sad I am to have the dirt pile but you can ask me how much would you pay to remove the dirt pile. Okay so this is what I would pay. So if this was over a thousand, then I could just remove it. Okay? If it's less than a thousand, I'm not going to remove it. But add together, this is it'd be worth it to have that thing removed. So this is a valuation of my utility. We can't measure, we don't measure utility. We measure the equivalent variation, the dollar value of that utility. And that's how we do welfare analysis. Good question. Good reminder about a lesson 1401. Other questions about this? Now you may look at this and you may say um uh oh and um I actually want to talk about one example. One of my favorite examples of negative externalities uh because it's really just something we don't appreciate incredibly pernitious is SUVs. SUVs are a classic example of a negative externality. Why? Because SUVs, well, you tell me what are the ways in which SUVs impose negative externalities on society above and beyond what people pay. Yeah, >> hold on. They use more gas and use more gas is bad because it's bad for the environment. >> They are much less safe. >> Well, take that I don't know that space I mean I don't know how big that deal is, but there's one other thing. Yeah. Yeah, it turns out in a fun MITish fact, turns out road damage goes up exponentially with weight per axle. So if you have more weight on a given set of axles, road damage goes up exponentially. And in fact, that's happened. Um, so in 1985, the typical car weighed 3200. You don't need to memorize this, just fun facts. Typical car weighed 3200 lb and the biggest car on the road weighed 4,600 lb. Now the typical car weighs 4,000 lb and the biggest truck I know this is pre- cyber trucks I don't know what the hell they weigh is 6600 lb. Okay, we have massively fuel economy. Okay, um the typical SUV gets fuel gets about 2/3 the fuel efficiency of a sedan, not even of a compact. Okay, so they're inefficient. That's an extern they're they consume more gas. That's an extra causing global warming. They're Bangladesh killers. Okay, second. Okay, they do more damage to the road because road damage goes up with weight perax exponentially. And third, and actually most interestingly, they're incredibly unsafe. And why are they especially unsafe? Because they're designed with their grills at exactly the height of people's heads. So actually, if you look at road, if you look at traffic deaths in the US, we've seen a dramatic reduction along with the entire world has seen a dramatic reduction of driver deaths from traffic accidents, driver and passenger deaths, dramatic reduction because cars have gotten safer. But only in the US that has been offset by a dramatic increase in pedestrian deaths only in the US. So while the rest of the world has seen traffic now among developed countries traffic deaths fall in general, the US they've fallen a little bit but not nearly as much as the rest of the world because our savings and driver fatalities are being offset by pedestrian fatalities because we have these grills that exactly head. They're killing people. Moreover, what's fascinating about this is it's what we call a dynamic externality because since you're driving a big car, I got to drive a big car. So, it's a dynamic effect of reinforcing itself that once somebody's driving an SUV, you want to drive an SUV because you don't want to get hit by this SUV. Okay. So, now, so that's basically a perfect example of sort of a a negative externality. Now, if we go back, let's go back to my neighbor's dirt pile. Now, you might say, you hear that example, you're like, "Well, John, this is a course about the government." Okay, but like that seems like you could solve it privately. Like, just go to your neighbor. It's like, look, it's a,000 bucks for this. I know it's worth 600 to you. Know it's worth 500 to me. Let's just pull together and let's just get rid of this dirt pile. And indeed, there's a famous there's a famous example of applying this, which is the what's called the Coast theorem. named after the uh economist Ronald Coos from the University of Chicago. Okay, he said look let's go back to our first example. Let's go back to the steel plane. Okay, and let's look at that example. And he says, what if the fishermen owned the river? What if fishermen owned the river? They would mark up to the they'd march up to the steel plant owner and say, "Look, steel plant owner, you need to produce less steel because you are and by the way we'll come later to pollution reduction technologies. Imagine no pollution reduction technology. Only way to reduce the sludge is to produce less. We'll come back to pollution reduction technology, but for now, imagine the only way to reduce the pollution is to produce less." The fisherman would come to say, "Look, we own the river. We will not let you dump." Okay? Unless you reduce the amount or unless you pay us the damage that you're doing. So they say, "Look, steel planner, we don't want to mess with you a production process. You know what's best, but we want you to pay us D for every unit of steel you produce." Okay? To compensate us for the fish that are dying. Well, think about what that does to think about what that does to steel plant owners. So, we've got what's going to the market for steel quantity price. We've got our private marginal benefit. We've got our private marginal cost. We've got our social marginal cost. We got the private market quantity and the optimal public quantity. Okay. And we have some damage D that the production of steel is doing. Okay. I actually have our hand out now. Thank you, Valerie. Valiantly biked all the way back to the department. So now we can go to figure five. [snorts] Five. Okay. Here I have a marginal damage of say 100. Okay. Now what if the what so what if the marginal damage was 100? Okay. And what if the fisherman said the steel plan well you got to pay us 100 revenue still you produce. What does that do? Well that internalizes the externality. What I mean by that is the steel plant owner now has a higher private marginal cost. its original marginal cost plus the $100 they have to pay. And guess what? That new private marginal cost, which in figure 55 we call PMC2, is equal to the social marginal cost. So the new private marginal cost is equal to the social marginal cost. And there's no more externality because the steel plant now produces optimally at Q2. Okay, once again, the steel plant has to pay the fisherman $100 for every unit of steel they produce. That equates their new so their new private marginal cost with the social marginal cost and there's no more overp production of steel. Okay, this indeed is the proof is a graphical proof what we call the coast theorem. The coast theorem states that as long as property rights are well defined, as long as you have well- definfined property rights, property rights well defined, and as long as you have costless and efficient bargaining. If those two conditions are met, then there will be no externalities. Externalities will all be internalized through the market mechanism. Okay. Unsurprisingly, scholars at Chicago, if you know the history of economic thought, there's a sort of big sort of Chicago is very proarket. Cambridge sort of more progovernment. That's kind of the debate. This is sort of very much within the Chicago school of thought that in fact you don't need the government here because in fact there's no externality. They just internalized it. Uh and we're done. Okay, so that is uh co actually co theorem has a part two that's kind of cool. Co theorem part two that's part one. Part two says it actually doesn't matter who has the property rights. Note I didn't say who has the products I said they have to be defined. So imagine the steel plant owner owned the river. Well, then the fisherman could come up to him and pay him $100 not to produce seed of steel and we get the same equilibrium. Now, of course, they wouldn't want to pay him 100. They want to pay him 99.9. Of course, he wouldn't pay them 100 to pay them 99.9. So, I'm using 100 to round, but roughly speaking, the point is whoever, as long as property rights are well defined, whoever owns the property rights will get the benefits. It will determine distribution. In the first case, the fishermen are better off. In the second case, the steel plant's better off. But in both cases, you get efficiency. And that's once again an example you have to keep your mind separated between efficiency and redistribution. We're not talking about winners and losers here. We're talking about efficiency. Yeah. >> Somebody owns the river. There's a go there's an enforceable contract that you own the river that this if I do not get permission to use the steel plant dump in the river and you do you will be shut down or you'll be subject to some extreme fine. >> Sure. >> No it well I mean it's that's a complicated case but the bottom line is you need property rights to be well defined. Okay. So Kos's point is just because there's this externality doesn't mean you need the government. As long as you just define property rights and you allow people to bargain, they'll figure it out. Now, this is an example of several of a trick we'll use several times this semester, which is to lay out a theory which has a lot of good insights, but is clearly wrong in application. The co theorem is very valuable for thinking about lots of things. It also almost never actually works. Okay. And why does it not work? Well, there's a number of problems with the coast theorem. The first problem is what we call the assignment problem. The assignment problem is that basically when you have many bad actors and many people being hurt, you don't know how to assign blame or how to assign benefits. So let's say there's six steel plants along the river and you don't know which seal plant sludge is killing your fish. How do you know who to charge? Okay. Or let's say there's three pods of fishermen. How does each pod of fisherman get paid? Okay. So, whenever there's multiple players, you have an assignment problem. Okay. There's there's also the problem that we don't know how much the damage is. The fisherman could go to the seal plane, see $100 damage to fish. How do we know? How's the seal planner supposed to verify that and know? So, basically, the first problem is we don't know how to sign the benefits and the costs in the way that we make it seem easily theoretically here. Okay. Think about how this gets worse with climate change. Remember, every single unit of carbon emitted anywhere in the world has an equal effect on climate change. Okay? So, how could you possibly negotiate with every single person emitting carbon at every point and every single person being damaged and some being benefited, right? Duth Minnesota advertising itself as the climate refuge of the world. Okay? Where now are growing grains in Siberia were never possible before. Some folks are benefiting from global warming, most are losing. How would you possibly arrange that negotiation? It's imp it's implausible. Okay, so that's one problem. The second problem is what we call the hold out problem. The hold out problem. Okay, imagine that uh we've solved this assignment problem. We figured all out. We know what's going on. And let's say that we've decided that uh there are 100 fishermen and each unit of sludge kills a dollar's worth of fish for each of the hundred fishermen. Thus, the $100 damage. Now, the fishermen go up to the steel plant and they say, "You have to give us each a dollar or you can't produce or you can't use the river." We have property rights on the river. You have to use can't use the river. Well, let's say um Enoch here is the hundth fisherman. Now, unless the other 99 have gotten their dollar, now he's the last fisherman. The steel plant can't produce unless he also says yes. Is he going to ask for a dollar? No, he's going to ask for like $50. Be like, "Look, you've already given away $99. I have all the power now. Okay, you have all negotiating power. You're the hold out." Well, working backwards, the first fisherman should see that coming and should also not settle for a dollar. and the whole thing falls apart. Classic problem with negotiation is this hold out problem. Okay. The flip side of that is what we call the free rider problem. And this is a term we'll come back to a lot this semester. The free rider problem which is that what if we said uh okay fine that whole lot problems going to be bad. So let's say the steel planted the let's say okay let's forget cooreum part two. What about co-term part one? What if the steel plant hold the property rights? Would that solve the problem? Okay. Now, the problem if the steel plant um uh uh holds the property rights is that basically um uh so let's say they have the rights and they agree to reduce production by one unit for every $100 they get from the fisherman. Okay. Um now um basically uh suppose that they agree that um let's say the optimum reduction is 100 units that the social optimum is they produce a 100 units. So they're going to get a $100 from the fisherman for each unit. They're going to get $10,000 from the fisherman. Okay. So each fisherman goes and pays his $100. Okay. Well now you're the last fisherman. Enoch again. Okay. He's the last fisherman. Although the fisherman have paid $100, he comes up and he says, "Well, look, if I don't pay you, you still reduce 99 units and I'll get it 99100s of the benefit. So why should I pay you? I'm a free rider because I get because it's a private cost and a social benefit. When the steel plant produces dumping sludge, all the fisherman benefit as a result. Why should any one fisherman pony up? They should try to get all the other fishermanmen to pony up. So that same logage are going to unravels and no fisherman will pony up. Okay. Yeah. >> The last fisherman would say so the way I set this up the alpha links to produce a h 100red units 100 units of steel and for and to get so each fisherman should pay you $100 for your to reduce their unit to reduce a unit. So they all get in a line. They each give you $100. The last fisherman says well 99 people have given you that money. I know you can reduce by 99 units. If I give you my 100, you reduce by the hundth unit. But that only I only get 1/100th of the benefit of that. Whereas I bear all the cost. So I'm not going to give you the money. And that's the free rider problem. And then finally, we have the problems with this other assumption, which is bargaining is not costless and efficient. So we have bargaining problems. I already talked about one kind of bargaining problem, which is how do you get all the people affected by climate change together? But let's just think about my neighbor and I. Okay? In fact, it'd be super weird if I went to him and said like, "Well, it's worth $600 to you and I'm $500. It's a thousand." I mean, like, you'd be mean like you'd punch me in the face. Okay, think about it. Think about a classic externality, which is the person next door to you plays their music too loud. You do one of and you do one of two things. You either ignore it or you complain and make them shut it off. Tell them to shut it off. You don't calculate the loss in lifetime earnings and say, "Well, if you want to pay it, you've got to pay me $663." Okay? Basically, that's just not how the world works. There's a famous apocalyptic tale of an economist on a plane who should remain nameless who offered the guy next to him 10 bucks to shut up so you get some sleep. Okay, that's apocalyptic because it probably didn't happen. Okay, so the point is the co- serum is great in theory and it's a valuable insight in theory. Okay, in practice that's just not how things work. Okay, questions about that. Yeah. >> Oh, go ahead. the uh it's basically which side of the problem you look at. The hold out problem, I mean it's Enix the bad guy in either example, but the hold out problem is when the property right owner can hold out and basically I'm not going to give you this property unless you pay me the most. The free rider problem is when the other party has the ownership and you say, well, the other party if most of my friends pay up and they do the right thing, I'm going to benefit from that. So why should I pay up? So it's really which side owns it. So it's really fighting with part two of the co- serum saying that the side of the market matters but it screws up no matter which. It matters who owns it. It screws up either way. There's a question here and then yeah, >> right? >> Okay. >> So this is a great question. So a good basically I assumed that it worked out that you paid exactly 100. But how does that work out? I mean, if the fishermen own the river, why don't they charge a steel plant 150? Why should they settle for 100? Okay. And in fact, I don't have a good answer to that other than if there were multiple groups of fishermen, they'd bid against each other and drive it down to 100. So, in fact, in this example, I don't have a good answer for that. In fact, they probably would ask for 150. So, basically, the point is I'm assuming we end up at the where where where efficient negotiation would end. That's that's what I'm covering there. Other questions? Yeah. Right. >> Yeah. So the assignment problem is a technical problem which is basically a it's hard to measure damage and b it's hard to compensate the losers practically when there's global warming. The the free ride the your the uh the hold out problem. Wait, which is the other one? You >> Oh, the bargaining problem is that basically um it's related to the measurement, but it's also just that literally the conditions of bargaining get very tense and people don't act rationally. My $100 example, even if the fisherman even $100, you know, the steel plant may say to the fisherman, I'll give you $110 bucks. The fisherman said say yes to that. They may say, screw you. I hate you. You've poisoned my water forever. I want 150. I'm not doing it. Okay, that's an example of bargaining problems. People are not are not homoeconomicists. They don't behave hyperrationally. >> Yeah. >> No, no. The the hold out example was basically when the fisherman there multiple fishermen still one steel plant. There's multiple fisherman and the hold out problem is he needs the steel plant needs permission of every fisherman to pollute and me here won't give him permission. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Oh yeah. No, this is great question. When we teach these theorems, the co- serum others we'll talk about, they definitely have directional effects. There are certainly times where there's private negotiations that can happen and can move you part of the way there. And but the right way with the coast theorem is when's it going to work the best? When there's few parties, when information is transparent, and when they have a good relationship, then it can work. Okay. So, um, yeah, other questions. Okay. So, we've just answered the when question. When does the government intervene? When the private market fails. I've just shown you the private market fails. So, now we have turned to the next question, which is how might the government intervene? Okay, we've answered the first question, public finance. When does the government intervene? Now we have to turn to the second question of public finance which is how might the government intervene. Okay. So now we're going to talk about public sector solutions to externalities. All right. Now the first type of public sector solution we'll talk about is so now we're going to talk about public sector solution. So we're on the second question of public finance which is the how. The first one we'll talk about is corrective taxation. Corrective taxation as a solution to negative externalities. How does corrective taxation work? Well, let's go to figure 56. Back to steel market. Back to our sludge producing steel guy once again. He wants to produce Q1. Society wants to produce Q2. He's going to overproduce. Cosian bargaining breaks down so he can't get it that way. What if we imposed a tax on him which was exactly equal to the marginal damage he's doing or $100 in the example I gave a few minutes ago. What if we imposed a $100 tax per unit produced? Well, that would raise his marginal cost by a hundred and have the same effect of internalizing the externality but not through the private market which involves negotiation but just through government fiat. We would say you have to pay and once again I'm assuming there's this linear damage more complicated in the real world. We'll get to that. We would say look you're doing this linear damage of $100 of a unit you produce. So I'm going to tax your $100 for every unit you produce. So that's going to create a new private marginal cost which is equal to social marginal cost. So PMC2 is equal to PMC1 plus the marginal damage. Essentially, if I want to produce a unit of steel, I got to pay all my workers plus I now got to pay a tax to the government. And that government tax is set such that we end up at the new we end up at the optimal equilibrium. Done. It's like coast, but the government's doing it. So, you don't have to worry about assignment problem. All I have to worry about is measuring the externality and you're done. You measure externality. Boom. You set the tax. Yeah. Awesome question. Calculating marginal damage is really I that's very hard by itself. Now, of course, that doesn't make coast any easier because then you've got to put it in private negotiating framework. But even this is not so easy. What's marginal damage? Is it linear? How do you measure it? Um I'm going to come to that in a little bit. Okay. Now, what about positive externalities? Well, there's an equivalent for positive externalities, which is a subsidy, which is you could just say um if you in figure 57, we've got our R&D example. We can just say, look, firms are producing Q1 R&D. That's too little because they're not accounting for the mar the positive benefit on other firms for producing R&D. So we give them a subsidy which is equal to the marginal benefit which effectively lowers their private marginal cost them to produce more. So just like a tax raises their private marginal cost causes them to produce less a subsidy lowers their private marginal cost them produce more and moving to the optimal level production of Q2. So this is using what we call the price mechanism. Okay. A great example in the price mechanism in the real world that's been in the news lately is what we call congestion pricing. And you might have read this has been in the news a lot because of a debate in New York State. Economists since the dawn of time has said that look traffic is a classic negative externality. When you drive, you make my drive a little bit longer by clogging the road. The estimates are that the cost of traffic to the US if you look at it people's wasted time I'll talk about value time later is well over hundred billion dollars a year okay the idea is well that's an externality by you driving not only putting Bangladesh underwater you're making my commute longer okay so as a result you should pay for that externality you should pay for driving in particular in areas where the traffic's bad or at times when the traffic's bad thus the idea of congestion price. Pricing has been used in Europe successfully in London and in Stockholm. In London, if you go into an inner city into a parts of London during certain hours, there is a fee that's imposing you. They have like a, you know, they you have your little electronic thing and they ping you and they charge you a fee for driving in parts of London at certain hours. Same in Stockholm. These have been shown to be incredibly effective. They've lowered traffic, but only that they've improved health. Why? Well, first of all, there's fewer accidents. Second of all, there's less asthma among the kids because there's less car pollution in the cities. Pretty awesome indirect effect, okay? That literally they're showing the kids health improves congestion pricing because there's less asthma. There's less pollutants in the air and the kids have have are less likely to have asthma. Okay, pretty awesome example of of sort of an untended benefit. Um, and of course there's less greenhouse gas being emitted which benefits all of us in terms of slowing global warming. Now, New York State, New York City, um, had a mayor called Bloomberg, you might have heard of Bloomberg. Bloomberg is like Mr. Externalities. He loves he like totally loves this stuff. And he actually proposed congestion pricing. And after many decades, it actually made it through the debate. For years, they wanted to pass it and they couldn't get the support because who wants a new tax? What they did is they did a very clever thing. They said, 'Look, our subways are terrible. We'll take all the money from the congestion tax and put into proving our subways, and it's a win-win. We get less driving and better subways. And it was almost going to be signed. And then the I'm going to say cowardly governor of New York bagged at the last minute because she was worried about the blowback, which is really, really unfortunate. This is a clear example of a win-win. Uh but you we see examples of this where there's policies that really only an economist could love uh don't often happen. Okay. And this is this is a classic thing where you've got a lot of opponents people from my home state of New Jersey who don't want to pay to commute to New York make a stink and this gets canceled. So that's unfortunate and hopefully New York will revert we'll see the error of its ways and reverse and put in congestion pricing. >> Yeah. >> Why did it need to go through the state and not just city? Um, I don't know the logistics of the New York law, but for some reason the governor had a veto. The legislature passed it. Some reason had to go to the state level. I don't quite know. Maybe because it's interstate because like people from New Jersey would pay it. I don't know the question. All right. So, now you might be thinking yourself, well, this is all interesting, kind of cool, but like if we want Q2, why don't we just say produce Q2? Why don't we just regulate that is instead of using corrective tax or the price mechanism why don't we just regulate that is if you go back to figure five 56 we could put in this convoluted tax and measure you know someone said figure out what the marginal damage is we say look Q2 is what you should produce produce Q2 done none of this fancy economic stuff none of this politics takes over taxes, just say produce Q2 and we're done. And in fact, that would have a very sim similar impact. Okay? If you just did Q2, you'd be done with it. And in fact, that is the approach we've typically taken in environmental regulation in the US historically has been quantity regulation. What's often called command and control regulation, which we just said, look, you're producing too many pollutants, pollut produce less. Boom. Full stop. So, what we want to turn to next after one detour is talking about why would you use price versus quantity regulation? when would they make sense? Okay. Now, to do so, we need a new framework. Before we do so, I want to talk about one other thing that is very important as a historical lesson. Um, which is we talked about corrective subsidies. We talked about corrective subsidies when you have under production say under production of R&D. And there's no better example of the power of corrective subsidies than operation warp speed. Now when COVID came along, we realized we needed a vaccine. Vaccines are a classic example of a uh positive production externality. And why is that? That's because they're often not very profitable or the profits are highly uncertain. Take for example the vaccine that was going to be developed um uh that was going to be developed um for Ebola. Ebola struck West Africa in 2013. Immediately began to work on a vaccine for Ebola. It took him six years to make it, which is actually very fast in vaccine time. By the time they did, Ebola was gone. No one wanted it. They'd invested billions into making this vaccine and it just got wasted. No one wanted the vaccine. So, companies don't invest in vaccines. You invent a cancer drug, you know, cancer is still going to be there in six years. Okay? Vaccines, people aren't sure if the demand's going to be there. people want them. So there's massive underrest in vaccines. So what did the government do when co came along? They set up operation warp speed. The Trump administration to their credit set up operation warp speed. What this did was two kinds of subsidies. Two kinds of subs. We call them push and pull. The push incentive was the kind that we have in figure 57 which is literally we subsidized R&D. We gave billions of dollars to companies to do R&D uh into vaccines. The second which is not really depicted on this graph is what we call a poll incentive. The poll incentive was we guaranteed no matter what happened we would buy them. The government said even if COVID goes away we guarantee we'll buy a billion doses. So you don't have to we've taken the uncertainty out of your decision due to those two incentives. The COVID vaccine which all experts predicted would take 10 years took 10 months. Okay, it's unbelievable. It's like it's truly a modern miracle. Okay, how fast we got the COVID vaccine all it's all a blur in the rearview mirror. But if you were talking to people like me early co I would have said well look you know if we're lucky we'll get it in five six years. Okay, the notion we do in 10 months is just beyond belief. And the vaccines probably have saved, the best estimates are two million lives have been saved worldwide by the COVID vaccine. Okay, it's sort of amazing. And if we didn't have antivax movements of the kind we discussed a bit last time, it'll be even higher. Okay, so basically this is a classic example of the power of corrective subsidies. Now that detour aside, let's go back and talk about how do we think about quantity versus price approaches to correcting externalities. And to do so, I'm going to have to freak you out a little bit and switch the framework. So, we're now going to move to a framework like figure 58. In figure 58, we're going to change the example. In the previous example, the only way that I could produce pollute less was by producing less steel. But of course, that's wrong. I can do other things, right? I could put like a grill over the over the, you know, just picture the Lorax. How many guys read the Lorax? You picture Lorax and like for peak for the trees, you know, you can see the plant and stuff dumping in the river. I could put like a grill over it or I could do something which actually reduces the pollution. I wouldn't have to actually slow my production of steel. So that's a more realistic case. So that more realistic case is depicted in figure 58. In figure 58 we have the market for pollution reduction. It's a weird market because usually markets are for positive things. This is a market for pollution reduction. What do you mean by that? On the x axis is the amount of pollution reduction a firm does. So as you move to the right the firm is doing more pollution reduction. As you move to the left the firm is has more pollution. Okay. Okay, so to the left is more pollution, to the right is more pollution reduction. Okay, on the y- axis is just dollars, costs and benefits. We'll come back to that. So in other words, if you look at in this example, we talked about an example where there was a constant marginal damage done by pollution. Well, in this framework, that becomes the marginal benefit of pollution reduction. The marginal damage done by pollution is the marginal benefit of pollution reduction. For every unit of pollution you produce, you save $100 worth of fish. So that red line is the is the benefit of pollution reduction. The marginal benefit every unit of pollution. And once again, I've assumed it's flat. Doesn't have to be. Okay, that's the benefit. What is the marginal cost of pollution reduction? Okay. Well, here I'm going to make an assumption. I'm going to assume that the more pollution reduction you do, the more expensive it is per unit to do it. This is sort of intuitive. When you're double sludge, it's pretty inexpensive. Just put a great over the pipe and you maybe cut your pollution by 20%. That's cheap. But if you have the pollution all the way to nothing, you've got to you got to change the entire power plant production process. That's expensive. So we assume is that the marginal cost of pollution reduction is rising. An assumption, but a sensible one. So at zero pollution reduction at point A, there's zero marginal cost. As you p reduce pollution more, the blue line which is is pollution reduction. That's the private marginal cost pollution reduction. We'll also assume it's a social marginal cost. That is there's no externalities in the market for pollution reduction. Okay. So we're going to call this the social marginal cost of pollution reduction is the blue curve and the social marginal benefit pollution reduction is the red curve. So now let's ask what is the privately optimal amount of pollution reduction? Well, the privately optimal amount of pollution reduction is where the private marginal benefit of pollution reduction equals the private marginal cost. Where is that? What is the private marginal benefit of pollution reduction? Someone raise their hand and tell me. Yeah. >> Zero. So the private optimum is at a that's where the private marginal benefit equals the private marginal cost. They don't do any pollution reduction. Why should they? They don't care about the fisherman. But the social optimum is where the social marginal benefit equals the private and social cost which is at point B. So the social optimum is R1 star of reduction or R star of reduction or P star of pollution. That's the social optimum. Okay. So we've just it's the same logic as before. We've just changed what we're looking at to have the more realistic case of pollution reduction. When we don't really talk about when you talk about pollution, you want to be looking at a steel market. You want to look at a pollution reduction market. That's what we're looking at here. Okay. Questions about that. I realize I've changed things up on you. Yeah. >> In that specific example, I've assumed it's flat. I guess next time we'll get to examples where it's not flat. Okay. Now, in this case, tax. Yeah. I'm sorry. Why does it not intersect as >> uh oh well that's a great question. So in other words, why is the well why is the red line not higher? Well the red line is not higher because that literally is the social bar benefit. So in other words um actually that's a great segue I want to say next. I'll answer your question in a second. I want you to contrast two approaches to government policy in this diagram. One approach is regulation. regulation would say look tell them they got to produce our star done easy okay the other's a tax if imagine I set the tax at uh $50 imagine I said that firms had to pay a tax of $50 for every unit of pollution they made choose a point between A and B because the margin They would choose a point where the marginal cost of pollution reduction is 50. If pollution reduction was less than 50, they do it, but it's more than 50. Why do it? They'll just pay the tax. Right? Now, let's come to this question. The actual cost is 100. Why do I not set the tax at 500? Why I'm only setting the tax at 100? Why don't I look? Why not just say, look, pollution's bad. Set the tax at 500. Why is that not optimal? Is that sort of version of your question, right? Why is that not optimal? will produce less >> because you're missing the fact that steel is valuable. Okay? And we you pollution should almost never be zero. This is the sort of thing that has been a slowly learned lesson by environmentalists over time. I'll talk more about this next time. Okay? But pollution should almost never be zero. And we can make pollution zero today. Okay? No lights, no heat, no cars, no production, pollution zero. Okay, that isn't optimal because we derive value from lights and heat and cars. You only want to tax them to the extent it's causing external damage. And that's why the red line, that's why you want to ferment external damage and that sets the optimal tax. If you set the tax at 100, one second, if you set tax at 100, what do you get? You get the same thing from the as you get from the quantity regulation reduction of RSTAR. question. >> Okay, great. So, so that's the question I want to ask. That's the question. I've just showed you first how in this simple example they're the same. Okay, now let's talk about why they might not be the same. Let's move to an example with two firms. Figure 59 is complicated. So let's walk through it together and ask me questions. Okay, we have two firms A and B. The difference is that firm A has firm the difference is that they have different cost curves. Okay, firm A has a higher marginal cost of reduction than firm B. I've made so firm B to reduce by 50 units cost them a 100 that's a point X firm A is a lower low marginal cost of reduction lower marginal cost of reduction firm A is more efficient at reducing so they for $100 can get rid of 150 units firm B at a cost of $100 can only get rid of 50 units okay do you see that so look at the marginal cost curves firm A's marginal cost curve is to to the right it is a more efficient in other words the other way to think about this is literally firm A can reduce pollution by 50 for nothing right their their x intercept is at 50 okay so firm a is a more efficient pollution reducer now let's say that we decide the optimal pollution reduction is 200 let's say we start in a world where there is 400 units of pollution with no government intervention, you get 400 units of pollution. Let's say that's our starting point. And let's say that we decide that the optimum, so that's the private, that's Q1. We decide the optimal amount of pollution is 200. So that's P1 is 400. P2 or the optimum, we decide it's 200. So we want to reduce pollution by 200. We want a reduction of 200. Once again, stop me when this isn't clear. Okay, I want a reduction of 200. How do we do that? Well, yeah, >> I I'm I've got I haven't gotten a point yet. I'm just giving the example. Okay, how can we do that? Well, one example is we can say, well, look, we know we want a reduction of 100 of 200. There's two firms. Let's make them each do 100. Okay, that would be the quantity approach. We we know we got 200 reduced, two firms. Let's make them each to 100. What would that result in? Well, that will result in firms ending up at the points MCA 100 and MCB 100. If firm B has produced by 100, they end up at the point MCB 100 with a very high cost pollution reduction. Firm A ends up at MCA 100 with a low cost pollution reduction. Why is that inefficient? Yeah, >> firm should be producing more. >> Yeah, firm A can there. This is inefficient because firm A is better at this. So they should do more of it. So here the quantity regulation doesn't give you the best outcome. Compare that to price regulation. Imagine we said that we are going to charge we are going to we are going to charge firms $100 for every unit of pollution they produce. Okay, we're going to charge them $100. Well, in that case firm B will say look at $100 I'm going to reduce by the amount X 50 units. Okay. Why am I going to do that? This comes the question here about why is the red line not at the top? Because if if if it's more above 50 units, it costs $100. I'll just pay the damn fine. Okay. Below 50 units, it's I I want to reduce. Firm A says, I'll reduce 150 units. Why? Because that's where their marginal cost equals the marginal benefit. Guess what? That is up to 200 units. You're done. So, by setting the tax and that is efficient. That's efficient because every firm is spending the same amount to reduce pollution. Once again, we're forgetting redistribution and we're not talking about we like A better than B. This is all about efficiency. The efficient outcome is where every firm is paying the same marginal cost of reduction. And you get that with the tax. You don't get that with the crude quantity regulation unless how could I solve the quantity regulation problem? You know the answer. >> Trade. >> You could trade. So now let's get really funky. Let's say that I say I want to reduce pollution by 200, but I don't care who does it. I know I want to reduce it by 200, but I don't care who does it. How do I do that? Well, what I do is I say, "Look, firm A and B, I am going to give each of you 100 permits for pollution. At the end of the day, any pollution you do, which you cannot hand me a permit for, you will pay. I'm sorry. Yes. Any Let me go back. You can only do the amount of pollution you have permits for." So, I'm issuing 200 permits because that's the alpha amount of pollution. I'm going to give them I can give them away anyway. I'm assuming I split them 50-50, but that doesn't have to be true. Okay? And we'll talk more about this next time as was proposed in practice. So, I have 200 pollution permits. I'm going to give them away say 50/50. Each get 100. And I'm going to say you guys can trade them if you want. What happens there? Well, our starting point is they don't trade. If they don't trade, they each can only they each can only pollute 100 units. and you end up back at MCB and MCA. Now, at that point, what should happen? Well, at that point, B should go to A and say, "You know what? I'll buy your permit because look, it's only costing you like 50 bucks to produce at that point. It's cost me like 200 bucks. So, as long as I can buy your permit for between 50 and 200, you should be happy to sell it to me, and I should be happy to buy it. So, I'll buy that permit. In fact, I'll keep buying permits until we end up at X and Y because every point between MCMCB, every point other than that, there's an efficiency gain from selling permits. And we'll continue until the equilibrium price of permits is $100. So, you'll replicate the tax outcome through trading. Now, once again, that assumes that the trading doesn't break down for all these various reasons. We're back in the private market problems. Firm A could hate firm B. You know, there could be, you know, we've the government has to sign the value, etc. There's lots of problems, but in principle, you could get to that outcome with a quantity regulation at cap and trade. Well, we're already starting to see the reason why economists tend to prefer price solutions to quantity solutions. They tend to price solutions for two reasons. First of all, you need to add an extra step that the quantity solution be as efficient as the price solution. Second of all, you need a lot more information. Let's go back to figure um five six. Now here I said I could either tax you by the amount MD or I could impose Q2. What do I need to know for the tax? I know one thing. What's the marginal damage? What do I need to know for the optimal regulation? I need to know the marginal damage. I need to know demand curves. I need to know supply curves. I need to know a ton more stuff that's super hard to measure. So taxes basically have a lower information requirement. Now once again easy in this case where where damage is flat, but as long as damage is locally flat or you can approximate it, you need to know a lot less for attacks you for regulation. For regulation, I got to know everything that's involved in finding point B. That means I got no demand curves, supply curves, and marginal damage. For tax, I see no marginal damage. I'm done. So taxes have two big advantages. There's anformational advantage. You need to know less. And there is a heterogeneous firm's advantage, which is that you by pricing externality, you get firms to do what's in their best interest. What you get firms to efficiently reduce pollution. This is very important. And the question was asked here about about the red line not being at the top is so important because this exactly traces the intellectual history of this type of approach which is when permits were first when people first started talking about using taxes or cap and trade. It was dramatically opposed indeed in almost religious terms. Many of you know your religious history will know that what led to the downfall of the Catholic Church was in the middle ages the Catholic Church used to sell absolutions. So the way it worked was if you sinned, you went to hell unless you gave the Catholic Church like a piece of gold and they piece of paper that said you won't go to hell. Okay, this was viewed as not super appropriate and Martin Luther decided to fight against it and that led to the birth of Protestantism. Okay, many people referred to capp trade systems as pollution absolution. They said it is wrong to allow firms to buy their way out of polluting. Look, what is capp and trade? You're literally firm being is buying their way out of polluting. They're saying, "I'm still going to pollute and just pay for it." And people said, "That's ethically wrong." And they were wrong. Okay? It's ethically fine because all we really care about is the damage done to society by the pollution. Okay? Now, you may say there are reasons why some firms should pay more and some firms should pay less and we get into that. But the bottom line is it is in if if you want to reduce pollution, you want to reduce it in the most efficient way. Let me just leave you with one story to illustrate this which is uh I'll talk next time about negotiating the global warming treaty. I was at Kyoto in 1992 when negotiated the original global warming treaty and at that meeting in Kyoto the liberals from the US were very much in favor of these kinds of cap and trade solutions. And I said, 'Gee, I thought you environmentalists kind of didn't like this pollution absolution stuff. And they said, 'N no, actually we've realized that it's efficient to regulate in this way. And the more efficient we can regulate, the more we can do. So their view was everybody wins when you regulate efficiently. You don't just allow efficient production, but by making regulation less painful, you allow the government to do more of it. Okay, so let me stop there. Um we'll come back next time talk about the last section of chapter 5 and then we'll start on chapter six and talk about environmental externalities in practice.