The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> Okay. Uh let's see some of the administrative stuff. First of all, um Wednesday's our play test. So it's an internal play test. you'll learn to play with each other's games. Uh which means chances are you're going to get in about enough time to play one person's game and enough time for you for that group to play your game. So, we're just going to just basically pair teams. Uh hopefully I think we have 14. So, I think that works out just right. But, uh, one thing I would certainly recommend before going on to Wednesday's class is making sure that you've had a chance to play test with at least someone who's not in your group. Uh, and the reason for this, what you want to be keeping an eye out for are rules that you've already agreed on in your team, but might have forgotten to write down somewhere. Um, I want the rules written down. Uh, they don't necessarily need need to look great. Uh, type is awesome because they're easy to read, but uh, and and they're easy to revise later. Um, it's not actually a requirement, but you got to have them written down. You should be able to just put it in front of person. I would suggest actually making a couple of Xes uh if you want to you come in early uh on Wednesday. Uh I'll I'll I'll activate the gambit Xerox. You just make a couple of copies so that the entire the entire group of four people who's going to be testing your game can just read all the rules at the same time while you're explaining it to them. Um, for the most um, if you're in a situation where you already have rules that you think could be understood without explaining, I would suggest not explaining at all. Just give them the rules and see what they make of it. But it's going to be very informative that that way. Not every single team may be in that situation. You may not have that much confidence in this point. If you think you've gotten all your rules written down, but you don't you just kind of not feel a little not quite so confident that everything's in there, do it anyway. Just don't explain it. Give it to them. See what they're having problems with and explain it. Um it'll still be informative. you still be able to get that data point of what should we have written down as a clarification uh as a complete omission you know uh what needs to be rewarded uh before the game actually starts um but uh I do fully recognize that there may be certain teams that do not have a set of rules that's that comprehensive yet in the end you want to get your play testing time so you know it's going to take half an hour for somebody to understand your game just by reading your rules, then you do want to try to cut that down eventually before you submit your your your game. You want to be in a situation where someone can understand your entire game quickly by reading the rules. >> Um, when you're play testing and timing, >> we weren't sure, we didn't remember, we didn't read carefully enough, the what is the maximum time that the game has to take and does that include setup from a complete novice or does that include, you know, do you Are you allowed to explain the rules and have totally experienced players go at it? And once experienced players go at it, it has to take a certain amount of time. How how does it >> It was supposed to be for novice players, but you know, I'm just going to check the actual uh uh syllabus. >> So, we have to be able to explain the entire game, run through the entire playthrough and all that in 10 minutes. >> That that one I wasn't sure. I think it's actually only a play through, but I but give me a sec. I'm going to look it up. >> That'd be great. >> I'm pretty sure it says 10 minutes. 10 to 20. Five 10 minutes of 10. Yeah. 5 10 minutes including setup and play. >> Including setup and >> but does that include excluding >> not necessarily >> it should include read. >> It should not >> it should not 10 minutes is way too short a time to read and understand and play a game. >> Yeah, let me just verify that about it. >> Our game takes like two minutes to play at the moment. the news. >> It can take very short time. It can take really long for creating a deck that has more information written on each card. I'll just take time to write it. So that that way the right lesson card. >> So I uh it's true. It doesn't say 10 minutes. Uh that that that take it you need to be able to play and understand the game in 10 minutes. So, I'm going to say setup and play has to be 10 minutes. So, it's like every time you reset the game and you play to the end, that should take that should be under 10 minutes. If it takes longer than that to understand the game, that's fine. But, frankly, if it takes more than 10 minutes for someone to understand your games, you have a problem. Uh, and the problem isn't going to be one that's going to affect your grade. is going to be one that you can use the processes in this class to iterate on to improve your game to the point where it doesn't take that long to understand because the game reading the rules should not take longer to think there are games like that but try not to make those games uh at least not as precise uh so I would say aim for the the explanate the explaining of the rules to also take within 10 minutes right now I'm not quite sure uh it might be okay if the actual explanation require requires someone who's actually an expert in the game to explain it. By the end of this assignment, you should be definitely getting to the point where you don't even need that. Just a new player with your rules should be able to understand and play your game in 10 minutes. It could it could involve discussion of an entire group of new players. Like, you know, you got four people, you say four card game, you have four people and you're all looking at the room simultaneously and the queen says, uh, why does it say so and so? And somebody else who has never played a game before answers that. That's fine. And that's actually how a lot of people play. Um, sometimes people put in quick start rules on this is this is all you need to know to play your first round of of cards and that actually helps a lot of people get started, you know. Uh, and then they're like kind of picking up the other >> lowers the activation energy. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, and in the end more people play your game. That's that's that's a good that's a good thing. Um, so that's on Wednesday. Everyone please come on time uh because every minute that we and uh waiting for someone to show up feeds into that and full teams don't show up actually. Who's who's designing a game that has to be played by four players? >> So there are some differenc Okay. >> All right. Not bad. Cool. All right. So So even show >> Okay. Um >> All right. So that's preparation for Wednesday. Now, um I do kind of want to apologize for Friday's lecture. I was on I was on a lot of meds. Uh you may or may not have noticed I was having splitting headache and it was not the best lecture that I've given in my entire teaching career. In fact, it was probably the worst lecture I've given in my entire >> I didn't. Well, oh wait, um, it occurred to me that there might actually be a better way to sort of get some of those concepts across other than me yammering for 3 hours. Uh, and what I'd like to do is revisit some of them, but actually do um do do a bit of an of an activity. I have never done this before. Uh, so this is not tested. You guys are the first iteration of >> I feel >> uh >> but basically what we're going to do is I'm going to go through these terms again, explain it one more time. You guys, you know, can ask me for clarifications or anything and then each, you know, group of about I think two people. Uh we're going to pick a game that somebody that pretty much everyone in the class should sort of know. They may not know the exact rules, but they'll sort of know game. um and sort of analyze that game across these different uh these different axes. And the idea of that is that if you get used to this, then you can do that same thing to your own game. And that may shed light on how your game is balanced, how your game is balanced, especially between chance and skills, which is really the topic of um of this class. but also you know questions of you know is our game doing what we want people uh want our game to be doing. So that's that's the general outline. Um, so, uh, so there's one more thing I want to mention before I go right into that. And, uh, and I think and Jason actually brought up a point at the end of, uh, last Friday was that, uh, he noticed that our two end robots, Mr. Robboto and Badass Mofo 600, >> 6010, I believe. >> Yeah, 610. It was upgraded version. He started at 608 >> and then there's a couple iterations on Saturday. >> Um, one of them was purely deterministic >> but horrendously complex in the sense that uh horrendously complex not in the sense that it was difficult to explain what it was doing but difficult to predict what it was going to do. Um you know this this was the one that jumped that had that that it will start its turn order based on the number of hit points that it had you know which >> and take the number of moves based also number of hit points it had >> right so it's you know entirely algorithmic you know it's just it's just following its rules every single time um the other one was pretty much random right I mean who that was Mr. robot which had a die roll every every round. Uh and it just did something perfect >> and and we ended up with the closest fight of that day. I think you know um and and that kind of does drive home the point that you know at some point of time you can get complexity through purely deterministic rules >> that frankly is as hard to predict as uh pure as pure randomness. >> A card game is like that. >> Your card game is something like that. But the nice thing about that is that if you have deterministic, you can see why it happened. You can see why. Wow. That I I I didn't expect that to happen, but I can see why that happened. Uh because >> so he was going to win. >> He was so sure he was going to win. >> Yeah. >> But then we Yeah. >> Did not turn out as such. >> So, you know, that's that's that's that's a desirable trait. It's a lot better than just saying, "Well, it's a die roll." I mean the nice thing about uh about virals is that it does take it out of your control. In fact it's it's kind of designed to make it not skill-based and as a result of that you give people who are lagging who are having a harder time playing the the game and entirely unskill based way of catching up. Uh which is awesome um if that's what you're going for. And then the other one is you know if it's if you just make it deterministic but complex enough so the behavior is just hard to predict but logical once it actually happens then you know you kind of get the same result and it all balances out. Obviously Dals are really easy to implement. Uh it's difficult to actually come up with rules that deterministically give you the kind of complex behavior that you're looking for. Um but it's a nice thing to go for. Of course, to get that complexity, sometimes you need so many rules that people just kind kind of get bored. It's like, wow, this is really complicated. I'm not sure whether I can figure out what the next step is going to be. And then you just give up. That's kind of the downside of, you know, really complex determination behavior. Um, but you know, it's it's it's neat that that that that you kind of saw both of those playing off each other and you saw kind of them behaving in pretty much unpredictable ways and yet giving nicely balanced results. So they're both really really valuable tools. Um, so now I'm going to be actually deeply deeply plagiarizing from Salem and from uh KB Salem and Eric Zimmerman uh from uh Rules of Play, which is that one of those big thick books I brought in on the first day. Um I'm not making you read it because I find that book takes three pages to explain what could have been explained in one which is why I have why I have a whole bunch of summaries in here. Uh but uh I am going but but what what that book does do is give you very very concrete terms that are pretty well accepted um if not necessarily among game designers among people of various expert domains. Uh and I've got some of those over there for people for you to refer to. Um I touched a little bit on information theory on on Monday. that model of you know uh how a signal goes from an uh someone who wants to send it through a transmitter goes through some sort of channel is received through some sort of receiver to to a person and and I talk if that transmitter if the if a person want if if the person who wants to send a signal it's actually the game the game state uh and is transferring information to a player who needs to get information about what's going on in the game um in order to make a decision uh then you can see how this applies to game design. And in between you have noise. You you you you have the thing that prevents you from knowing exactly what the game state is. And um and there are c there are certain words that are associated with with with that level of of uncertainty. I mean uncertainty and certainty are two are two words that they suggest to begin with. Um so just one second. So um so you know the uncertainty includes both the the the your inability to know what's going to happen next due to chance or due to really complex behavior uh as you saw in both of the robots. Uh it's just the degree to which uh how much the game uh all the different states the game could take either maybe in the next turn or throughout the entire play of the game. Um and uh and in information theory they actually also use the word information almost interchangeably. Uh unfortunately this gets kind of confusion uh kind of confusing because people don't actually use the word information in that sense in day-to-day life. And if and in fact I'm going to propose a different way of looking at it that also uses the word information in a completely different way. So I'm actually going to stop using uh the word information for now. I'm just going to call uh call it uncertainty which is pretty much all the different things that could happen in the game you know uh either in the next turn or or throughout the the game. Certainty is the is the degree to which you know uh you have knowledge about what could have happened. you know, a chess board pieces could be configured in any position, but one move after the opening, there's only a small set that it could possibly that that that that that uh that could possibly happen, right? I mean, it's probably on the order of only one side is moving for the first time. Any one of the pawns could move >> 20 >> 20 Yeah, the knights could move. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> So, you know, there's only 20 20 different possible things. So, you know, that's kind of the degree the degree of certainty that you have among all the different states, all the uncertainty of this chessboard, you you are certain that it's going to be limited to this chunk. Um and um and your your your knowledge of what that ratio uh is of how much you know could be happening based on what you know of the game rules based on your experience of the game uh based on uh your skill in the game uh to the states that the game could possibly take uh is called risk. So um you can think of you can flip you can flip it the other way around and say that if the uncertainty of the first turn is is you know 20 different moves you know but you're certain that you know the guy that you're that that that oh say say I'm the opening player I'm playing white and I really only know how to make three of those openings effective you know so I'm I I then then then I then and if that person and the person that I'm playing against knows that really I only know three openings really I only know two um you know then then that person's degree of of risk is kind of limited to the range of possibilities that branch out of that two out of 20 um so that's one way that you can sort of describe risk um let me see whether there's a more technical term that I can describe that with the patient So um so one thing that I want uh the that I want you to think about later um actually for for for the analysis that we're going to to um to to do you I want groups of two 4 6 8 10 12 14 15 mostly groups two and one group of three. Um actually one actually let's just do groups of three. It would be easier that way. Um and uh and to think about you know pick a game first that that you think that you can probably mention in this class without having to explain to everybody else exactly how this game is played. Uh you know uh it could be a computer game, it could be a war game, it could be a card game, something fairly wrong there. Um, and I want you to think about okay in you know what are the things that uh what what what are all the variables that you need to know in this game you know uh do it in fairly simple terms you know if you're doing something like a game of uh cosmic encounter or something then you know that's that you can say that every single race has a unique power without explaining to me every single power uh and which is I think they're likeundred different races in the game. So that was cosplaying encounter. >> Oh, it's fun. You will get a chance to play later this this semester. So cool. Um let's see. Uh so think think about what are all the variables that you got to keep track of. That's kind of the degree of uncertainty. That's the amount of information that could be in the system in a way that Shannon and we were you you you use it. That's all the different range of possibilities, all the different things you got to keep track. What do you know for sure as a single player in this game? Um, you know, what do you know at your first turn and what, you know, what what sort of information do you tend to pick up along the way? Um Um, let's see. Yeah. So, so let's start with that. We got, you know, just five minutes. It doesn't have to be an exhaustive list. So, let's split in just groups of three. the first activity and we're going to be visiting every single one of >> through all these different lenses. So I'm just going to start actually now and you know uh and if we ran out of time to do some uh uh uh this we can always do it after class and we can talk about it u but we're going to go through all of them so I'm going to speak to this uh starting with this team and moving all the way over just talk about >> Sure. So, we decided to go for Scrabble. And so, in terms of variables, you have the individual individual tiles. Their tiles are uncertain. Yours are fairly certain. The ones on the board are certain because they're faced. So, >> um >> the ones that have been placed, you mean? >> Yes. >> Yes. Another variable. Well, we're not I guess the variable is the bonus squares on the board. >> Uh you can think of them as even though they're fixed on the board, they're variable in terms of as more tiles get played, some of them become open and some of them become closed, and you don't know which ones are going to be open and closed. >> True. True. Um, also yes. Uh, yeah. All right. Uh, so that's that's that's something as you don't know how that's going to to turn out during the middle thing. So, one thing that's interesting about word games, especially Scrabble and crossword puzzles in general is that a lot of them uh rely on the fact that uh lang the English language in particular is actually pretty redundant. you can take about 50% of the letters out from a word uh this fairly long word and you can still figure out what it means. Uh that works really well for crossbow puzzles uh because you know you get something like 25% of words you can actually still figure out word what it means especially if you got a clue. Um but uh uh for Scrabble it also means that it's now possible for you to make uh connections between disperate uh disperate characters. you can find a word that's going to fit that. Um cuz part of the problem uh actually um that hasn't played words with friends. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. So, my brother, >> it's online scramble basically, right? You know. Oh, yeah. >> Um >> the same folks who made Worlds with Friends made a game called Worlds with Pirates. >> And um and I I have a screenshot here of a game I was playing yesterday. And uh basically you have you have few way fewer letters. You have H A R a lot of Rs and exclamation mark. >> So the number of letters that you can get uh uh the quantity of the letters that you get are the same as the scrabble but the range of different letters that you can get is way lower, which means there actually a lot less less uncertainties. Um, and because the because the game has so much um because this language, this parent language has so much uh uh uh I I I I want to be very careful to use the right word here. >> Uh is it true? >> So my so If I'm using the right word here, the word that this is actually a very non-redundant language because a r is is a word a r r is a different word both of which are valid. Um so there's actually very little redundancy. uh you know it's like I see eight R and I think that could be any number of words and as a result you notice that my that this this this game of words with pirates it results in an incredibly dense world because I can fill in whereas you can't do that with scrabble scramble spaces go empty uh and get locked out because you know unless you have an incredible knowledge of scrabble dictionary for the most um you don't know those exploits that are going to let you slice in an extra character because most people's knowledge of English >> doesn't happen again. >> So anyway, I thought that was specifically useful for for illustration at this point. Okay, so Scrabble. All right, cool. Um next game. >> So, uh we did go fish. So I mean some of the of information we had were like every player's hand and the um pile of cards in the middle that you can >> uh uncertainty >> being what cards the other player has and the channel that comes out it is them asking what cards they want and you asking >> them for cards, right? And there's noise because just because they're asking for a certain card can kind of imply what they have in their hand, but doesn't necessarily tell you what don't have, >> right? It only tells you what they don't have in their hands. Sometimes it tells you what they don't have in their hands. Sometimes it they they give you a card and I forget the rules. Do you have if you have multiple threes and someone says, "Got any threes?" >> You give all three. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. So, so, so you >> Why would you have three threes? Why don't you just put a pair down? >> Yeah. That would just be dumb. >> I mean, you're a bad player. >> Yeah. >> But for the most part, you know, in in in that game, um that's your one channel finding out what the state of the game is. Uh the game state is what everybody has has at hand. >> Cool. Cool. Cool. >> Uh Mario Kart. >> Mhm. >> Sweet. >> Yeah. There's a lot of there's a lot of uncertain a lot of things to keep track of. So the things that you can't possibly keep track of but that are really important to the game are uh you know what's what's going to come up when you hit an item block and what items people around you have. So you might think it's safe to like bump another player, but if they have three green shells, they can activate that then and blast you out of the map. Um >> another one is like what position you're in because if you're first place, you know, the blue shell hits you. So it's also what position you're in, what position people are in, stuff like that, >> right? So, >> so the probability of being hit by a blue shell is way higher when you're number one. >> Okay. So, you gather information through your visual range, which is also a function of basically where you are in the map. >> And so, the information you're getting about other players, >> uh, depends on where you are. And interestingly, you know, if they're immediately in front of you, you have a lot more information than if they're behind you, you have a lot more information than if they're way far away from you, >> right? Because if they're behind you or they're way far away from you, you don't know what what weapons they've got equipped for you. for instance, you generally know what position other people are in, >> but that's all you got, you know. Uh so that's that's some uh >> and then there's different paths and levels. So you might think there's someone in the same position as you, but they're not at the same point because they take a different branch. And then there's also the varying capabilities of different cars. So in Mario Kart 64, if you take Bowser and you're playing and there's Toad, you can ram into Toad and Toad will go like flying. >> Bowser. >> Yeah. So many one element of risk uh that you get in uh in uh Mario Kart is that the kinds of weapons that you get are pretty much weighted based on where you are in the game. If you are at the back, you get all the awesome weapons because the game >> you get a star like Disney Racer on PlayStation was way more weighted than that. >> Sure, there are more obvious versions of of this. I think Super Monkey Ball does this too actually. Um, when you're right in the front, I think all you get are bananas. Is that is that that the only >> in parts? >> Mostly bananas and like one green shell. >> Yeah, >> that's pretty much it. >> You get you get a file jump, >> but also the fake mystery box. >> And then halfway through uh and halfway games, the waiting is I'm going to guess roughly linear. So the basic idea is of one of the things about risk is that every time you take up a new weapon, you you are basically taking a gamble about what you're going to get. If you're already holding a weapon, >> yeah, >> sometimes you can choose to discard that to pick up something new. And I believe later iteration you carry two weapons or something like that. Um so you know that's one element of of risk, right? What do I know? I know what I've got. You know what what what else do I know? I know what position I I'm in. And I know that if I run into this box right now and I got rid of what I had, I could pick up a cooler weapon, there's a probability associated with that. And you know, and that's the other risk. You know, it's like you kind of it's it's like a one way to think of it is that it is a certain outcome with a certain probability associated. You are going to get away with it. It might be crap. >> You only really gain a sense of hardware though from like experience >> playing with it. Yeah, it's one of those things where your certainty of this game goes out west the more you play. Yeah. >> Cool. Thanks. >> So we beat Monopoly. >> Sure. >> So uh so Monopoly basically u what's certain is who owns what property essentially and it's technically certain how much money everyone has though keeping track of all that information on a term basis can be difficult. So there is a little bit of relative uncertainty just due to the quantity of information there >> and uh yes you gain uncertainties. It's actually Monopoly has very different opening and end games essentially. Um towards the start of the game there's a lot of uncertainty about how other players are going to value property that you give up. As Bowen was telling me I wasn't even aware of this in Monopoly when you decide not to purchase a property it actually goes up to auction. Yeah, >> that's like most people that >> and it's an open auction and so you don't know what other people's valuations are. So each time you bid, you're taking a risk >> if you don't actually want that price. >> That makes the game actually more interesting. >> Oh yeah. >> It turns out it turns out the game is not that much more interesting >> even when you even when you have the the option system. >> We will get to >> still pretty boring. you see my degenerate strategies. We will get to that. It's the end of the game. Basically, it's also a lot of uncertainty about what players are going to be, well, these aren't part of the rules, but whether they're going to be willing to trade with you, whether you can, you know, do things like manage to get into jail so you can stop landing on people's properties, kind of thing. Chances, of course, another level of uncertainty there. So, >> yeah. Uh it it's weird about the risk associated with an auction because >> you kind of know the sort of especially in the early game you have a vague idea of how much people could possibly bid on this, right? You know, it's like not not more than the amount of money that they have or needing a mortgage or something that they have just to get the cash for an auction. But it's um but it's it's it's one of those things that you know would fatty bill. Uh so it's true. Okay. All right. >> So we chose chess and so chess has this no uncertainty in the game because the if I would say any uncertainty it would be you don't know what your opponent is going to do. Mhm. >> So you have to make a move assuming that he's going to do something he can do something completely different. >> And as well as like risk in the game, >> the only risk is also not knowing what your opponent's going to do. So he could do a series of moves which causes you to be in situation where you have to lose piece. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, that's pretty much it. >> No, no, that's that that's cool. Um, I would argue that not knowing what your player is capable of is deep uncertainty. And in fact, it's it's it's a huge amount of of of uncertainty in game. It's true that, you know, the way how the pieces move are and where the p the pieces are placed, you know, everyone knows that. Uh, everyone want to get a mixed one. It's a game of perfect information. The game state is low noise. you know, you you you know exactly what's going in the game unless you're playing with like a 5-year-old who doesn't put the piece right down in the square, you know. Um >> so I guess something where it'd be a lot more a lot more noise for the game would be if you're playing something like speed test because then it's like oh you just have to think fast and >> sure it's a lot harder to realize what's going on. >> Yeah, that that is true because then now now you're limited by your own cognitive u bandwidth, right? you know, uh, so that's true, but it it doesn't change the amount of uncertainty in the game. The uncertainty on the game really is your opponent and what's in that person's head, uh, you know, the knowledge of of openings and knowledge of different moves, whether that player has seen something that you haven't seen, uh, or, you know, those of counter that that that you always annoying. >> Always annoying. You get the impression that they know exactly how to counter what you're doing and you're kind of floating like, >> right, right, right. Sometimes you're counting on them to do something and then you don't. It's like, well, did you do that? I would have done that. >> I think it's like golf where you have to pretend like you really look like poker. >> Um, okay. So, so you know that that's one way to look at your your game. What do you know? What do you don't uh don't don't know. What's the probability that you uh what's what's the probability of certainty that you know something? Um, and of course I'm not not as you what as as a game designer you're thinking what do your players know? What your players not know? What can your players do? A reasoned a reasonable guess of what likelihood something is going to happen um or something is going to be true. You know, it's like, okay, I don't know how what cars that person has, but I but there's an 80% probability that that person has jacks of higher off the of the of the the trump because that person bid on that trump. That's that that that's a fairly good good guess. Um lowrisk guess. Okay. Now, now we're going to the other schema which is the information systems. Um now I talked a little bit about perfect and Imperfect information. Perfect information games. You know games state. Everyone knows game state. No player does not know game state. Um imperfect information. Okay, there's something that you don't know. Maybe it's you know card games in particular because cards have two sides. You know that's cards are t typically used to hold back the perfect information. Anyone play strategy in perfect information any you know every single piece. There's nothing random in the entire game. There are no dy rolls, you know, there are no random shuffles. >> Well, the other guy chooses to click where he places his pieces. It can be perceived as random to you. >> Can be perceived as random. It is true. It is. But it I mean but but but but uh let's get really uh uh specific about termin is that it's actually uncertain. It's not actually random. It is a decision made by not play by rules. Um so yeah. So actually one objectively like it is not random. It is perceived as random. Uh it's perceived as effectively right because really the person could have put his pieces anywhere within I think the first two rows or something like that. Um so so so um how however that's that's kind of a blood tool. This is game and game of perfect information or imperfect information. That's a yes no question. doesn't really tell you that much about your your your asking okay what is actually random and what is not actually uh random but may be perceived as that slightly better question you know uh because you can think okay if if I as a player I know that's not random but it could be anything uh because of what the other player has done I'm going to treat it as random I might as well do all and when you're designing for that player you are you are doing all your calculations just taking it as random Um there might be um uh there is a game theorist not game theorist a game studies uh uh scholar named Cia Pierce who works over at Georgia Tech and her proposal is that u a more useful range of questions to ask would be what's known to all players you know and in game of perfect information everything's known to all players uh what's only known to one player what's known to the game you know is like uh especially for a computer game computer knows game knows a lot more about game state. But that sometimes that even comes down to rules. So if you've ever done boss battles in something like Metroid or Castlevania for instance, there are rules of which every that every single boss is going to react to anything that you do. Maybe it's based on time. Maybe it's just a sequence of actions or like the robots that you like the AI giant robot that you guys programmed uh in person. You don't know those rules going into the game. that's those doesn't prevent you from playing the game. And in fact, part of the fun is figuring out what that rules is, figuring out what the pattern is against. Um, so that's an example of the thing that's known to the game. Other things that are known to the game are um actually now maybe that's not that's not a good example because randomly generated stuff like there is a shuffle deck. Uh shuffled decks are kind of one of those things where it's a little bit unclear uh about what whether the game knows what's in that stack. It's true that you shuffled it. So, it's randomly generated, but once you've shuffled it, it is now in a fixed order. Uh so the game knows what order that that that message even though it was initially randomly generated. It's not like randomly generated every single turn like a di. Um but you know, it's a good question to ask. you know, uh even if it's not an easy question to answer, it's a good question to ask what's known to the game but not known to the rest of players and what's just randomly generated. You know, it's like, you know, even if the game had a brain, they would have no idea what this game's ter because it's a freaking title. Um, so use those games again. Every single one of those games they're talking about what's what's known to all players, what's known to one player, what's known to the game, and what's just randomly generated. Go. Okay. Every single game detail should we just do? >> So we changed again poker Texas Holdm now. So no longer in chess and so it's kind of it's imperfect information because you know what's in your hand, you know what's out on the board, but you have no idea what everyone anyone else has. They can try and tricky. So it's maybe perceived. It's perceived knowledge. So uh like let's say they play a large bet. It's perceived that they must have a good hand, but it's not necessarily accurate. So it's it's not really an objective based. However, it is subjective. Whenever you finally show your hands, then it's either you want one or you lost. It's not really up for debate. >> So I guess it could also be uh whether you know like again with chess how you what what the other player knows whether uh the other players know like conventional poker conventions for >> for folding or not. >> Mhm. Okay. Um let's see other things. Other things that a lot of uh Korean especially poker uh there that is known to all players will be things like what are the number of kings in the deck you know what are number uh you know what are what are the forces and what are all different hands that that that you could make and what are the point values. So that's just one example of things that need to be known by all players. Well, that the assumption that all players know that. Sometimes all players don't know all >> like memorizing the probabilities is a huge >> really big players know the objective probabilities of a given hand. >> Yeah, actually a lot of casinos they let you bring in a card with the probabilities. You can >> really >> I'm surprised that they let you do that. Okay. All right. >> I guess I guess blackjack. >> I'm pretty sure blackjack too you can bring in cards with numbers on. So, you know, um you know that the the themes that are known to the game would be, of course, you know, shuffle order. Uh I guess this happens more in blackjack where you've got like five decks all shuffled together and you know, you know, there are certain number of kings in and they're in there somewhere. So, if all the kings get played out, you're going to have no more kings left in there and then you can you can you can sort of do do computations from them. Um and uh one thing I want to clarify about objective and proceed. Um objective doesn't necessarily mean that any one player knows whether this is good or bad. Uh the idea is that if if there was a third party observer who was not playing the game and knew all of game state, you know, look into the deck to look into the hands, you know, uh knows what's coming up or a computer running the game that that person that computer will know to the the extent to where something is good or bad. So if you get a hand, you know, um probabilistically you can sort of tell, well, this is a pretty darn good hand or this is this is already probabilistically crappy. >> I got cheap enough suits. >> It might be good for that game, right? It might it might be just like I I don't care, you know, but it might be good if nobody else has anything, you know, but uh >> probability you're not going to have it. >> Yeah, but but pro probabilistically you want to win that. That's why you have pro players saying things like right up until this point I was winning, you know, and then you know and then you lost the entire game. But it's like probabilistically they were doing everything right. And and actually that's a lot of professional players have those strategies to uh to say well they were doing everything right. Sure they they lost the hand but to them they were winning they were winning everywhere up up to the point where they fold. Uh okay next game Monopoly game let's run through the all players one player game etc. >> Uh all players know the board state. So the people that are owners of any of the properties and what's still owned by the bank. Um everybody so every given player knows the amount of money that they have and also what valuation they place on all of their properties which is not known to other people except kind of incidentally through their actions. Uh the game knows the state of the community chance and sorry community chance and chance decks, right? >> And then there's randomly generated die rolls. >> Die rolls. >> I I I I'm forgetting whether uh Monopoly requires you to show your bankroll clearly. >> I think so. >> If you want to know how much money someone else has, >> they have to tell you. >> It would be interesting to look up and see uh what the actual. Cool. All right. So popular >> good marketing. >> It's very shallow. >> So it's really it's really familiar. I know I've so I asked friends of mine who have to play Monopoly but don't like to play for instance settlers. And um a lot of it is really you don't have to think too much about it. It's just an excuse to sit around and talk with people. Um there's there's um not that much that kind of distinguishes somebody who's like a incredibly good player from an incredibly bad player. It's has that bit of that any given Sunday feel to it. So you always have an opportunity to win there can be dramatic swings of faith and all that kind of thing. >> So it's kind of like adult candy can you just go through the motions. >> Yeah. But I mean, I also have friends who are like avid Monopoly players and I really believe that there's a deep skill to playing Monopoly, but I'm yet to be convinced. >> There is a strategy. I'm not sure it is a skill. >> Okay. All right. Cool. Thanks. >> We need Mario. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sticking with the game. >> So, except for a couple of special stages in general, players are aware of their welcome position other players um during the race. We assume everyone knows the maps. You play them. So, we assume everyone knows the maps. You're not sure if you know what other people like what their special powerups are and you can like look at the screen and see what they have. >> Yeah. So, if you're playing against other humans, there are situations where you definitely know what they have. I don't think >> it's a strategy. >> In Mario Kart DS, you know all your opponent's items. >> Yeah, that's true. That's lame. >> Suddenly on a on a simultaneous multiplayer game where your screen is divided into four or two. >> Yeah. You know what your opponent has and designers have to take that into account. >> Same thing for Halo, right? >> Yeah. Talking about just said it. You said counteract. >> Yeah. Um and let's see what else. Uh so there's um you perceive it as kind, I guess, completely random, especially if you don't pay much attention to it, but it's more like weighted random what items you get. And so that's something that you might figure out as you go along that actually as you're further up uh you you get worse items. I in fact it's a good strategy in that game to remain second place for most of the race and then and then go to first. You don't really want to be in first place. >> Now the game knows those probability rates. >> The game definitely knows that. The game also knows who's going to get hit by a red shell for example when you launch it. It's not entirely clear to me as a player when there's multiple people in front of me who's going to pick >> um when I shoot a green shell be back behind me. You know, the game knows what's going on. I I know. Is that in my field of view? I might hear it. I might hear the result. I might not. >> The game definitely understands the physics way better than any human player could possibly. >> Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. >> Yeah. >> The game knows all the players positions and abilities, but it doesn't know what they're going to do or how they're going to interact with each other. It also doesn't presumably actually know uh what items are coming up. >> Oh, and then another thing is as players you can learn the patterns of some of the of the hazards and and and be able to be able to predict which way to go depending on when you where how you know a certain >> that's like knowing a map, right? That's like knowing. >> Yeah. What if any of them are random? Actually, >> depends. >> Some of them are random. But uh one thing to keep in mind about randomly generated computers obviously uh well maybe not it's not obvious but uh computers actually have a real tough time generating really random numbers. >> It's a pseudo random >> is they could that's why they're called pseudo random. Uh so so to some extent the computer knows but it's trying really really hard not to know that coming up but it's really really useful if you ever go into game design uh for digital games uh to use that to your advantage because you can use that to reproduce problematic situations. Uh it's like yeah random number generator that we have absolute control over uh and you use that to uh to your advantage when you're trying to find bugs. >> Cool. Thanks. Um, so just remind we did go fish. So I mean clearly every player knows what's in his hand, knows what pairs have been played thus far, knows how many cards people have and stuff like that. Um, >> generally people should know what cards have been given from one player to another player. They might have forgotten that. Um sometimes there's a situation where uh most of the players don't know which pairs can be possibly made at a given point. >> Sometimes one player may know that because he might have one card that someone else gave their card to somebody else >> or something like this. But the game definitely knows this. >> Um also the order of the deck is random. >> Yeah. >> At least right at the beginning first. Yeah. >> Cool. So for Scrabble, all the players know the pieces on the board. They all know the letter frequencies. >> They don't know what tiles you're going to get next. The bag is random graph. >> What does everyone know the dictionary though? Like the dictionary knows it. >> I mean that that's the knowledge that is both available to one player and to the game. Technically the game has official Scrabble dictionary. uh if you're playing a digital version then they're probably using it. Uh you're playing against your family, they probably don't accept, you know, certain two letter words in the dictionary. >> Um >> we also don't know like what the other players have like, >> right? So one person only knows like what they have, but then like the other three aren't really. But then again, towards the end of the game, we discussed how if you're playing with two people, you can probabilistically figure out what they >> or figure out what you're going to get next when you draw. >> It's also more likely for you to figure out as as the game goes on and piles get clear, what letters will never come up. >> At pro at pro levels of Scrabble, they do know exactly what final steps, right? There's a there's like a certain point that you get to at which point Scrabble players just know what's left and work out kind of all the possible. >> At that point, do you just like keep letters that are more likely to work with what's in the bag? Like how does how do you use that to your advantage? >> After all the files drawn, you know, >> yeah, you're trying to prevent them from using the letters that they've got. Uh but if you uh most scramble boards uh although I don't know if all scramble boards have this they actually show the frequency in which a number of uh the number of letters the number of tiles for any given letter are in there. So it's actually expected that you're going to take this into account. It's like oh four you know there are only four hes or something like that and they're all out. All right there's none coming down. >> Random other Scrabble facts. found out a lot about Scrabble when I was reading about computational Scrabble planes. Apparently in Scrabble tournaments, people like they have a chess clock system, right, for making sure it doesn't go over time. And apparently people set aside like half their time to playing the end game of Scrabble, >> which is the point at which at which there's basically full information >> and then you're just sitting there out like what the best sequence of play is to beat your opponent and it becomes like chess. How much time do you get on the test? >> I don't even remember. >> So yeah, high level Scrabble is completely different from the Scrabble when you play. It's crazy. >> I'd love to find a video. >> Okay. All right. Uh still got some time. Great. Uh let's talk about cybernetics. um cybernetics are you know given that I kind of invented at MIT uh is something that you probably encountered and I' we mentioned this a few times the whole idea of feedback I want to break this down a little bit though uh because um feedback works uh the the official sense of feedbacks in the sort of theory of cybernetic systems as written by Robert weer back in the 40s I think um is that there is a sensor something which measures what the system is doing. There is a comp there's a comparator which is in his era was a machine and in our era is probably a rule a logic a statement uh you know you know that that that that compares this against some sort of uh set value or some sort of rule and decides to take action um and activate and you can think of this this way all as you know your sensor is the variable that you're looking at or a certain collection of variables that you're looking at. So, what are you looking at? A comparator is a rule that you're comparing against. Uh, you know, it's um I'm trying to pick a game that no one has mentioned here so far uh that has a good feedback system. Say, um I I I played a version of cops and robbers as a kid where every time you c you the cop caught a robber, the robber would have to go into a jail area and couldn't get out of it. to someone tagged him, someone from the robber team tag them. Uh, and the basic idea is that the fewer people there are in a field, assuming they are playing in a fixed space. The more robbers there are in a jail, the easier it is for a robber to run uh uh actually because they have more freedom. Sure, there are more cops to any given robber so they can do uh kind of flanking, but one of the variables that we're looking at are how many people are currently in jail. Um and uh and an activator is basically what's the rule or what's the game dynamic that comes into play. So that's kind of interesting thing about the cops and robbers uh situation. I want to have more space to run when all my buddies are in jail, but there are a lot more cops going after me and that actually uh means that it's easier for them to flank me even though I have more space to run. So those are both a negative and a positive uh feedback system. more space to run is actually a negative feedback system. it uh and how you tell the difference is is it stabilizing to my state or is it cumulative to my state uh if if it's stabilizing which means you know I'm doing badly my team is doing badly but this is now giving me an edge uh or I'm doing really well and this is really crappy um Mario Kart has tons of these um those are negative feedback those those are things that basically reduce the the uh the gap between the best and and the people who were doing well, people doing well. Positive feedback is accumulated. They're doing well, they're going to do even better. So, the cops have got everybody but one and now it's five to one game. You know, the cops have a that that's a positive feedback system because now now they can do tactics as opposed to everyone going after someone. Um uh and and you have these two feedback loops kind of working together. There are tons of these in games. uh and games aren't really the kinds of closed systems that cybernet that cybernetics was actually originally designed to handle. Um in fact very few systems are actually closed systems in that way and games are actually better than most. Um but let's but let's talk about you know uh what's in all of the games we're talking about. What are some of some of the negative feedback loops? What are some of the positive feedback loops? Mario Kart team, you've got way too easy. >> Think of someone the game. you think of some of the games. >> Yeah, that's what I didn't know that the AI automatically go faster if there's a huge gap. >> That's more than just a Mario Kart actually. It does a lot of racing games. >> Also, when if you're playing like the Grand Prix, there's always three computers that are always better than everyone else and then all the rest of them. So, they will always be the ones that are in the top four like they're in the top always. >> But Mario Kart, think of different game, but let's take a look. Go through all the games. Uh >> uh sure. Think about chess. Actually, chess and white actually be an interesting one for >> No, but shot chess we take a shot after shot. >> Yes. >> That gets too easy. >> Well, it depends on Well, take it can be negative feedback, but there's also the method positive feedback. It depends on how you play. >> Yeah. Winner takes any drinking game pretty much. >> Yeah. >> It depends on what your goals are, right? Shot chest. Shot chest. You can have it that whenever you take a piece, you have to drink that piece. But then there's also whenever you take a piece, the opponent has to drink the piece. >> So that means so it can either be negative or positive feedback depending on how you play. >> Yeah. But but but let's pick a version of the game. >> Uh ideally pick the same game, but if it's too boring, pick something else. The same criteria. Okay. So, uh let's start from somewhere in the middle, which I think is this right here. >> So, we took a pretty easy one, but it's pretty like mathematical feedback. We we did war. Okay. Statistically, if you're winning, every time you win, you're lowering the value of your cards. >> You get the average value of your deck. >> Yeah. So, mathematically, positive feedback loop, right? Right. Right. Lowering the fact that you're getting more cards. Negative the fact that you're lowering the average value within your deck. >> So which which makes it harder for you to keep winning. >> Exactly. >> Okay. >> So that's just negative feedback. Any positive feedback loop? >> There's a small positive feedback loop in so far as you can't win unless you get all the cards. So thus winning hands gets you more cards gets you closer to winning. >> Yeah. >> Well, the more cards you have, the closer you're at winning. That's like saying any game with points, the more points you get, you're closer to winning their positive. >> Yeah, >> I guess those cards >> logically, but it's kind of >> Well, the only other one is if you if you have a war, >> then you win those three extra cards and depending on what they are could be positive, negative. >> Okay, great. >> Which way should we go? This this way. >> We switch to settlers. a bunch of feedback loops. >> Um, obviously like the more points you get, assuming those points are like cities and settlements and the more resources you're going to get in the future and those points you can build. So like eventually one player just has so much stuff can do whatever they want to positive, right? >> Yeah. Um, there's also negative feedback like the sensor is the relative prices of resources. the more one resource is worth in time in comparison to the other ones, the more people try to build on that resource brick >> and the less that resource would be worth in the future. So >> the long term they tend to balance out instead of having one go randomly out of control. >> Think about that one. That's interesting. >> Yeah. >> Also like the more this isn't exactly feedback, but like the more the better you're doing, the less likely people are going to try to Yeah, that's that's that's that that in my opinion is the biggest negative feedback loop in the entire game. If you're in the league, everyone hates you. >> You're not actually making any progress in the game. >> Okay. There's also um if if you have a bunch of resources like if you have a bunch of cities on like a resource and so like if someone draws a six and you end up getting like six resources from a tile then that's higher probability that if someone draws or rolls a seven the >> so I guess that's negative feedback too. the welling the servant and losing your cards mechanic is very much a negative feedback like I'm so rich now I'm not so rich you know and people who are kind of poor says I still got the same number same that's that that's negative feedback um a couple of things about negative feedback u uh to to keep in mind is that uh negative feedback does tend to make games last longer it it sort of staves out the ending of the game because obviously the difference between the people in the lead and people not in the lead are narrowed to the point that sometimes folks are back in contention again and uh positive feedback tends to make things end sooner. Um uh oh. Um okay. All right. I'll get >> um so in Scrabble, the main one that we came up with was that if you play a long word, you get a lot of points, but you and you also get a lot of tiles, which gives you opportunity to the next turn play more points or get like >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. >> There's also that the more tiles you play, the less tiles there are available. So that's kind of It's both positive and negative. That was >> immunity and yeah, it becomes kind of a negative feedback loop because you may just end up with fewer times. >> That's true. >> Any other negative? >> We try to make it into a show. >> Okay. That's that's let's that's put off that discussion. >> Yeah. Every time you play a bigger word, it's easier for someone else to play a word off of that. That's >> um that's an interesting thing because um that's actually a counter example to to to a point that was that was made by Eric Zimmerman because he argues that positive feedback actually magnifies early successes and negative feedback tends to magnify late ones just like in the Mario Kart example. It's great to be the second place, right? Because you know if you do a late a late game success that propels you in the first place just as the game ends. Uh whereas uh uh some of the examples that we've been hearing on public feedback, uh you know, if you manage to be the first one to build a city in settlers, you know, uh that tends to perpetuate your success for the rest of the game. Uh the game isn't quite as predictable as that, but you know, it's it's it's it's designed that way at least. Um but in but that's that's a very very good example of the you know you got this negative feedback loop near the end of the game where uh where you have a success by playing all of your tiles but the bag is almost empty. So now you are not getting not only are you not getting an advantage that early that late game success isn't translating into any kind of uh of of significant advantage later on. Still, you know, it's uh it's as a general rule, if you are dealing with a limited resource like tiles, uh then you know, you do have this situation where a positive feedback gain a positive feedback loop is kind of amplifying early successes and negative feedback loops make late successes more powerful. >> So, we're basically with a starcraft. I think with the starcraft the some of the This positive feedback is that the more worker you build and then the more you can get the mirror. >> The more workers you build, the more cash you get, the more cash you get, the more workers you can build. >> That's the another positive feedback loop is the the more that you destroy like you conquer your opponents, the harder it is for them to build up and defend against you. Well, it the easier it is for you to beat them. On the other hand, you want your feedback. >> Oh, then >> I think the positive feedback just like emphasize a lot of early game strategy. >> So, a negative feedback loop in Starcraft would be the faster you the more you expand your territories, the harder is for you to defend because you're spreading out your resources and the more friends you have. So the easier it is for your opponents to attack you. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We were having that little discussion earlier and finding finding other negative people nukes was kind of tricky. Actually, >> another one that we I thought of was the the more the more uh research that you do, the less resources you have for building units or workers and such. And so you have to decide. I mean, you'll power up your units, but you may have less to actually build those units. But probably not really. It's that's a very small negative loop. >> I think another negative is like the more troops you have like the less like attention you can give to all each of them. So like hard >> less effectively. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. The more the more different screens you got to you got to keep your eye on basically. >> That's the thing that's the great thing about the the control one. So one go here two go here. So, one thing about team games though is there's a huge positive feedback if you're doing four or 3B 3D and you take out one of them and it's like so many so much easier. >> Yes. >> It's just harder than 3B2. >> Then you have a bunch of risk cuz what happens if you try taking out taking out one person, but then you fail and now you're weak, but then they have a lot more. There >> is risk. >> Yeah. So there's an interesting comparison with Warcraft 3 which did have negative feedback loop where if your army gets past a certain size then it costs more you kind of get taxed income. >> Um yeah I don't know if you guys know about this. Yeah. Basically think think like Starcraft but then you have a food count but once you get past a certain food count then each of your peons brings in less gold from the farm sorry from the gold mine. And it gets even worse the more troops you get. So you're kind of >> punished for being too far ahead. >> There's a very clear negative feedback. >> I This isn't a strict negative feedback loop, but it's interesting to look at uh the resource management. Um basically investing in units that bring in more resources or investing in other units that do fighting are all different positive feedback loops. And you can view not investing as negative feedback loops in those areas. Although that's really not completely true. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm not sure if you're giving me trying to say that negative feedback, but you're right. They are different positive feedback loops. They work very differently. You know, winning a battle makes it easier for you to win later battles, >> but winning a uh but building more workers makes it easier for you to build more units. So >> uh kind of a not apparent uh positive feedback is the starcraft uh upgrading attack power by just once greatly increases its efficiency because now two attacks will take down four three attacks. I >> I don't want to get into that much detail. >> Very important. So I just went >> super key. >> I was I was going to say crunch you can have bigger workforce but every turn you have to pay for that. So you get more money if you work pay for that negative feedback. >> Yeah. That's that's that's that that's a key. >> Turns out in monopoly if you have a lot of money or stuff which people then land on which gives you more money. weird. That's that's >> top secret secret strategy winning Monopoly is to buy lots of stuff and then have people land on it so you can get more money. So actually but so this has just one little uh negative feedback into well actually two for uh >> income tax >> that's the income tax and like the >> and like several thousand hotels actual governments like that too right >> so so >> it's patent out of real life but then again so is the whole of Monopoly game the whole Monopoly game is about real life land ownership monopolies Atlantic City, I believe. >> Yeah. >> Atlantic City. >> So, yeah. Uh, and and that gives us a good segue into degenerate strategies. Yeah. Right. >> No. >> Sorry. Okay. >> All right. So, so I'll go into that a little bit, but uh maybe I'll get I'll get into that on Wednesday, but on Wednesday, we're going to focus that mostly on your uh on play testing the game. If we have no time for anything else, we are play testing your game. Uh, and so bringing the games, bringing your cards, make sure your cards are ready before class. Don't like frantically writing stuff. Uh, try not to be changing stuff right up to after class. Sometimes you might be feel pressured into that. Um, try to be ready before class starts. Uh, and try to show up at a right beginning of class because it will really really suck if you finish play testing. If you finish play testing someone else's game and that team doesn't have enough time to play test yours, okay? and it may happen and that will suck. So, let's try to start that uh right on time by this Wednesday. >> Thank you.