Right. So this here is just to make sure that you at the right place. This is uh 18 100B or uh 18 uh 0 uh 100 uh and two. Um and my name is Toby. So Toby coding and uh by so we will be uh recorded uh and the video from the lecture will be posted online uh and I will also write uh lecture notes. I hope you appreciate it because it I wrote the first one. It actually took me quite a long time. I don't typically uh type the lecture notes but I will do this for this class. Um and I also wanted to just give you an idea of the structure. First of all, this is one of the most important math classes at MIT. Uh and I'll tell you in a minute why it is important. And of course I think that being one of the most important math classes is one of the most important classes period. uh but um right but so just to give you an idea of what's uh the what will be expected from the class so there would be uh 10 weekly homework uh and the first one the first one uh will be due it won't be due next week it will probably be due the week after next week and the and in part it just allow you to kind of get settle in a bit. But also um I'm waiting for somebody else to assign the TA and the graders. So it will be I think it will be at least one graduate TA and there will be some undergraduate uh uh TAs and then there will also probably be some graders and uh and most of these including myself will have office hours also. So it'll be 10 weekly weekly homework. There will be a midterm. So one midterm and one final. And the midterm is on March 20th. And the the final u is uh I don't know when it is. it's uh I'm not the one that is uh deciding the date and it would be a while before we know what date that will be. And so and in terms of the grade uh the homework will count for 50% of your grades. Uh midterm will count for 20% and the final for 30%. And you can see all this information about this uh in there's a syllabus and a course information posted uh in on the Canvas. So right so make sure to check out the Canvas site for the class and there's also the information about the book and also the lecture notes will be posted on the Canvas site. The lecture notes I think will probably be posted on the files. So lecture notes uh will be posted under files and one other thing is that uh that I have activated what's called pet partners Right. So you are encouraged to uh to work with other people on the pets but you have everybody have to hand in their own pets. Okay. Uh and and pet partners is a way of finding uh other people uh to work with. I mean of course you can do it another way but but this is a tool that is used in in a lot of classes. Okay, I think this sort of covered the basic information and so the class here is so um the the the two key topics for this class is so key topics uh is uh one is to uh you will learn how to write uh a mathematical proof. So what does it mean to to to write something so that it's kind of ma mathematically rigorous and the second thing that you will learn is how to prove themsel of this that suppose you have a function. So suppose you have some interval. So a and b are real numbers and you have a function f defined on this interval and they take real values and so here you have the interval here a here's b and assume that the value at let's say that the value at a is negative and the value at the other end point b is positive right so you have so if You sort of were drawing the graph. Here you have a maybe here you have b and then the function initially is negative and it end up being positive. So this is f of a here you have f of b and then this function here is continuous. So the function sort of looks maybe like this. Um so f is continuous. So the intermediate value theorem say so there. So the intermediate value theorem value theorem it say the following that if you have a continuous function on an interval then it takes all values in between. Right? So the intermediate var say in particular that there exist a c and the c here is between a and b. So that the value of the function at c is zero right because the function start off negative and it end positive. So there must be somewhere in between where it hits zero. Right? That's the intermediate value. Right? But now the question is then how do we make this into right? So and and it's kind of obvious. It's sort of intuitively obvious that if you take a function, right? Continuous just means continuous means um something like that. If you were drawing the graph then and you have this like piece of chalk here then then as you're drawing the graph the chalk is not allowed to leave the paper, right? It can't have a function like this here that sort of jumps. So go like this and then you jumps like this. That's not continuous. Right? This here is not continuous. Right? So continuous function is like that you have to when you draw it it's like in one motion the chalk doesn't leave the the blackboard. Right? And so it seems obvious that there should be some point in between where the value where you're crossing this axis here. But how do we make this into a rigorous proof? Right? And what is the property? Right? So how do we make this into a proof? So how do we make this intuition into a proof, right? And this is not just sort of a semantic question. It's not just a sort of crazy question. Maybe in this case it sort of seemed clear but very quickly if if your foundation is not totally rigorous then you get into something where it seems to be the case but it might not be the case right and it's also very difficult to then you know it's quickly that's where you arrive and you also quickly arrive to that you don't even know whether it should be the case or not right and so it's really important to kind of build things up step for step where each step is totally rigorous and you um right because it it's it not only uh you know for sure that things are right but it also makes it much easier to predict what should be true and so in order to to understand uh why there should be some uh c between uh a and b where the value is zero. it immediately it's the first thing the first question that arises what are you using what property do we need to make this into a proof what property do we need of the real numbers right so this is like the first question that arise so what property uh are we using of the real numbers, right? And so in fact, what is the real numbers, right? So what are the real numbers? Um and and so the thing is that in particular you what you know what is square root of of two. So what is square root of two? Square root of two. Right? And is that a real number? Is square root of two a real number. Right? So those are some of the questions that you immediately get to. And so now but so the answer to what are the properties that you're using of the real numbers. So the answer to this question here is is the following. And so the answer to this question is so what are the property of the real numbers that you're using? So the answer to that is the following. uh that we that the real number so r is a complete ordered field uh that contains the rational numbers. the rational numbers Q and denote the rational numbers by Q and the real numbers by capital R. So that is the to in order to make this proof this this proof of the the to to make this the intermediate value theorem this property that if you have a interval from a to b you have a continuous function on that interval and it start off negative and it ends positive that then there is some value in between where zero is achieved in order to make that rigorous what you're using about the real numbers is that is complete ordered field that contains a rising number. So we need to understand what this here means right and I will I will in this lecture here I will not explain complete I'll do that at a later lecture but we will understand the rest of of of of what is in what what are these properties that we're using. So just first some notation. So first some notation the natural numbers. So the natural numbers. So the natural numbers here and this here is one two three four five etc. Right? So these are the natural numbers uh the integers. So two uh set here these are the integers and the integers are simply the natural numbers but then it also allow them to be negative and it also includes zero. So this is 0 plus or minus1 plus and minus 2 plus and minus three etc. These are the integers the rational numbers are then so the rational numbers Q. So these are numbers of the form m / n where m here is an integer and n here sorry yeah m is a integer and n here is a natural number that's a rational number and so now what are the properties right so in order so we're building up to trying to understand what property of the real numbers is. But let's try to somehow understand a little bit better what are the property that we really have about the rational numbers. So for rational numbers we have right so we write a rational number as a quotient like that right but of course there are many ways that you can write a quotion right so so property of the rational numbers so We write it as a quotion like this. But this is not uniquely defined. Right? There are you know if you take a quotion like this you you think that this here is equal to another quotient right? Again, sorry. Again, m1 and m2 are integers and n1 and n2 are natural numbers. Two quotients are the same, right? If and only if right that if you multiply this over here and this over there, then those numbers are the same. So m_sub_1 * n_sub_2 is equal to m_sub_2 * n1. Right? Those two rational numbers are the same if and only if those two natural numbers are the same or integers, sorry, integers, right? Because m is could be negative. Right? So right. So this is so again a rational number it has a representative like this but it's really kind of always you could think about it as always you can write this quotion right and two quotients are the same if and only if this is the case. So this is what it means to be a rational number. uh but then there are some some operations right if you have two rational numbers then you can add two rational numbers together right so and that's really important that you have some operations on the rational numbers so if you take this here is this here is one rational number and if you Now take another rational number m_sub_2 over m_sub_2. Uh then how do you add two rational numbers together? Right? Well, of course you know that you put it on the common denominator. So this here is m_sub_1 * n_sub_2 plus m_sub_2 * n1 / n1 * n2. Right? This here gives you this here is a integer in the denominator and this is a natural number in the denominator. Right? And so that's a representative of a of a rational number. Right? So that's an operation. Now in order to to really know that this is all right. So the idea here is that if you take one rational number like this and you take another rational number like that then you can add them and that gives you another rational number. Right? That's that's that's this operation that we know so well and is addition. Right? In order to for this really to make sense, you should check that this that this that this rational number you get is independent on the representation. Right? If you have another representation for the same rational number and another representation for the same rational number, then when you add them, you should get another representation for the same natural number. rational number, right? Um, okay. And we'll check uh one of these things in just a minute, right? The other thing is that um right so that was one operation, right? When you have the the the rational number, then addition is one operation. Another operation is of course multiplication. So so another operation is multiplication. And so and so if you take one rational number like this and you take another rational number like that, then if you multiply them together, right? So what does it mean to multiply two rational numbers together? Well, of course you know this very well. It's just multiplying the denominator. So that gives you a integer and then multiplying the denominator that gives you a natural number. So this here is a rational number. Okay? And then there's another thing. So this is addition. This was addition. This is But there's another important property that you have for the rational number and that is an ordering. Again, we're trying to understand this question up there. We just trying to understand how do we make the intermediate value uh theorem? How do we make this rigorous? And so we need to understand what property of the real numbers we we we need. And so this is explained in this and we were working towards trying to understand the different concepts in this. What is a field? That's what we're trying to understand. And so so we have addition in the rational numbers. We have addition. We have multiplication. But we have another operation on which is an ordering. So if you take a If you take a a rational number here, then you can say that this rational number is less than another rational number, right? When is it less than another rational number? This is equivalent. You're saying remember that the that these here are natural numbers. So they're positive. So that this rational number is less than that just means that m_sub_1 * n_sub_2 is less than m_sub_2 * n1 right here I'm using right I'm just multiplying over here over here right and I'm using of course that these numbers here are positive okay so this is an ordering so in the rational numbers there is actually ordering. Okay, so that's really important also. Right. So we have these two operations and then we have an ordering. Okay. And so here is so right. So here is so let me just check right. So I said that when we talked about addition right when we talked about addition here then there was something really you had to check that this even made any sense right and if for this to make any sense means that that this rational number you get from adding these two is independent on how you write this rational number and how you write that rational number and the same for multiplication. So let us check that. So so this here is checking that multiplication is a well- definfined operation I it is independent it is uh independent uh of the the representative So, so we are multiplying we take this rational number sorry write a little bit bigger this rational number. So this is one rational number and we multiply it uh by we multiply this rational number uh by another rational number let's call it p1 comma uh q1 and then we take another representative for the same rational number and let's call this m2 m2 and for this rational number. We take another representative and we want to prove that this here is the same, right? This number here is the same as that number here. Right. So, how do we do that? Right. So we have that this here and this here is the same this two different representation of the same rational number. So we have that m1 / n1 is equal to m_sub_2 / n2. So this just meant that remember that this just meant that when you multiply over here like that then you get the same integers. So this here N2 plus N_sub_2 * N1 right that's what it meant that these here were the same and likewise you have the two rational numbers here this is one this here is equal to that P2 / Q2 over P1 Q2 is equal to P2 uh Q1 Right? So this just meant that these that these two represent the same rational number. These two represent the same natural a rational number. And now what we need to prove is that the product here is independent of these of these representation. So the product here is so we need to prove the product of the first uh right the product this product here this product here this is just m1 * p1 divided by n1 * q1 and we want to show this is what we want to that this thing here is the same if we took this other representation and multiply by the other reputation of this. Right? So this is M2 * P2 M2 * Q2 that's what we want to prove that those two are same. And so we need to prove that. So we need to show that M1 P1 times this denominator here N2 Q2. Right? We need to prove need to show that this thing here is equal to N2 P2 N1 Q1. That's what we need to prove, right? But now let's let's see. So we know that if we take um if we take m1 right if we take m_sub_1 and together with n2 right m1 together with n2 this is the same as so this here is the same as m_sub_2 n1 right this is what this here saying Right? And it also say that if you take P1 together with Q2, then you may as well write this thing here. Right? So you may as well write P2 Q1. Right? So this thing here is equal to that. But now you see that here you have M2, here you have N1, here you have P2, here you have Q1. So those two are the same. Right? So this proves that this operation of multiplication is well defined in the rational number right and similarly for addition. The reason of course why I chose multiplication is that it's looks a little simpler on the blackboard right it's a little more messy if you did addition but that's really you know it's just exactly the same. Okay. So um right so now um so now and then so this is also supposed to illustrate you know how detail a proof is right that so you know when we have a concept like this we want to make sure that it really makes sense right and in this case makes sense that it's well defined it's independent on the representation and so the proof here this here would be the proof. Um, okay. So now, so now, so, so the takeaway here at the moment is we're building towards this with understanding a field. We want to understand the the real numbers. But the takeaway at the moment is that on the rational numbers, there is a way of adding two rational numbers and multiplying two rational numbers. And there's also an ordering. Okay. And so this leads us to to um the following definition. And so this is the definition of a field. So a field And I will use uh f here capital f for for a field uh um is the following. So it's a set with two operations and the operations we are denoting suggestively by. So the two operations are denoted suggestively by plus and and and and uh and and multip like a multiplication like a dot right so and but these are this is just abstract right so we have a set and we have these two operations what property do these two operation need to have they each of them have five properties and then there's a so that means that there are 10 properties and then there's 11 property that chain those two operations together. Okay. So let's start with addition. So properties of addition. So the first property is that addition make any sense. So if you take a element in the field and you take another element in the field then addition gives you a third element. So when you add these together this is just a third element in the field. So this is the first property that it really is an operation that when you take two elements of the field then you get another element in the field. So this is one. Uh the second is um that if you add two elements together so x and y are in the field if you add two elements together then the ordering that you're adding it is is is is irrelevant. So this here is the same as y + x. Then uh then the next one is this is sometimes called a billion or commutative this property here. Then there's a third property uh which is that if you add two elements together and then you add a third element to the sum of these two then this here is the same as that you can add the last two first and then add the first one to the sum of the other two. Okay. and um right and so the fourth property is that there is a what is sometimes referred to as a neutral element. So there is uh there exist an element uh that we denote by denoted by by zero but it's just to to make it kind of easier to understand that we denote it by zero and it has a property having the property that has a property that if you take this zero element and you add it to any other element then it just gives you back that other element. So it's kind of neutral for the operation. And then there's supposed to be a fifth property and the fifth property is that for any element X there exist another element and again we s we write this suggestively by minus X with a bracket around like this. So there is another element with a property that if you take X and you're adding this other element then you get zero. Okay. So those are the five properties that addition has to have right and then multiplication have to have five properties also and it's these are similar to this with a little twist uh and so so for multiplication you need to have the following properties. So again it's five properties. The first one is is the similar property to the property one up there. Namely that if you take two elements X and Y in the field then when you multiply them together that should give you another element in the field. Right? So that's the first. The second one is similar to true up there is that x * y should be the same as y * x. So again that's often referred to that it is a billion of community. The third property is that it's similar to the third property up there is that if you take X time Y and then you multiply it by a third element, then you could as well have first multiplied the two last elements and then multiply by the first element like that. And then the then the uh the fourth property is similar to that property four up there is that there exist an element denoted by denoted suggestively by one here with a property that one times any element x just give you back that element x. And then the fifth is similar except there's a twist slight twist. Uh and so the fifth property is that but it's very similar to that fifth over there. The fifth property is the following. The fifth property here is that they exist that for any for any uh x in the field except zero. You have to disregard zero. For any other element there exist there exist an element and again denoted by suggestively denoted by by one of x with a property that x* * 1 /x is equal to 1. Okay. So those are the five properties for um for addition, five properties for multiplication. And you see that they are like you know the one for multiplication is like a mirror of the one for addition except the fifth one has this that you have to to look away from the zero elements. Right? and and then there is a right and so again this is this is just one is just that it is an operation two is usually called the billion property or commutive property this is called the associative property this is called it's often also referred to that's a neutral element and this here um that exist this element in this case minus X is sometimes called the inverse uh and and likewise for for multiplication and then there is again an 11th property and that's a property because you see that those at the moment is basically no interaction between these two operations. The only way that you see some interaction but this is very little is that the fifth property over here refer to the neutral element for addition right but they don't really chain the two operations together and that is the last property that is often referred to as a distributive law. So this is a action chaining uh addition write like this addition uh together uh with multiplication. And that is that that if you take x and you multiply it by y + c is you take this sum here and then you multiply by x. That is supposed to be the same as where you first multiply x with y and then you add when you multiply x by c. So this is often called the distributive law. Okay. And that's a law again or action that is chaining these two operations together. Okay. So now let's try to see um let's try to see. So, so let me just establish just one little property of a field. And you see like that when we talked about when we talked about the the actions for addition, right? I just said that there had to exist one element that we call the zero element and it had to have some property. But maybe there are many elements, right? And so this is the first field theorem for any field any field I I just write it as capital field but it's just to kind of but you don't really have to uh for any field um f uh there exist only one one z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure z sure zero element okay now let's try to prove this and again you know I'm um I'm trying to I mean I mean there's all kind of important concept in this class but there's also there's also um the thing I mean another thing that is important to learn and usually uh and you have to be a little bit patient because it will take you a little bit of time to learn it. Um is how to write a mathematical proof and so this here just gives you just a little bit of idea of it. So we need to we want to prove that there exist only one zero element. So we have so assume so assume that 01 and O2 are both uh zero elements, right? So, so this means that so this means that if you take 01 that is a zero element just means that if you take 01 and you add anything to it right x could be anything in the field then you get x back right that is that 01 is a zero element that O2 is a zero element just mean the same thing that if you take anything in x then you get x back Now we want to prove that 01 is equal to O2. So I just write 01 plus O2. But now I'm just thinking about this O2 as my X. So I'm adding 01 to this X. So I know that I'm just getting this here back. Right? That is because 01 is a zero element. But I could do the same with O2 that I take and the ordering I know already is is irrelevant, right? Whether it's 01 plus O2 plus 01, that's the same. So I can take I can think about this 01 here as my X. And so I'm adding the O2 to it, right? But then I know that I'm getting this here back, right? So this here must also be equal to 01, right? And so you see that 01 is equal to O2. And of course in the you know in the notes uh in the in the notes that are post things are kind of written slightly more rigorous. I mean you know it's I mean there's a little bit more there's a little bit more meat to it. Here I write it a little bit shorter on the board but so so look also at the notes. Okay. So now we so so now we know what a field is right. So a field again it has these two operations additions and multiplication. Each of those operations have five property and then there's 11 property that chain those two operations together. And so the examples of a fields is so we already have an example. So the rational numbers here is a field right. It has these two operations and with all the 11 properties the natural numbers is not is not a field it's not a field it fails even the most basic I mean it fails many of the properties it needs but it fails that even the zero element is not in it right of course it's not even a yeah it's I And it so and the integers here is also is not a field. It's not a field that is slightly closer to being a field but it's still not. And why is this not a field? It's for multiplication. Right? If you take two then by two if you think about two then there should be right the the neutral element for multiplication that's a usual one right but if you take say the element two then there should be an element like the inverse there should be an element with a property that if you take two and you multiply with with that element then you should get one right that should be the inverse element right? One over it. But this is like a half, but you're missing a half in the in the integers, right? So that's why this is not a field. Okay. So the next concept is so we're again we're working our way towards trying to understand what property of the real numbers that we need in order to make that the intermediate value theorem. uh proof rigorous and so so so we have now we now know what a field is next time I'll talk about or the next few times I'll talk about uh complete what that means but but um but we also have this ordering so what does it mean that a field is ordered So, so, so let's start with an ordered set. So, an ordered set. So, this is a set is a set denoted by a capital S. And it has a property that whenever you have two elements in the set then it should either be and the ordering by the way. So an order set with an ordering and I denote the ordering again suggestively by this. I could have used any other symbol but I'm just suggestively using this symbol just to kind of make it easier to remember the property you know it's like this sort of property that you know so well so an order set is a set with an ordering and again denoted by this so that if you take any two elements in the set then one of the three properties should hold. The following three property should hold should. One is that uh so either x should be equal to y. Two the other possibility is that x is smaller than y or three y is smaller than x. So basically if you have an order set whenever you take two element you should be able to compare these two elements. Of course, these two element could be the same elements, right? But if they're not the same elements, then one should be smaller than the other, right? So that's the idea. Okay. And so now uh the next concept is uh an ordered field. And so again, now we need so so now we have a field and we have an ordered set. So an ordered field is a field. that is also uh an ordered set and then the operations from the fields and the ordering they should be they should speak to each other right so there should be an interaction between these two operations uh so it has to have with the following properties with the following properties that if you take if you take if uh so it's finding two properties that if x is less than y so and you adding a uh c to both so if you're adding so this here implies that for any set in in the field uh if you add the sets to both sides. So x + set is less than y + z. So you should have you should be able to add something to both sides and it does it's still less than like that. And the other thing is so this is this here is how how do the ordering interacts with addition and the other thing is how do it act interact with multiplication and there the property is that if you take a x that is positive and y is positive and y and y so you have both x and y that are positive Then the product of these two should also be positive. Right? So then this here the product of the two should also be positive. Right? And so this is how how do the ordering interact with multiplication. Right? This is how it interacts with addition. This is how it interacts with multiplication. Okay? And so now now uh well the first thing you observe is that again you already know an example of this. So um so the rational number of Q here is an order field. Right? We've already seen that it is a field has those 11 property. It has addition multiplication has each of those are fine property. It has the 11 that chain the two together. And we also discussed the ordering. If you take two rational numbers, what does mean that one is less than the other? Right? It has the property of an ordering that you can compare any two elements, any two rational numbers that either they are the same or if you have two, one is less than the other. Um um and it also has this the additive property, right? and also the ordering interact with addition in this way and it interacts with multiplication in this way. Okay. So the rational number is indeed an ordered field. Okay. Now let me just establish one last property. Uh and that is that um if I take so let me try to prove a little theorem here. Um so so here's the theorem that so we have uh so f here is supposed to be an ordered uh field. Uh and then we have that x here is less than y. uh and and uh and and C here is is positive. Fine. So I I assume I have this and now I want to show that then I claim that from these properties uh that order field have I get automatically then uh X * C is less than Y * C. So I claim I get the this property here right that you know from the these properties over here. Okay. So let's try to prove that. So what I want to do is I want to so so we want to show that x * set is less than y * z. This is what we want to show. Now to say this here, right? This here is equivalent. This is equivalent to showing that right. So if you take this you could because this here if you if you take if you add minus y * set sorry if you add sorry if you take this thing here and to both sides so you take x + time set and then you plus - x * set then this here is the same as by this here that to say that this is less than that is equivalent to saying that this thing here right why is that equivalent but this is this this law here that is chaining the ordering together with addition right and this here this element here is right this is just the the inverse element of this product here. But now you see that these two things together that just gives you zero, right? This thing here, this thing here is this here is the same as um as x. Okay. So, we need to maybe we need to show this, but this here is not hard to believe that this this here is the same as uh y * set minus uh x * set. So, this here is now you can factor out. So, this is this law, the 11th law that allow you to factor this one out. So this is the same as y - x * 7, right? This was this distributive law. That was the 11th law. But now you see that because y was bigger than x, right? Since y here was bigger than x, this here was equivalent to saying that this is equivalent to saying that y is bigger than x, right? If you subtract um x on both sides, this is equivalent to saying that y - x is bigger than zero. Right? This is again using the first action over here, right? And so you see that now we have that. So we want to prove we want to prove that this thing here right we this here is all equivalent to proving that this thing here is bigger than zero right the claim up there is equivalent to proving that this thing here is bigger than zero. Right? But the difference here this difference here is positive. This is assumed to be positive. The second law that is chaining the ordering together with multiplication say that if you have something positive and you multiply by something positive, you're getting something positive, right? And so, so in order to prove this here, it was the same as proving that this thing here is actually positive and we have now just reduced it to this second action. Is is that clear? Okay, that's really so we go just a little bit easy here in the first lecture. This is this is what I have for the first lecture, but there's a bunch of different concepts. Uh and again, um feel free of course to ask any questions uh on the class. Um I typically just linger around for a few minutes afterwards if anybody have any questions after the class and we will also have office hours. I'm just waiting for the assignment for of the TAs. So that will be put all on online right and um yeah okay let me know how it goes but and one more thing is that this again this I mentioned before but so my experience is that it takes people a little bit of time to get a hang of this with writing proofs so don't be discouraged you know you know a few weeks or months into the class things will really turn around and and it will all make sense and and then it will be more fun also. Okay.