Today we're continuing our discussion of social insurance by turning to health care. Now health care is the largest single expenditure of the US federal government. It's the largest single expenditure of most governments around the world. Um and uh it really is an area where it's you know we talked when we talked about our social insurance programs I talked about how you need to know some institutional details sort of understand the area and I sort of gave you 15 or 20 minutes. This is you kind of need to know an entire sixth of the economy or you know uh to really understand it which is a lot tougher. So we're going to just spend a lot of time in the next few lectures. We'll spend three lectures on this. Uh we'll spend a lot of time on the sort of background on health economics even to the extent it isn't directly public policy directly about the public policy because you really need to understand health economics to then think appropriately about the public policy issues. So we do in chapter 15 is really sort of cover the basics of health economics. sort of it's one it's sort of you know a semester of health economics in one chapter covering the things you need to know to be an an educated consumer of health care policy and producer of healthcare policy. Chapter 16 is then the sort of applications to the biggest government expenditure policies uh Medicaid and Medicare. So that's kind of how we're going to lay out. We'll cover this over three lectures. There's a lot to go through but the introduction chapter 15 is my favorite introduction in the whole book. So I'm just going to read it rather than trying to summarize it. Uh, on March 30th, 1981, only two months after entering office, President Ronald Reagan was shot by John Hinckley, a deranged fan of Jodie Foster, who thought the actress would pay more attention to him if he killed the president. Reagan was rushed to George Washington Hospital where he underwent three hours of surgery to remove a bullet that entered his lung. Though the injury is potentially fatal, Reagan made a full recovery and went on to serve a full eight years in office. 100 years earlier, President James Garfield was not so lucky. He too was shot two months after entering office on July 2nd, 1881 by Charles Gau who thought God had ordered him to kill the president. Garfield was brought back to the White House where for 80 days a dozen doctors attempted to find one bullet that unbeknownst to them had lodged itself near Garfield's spine. The doctors probed the president's wound with their unsterilized fingers and metal rods, succeeding only in widening the wound, infecting it, and puncturing his liver. Alexander Graanbell ran a metal detector over Garfield's body and soon announced that he found the bullet. Surgeons went to work but still failed to locate it, not realizing that Bell had mistakenly detected one of the bedsp springs underneath the president. The infection resulting from his poor medical care soon caused Garfield to have a heart attack. And when he eventually died, his coroner declared that Garfield would have survived if only his doctors left him alone. So that's a hundred years. That's a big difference over a hundred years. And why I love that story, it sort of summarizes the unbelievable change in health care in the US over a 100red-year period. And it's continued, of course, since 1980. Over the next 45 years, continue to improve. But the bottom line is at the turn of the 20th century, health care was bas health services were basically a hospital someplace you went to die. Healthc care was something where essentially it was A-50-50 proposition whether to help or not. By 1980, we had a someone shot in their lung who was surviving, right? With the best healthcare in the country. Um, basically, uh, health care has changed enormously and there's a couple ways to look at it. One way to look at it is how much we spend on it. So, in when we started really tracking this stuff, healthcare was about 5% of the US economy. Okay? So, in 1950 when was 5% of the economy that was less than we spent on cars, fuel or clothing. Today, healthc care is 18% of the US economy, which is more than we spend on housing or food. Okay? And it's not slowing down. It's been growing historically at a rate well above the growth rate of GDP. So his GDP share continues to rise. Now, um, we might say, gee, that's terrible. It's going up so fast. But it's not necessarily bad because health care has gotten really good in America. Healthcare in 1950 sucked. Okay? If you uh had a baby that was born low birth weight, it was four times as likely to die as one born today. If you had a heart attack, you were four times as likely to die as you are today or more relevant for your age group. Um, if you hurt your knee, Eno just hurt his knee. If you hurt your knee, if you more serious than you, if you if you tore your ACL in 1950, you were in the hospital for six weeks and you're in the hospital for a week, you were on crutches for six weeks and you limp for the rest of your life. Today, they outpatient surgery, you're back on the slopes a week later. Okay, healthc care is just much much better than it was uh in 1950. it's also much much more expensive. Um so um at the same time we have a country with enormous health care disparities. So a common fact you'll hear is that well US healthcare is really expensive but our outcomes are terrible. We're like 19th of the world infant mortality. Okay, that is an incredibly misleading statistic. A white baby born in America today has as good outcomes as anywhere else in the world. A black baby born today has worse outcomes than one born in Barbados. Okay. So the problem in the US is not that it's bad healthcare for everyone. The problem is the disparities that lead there to be truly horrific healthcare outcomes for some groups and pretty good healthcare outcomes uh for others. Now basically we want to talk about is how do we and moreover the last fact and the most important fact for our course is the US healthcare system is almost a perfectly split private public system almost exactly 50% of the spending is done by the public sector and 50% by the private sector within a few percentage points on either side. So we have a situation where we're sort of starting 50/50 and the question in front of us is should the government doing more less or different? And that's what we really want to think about as we talk about healthcare. To do that we need to really understand some health economics. We understand how healthcare works before we can talk intelligently about the government's role. So like I said we'll start with some sort of health economics basics and then we'll turn to talking about what the government does. So let's start with the US healthare system. Figure 151 shows healthc care spending as a percent of GDP um as of 2019 across developed nations. Uh as you can see the US really stands out as an outlier. Uh there's sort of a pretty smooth rise um and then this jump from the second most expensive country uh to the most expensive country which is the US. Where does our money go? Well, then you can go to figure 152. About a third of the money goes to hospitals and about a third goes to doctors. A little more hospitals than doctors, but roughly speaking it's a third hospitals, a third doctors, a third everything else. Of the everything else, prescription drugs is about 12%. That is a rapidly rising share um over time, but still a minority of healthcare spending. Okay, so that's where our dollars go. The question is why do we spend so many dollars? Why do we have health care spending that's so much more than the rest of the world? And to be fair, even for people like myself who get great healthcare, our outcomes still aren't better than the rest of the world. They're comparable. They're terrible for people who aren't don't have good healthcare, but even for those who have good healthare outcomes are comparable, a lot better. So, what's the inefficiency? We are spending more. We're getting the same outcomes at best. What's going on? Well, basically um essentially we can break this down into uh several different things. One way to start is want to look at figure 153. This gives us sort of an international comparison. It just picks five countries, five, you know, five developed countries. What we see is the US has the highest health spending per person by a large amount. We also have the worst death rate, although as I said, that's really driven by disparities. We have the highest preventable death rate. We have the largest number of people that went without health care because of cost the last year and the second longest weight times even though we have this free market system. We actually have the second longest weight times. So why is healthcare so expensive? Okay. Well basically if you look at figure 154 here is one estimate. This is an estimate of why of the extra essentially billion dollars. This is billion dollars as of 20 18 2019 it's more now that it's sort of viewed as excess medical spending. Now obviously this is a rough accounting exercise. You can't take every dollar and decide whether it's excess or not. But roughly speaking this is trying to get at why are healthcare so much more expensive than the rest of the world. So what's going on? Well the first category in green is excessive um excess administrative costs. That's sort of the easiest one to understand. Okay. The the fact that's easy to understand is basically our private health insurance system has much higher administrative costs than do public health care systems. Okay, our health care system in the US private health insurance has an administrative cost of about 15%. That is the difference between what remember when we solved our model of optimal insurance we assumed a zero profit insurer that insurer paid out in benefits what they collected in premiums. In reality, in America, insurers collect about 15% more in premiums than they pay out in benefits. That's much much higher than public insurance systems uh in other countries. Moreover, that's only one piece of our higher cost. That's a higher cost of health care insurance. There's also a higher cost of administering health care because we have this multipayer system and each payer has a different form. You've got to fill out all these forms and track things. The estimates on this are are varied a lot but some estimates suggest that as much as uh 1% of GDP in the US or one and a half% of GDP may just be wasted provider administrative costs. Now that's I think probably an upper bound but the bottom line is there's a lot of excess administrative costs both in terms of what insurers spend and in terms of what providers have to spend to deal with our multipayer system. Okay. Now the next factor is we pay prices that are much higher. This says too high but let's just start for now saying much higher than the rest of the world. We can see this with international comparison data again go to figure uh 155. So what we do here is we take data from a whole set of developed countries and for a set of services we graph the cost in the United States the cost in the average of these developed countries and the cost in the lowest cost country. What you see is in every case the US is multiples of the average cost and many multiples of the low cost. So if you look at for example something simple like a hip replacement which they do millions of all over the world every year in the US that costs on average about $32,000. This is all incomparable in US dollars. In the average developed country it's about half that. In the lowest cost country it's about a it's about a seventh or a sixth. You see that hip replacements angoplasty c-sections delivery appendecttomies. And then you all see it for specific goods. What the second table does is show the cost difference in we pay for prescription drugs in the US. Here are common brands of drugs and we see is once again much higher prices paid in the US than in other countries. So the second reason we spend so much is that we pay uh a lot higher prices. Um now why are those prices higher? Well, let's ask ourselves what disciplines prices in a market. We have a market for healthcare. We have we, you know, other countries, unlike other countries, we don't have a singlepayer healthare system. We have a free market for health care for many of our payers. What disciplines prices in a free market? What keeps prices close to marginal cost? Yeah, competition and shopping. Well, both of those are problematic in healthcare. The competition part is problematic because there's an obvious feature of natural monopoly to many features of healthcare. If you have a heart attack on Nantucket, you have to go to the one hospital on Nantucket. You can't say like, "I'm going to go, you know, get me on a plane, put me over here a few hours, I'll be okay." You're not going to do that. Likewise, it's pretty hard to shop. Okay? If you're in the back of an ambulance with a heart attack, you're not going to be comparing prices. Moreover, if you wanted to, prices are incredibly opaque and hard to even figure out. Okay. Moreover, the market power here comes not just from geographic monopolies. It can come from also reputational monopolies. Hospitals can just be viewed as the best regardless of whether they deserve it. When David Ortiz, beloved Red Sox player, was shot in the Dominican Republic and was flown back to the US for care. Did he go to the official hospital of the Red Sox, one of the top 10 hospitals in the country, Beth Israel? No. He went to Mass General Hospital which is rated somewhat higher. Okay. And they decided well big poppy's got to go to Mass General because that's better. Now the truth is I can't say for his case whether it made a difference but for most people it doesn't make a difference if you go MGH or BI but MGH charges a lot more. That's a reputational monopoly natural monopoly. There are basically there's basically imperfect competition is rife in the healthcare provider space. Indeed, the foundational article in health economics was written by Kenneth Arrow, a No, Nobel Prize winning con arrows impossibility theorem we did early this semester. He wrote in 1963 an article which basically could be summarized as there's no market as [\h__\h] up as healthcare. Okay, basically said everything fails in healthcare in 1963. Okay, so we've known for a long time that basically market failures are rife here. Recognizing that, okay, recognizing that um we find that um recognizing that what other countries do is regulate the prices that are charged for healthcare. Other countries say, well, we've learned in 1401 that if the market doesn't work, then there could be a welfare loss. The government can correct, not necessarily will correct, but can correct. And every other country in the world regulates their prices. And that's why the prices are um are so much lower uh in other countries. If you look at figure 156, this shows how much variation we have in prices in the US. This is a pretty cool figure. This is basically across hospitals. Okay, even for the same service, there is a massive variation in what's charged. Once again, now some of this is geographic. This is for the whole nation. But even if you look within markets, there's things like two to five to one variation. Literally the cost of basic service in the Boston medical market can vary five to one across hospitals. That is not the hallmark of a competitive market. Okay, that is not the hallmark competitive market. That basically even in the same market where an ambulance can pretty equilistically take you lots of places, there's enormous variation in prices because clearly shopping and competition uh are not working. Um so um uh so um and for example in Tampa, Florida, if you look at the price of blood tests, there's a 40 to1 variation in the one city of Tampa and what it costs to get a blood test. 40 to1. Okay, this is clearly competition shopping or not working. The rest of the world is dealing with this through regulation. How can the US deal with that? And that's something we'll talk a lot about. Okay. Then if you go back to figure 4 and 4, they have inefficiently delivered and unnecessary services. Let's lump those together. Okay, what does that mean? That means that we get a lot of health care in the US we do not need. And here the most famous example and probably one of the most important health economics pieces ever written was a 2009 article in the New Yorker magazine by Tul Gowande who's both a physician and writer brilliant guy uh and huge music huge live music fan um and basically as he what he did is he compared two cities Macallen Texas and El Paso Texas these are two cities very near each other with very comparable population in terms the age distribution, the income distribution, etc. And yet, and he looked at the Medicare program, which as I'll talk about next time, pays a fixed price for every service. So, you got the same price. If you do an appendecttomy in Macallen, El Paso, you get the same price. And yet, Medicare spending per capita was twice as high in Macallen as El Paso. Ignoring the price variation I just talked about. This is purely intensity variation. Okay? So he dug in and what he found is in Macallen patients got 50% more specialist visits. They were twothirds more likely to see 10 or more specialists. They received 20% more abdominal ultrasounds, 60% more stress tests, 200% more nerve conduction studies to diagnose carpal tunnel and 550% more urine flow studies to diagnose prostate troubles. two to three times as many pl pacemakers and five times as many home nurse visits. So what's going on? Well, basically what Gwande argued is that essentially we got into an equilibrium where the doctors in Macallen were greedy and the doctors of El Paso were less. So lots of Macallen realized that the more they did the more money they made and they just went off the reservation just started doing a ton of stuff became sort of the culture of Macallen was to overtreat people and he said overtreating because there's a fascinating fact despite spending twice as much per capita people live no longer in Macallen they live no there was no extra length of life no obvious improvement in health despite spending twice as much and that's what he meant by overt treatment that basically spend doing all this extra stuff and people weren't living any longer. Okay. And indeed, Gande gets all the credit for this, but actually did is popularize a resource that economists had known about called the Dartmouth Health Atlas, which was created in the 2000s that essentially took Medicare data and showed for every area in the country what were outcomes and what did healthcare cost and there's no correlation. Health care costs vary enormously around the country with no correlation with outcomes suggesting and that's for Medicare where prices are fixed. So suggesting that in addition to excess prices, we're paying for a lot of uh of uh inefficient care. Okay. Um so and that's not just that evidence. There's lots of evidence from things like chart reviews where doctors go back and look at charts of p patients treatment and show how they're excessively treated. Um uh for example uh by the early 2000s there were four different clinical trials showing that spinal fusion surgery was no better than non-surgical treatment. So, one of the most overused procedures in medicine is spinal fusure surgery. When you have a bad back, they fuse your spine. Um, despite this evidence, back surgery rates are high and growing in the US, even though medical evidence consistently says we shouldn't be doing it. Um, uh, here's another great example. um uh oral introvenous acetaminophen, so Tylenol through an IV. Um costs hundreds of times as much as oral acetaminophen. There's no evidence it works any better. Obviously, if you're unconscious, there's a difference, but if you're conscious, there's no evidence it works any better. And yet, in acetaminophen is used is used all over the country by many hospitals at a cost hundreds of times as high. Okay. So basically we have this expensive system because we have a lot of administrative waste. We have prices that are much higher and we do a lot of extra care. Now there's also another bullet here if you go back 154 for fraud. Okay, care coordination failures is probably sort of could be lumped in also. That's people not getting passed correctly through their doctors. That could also be lumped in with unnecessary service inefficient services. Fraud is interesting. Once again we have a lot of healthcare fraud. So um we have lots of situations where people are literally fraudulently billing uh for services they didn't perform etc. Once again a problem that appears to be worse in the US not because we're necessarily more dishonest. It's not clear it's not the US is necessarily more dishonest. It's that there's so much more money to be made through it. If prices are low you there's not as valuable to do fraud to commit fraud. When you can make a ton of money fraud becomes more valuable and that's why we have a lot more of it. Okay. So that's sort of where we are in healthare costs. Yeah, >> Stephen is that >> great great question. We'll cover that. We'll spend a lot of time on that this lecture. >> Yeah. I also know that like a lot of times insurance. >> Yeah. I mean basically this is a big and we'll we'll we'll we'll come and talk about this um some but basically consolidation the healthcare industry has been massive. I think the view is it's we've it's it's been a bad thing for for consumers. Yeah. >> Would you say that drugs the FDA's approval system either helps the market by addressing research positive externalities or hurts it by pushing prices? >> Great question. And this is the kind of stuff I want to be. You know, you guys have a lot of questions about healthare in your head. I know you do. Let's discuss them. So, let's talk about the FDA. This is one I wouldn't come back to normally. So, I'll spend a few minutes on this one. So um the FDA as we learned in chapter one regulates all the food we eat and all the drugs we take etc. Uh there's a deep question about how high should the hurdle be to approve a drug. Um the FDA has what's considered internationally a fairly high hurdle usually although sometimes lower uh uh but you traditionally higher. I think what's here's what's interesting about that. I'm not I'm not qualified to say if it's too high, but here's what I do know, which is the fastingest barrier in the US, which is to get a drug approved, there's this very high barrier. Once it's approved, go to town. We don't even watch you anymore. Okay? And only when someone dies enough that people start to sue you, do we pay attention. That's nuts. Okay? It's sort of crazy that it's incredibly hard to get it on the market. Then once it's on the market, we kind of don't do much to keep it. It's not I'm overstating it. We do keep tabs on you. And if there's a lot of bad incidents, the FDA collects the data and investigates. But the truth is, we're a lot tougher about approving the R1 on the market. That disparity doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to me. >> Okay. Yeah, Stephen. >> Well, I mean, that's, you know, that that's a separate thing of whether you're actually even worse off getting that surgery than not. I'm not even going there, but clearly it's not recommended medically. And yet it's done it's done excessively. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I I I mean look, you know, we talked in 1401 about the role of patents, you know, and basically remember 141 we talked about sort of where monopolies come from and [clears throat] one place monopolies come from is patents. And there's a trade-off with patents. The trade-off is on the one hand you want to create rents to incentivize innovation. On the other hand, once the goods innovated and produced, there's a monopoly and the optimal patent structure would trade that off. In a perfect world, we would do what the economist, the Nobel Prize winning economist Michael Kramer suggested, which is society would decide what an innovation is worth and would pay you a prize for inventing it and then sell it at marginal cost. Then that would be the most efficient thing to do. We don't do that. So what we do is we instead of this patent system and are patents too long or too short or too tough or that is a fascinating and difficult area. Lyn mentioned one area which sort of illustrates the challenge with patents. This is by a famous article by by by Heidi Williams who's at Dartmouth College. Heidi showed that if you look at drugs and the amount of money that's invested by the private sector, the shorter the trial, the more the private sector will invest. The private sector massively undervests in drugs where it takes like 10 years to figure out if they work. Why? Because the patent clock starts ticking the minute you file the patent. So it takes 10 years to figure out if it works. You only have a few years of patent left before you are before you lose your monopoly rights. So that's the kind of thing where patents clearly affect incentives of companies and that's there's a whole separate fascinating field of sort of patent economics and how do we think about the al patent, how it should be structured. It's a great question. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I mean basically COVID vaccine is one example where we basically put in sort of a prize. The prize in that case was a government guaranteed purchase. >> No, it's it was bas basically, you know, it was it was a subsidy. It was essentially what we call a poll incentive saying basically look the pri if you invent a good vaccine the prices will guarantee we'll buy it. Um it wasn't just a pure prize for inventing it. You know you had to then deliver it. But since marginal cost was really low compared to fixed costs. We're essentially going to pay you guarantee you'll cover your fixed cost if you invent it. >> Yeah. private system. >> It's a great question. I mean, this is, you know, this is something that worked very well in CO. I think the bottom line on that is you'd want to you'd want to essentially do that where you think the private market is least likely to deliver. So you want so for example classic case is vaccines the private market I think I covered this underinvest in vaccines because they're not sure if the thing will get cured. So vaccine if if it'll go away or not vaccines uh uh or another one is anti antimicrobial resistance that basically there's all these antibiotics that we're getting into and no one's invested in a new cure to that. So but I so I think you wouldn't want to say the government does it all but I think targeting things like that where clearly there's the private incentives are too low would be a natural place to go. Okay, so that's the basic of healthcare spending. Let's now talk about health insurance. Much of our discussion in the next few lectures focus on health insurance. So let's talk about how health insurance works. Okay, fundamentally health insurance is a deal where you pay a regular payment typically monthly or bimonthly which is called a premium in return for which the health care insurer covers the cost your medical care minus what's called some cost sharing that is a government that so at MIT I pay my I I pay my bimonthly premium okay the health insurer pays my healthcare costs but I have to pay some of it too. It's called cost sharing. That cost sharing can come in several forms. The most common form is a deductible. So at MIT, I'm in a high deductible plan. What that means is the first $2,500 of my family's healthcare spending every year I pay. Then the insurer kicks in. An alternative is what some of you may have dealt with a lot at the doctor, which is a co-ayment, which is you pay 20 bucks every time you go to the doctor. Another alternative is what's called co- insurance, which is you pay X% of the bill when you go to the doctor. All of these are different forms of cost sharing. So the key feature of an insurance contract is what does it cover and the ACA insurance contracts cover a pretty comparable set of things because we mandated a set of benefits they have to cover. So probably the the two big distinctions across insurance products in the US are a how much car sharing you have and b which doctors they include in their network. And that comes to the point you're Stephen was making earlier. We'll come back to that second. So let's focus on the first issue which is essentially how much people have to pay. Okay. But first let's talk about health insurance in the US. Table 151 shows the distribution of health coverage. It's a little out of date. This is now 2020. It's not that different today. Essentially we have um you know threearters of the population or 70% of the population covered by uh private insurance. Almost all that comes through employers. Most private insurance comes through employers. Um, a lot come but a substantial minority comes through direct purchase through what we call the non-group insurance market. Okay. So employer insurance is typically of the form. So I can just give you the numbers for MIT. MIT spends about 24 grand a year on my health insurance of which and but they don't spend all that. They buy a health insurance plan for me from Blue Cross 24 grand a year. They then ask me to pay some of the premiums. So the premiums are paid partly by my employer and partly by me. Okay? So typical arrangement is your employer will say, "We're going to get health insurance, but you want to sign up, you have to pick up some of the premiums." So I probably pay about 25% of the premium. I probably pay about six grand a year. MIT pays 18 grand. Okay. So that is the structure of a typical employer insurance plan will work is they'll buy the insurance and then uh typically for a family plan, the employee pays about a quarter of the cost. Okay, a non-group insurance plan is one where you buy it, you pay it all yourself. The employer's not involved. Okay, the non-group insurance market was a market that was fundamentally broken before the Affordable Care Act, and I'll talk about that, how the Affordable Care fix it, but now it's sort of a very functional comparable market to the employer market. So, the question is, if you're going to buy private insurance, why do you buy through the employer market? Why is the employer market four times as big as the why is the employer market uh five uh yeah four to five times as big no six times as big as the uh as the direct purchase market. Why is the employer market so much bigger and there's really yeah well okay go ahead. >> Well okay that's that that that's subtle. Let's get to that second. The first reason let's forget taxes. The first reason is because of the benefits of pooling. Remember insurance and adverse selection. Remember an insurer who's worried about adverse selection. What does that insurer want to minimize the cost of adver to minimize the risk of adverse selection? They want two things. They want a big pool and they want a pool that's con that's constructed independent of health status. So you don't want the skydiving club. Okay. But MIT, that's pretty good. People don't work at MIT work because they're sick or healthy. We got some people get some healthy people. That's fine. They want to live off the law of large numbers. Okay, that's basically what insurers want to do is they want to live off the law of large numbers. They want a big enough group they can rely on the law of large numbers and a symmetric enough group that they can map the distribution. With MIT, they can pretty much guess what our costs are going to be year after year. They can't predict the cancer, but they can know that X% of our employees are going cancer every year statistically. And some might be X plus 3%, some be X plus minus 3%. But roughly speaking, our costs aren't going to double next year. So insurers want large predictable risks and employers provide exactly that, especially large employers. Um as a result um uh as a result large employers um moreover on top of that the administrative costs of insurance have a large fixed component. So for both of those reasons, the bigger the group, the cheaper insurance can be. Both because insurers can predict it better, so they have to charge less of a premium. They can be more risk neutral, so they can charge a low price. And because administrative costs are lower per person. For both those reasons, insurance is much cheaper for large firms than small firms. And for that reason, virtually every large firm in America offers health insurance. Um the fact is that 94% of firms with more than 50 employees, it's not even that big, even mediumsiz, offer health insurance, 94% with 50 employees and like 99% with more than a thousand employees. Okay. Um on the other hand, uh among firms with less than 50 employees, only 50% off for health insurance. And it shrinks if you're down to firms that are less than 10 employees, only about 35% off for health insurance. And that's largely because you lose the risk pooling if you get too small. Even if your firm isn't the skydiving club, it's only nine people and one gets cancer, that can double your costs. Okay? And so insurers are more wary of that. So they insurers become more riskaverse, if you will. They say, "Look, I don't I'm going to charge you more because I'm worried about what's going on. I'm worried about average selection." Okay, so that's the first reason. Um the first reason why employers are the are a source of health insurance. The second reason is what was mentioned which is the tax subs employer health insurance which is when MIT pays me in wages I pay a tax rate that after my federal income tax plus social security plus state income tax adds up to about 50%. Okay. When MIT pays me in health insurance I'm not taxed. It is a non-t taxable benefit. As a result, if I'm going to get health insurance, I really want to get through MIT. So to see that, go to table 152. We have two individuals, Nigel and Kaja. They both have the same marginal product, $30,000, which is their wage. This is a perfect labor market. They're paid their wage. But Nigel's employer doesn't provide health insurance. Kajes does. The health insurance costs $5,000. So the employer since the perfectly competitive labor market just takes it out of Kaj's wages. So the employer says, "We're going to pay Kaja $25,000 in wage and $5,000 in health insurance." Now imagine there's a 33% tax rate. So after tax, Nigel takes home $20,000 and Kaja takes home 1666. Now imagine insurance is actually cheaper outside the employer setting, which isn't true, but imagine it was. Imagine Nigel could actually get insurance outside the employer setting for $4,000. So you might say great, he should do that. But look what happens at the end of the day. Nigel still ends up with less money. Why? Because he bought his insurance after paying taxes. Whereas Kaja got to buy health insurance before paying taxes. So it became taxdeductible. She wasn't taxed on it. Therefore, there is a bias towards getting your health insurance through your employer. Because if you can get health insurance, you might as well take advantage of this tax break. Okay. Now, here's a very important point. Okay, very important point that people misunderstand. If you understand it, you'll be in a very small elite group of Americans who understand it. I most people don't know about the tax subsidy, but people who do get wrong, this is not a tax break to employers. Employers don't care. It's a tax break to you to the employee. Okay? So, it's not that employers are treated differently if they give health if I pay you wages to pay health insurance. Either way, I'm paying you 30,000. I don't care. But as an employee, if I get paid wages or health insurance, I care. This is the employee tax subsidy, not an it's the employee tax subsidy to employer insurance, not the employer tax subsidy. It's a subsidy to individuals because the employer is indifferent. Either way, he's paying you 30,000. What does he care? Okay. So, that's the major way people get their health insurance. The second major way is the non-group market. As I said before, the Affordable Care Act, this is a very messed up market and I'll come and I'll talk more about that when we talk about the Affordable Care Act probably in two lectures. But now it's uh but now it's uh it's a fairly successful market. We then have the two big government programs. The med Yeah. >> Uh on the taxpayer. So if you think about this that basically Kaja is getting the same compensation as Nigel $30,000 but the US but the US tax system is giving her a lot more money. So if you add up the the loss if if health insurance was taxed as wages in the US we would raise almost $350 billion every single year more in tax revenues. That's a lot. Okay. So basically this is a huge huge tax break. Uh because basically we're saying because there's no I'll come back to this in chapter 18. It's just compensation. We're just saying one form of compensation gets a tax break. One doesn't do. And if we treated all forms of compensation the same, we'd raise a lot more revenue. >> Well, that's the open question. Does it all get shifted to wages or not? And the evidence looks like it all get shifted to wages. >> Yeah. Uh the history of it is that um during World War II um the government was worried about prices, so they put in place wage wage limits. You couldn't raise your employees wages. So employers got around that by introducing benefits as a way to compensate their employees more. Uh and then since those were new, the IRS said, "Well, I guess they're not taxable because it's some new thing. We're not going to tax it." And that became entrenched. So pensions are the same thing. Many other employee benefits are the same thing. Um, okay. So, then we have the two big government programs. We have Medicare and Medicaid. Now, look, I probably won't run you run into you later in life. But if I do, there's only one thing I'm going to hold you responsible for, which is knowing the difference between Medicare and Medicaid. Okay? Medicare is insurance for the elderly. Medicaid is insurance for the poor. Okay? Now, there are poor elderly who get both, but the bottom line is think of it that way. Medicare is insurance actually for the elderly and disabled. I won't hold you responsible for that. But if you're over 65 or on disability insurance, we talked about last last class, you qualify for Medicare, which is a singlepayer government program. It's our version what the rest of the world has for everybody. Okay? It's a singlepayer government program. Okay? Um or at least it was traditionally. It's changing over time. Was traditionally. Okay? Um this is a program. It's paid for by payroll tax. You'll notice on your payub, in addition to the FICA row, there's a row for the Medicare tax, 1.45%. The difference with the Medicare tax, unlike the FICA tax, it's uncapped. You pay that 1.45% all the way on your income. Okay. Uh indeed, as part of the Affordable Care Act, um they actually raise that by another 0.9%. So if your income's above 250,000, uh it's actually 2.35%. Um uh so basically the way it works is if you've worked for 10 if you've worked for um 10 years in Medicare covered employment. So this is like social security. If you've worked long enough to qualify then when you turn 65 you get Medicare. It's just an entitlement for turning 65. Okay? And I'm going to come back and talk a lot more about Medicare. I just want to give the basic lay of the land. That's Medicare. So for the elderly, Medicaid is much more complicated because Medicaid is targeted at several different groups. So the groups we'll focus on and where most of the people are are low income children and families. Okay, that is traditionally so traditionally Medicaid was set up when Medicaid was set up it was the health insurance component that went along with the cash welfare we delivered to very poor people. It was originally for just very poor people. In the 1980s and 1990s, it got expanded not just to poor people but to higher income people for pregnancy and children. So children became eligible if their incomes were higher and women became eligible for the expenses of pregnancy. So it was very poor families. Then it was expanded more for up to middle class for kids and pregnant women. Okay. And then um as part of the Affordable Care Act, we made everyone eligible up to 133% of the poverty line. We haven't talked about the poverty line yet, but that's 100% of poverty line is about 16,000 for a person or 32,000 for a family. So basically Medicaid today is universal coverage for people who are poor or near poor in the US. Okay, that is most of the people. That is threearters of the people on Medicaid. It is only about onethird of the spending. Most of the spending is the last group covered by Medicaid, which is the people who are people who are using long-term care services, nursing homes, and home care. Mostly elderly. That's why I said there's the overlap. The poor elderly get both Medicare and Medicaid, but not exclusively elderly. They include disability. That includes some people who are disabled who say are mentally disabled, never worked at all. They're also be on medic on Medicaid. So essentially most of Medicaid spending is actually on people who are in nursing homes and other institutions as well as people getting home care but most of the people are low are the it's sort of a universal entitlement to low-income Americans. Okay. So that's that's Medicaid. If you look at your table so if you look at your table that's um Medicare and Medicaid are reach about 56 59 million people on those programs. Then you get uh the last cartridge category of insurance is triricare. Triricare is insurance for those in the military and their dependent. Okay, it's a small number of people. And then finally we have the uninsured. So who are the uninsured? Well, the uninsured are poor, but they're typically not the poorest because the poorest can get free Medicaid. You could think of a typical uninsured person as falling into two groups. One is a very poor person who simply hasn't taken up their Medicaid. Remember I talked about the problem of take up. Some people don't take in things they're entitled to. Probably the majority of the uninsured in America or a large share of the uninsured. Not the majority but near majority could get free health insurance if they wanted to. They just don't take it up. So that's one group. The other group is what we might call the working poor. These are people who work, earn more than 133% of poverty, can't get Medicaid, but don't work for employers that offer health insurance or can't afford the health insurance their employer offers. That's a big chunk of the uninsured. Okay. Is that is that group? Okay. So, why are people uninsured? Well, remember in chapter 12 we said, look, the optimum was full insurance. People should want full insurance. Why aren't they buying insurance? Well, there's a number of reasons. The first reason could be that insurance is not actarily fair. Remember, we said full insurance was optimal under a situation of zero profit insurance being sold where where insurers sold insurance at exactly what it costs to deliver the care. That's not true. As I said a few minutes ago, we have about an average about a 15% administrative load on insurance in America. Therefore, many people don't find it worth it because it's 15% more than what will be actally fair. So that's one reason. Okay. The second reason is adverse selection. Remember we talked about adverse selection in health insurance markets and we talked about um the fact that uh because only the six people want to buy insurance and insurers know that they may not offer insurance or may not offer complete insurance. So that's the second reason there'll be uninsured people. Okay. A third reason is it could be a completely rational decision to forgo insurance. Once again, if you are insurance is expensive, if you're a 25-year-old male, and once again, I'm saying male because there's no risk of pregnancy. 25-year-old single male. Okay, basically the main risk is getting hit by a car or some other catastrophe. And if that happens, you can go to the hospital and the hospital has to treat you. We have a law in America which says that if someone shows up at the emergency room, you have to treat them regardless of their insurance status. So for many people that might say, look, if my only risk is something to send me in the emergency room, then why should I pay for insurance? If I have to go to the emergency room, it'll be free anyway. So basically, there's what we might call sort of rational free riding because when people go to the emergency room, it's not it may be free to them, it's not free to society. That becomes what we call uncompensated care. uncompensated care. Okay. Which is basically care that hospitals deliver that aren't reimbured for. Okay. And that is an externality on the rest of us because someone has to pay those costs. Yeah. >> Uh now the hospitals bill them, but people just don't pay. Turns out it's pretty hard to get people to pay. Uh there's a paper recently about someone who went to a hospital and tried to buy the debt that people owed and the hospital going to sell it to them at five and a half cents on the dollar. So basically most people just don't pay. >> Yeah. The credit score or something like that. Um so that's uh so that's another reason. Um uh another reason is people just can't afford it. There's a world of liquidity constraints and you can't borrow on your human capital. So maybe they can't just maybe health insurance would be an optimal investment. They can't afford it. And then there's just standard paternalism. People may just be making bad decisions. Maybe they should have health insurance and they're just not appropriately calculating the risk and understanding the risk they face um if they're uninsured. Yeah. >> What about rich people at all? >> You know, it's a great point. Remember, insurance loses its value as the risk becomes small relative to your resources. So if you are a billionaire and the largest possible expense that could ever happen is $100,000, then you're r you're roughly risk neutral. So why pay money to the insurance company? Why don't you pay out of pocket? The problem is the largest expense is not $100,000. You can have a medical bill of $10 million. Even for a billionaire, that's real money. Okay? Okay. And we're going to come back to what that suggests, what kind of insurance that suggests they should buy. You can probably figure that out already, but that sort of has features of what kind of insurance they should buy. Okay. So now, so that's why people are insured. What's more interesting is why do we care? Okay. Like I said in the beginning of the course, like lots of people don't have stuff in America. We don't feel like we have to fix all that stuff. Why do feel we have to fix the uninsurance problem? And one reason I gave so why do we care? Why care? Okay. One reason I gave the first lecture was externalities which is that basically people uninsured they might get you sick or alternatively might get uncompensated care which amounts to about $30 billion a year and typically our view is that the rest of us pay that 30 billion through taxes or through higher higher insurance prices or whatever. Okay. So the first reason might care is externalities. Okay. Um uh the second so so basically uh either either physical or f or financial externalities. The second reason um is that uh by people being uninsured they don't get care efficiently and ultimately in this sort of externality sort of one a is inefficiencies which is if people are uninsured they then get sick and then that imposes big externalities once they're sick. So, you know, for example, there was a famous study I loved back from when I was in grad school where a guy went to an emergency room and talked to people sitting around. Obviously, these aren't the worst cases. They're sitting around, but most people emergency room are sitting around. Okay? And he said to them, "How many of you would happily trade this visit for doctor's appointment in three days?" And like 70% said yes. Okay. Well, that's not what's the actual percentage. I have that here. Uh the actual uh 30 I'm sorry, 40% said yes. Okay? Because basically they didn't need to go to the emergency room. They should have a doc. They should have insurance. And doctors don't have to take if you don't have insurance. Emergency rooms do. So that's inefficient. They should not be getting their doctor care in the emergency room. But why not for them? So basically there's inefficiency that arises people being uninsured which ultimately leads to these externalities through health or through fiscal Okay. Then there's the reason that you know we might actually we might actually sort of feel altruism that basically we're we feel that people are uninsured or suffering. Maybe we're paternalistic. We feel they're not making the right decision and we feel badly for them. Want to make sure they have health insurance. So that's another reason we might care. But maybe economically, so there's, you know, altruism/praternalism, but there's another economic reason I might care, which is the problem, unique American problem of job lock, which is that since people get their health insurance through their job, people may be unwilling to leave their job if they risk becoming uninsured. So I like to write down a simple model to illustrate this that sort of makes it very clear. So imagine that um Emma has utility over two goods consumption health insurance. She likes health insurance. Just think of health insurance. She's really valuing not, you know, not having to pay her bills, but it's making it easier. Say there's two goods in utility function. So it's U of C, HI, where HI is one or zero, whether or not she has health insurance. Okay. Um, suppose we're in a perfectly well functioning labor market where your compensation equals your marginal product. Okay? And as I said, in such a market, if your employer gives you health insurance, they'll just take it out of your wages. That's the way a perfectly functioning labor market would work. Okay? So, suppose that Emma currently works for a big what are the big three now accounting firms? They say big seven. I don't know what they're now. Big four accounting firm. Okay? It's a it's a good job. She gets health insurance. Now, suppose she has a great idea for a startup where she could go and make like a shitload more money, but she'd lose her health insurance. So, what's her decision? Well, her decision is, do I work in job one with a marginal product of one? So, her choice is utility of working in job one where she's a marginal product of one, MP1. She pays the cost of health insurance. Let's call that C. But she gets health insurance versus going to job two versus the utility of MP2 which is higher than MP1 and certainly higher than MP1 minus C. So this term is clearly higher but she doesn't get health insurance. Well, if Emma is someone who's really riskaverse or sick, she might not make that move even though society cares. What does society care about? Society cares about this. Society wants people in their most productive positions. That's not happening. Emma is not moving to a job where she'd be more productive because of fear of losing health insurance. This is an inefficiency and it's big. The hallmark of what makes the US so successful is the mobility of our labor market. The fact that people can seek out the most productive opportunities for themselves. When we put sand in the wheels of that system, we lowered the size of the pie. Yeah, >> great question. So, in this simple, if she could purchase health insurance, so you can put an upper bound on how bad job luck is. What's the upper bound on how bad job luck could be? >> Yeah. So you can put a double you can tell me mathematically you can measure the upper bound on the efficiency costs of job lock. What is that? Yeah. What's that >> minus the cost of employer insurance? Okay. So basically it's because here she can buy insurance. So if MP2 if MP1 is 20,000 MP2 is a million then you just move and buy health insurance. Okay. So job lock you might say it can't be that bad. It's just it's it's the gap between what your employer insurance cost of buying. The problem is before the affordable care act that gap could be infinite because non-groupsurers did not have to offer you insurance. If you were sick you were not insurable. Okay I'm going to I I got to come back to this but let me I realized didn't forgot I had to cover this first. The way the non-group insurance worked before the affordable care act is insurers were free to discriminate against you. They could not offer you insurance. They could charge you a million bucks a month. They could charge women more than men. Or they could say, for example, if you'd ever had cancer in your life and you ever get cancer again, we're not covering it. So it's possible this gap is infinite in the sense or at least the upper bound will be the maximum medical spending. Okay? So that's why job lock can still be bad. Now post ACA we can always go by in the exchanges the job luck should have gone down because now that upper bound is defined by what it cost you out in the world versus what your employer spends on you. Okay now this is there was a huge literature devoted to studying this back when I was young and I contributed to it and the bottom line is job lock is a real significant phenomena and there were studies which did two things to try to test whether job luck was real. One thing is they looked at two employees both at the same firm of different health statuses and compared in a firm that offers health insurance to one that doesn't. So a diff and diff sick versus healthy in the firm that offers health insurance and sick versus health doesn't offer health insurance and looked at their odds of changing jobs. And what they found was in the firm that offered health insurance, sick people were much less likely to change jobs than the firm that didn't offer health insurance relative to their healthy counterparts. Another is to say look at state laws which are called COBRA laws. You might have heard of COBRA. It's a law which allows you to continue to buy your health insurance even when you lose your leave your employer. What we found is when states pass those laws, people are much more willing to leave their jobs. Once again, also indicating health insurance was a barrier to job mobility. Okay, so this is suggesting this is a real potential economic um uh economic inefficiency uh and maybe a reason why universal coverage could be economically efficient. >> Okay, questions about that? >> Yeah. >> Um during like a lot of people >> but then if they got sick right >> uh during COVID we basically made insurance super available. So what we did is first of all you can always buy in the ACA exchanges and that is dependent on your income. So if you lose your job it's free. We also made basically anyone who want to eligible for Medicaid. So basically we had a huge expansion insurance. Insurance coverage didn't fall nearly as much during CO as we feared. >> Well not really. And we still have the private system but we had a lot looser conditions on getting public insurance. or is it also? >> No, it's just income. Wealth comes into when getting long-term care for Medicaid like a nursing home. But for health insurance, it's just your income. >> So, >> yeah. Yeah. So, if a super rich person is getting no income, then they're eligible. Um, okay. So, last big topic I want to cover today, which is now that sort of a huge amount of background. Let's now get into more of the economics and let's start by applying the lesson of chapter 12 in two ways to healthcare. The first we're going to apply the lesson of chapter 12 is to ask how generous should insurance be to individuals. The second way we're going to apply the lesson of chapter 12 is how generous should insurance be to providers in terms of reimbursement. We now have a two-sided thing. There's both how much money should we give people and how much money should we pay the providers who deliver the care. We'll cover the first one today. So what we're going to ask is let's think about a simple model where in what determines the generosity of insurance term by one parameter which is how much I ask you to pay your cost sharing. Let's take everything else out of the equation. It's un it's comprehensive coverage. Everything's covered. The only thing that really varies is how much I make you pay. So the question is what is the optimal amount to make someone pay? Well, here we go back to chapter 12 and we ask how much consumption smoothing does it do versus how much moral hazard does it cause? Well, a key insight that developed by the famous economist Martin Feldstein in the 1970s was that in fact if you look at insurance and ask should insurance cover all your spending the answer is almost certainly no because the consumption smoothing's small and the moral hazard's big. Let's start with the consumption smoothing. Let's say you have insurance where as much care as you used to use use in a year, you pay $100 and I want to lower that to zero and you're working your job's making $60,000. That's worth to you almost exactly $100. There's no insurance value there. Okay, there's not a lot of consumption smoothing going on there. You basically pay 100 in premiums and get 100 in protection, right? It it becomes the earlier question. Okay, if the risk is small relative to your income, there's not a lot of utility consumption smoothing. Okay, there's not a lot of benefit of insurance. Insurance benefit comes to protect you against big risks where you're going to really hit the curvature of that utility function. If it's a tiny risk, you're risk neutral. Insurance doesn't do a lot of good for you. So that says that the consumption smoothing will be small. Remember what determines the size of consumption smoothing? It's whether what determines how how much subsequently is delivered or vice versa, how much crowd out is if the event is unpredictable and large. Well, if I know that every year the most I could spend in healthcare is $10, it's predictable I'm going to spend $10 because we all get sick sometime. Okay? And it's small. So there's no consumption smoothing. Okay? What what about moral hazard? Well, Feldstein did this famous little chart we see in figure 157. He said, 'Look, imagine we're going to think about doctor's visits and imagine doctor's visits have a marginal cost of $100. That is a social marginal cost of delivering a doctor. It's $100. Okay, imagine further that you're in a health insurance plan where they only make you pay $10 when you go to the doctor. That's your co-ayment. Okay. And then finally, let's imagine the demand for health care is downward sloping. Okay, that basically as the price of healthcare goes up, you want less of it like any other good. Okay, in that case the optimal amount of health care you should get is at point A because the social marginal benefit of that care is dictated by your demand curve. The social marginal cost is dictated by the supply curve. And so the optimal amount of health care you should get is point A, Q1. But in fact, you choose Q2. Why do you choose Q2? You choose Q2 because that's where your private benefits equal your private costs. And that is too much health care. And indeed, at least a somewhat oddly looking, oddlooking deadway loss triangle. But remember, deadway loss is where costs are above benefits. And that's everything to the right of Q1 and to the left of Q2. So that becomes your deadway loss triangle. So Felstein pointed out that by making health insurance cheap, we uh induce by making health insurance cheap, we induce moral hazard. And what he pointed out is that basically what that means is um you know we induce moral hazard. So basically this moral hazard problem has led people to claim that we overuse healthcare and it's led people to sort of refer to something that's called the flat of the curve which you see in 158. 158 is a weird figure. Let me explain it. On the xax on the y ais is the dollar of benefit you get from the next dollar of healthcare spending. On the x axis is how much you're currently spending. So point A says for someone currently spending $1,000, the next dollar of spending delivers $5 of benefits. For someone currently spending $2,000, the next dollar of spending delivers $1 of benefits. People understand how to interpret that graph. We think the graph for medical care production theoretically looks like this. where at first health care is incredibly productive that if you go from getting no health care to getting some it's very valuable but eventually you reach the flat of the curve where additional medical care is doing you no good indeed some would argue it goes below zero like the spinal fusion example that that additional hair care is actually making you worse off but I don't want I don't need to go that far the point is it just gets flat and so basically what that says is that essentially a situation where when people when you make health insurance free when you make health care free you don't do a lot of consumption smoothing but people get a lot of healthcare that isn't that valuable and that is essentially the driver of how we think about optimal health insurance is saying that optimal health insurance would almost certainly never be free because on the one hand I mean optimal would certainly on health insurance would never have you pay nothing that have you pay something. You pay nothing. Paying nothing doesn't do a lot of consumption smoothing. When I say pay, I mean what you pay at the doctor, not your premium. What you pay at the doctor, the cost sharing. Optimal cost sharing is almost certainly never zero because it doesn't do a lot of consumption smoothing, but it causes a lot of moral hazard. Yeah. Question in the back. >> By age. No, the consumption smoothing piece will only vary by income, right? Uh you might ask if the moral hazard piece varies by age because it comes smoothing piece is about income. If you're a million dollars, if you're a millionaire 25, million dollar millionaire 75, either way $10 is irrelevant to you. Okay. So the consumption smoothing piece doesn't depend on age. The moral hazard piece might. >> Yeah. So, so once again, we're only doing efficiency here, not distribution. But let me ask the question differently, which is in figure 157, what is the key driver of the size of the dead weight loss? There's two key drivers of the size of the dead weight loss. What what drives the size of the dead weight loss in figure 57? Yeah, the well for it's it's it's the it's the cost sharing, the gap between the two lines, but economically more relevantly, you're exactly right. It's the elasticity of demand for healthare. Another version of Stephen's question is look, maybe healthare healthcare demands inelastic especially for a per person. Maybe they only get healthcare if they really need it. And it says it's not about the money. Like if you think about it, like it's kind of a silly view of the world at one level, which is like, well, gee, people go to the doctor when they're sick. I don't say like, that's a good deal. I'll go today. You go when you're sick. And that was the standard view of the world before the 1970s was that basically healthcare demands pretty inelastic. And as healthcare demands approximately inelastic, this dead weight loss goes to zero because the curve gets vertical. So we don't have to worry about this. Okay. So the elastic demand becomes the key determinant. So there became an enormous field in health economics trying to measure the elasticity of demand of healthcare. So initially what studies did is they said well let's compare um me to Att $2,000 deductible so I pay a lot for my healthcare. Att's got a plan with no deductible. He doesn't pay much for his healthare. Let's compare how much we spent and what will be wrong with that. Why is that study not causal? What's the potential challenge? That's I want to compare two people. Yeah. >> What groups of you guys >> in particular? How might they be different? >> Yeah. Exactly. So basically Attel a Met didn't get signs assigned that policy. He chose. And I didn't get signed. I chose. Why did I choose a policy where I pay a lot out of pocket? He didn't presumably because he's sicker than me and he didn't want to have to pay out of pocket. So, we're gonna look at we're gonna say, "Wow, check it out. John is a high deductible. He spends less. Therefore, healthcare must be really elastic." Well, that'd be incorrect. I spend more not because of my high deductible because people people I'm sorry, I I spend less not because of my high deductible because people who spend less cake high deductible planes. It's classic bias as we talked about in chapter 3. So, how do you solve this? Well, we as we said the perfect solution is a randomized control trial and actually we ran one. We ran perhaps the most famous randomized control trial in social policy history in the US which was the Rand health insurance experiment. And what the Rand Hie did is they literally randomized Rand isn't because of randomization. Rand is the name of the company. But they literally randomized health insurance. They literally took people flipped a coin and assigned them to three different health insurance plans. one where it was all free, one where you paid some and one where you paid a huge amount. Essentially, think of as comparing free insurance where you paid nothing to one where you had a $5,000 deductible. That was sort of the comparison they did. Okay? So, everyone was insured. No one had to pay more than $5,000. But the difference was how does it matter if you pay the first $5,000 versus if you don't? Okay. Now, you might ask yourself, little side note, why would you be in this in this in this experiment, if you could be a scientist group, you have to pay $5,000 for your insurance? And how's that even ethical? How do you set that up? How do you do it so it's ethical and you get people to participate? Yeah. >> Yeah. But that means on average is a $2,500 loss, right? It's random. The zero 5,000 on average you're still screwed. So, what do they do? Yeah. >> What's that? >> Um, they could do that, but then you're only you're getting sort of a particularly biased answer. What else could you do? >> Give everyone $5,000. There's no bias to the experiment because the treatment and control are both getting it and no one's worse off. And that's how you get that's how you run an experiment. That's how you get people to present an experiment with some risk. You make sure that no one's worse off. Now, if you get the zero, you're better off. That's just a transfer that doesn't affect your decision to use healthcare. Okay. So basically they ran this experiment. They had several interesting findings. Okay. Um the first finding was that health care is fairly the the healthcare man curve is downward sloping although it's not very elastic. They estimate elasticity at minus0.2. That's for every 10% increase in healthcare prices people consume 2% less healthcare. So there is dead weight loss. It is downward slope but it's not super steep. Okay, that was the first finding. The second finding was that basically um we had a situation where healthc care spending the different categories of healthcare spending lined up like you think they should. What do you think should be most elastic and what should be most inelastic? What healthcare services should be most elastic and what should be most inelastic? Let's get some more folks involved. Come on. This is just intuition. Let's get some folks who get some of your quiet folks involved. Come on. What should be most sensitive to price? What should be least sensitive to price? You don't need to be like a rocket scientist. Figure this out. What services are you going to be most are are you going to be most avoid if the price goes up? And what which ones are you going to be not avoid if the price goes up? >> I don't have to cold call. Let's get some folks speaking here. Come on. >> Yeah. Yeah, heart surgery is pretty much inelastic. Okay, you're not going to say like, "Yeah, 20 bucks. I'd rather die." Okay, so that's a great example. What about elastic? What's something where people Yeah, plastic surgery. The most elastic thing, dental care, um mental health care, things which are necessary medical treatments for many people, but which are people pay attention to price and are more price sensitive. and randers found exactly that that the elasticities line up exactly as you'd think. Then the most striking finding was okay people use less health care they actually use less of all health care including preventive care. So one criticism you hear of making people pay for healthcare. Wait a second. What if they stop using not just the stuff they don't need, but the stuff they do need and maybe their health is worse. So, Rand also looked to people's health and found no effect. It found we're on the flat of the curve. People who with 5,000 used a lot less healthcare end up just as healthy as people who didn't. So, what's going on with that? Well, there's two possibilities. One possibility is that we don't really know what effective and ineffective healthcare is and people do and they should use less of it. It turned out it didn't matter. They should use less of it. The other possibility is maybe the people who use less sort of understood when they could afford to use the related is people sort of understood when it was okay to use less and not use less. But that was sort of a striking finding that we really look like we're on the flat of the curve that going from the zero to $5,000 deductible. Now remember, no one's uninsured. We're not saying you pay at all. There was a cap on what you'd pay. We'll come back to the uninsured next time. There was a capital you paid, but at least within that range where you are spending a little versus a lot is not matting for your health. Except they did find suggestive evidence of effects for lowincome very sick people, what we call chronically ill people, people with diabetes or high blood pressure or depression and other things, chronic conditions. For that group, they did find suggestion that using less healthcare was bad for them. that these I'm sorry using that these higher price are bad for them and that comes someone mentioned different incomes that's that has a very interesting lesson for how we think about optimal health insurance which says that basically what Rand tells us is that if you are in a range where the money is not that meaningful to you then probably it doesn't really affect your health about whether you use the healthcare or not. If it's really going to affect your health, go get it anyway. But if you're poor and sick where you really just can't afford it, you might not get it even if it could improve your health. And that leads us to sort of a subtle explanation of optimal health insurance. Which optimal health insurance is not just saying, well, we should have a deductible. So before I made that point, if I let me go back, I did this in wrong order. If I stopped before that last point, if I just said, look, Rand found $5,000 deductible. no worse health. You'd say, "Well, great. We should at least have a decent amount of cost sharing, not a lot of consumption smoothing, and reduce moral hazard without impacting health." But then there's this other finding that for low-inccome people, it may impact their health. What does that suggest we should do? That suggests that we should have income related cost sharing where the amount you have to pay when you go to the doctor should depend on the amount of pay when you go to the doctor should depend on the resources you have to pay it. In that way you get people you reduce moral hazards to people where you can really reduce it without sacrificing health. But the ones that will sacrifice health you avoid you you avoid them reducing their care. that would suggest sort of maybe an income based caution and we actually have that in the Affordable Care Act. We actually the higher your income is the more you pay out of pocket to try to address that exact concern. Okay, an income based out-of- pocket system. Okay, is one form of optimal insurance. The other piece of optimal insurance comes to something we call valuebased insurance design which is saying look we do know with certainty some services are high value and some are low value. For example, if you're diabetic there's a drug you can take which is $1 a day which basically keeps you from getting your foot amputated. Keeps you alive. That's effective. You should be doing that. On the other hand, we know this back surgery is ineffective, maybe even bad for you. So valuebased insurance design would say is look, we ought to vary what people pay by how effective the service is. And then so insurance is not just one cost sharing based on your income, but actually varies based on how appropriate the service is for you. You could even have sort of personalized cost sharing. You say, "Well, John's a diabetic. Therefore, we're going to make this pill free for him. but his back surgery can be really expensive, etc. And that would be sort of the ultimate way to design insurance. The problem is it's really hard. So I was appointed when we passed healthcare for in Massachusetts, the law was incredibly vague. The law said we should have health insurance that should be good benefits. Go figure that out. And they passed that on to board of 10 people of which I was one. We had to like figure out what constitutes good health insurance and what people should pay for it. So I was pretty excited. I called my buddy who kind of came up with the term value based insurance design. Sort of the king of this. I said this is so exciting. We can actually I'm in charge man. We can set up value based insurance design. What should he goes? This is so exciting. He said let's charge higher co-ayments for low value services and lower co-ayments for high value services. I'm like that's awesome. I want to do that. What should we actually do? And he said let's charge higher co-ayments for low value services and lower coay for high value service because it's actually hard to figure out how you should actually do it. So the problem is this is a standard economists run to in policy design which is the optimal policy in theory may be actually hard to implement in practice. So where do we come in terms of optimal health insurance where we come down in terms of op optimal health insurance is that basically we ought to have a that zero cost sharing almost certainly doesn't make sense unless you're very poor but that the cost sharing you pay should depend on your income and probably should depend on what the service is as well. Okay, I'm going to stop there.