So this is the second day of our of our little unit on random walks on groups. And the first day we introduced it. Um and uh the second day we'll describe some of some more modern stuff. And the second day will be a little bit more of a survey. I won't prove everything. Um but I'll try to um uh and in the second day we'll see how it connects to projection theory. Okay. So first let's recall what we're where we were talking about Okay, so we have a finite group G and then we have a probability measure on G and we have an operator T mu. T mu of F is F convolved with mu and so this is like a does a step of a random walk. So if f is the probability distribution at some moment then you make a step of the random walk end and then t muf is the new probability distribution. Okay. Um so t mu of one is one the constant function one and t mu maps the functions of mean zero. So these are functions whose sum to zero or have mean zero. It maps it to itself. Um and sigma 1 of t mu is the largest singular value of this. Okay. And we saw that sigma 1 of t mu is related to the mixing behavior of this random walk. So um we always have that sigma 1 of t mu is less than or equal to one and uh actually we don't it's a positive number and and sigma 1 of t mu is strictly less than one then that gives some kind of mixing of the random walk we made that precise last time okay um next we focused on the group SL2FP PE and one one special feature of this group came from representation theory. So we had a proposition that um if you have a representation of this of this group. So that's a unitary representation and let's say it's non-trivial. Then D has to be pretty big. Okay. And we use that to prove a mixing estimate. mixing estimate says that if mu is a probability measure on on this group um then sigma 1 of t mu is bounded by p ^ 2 * mu l2 for example if a is just a sub a subset of sl2 fp then there's a uniform measure on a Mua and it's straightforward to check that it's L2 norm squared mu aa L2 norm 2 is 1 over the size of a. So a corlary is that if a is significantly bigger than p^2 then the random walk using a mixes rapidly. So correlary if for instance a is bigger than p to the 2.1 um then then sigma 1 of ta so I'll write ta it's an abbreviation for t mua sigma 1 of ta would be smaller than something like p to the - one10th so it would mix quite rapidly okay so this is this is a nice proposition and it's kind of sharp of its type because if the set A is a subgroup of SL2FP then it the random walk will not generate will not mix at all and there are subgroups or easy subgroups that have size around P^ squ so we can't we can't do better than this so remark that this corary is sharp uh because there exists H a proper subgroup size of H around P square. So for instance, H is the upper triangular matrices. Yeah, >> if you had for a different group a similar proposition where you can lower bound the dimension of the of a non-trivial unit, could you also use that as an upper bound for the sigma one for that group? >> Yeah. So the question is if we had an analog of this proposition for some other group say SLDFP um then could we do this whole story for for all these other groups? Yeah, you could. This is that's all that we've used so far. Yeah. Okay, cool. Um okay. So then also last class we stated an old theorem which goes rather it's older than this proposition but it goes rather it does not obviously follow from it. So theorem this theorem is essentially due to Selberg um although he didn't say it in quite this way. Um so here a so we pick okay so a is a particular list of generators of sl2fp. Okay. So this is perhaps the simplest set of generators of sl2fp but is also somewhat special in a way we'll talk about when we talk about the proof. Okay. So then the conclusion is that sigma 1 of t a is less than 1 minus c where c is positive and c is uh this is true for every p. So c does not depend on p. So these all mix uniformly fast. Okay. So this theorem is not an immediate corlary of this proposition because this is a much smaller set. Um and uh okay so today there are a couple of goals in in this survey. The first goal is to sketch a proof of this theorem in which this proposition plays a key role but we'll see some other ideas and a second goal is to discuss what happens if you replace what was special about this generating set at all and what happens if we replace it by some other generating set. Okay. Okay. Um, cool. So, the first proof was due to Selberg basically, but um, that proof was quite difficult. It used the an used a bunch of stuff including the remon hypothesis for curves over finite fields. Um, we're going to uh follow a later proof which is due to Sarnac and Shuer and perhaps simplified or adjusted a bit by by various people. Okay, cool. Um, all right. So, this set is uh symmetric, meaning that uh if you if a group element is in the set, so is the inverse. Um, and so we could say that mu is symmetric if mu of g is equal to mu of g inverse for every g and g. And um t mu actually is it's a bit nicer if mu is symmetric. Um and here's why. So remark mu is symmetric that is equivalent to saying that the operator t mu is symmetric as a matrix. And so because so if you think of T mu as a matrix then it has a g1 g2 entry and the g1 g2 entry is mu of g1 g2 inverse. So if you switch these you're taking the inverse of that and uh if mu is symmetric that doesn't matter. So it's a symmetric matrix. Okay so that's nice because a symmetric matrix you can diagonalize it and instead of just having singular values it has igen values. So once tu is a symmetric matrix then the first singular value of t mu to the k is the first singular value of t mu to the k. It helps to have a blackboard to sit. Okay. And so that suggests a this is helpful. This isn't true for non-ymmetric matrices but it's true for symmetric matrices. And it suggests a strategy of how to get a handle on sigma 1 of t mu. So we can say the following thing. Um so we have sigma 1. Yeah. Let's also think about t mu to the k. So t mu to the k of f is f convolved with mu and then convolved with mu and so on k times uh which is f convolved with mu convolved with itself k times. So that's an operator of our type but with a new measure. The measure is mu Okay. So therefore sigma 1 of t mu to the k sigma 1 t mu to the k which is sigma 1 of t mu to the k. Uh so if you try to explain this without a blackboard, you have to have really good ability to invoke things with your voice. All right. Okay. So mu might be um the uniform measure on this set of four elements A. And if we apply this proposition directly to that set of four elements, it gives us nothing. But we can use this and then we can try to apply the proposition to mu to the k. Um so if we put together what we have can make the following corlary. Um sigma 1 t mu to the k. So okay so this is if mu is a probability measure on SL2 or fp um then sigma 1 of t mu to the k it's bounded by well this thing and for this thing we we can apply our proposition here so we get p ^ 2 * mu 2 * k L2. Okay. Um so the original for for the original if you take the subbook measure a then for the original mua um this thing would be much too big to be interesting. But perhaps we could find a high power k where this L2 norm is actually smaller than 1 over p^2 and that would give us an interesting bound. Okay, cool. So, so all of the stuff that we'll that we'll talk about today is based on this corollary. Um, so we can think about it like this. You start off with the probability measure mu. We want to know if does it get really evenly mixed if you convolve it with itself a lot of times. And what we'll see here is that maybe if you convolve it with itself a bunch of times, it will get fairly well mixed. Not spectacularly well mixed, but just fairly well mixed to guarantee that this L2 norm is smaller than 1 over P^2. So if if it manages to be kind of roughly evenly distributed around P to the 2.1 elements in this group, that would be good enough that this would be less than one. Once that happens, we can use this correlary and we can bound sigma 1. And once we bound sigma one, then we'll see that that in turn tells us what happens as we keep mixing. Then we'll be able to say it gets really very well mixed at some later time. Okay. Okay. But how can we so how can we bond this? How can we approach uh show that that mu tensor k is is decently well mixed fairly well mixed. Um okay. So there are two different um approaches that we'll talk about today. What so one approach which is special for this theorem involves either um uh let me say it involves lifting to SL2Z um andor it involves hyperbolic geometry. I'll describe it in a couple of different slightly different ways. Okay. So first let's talk about lifting to SL2Z. Okay. So if you reduce mod P it gives a group homorphism from SL2Z to SL2F. Okay. Um so let's suppose that M is a probability measure on SL2Z and mu is the push forward pi P of M. So that's a probability measure here. And this setup with group homorphisms commutes plays nicely with convolution. So um if I take the push forward of m convolved with itself k times I will get mu convolved with itself k times. Okay, so one approach to try to understand mu convolved with itself a bunch of times is to first try to understand m convolved with itself a bunch of times and then try to understand what happens when we perform this push word. Um okay cool so here's our plan study m convolve with itself k times to the push forward operation. Okay, so this is a a reasonable strategy because of the fact or to the extent that we feel that SL2Z is easier to get our hands on than SL2FP. Um, okay. And there is a there are a couple of reasons that SL2Z is easier to get our hands on than SL2FP. Let me call this um good features of SL2Z. Okay, we won't necessarily use all of these but let me mention them. So the first feature is that SL2Z is virtually free. So what virtually means is that there is a subgroup H and SL2Z which is a finite index free subgroup. So in general if you say that a group is virtually blah it means that there's a finite index subgroup which is blah. Okay. So it's pretty close to being free. That's not true at all for SL2FP. So you take SL2FP, take the simplest generators you can think of. Try to write down all the relations. Not super easy. I I don't personally know how to do it, although I think people know how to do it. Okay. Um Okay. Number two, SL2Z is uh sort of sitting sitting inside of SL2R. It's kind of a discrete approximation of SL2R. So it's pretty closely related to a league group. This is what we'll actually use. Okay. And number three is that SL2Z um acts nicely. This is maybe I should call it 2B. It's quite closely related to two. um it acts nicely on the hyperbolic plane. So recall that the isometries of the hyperbolic plane is PSL2R. So SL2R it's basically SL2R not quite. Um so SL2R acts by isometries on the hyperbolic plane and SL2Z is sitting inside there. So it acts by isometries on the hyperbolic plane. um and that action is is captures a lot of SL2Z. So you can also use this to to help understand SL2Z. All right. And so all three of these things are much more complicated for SL2FP. Okay. Um all right so I I don't so the one of the things I won't completely prove is some thing about about doing convolutions on SL2Z but I want to give some intuition and rough statement about it. So intuition about convolution on SL2 Z. Um so as a warm-up I want to think about convolution on Z. Okay. So let's say new is a probability measure on Z and I take new convolved with itself k times. So new is some fixed simple probability measure. Uh maybe let's take new new of x is a half of x is plus -1 zero otherwise. Okay. So what happens when we convolve it with itself K times? Um well the central limit theorem tells us that this thing is almost a Gaussian. Gaussian also closely related to the heat kernel on R. Okay. So in analogy with this um what might we hope to happen when we take a measure on SL2Z and we convolve it with itself alpha that uh so you might hope so we have M measure probability measure on SL2Z. So you might hope to have some kind of um central limit theorem for matrices and it would say that M convuls with itself a lot is sort of like the heat kernel which needs to be defined on SR2R. Okay, so this seems like a natural thing in the intersection of probability theory and matrix theory and has been studied although I'm not an expert on it. Um but CF work of first invogue and okay um so I believe that I know roughly how it works out although I don't have a precise statement but um let me tell you roughly how I think it works out and then we'll see how this would be helpful to understand SL2FP. Okay, so first of all, we'll have some kind of balls in SL2R. So BT is the set of matrices A B C D in SL2R with the property that A2 + B^2 + C^2 + D^2 is at most R is at most T^2. Okay. Um, so this is some sort of rough some sort of notion of a ball in the group SL2R. Um, you could imagine a fancier notion where you start with the Lee algebra and you put a ball in the Lee algebra and you take the exponential map and that's probably a better thing to do than this. Um, but this is a very lowbrow definition and it is sort of approximately describes balls. Okay. And then if we're interested in SL2Z, we would take the integer points in this BT of Z. That's defined to be uh BT intersected with SL2Z. So these are integers. Okay. So for reference um what is the cardality of BT of Z? So little lema cardality of BT of Z is roughly T ^2. Um sketch um clearly choose a and d minus tt. So that's t² choices. And then we have to solve b * c is a * d minus one. I think I did that right. So here you know sl2r determinant is one. So a d minus bc is one. Okay. So we have this integer of size around t ^2 and we want to know how many ways are there to factor it into two integers of size around t. Um okay so um so not every integer will factor like this. It could be prime but mostly they will factor like that. And how many ways will they factor? Well not too many ways by most t to the epsilon ways. So, so number of choices for blast and cruise is on and the order of so the level of our back of the envelope computation there should be about T^2 group elements in all right so there's a vague statement that if you fix M then MAR to the K is roughly equidistributed on the ball of radius t for t around exponential of some constant depending on m * k. So it's not stated precisely but this is roughly what I think the central limit theorem should say in SL2Z. Okay. In a little bit we'll do the hyperbolic geometry point of view where I'll be able to state things a little bit better if we want. Okay. Okay. So that's step one of our plan. Study what the convolution looks like in upstairs in SL2Z. And next we need to think about what happens when we project from SL2Z down to SL2FP. Why don't we pause there actually? I mean I uh so I did some things not completely precisely but let me see if people have any questions or comments or bothered by things. Yeah, >> question about kind of the link to the existence of heat kernel that like the heat kernel and R and in general kind of uklidian looking spaces is kind of closely related to the forier transform but in a nonian group is there anything analogous to that that sort of makes this some sort of heat kernelish thing work? >> Yeah. So the question is um how does the heat kernel work in a nonabelian group? Um let me punt on that until we get to the hyperbolic space version and and we'll talk about the heat kernel there which is a little bit easier for at least for me to make it precise. Yeah. Okay. So let's do the second step where we pass from SL2F from SL2Z to SL2FP. Okay, so remember our setup that M is a probability measure on SL2Z and then mu is the push forward of M. It's probability measure on SL2 FP. Um, also let's mention that gamma P could be the kernel of pi P. So that's a normal subgroup of SL2Z and it's gamma P is the set of A B C D in SL2Z. So that um a d bc is congruent to the identity mod p. Okay, great. So now our goal is to understand the L2 norm of some convolution of this. And here's a cute trick um little lama. So if mu is symmetric so for instance if m is symmetric um then mu tensor k l2 is mu tens or 2k of the identity. So here's the proof. Uh let's start on the other side. Mu tensor 2k of the identity is well mu tensor k convolved with sorry I was saying the word tensor that was not the right word I mean convolved mu convolved k convolved with mu convolved k the identity so that's the sum over g in our group mu convolved k of g mu convolved k of g inverse that's how you convolve two functions But what's nice is mu is symmetric is that these are the same as each other. So we just get the sum on g mult k of g^ squ. So that's equal to that. Okay cool. So that's sort of convenient because now we just have to estimate this one thing. Um and mu convolved 2k of the identity is if we that's that's something that lives here but we can relate it to something that lives here. It's the sum g in gamma p of m convolved 2 k of g. So in other words, we want to know how much mass what what is the measure using this m measure m involved 2k what is the measure of the subgroup gamma p. All right now m convolved 2k is approximately evenly distributed on some ball. So um by the vague statement this is sort of equivalent to estimating what fraction of the ball is in gamma P. So we have some big ball in our league group. What fraction of it is in the subgroup gamma P. Okay. So remark the index of gamma p is the cardality of sl2fp which is around p cubed. So if this were sort of evenly distributed um then you would expect this quotient to be about 1 over p cubed. Okay. And that's basically true. And so here's another lema. Um, BT intersected with gamma P is bounded by T ^2 over P cubed, which is also like the size of BT of Z over Q cubed. So it is pretty evenly distributed. Okay. All right. So here's the proof. So we're looking for a b c d where each entry is size smaller than t and they're integers. And we want um this to be congruent to 1 0 0 1 mod p. Okay. So first of all let's try to do a back of the envelope calculation. Um so there if I don't if I erase this congruence condition then I'm just asking how many integer points are there in bt and we said before that's about t ^2. Now I'd like a to be congruent to one mod p. So maybe I should divide by p for that. And I'd like b to be congruent to zero. So maybe I should divide by p again. And I have four conditions. So maybe I should divide by P4 times P ^2 / P 4th. Is anybody suspicious? Okay, so that's the wrong answer. It should be closer to t ^2 / p cubed. And the reason that that was not really okay to do is that those four conditions are not independent of each other. We already know that a d minus bc is one because we're in um okay, I didn't write this properly. This is supposed to be in SL2Z, which means that AD minus BC equals 1. Um, and I think that probably implies that once I have three of these congruence conditions, then I would get the fourth. Okay, but it also brings up the point that I should shouldn't be too fast and loose. Uh, that it's it's not super obvious that all of these things are independent of each other. Um, so there is actually a kind of algebra trick to make this work. that allows us to keep things more independent of each other. And here's the algebra trick. Okay, so um B is divisible by P and C is divisible by P. So P divides B and P divides C. Therefore P divides BC and BC is A D minus one. So sorry P ^2 divides BC and so P ^2 divides a D minus one. These are equal to each other. All right. Similarly P + 1 divides A uh sorry P divides A minus one. A is congruent to one mod P and P divides D minus one. So p ^2 divides a minus1 * d minus one. All right. The leading term here is also a * d. So we can play these off against each other and we conclude that p ^2 divides a + d minus 2. All right. Now let's start choosing things. So we're going to choose a and um a has an integer of size at most t and it's congruent to one mod p. So I have less than t over p choices. Next I'm going to choose d. I've already chosen a. So I now know the value of d modulo p^2 because of this sneaky algebra trick. So I get at most t over p^2 choices. This was only really okay if t is at least p ^2. So let me say t is at least p^2. Okay. And now once I've chosen A and D uh now I I have to solve for blast and cruise. And I forget about all the congruences just like above at most around one choices. And so now they're less than one choice. Choose blast and cruise. And that's because BC is A D minus one as integers. Yeah. >> When you're saying there's kind of at most one factorization of a minus one, would that actually be a log of being precise the number of factors? >> Yeah. So the question is how many factors are there of a number of some size? Um and it it is a little super constant. It's actually so if this number has size n, it's actually more than log n. It could be potentially could be worse than that, but it's less than n to the epsilon for any epsilon. And um and that's what this symbol was supposed to mean. >> Okay. Simples being slightly different versions of equality. >> Yeah. Okay. Um, so any other questions or comments about the lema? Okay. So, so those are the ingredients of the proof of the Sarna proof of theorem one. All the ingredients are rigorous and precise except for the vague statement about how random walks behave on SL2Z. And if you if if we're willing to believe that, then we can put them together and prove theorem one. Okay. So proof of theorem one. So m will be m a for this set a on sl2z. Um then by the vague statement mvolves k times is roughly equidistributed on bt where t is around x of some constant time k. Okay. So now we will choose k. So we'll choose t to be a little more than p ^ 2 so that we can use the lema at the end which means that k is around log p. We take around log p steps and after that m convolved k is roughly evenly distributed on a ball of size t p ^2. Uh okay um and I guess we can here we can put 2k I guess. So then m 2k of gamma p will be around bt intersect gamma p over bt which is smaller than like e to the minus3 by our lamma. And here we're losing a little power. So if I wanted to be more clear about what I was saying it would be something like uh something like this. Okay. Therefore, mu tensor k l2^ 2 that's the same thing as m tensor 2 k of gamma p. And so that would be around pus 3 + epsilon in particular significantly smaller than pus 2. Um and then we use the correlary that gives us a bound for for this and we get that sigma 1 t mu is less than 1 - c right is independent of p Okay, let me tell you just briefly about the hyper hyperbolic geometry point of view and then we'll switch to other choices of generators. Okay. Hyperbolic geometry. All right. So we mentioned that SL2Z or SL2R acts on the hyperbolic plane H2. Let's say that X of P is H2 modulo gamma P. So X of one is the hyperbolic plane modulo SL2Z and X of P is a cover of it. X of P is a cover of X of one and the group of deck transformations is SL2FP. Okay. So I'd like to try to make a picture of this. So x of one is not quite a manifold, but it's not super important for this except for being a technical irritation. So I'm not going to try to draw that. Um, so it is uh almost a non-compact manifold of genus Y. It looks sort of like this. The non-compactness is annoying, but it's maybe important. Um, so then X of P is a cover of this. So, it's going to look sort of like so. And it I guess it has a cusp for each. Yeah, it also has some cusps. Not sure exactly how many. And this is a cover. Um, so how to make that look nice? Well, you could kind of chop this into fundamental domains and then each fundamental domain is a bjection onto x of one. And if you do this nicely, so then the different fundamental domains, they correspond to the group of deck transformations, which is SL2 of FP. And if you do this nicely, you could put like a dot in each fundamental domain and you could put an edge if the fundamental domains um touch each other. And the the graph that I just drew would be the uh k would be a kaly graph of SL2FP. So the geometry of these two dimensional surfaces is closely related to the geometry of SL2FP. Okay. So then uh we would talk about the spectrum of the lelassian on x of p our subject of study and um zero is in the spectrum. So the plashion of a constant function is zero but after zero there's a gap. So if this is the real lang and here's zero that's part of the spectrum but then there's a gap and this is called lambda 1 of x of p and the rest of the spectrum lives here is contained in okay so that's what lambda 1 is the smallest nonzero part of the spectrum All right. So the theorem that Selberg actually proved in the 1950s is that lambda 1 of x of p is at least for all. And the conjecture is that lambda 1 of x of p is at least a quarter maybe minus little o of one. Not sure if you need it but certainly if somebody proved that that would be a big deal uh for all. Okay, this that may not look immediately that it matters very much. A quarter is a significant number because it's lambda one of hyperbolic plane. So I would say it matches that anyway. So this is the theorem that Selberg actually proved. With modern techniques, it's not that difficult to get from this theorem to that theorem. it's much more difficult to prove either one of them. Um, okay. Instead of the random walk, we could use here the heat flow on X of P. And there was a question earlier like what what is the heat flow? So the question earlier was what is the heat flow on SL2R? But the analysis question here is what is the heat flow on this hyperbolic manifold? Um well you can think of it as solving the heat equation. So the heat equation would be del t of u equals lelassian of u and the lelassian okay would take a while to write down but it's a it's a second order differential operator on your hyperbolic manifold. All right. Um okay and the solution has a formula using the using a heat flow operator. Um so that so let's say so u of dot comma t would be ht of u. So this is now an operator ht which plays the role of our operator t mu or t mu to the k. Okay. Um so everything we talked about with like a little bit more analysis and PTE to set things up everything we talked about applies here. So for instance, SL2 of FP acts isomemmetrically on X of P and therefore it acts on the igen spaces of H of H2 they have multiplicity. Um and also you can do lifting. So ht tilda is the heat operator on the universal cover the hyperbolic plane and then ht of x1 x2 is the sum over g and gamma p of ht tilda x1 tilda gx2 tilda. So in other words, the the new heat operator is take the heat operator on the hyperbolic plane and push it forward. And that follows basically because that this is a local equation. So solution to the heat equation, you pull back, you get a solution to the heat equation. Uh okay. Um and ht tilda the heat kernel on the hyperbolic plane it has an explicit formula and that's the equivalent that's plays the role of the vague statement. Okay. So this hopefully is a dictionary of most of the elements of our proof that they they all have natural analoges for this hyperbolic surface and the one that was most troubling has a less troubling analog or the one that you know was not stated precisely would have a precisely stated analog. Okay. So without doing all the details, if you then translate the proof that we did into the setting of hyperbolic surfaces, um then that would give a proof of a theorem like this one with a constant that's not quite as good, but usually it doesn't matter. Yeah. >> Question about the heat flow. Since the uh spaces x of p are not compact, does there have to be some sort of like decay condition to make the heat flow spaces? >> Yeah. So the question is since X of P is not compact should we have some kind of decay condition to make the heat flow work? Yeah, I think the answer is yes. So these spaces have finite area. So it's not as bad as it would be in some other settings. But I think we should we should say something about the solution not going crazy near infinity. Yeah. Okay. So this is the end of our discussion of the Selberg theorem for this particular set of generators. So take a moment to see if you have questions or comments about it and then we'll explore what would happen if we didn't have that particular set of generators. Yeah. Anything on people's minds? >> Yeah. >> Can you give some intuition why the uh the support grows exponentially? >> Yeah. Okay. So, the question was if we go back to um we we thinking about we had a probability measure on SL2Z. We convolve it with itself a lot of times and then we discover that the support it's roughly evenly distributed on a ball of size t but t grows exponentially with k. Okay. Yeah. So this is a a kind of different behavior from what happens on the real line. Uh let's talk think about what's going on. So m let's say is just evenly distributed between a few matrices. maybe the matrices in the Selberg thing. So now I'm going to take K of those matrices and I'm going to multiply them together. Now if I multiply K matrices together, the biggest that the entries could be at the end is exponential in K. On the other hand, you might wonder is it really that big or is there some cancellation? Like suppose I had one by one matrices and I had a measure that 50% I was a half and 50% it was two. Take K of those and I multiply them together. What would happen? Well, there'd be a lot of cancellation. There are a lot of cancellations between the 1/ halfs and the twos. Uh it would get clearer to us if we took the logarithm of everything. Um and the size of that would actually end up being exponential of the square root of k. So the 2x2 case is different from that. Uh the actual size of this is typically exponential in K. There's not as much cancellation of that kind. And um let's see what how can we get some intuition about that. Uh >> in some sense because of the virtual so this tells you that the group kind of looks like a >> Yeah, it's a good comment. So the comment was uh SL2Z is virtually free. So it's not very likely to to sort of go out in SL2Z and then come back. And that that's a related fact. Yeah. Yeah. So the the it's also related to hyperbolic geometry. So you do a random walk in the hyperbolic plane. Um if you take S steps, you'll typically be around a distance s from the origin. And that's because the hyperbolic plane is sort of branching out. And so at every moment, you're not equally likely to be going back towards where the origin or away. You're kind of threequarters of the directions are away. And that's what life is like inside of the matrices. Yeah, great question. Anything else on people's minds? All right. So, so let's look back at this uh Selberg theorem now that we understand it better. And we had this particular a listed here. Um what did we really use about a what was special about a >> Yeah, >> we used the fact that it was a generator. >> Yeah. So, we use that it's a generator of SL2 of FP. Um, and what I'd like us all to think about is if we had any set of generators of SL2 FP, do we think that this would still be true? And do we think that this proof would still work? I'll write that down while you think. So question can we replace a by any set of generators of SL2. Yeah, >> at minimum they need to be symmetric, right? >> Um, yeah, let's say they're symmetric. >> Let's focus on the symmetric case. That made things technically easier and I would be happy with any symmetric set of generators. Yeah. >> Does the set of generators still need to be kind of at least close to virtually free? >> Does it still need to be close to virtually free? Yeah, that's a good question. Um, so, so although I mentioned being virtually free, we didn't actually use virtually free in the proof. Um, that was sort of for intuition, but we used something in the proof. Yeah. Well, it's Yeah, >> they're conjugates their own powers or something like that, right? Oh, they're conje So the comment was these guys are conjugate to their own powers. Yeah. So that's important but we didn't use that either. So we we in when we proved that every representation of SL2FP is big, we considered these elements and we use the fact that they're conjugate to their own powers. But once we knew abstractly that just used it as a black box. Um, so it's not important that these elements in the statement of cells theorem are the same elements we used in that proof. Yeah. Good. Okay. But well, so one part of the answer is that we used that A uh is a set of generators of SL2Z. Okay, so in the proof where we lifted things to SL2Z, we took this set A, we lifted it to SL2Z, and then we did a random walk on SL2Z. And we needed to know that that thing was kind of evenly distributed. And the only way we could hope for that to be true is if this was a set of generators of SL2Z. >> Yeah. like are there any even straightforward kind of sets of generators of SL2 of FP that would not be generators of SL2 of Z >> right okay so the question is um could it happen that we have generators of SL2FP but they don't generate SL2Z and um the answer is yes that happens fairly commonly um and let me show you an example um Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, here's an example. Uh maybe we won't prove everything, but um let's say that a k a no I used a different letter. A um M is the set of 1 + or minus M 1 0 and 1 + or - M 1 0. Okay, so this is still a set of four elements size of a = 4. And if M is 1 or two, it generates SL2Z. But if M is at least three, it does not generate does not generate SL tubes. On the other hand, for every M, for all almost every P, so for all but finitely many P. Um, this AM generates SL2 of FP. All right. So, why does this happen? All right. So, notice that that this guy is one 011 to the plus or minus m, right? So if if we so we assume that these guys generate SL2Z, it's not that hard to show. Take a word in these guys, it's only included in the group generated by these guys if it has a rather special structure that um you know each each letter is raised to the plus or minus n power. So maybe m is 10. Okay. So now it's clear that most words do not look like that. Um now it's not immediately clear that we don't have the whole group because an element in the group might be represented by many words. Um but we had we mentioned before that there has a finite index subgroup which is free. So there are not that many ways to represent most words. Um so so um so you know this tiny subset of the words we don't expect it to cover very much of the group. Okay. Um, and life is different in SL2FP. And a little later we'll talk about who are the subgroups of SL2FP, but there aren't a whole lot of them. And once you have enough elements that they're not trapped in a subgroup, then they must generate the whole group. Yeah. Okay. Right. So there there are other choices of generators for SL2Z. Any choice of generators would have worked fine in our argument. But it's actually quite common that you have some generators for SL2FP that they and they don't generate SL2C. Okay. In this case, our argument um doesn't work very well. Let's say that GM is the group generated by AM. This group is a lot is a lot harder to understand than SL2Z. So for instance, if you were to give write down a matrix and then you'd like to know is it in GM? Like that's not super easy to figure out. Um SL2Z are all the integer matrices where the entries satisfy the equation A D minus BC equals 1. um whether or not a matrix is in this group does not have a simple criterion like that. As far as I know, the best thing well I I don't know anything faster to do than to take the generators and multiply them together different ways and see if you get this matrix. Yeah. >> How close is GM to gamma M? Like are they have anything in common? Because at first it sort of looks like things congrent to the identity mod, >> right? So GM is a subgroup. So So okay, so the question was how close is GM to gamma M? Remember that gamma M was the subgroup of uh matrices in SL2Z that are congruent to the identity mod M. So these guys are congruent to the identity mod M. So therefore, GM is a subgroup of gamma M. Um however this group has infinite index um in SL2Z for M at least three whereas gamma M had finite index because it was the kernel of a map to a finite group. So, gam gamma m which is not which is already not a super easy thing to understand if m is large. Um uh this is um well okay objectively this is a smaller group than gamma m and subjectively I think it is a harder group to understand than gamma m. Okay. So this whole method has not really worked and in fact it goes in the opposite direction. Um so namely we for for for generators of SL2Z we first understand SL2Z really well and then we can use that to understand SL2FP with those generators. Um with situation like this the there's some progress and it goes first you try to understand SL2FP with those generators and you use that to try to understand G of M. So there's actually a big literature now about these groups G of M and first you try to figure out things about SL2FP with those generators. Okay, so um there is uh okay so so that's one part of the answer to this question and what we said so far is that our proof doesn't usually work for other sets of generators but that's not an answer to the question whether the theorem is true and as far as we know the theorem may well be true so there's a conjecture you take any set of generators of SL2FP you just always have a spectral gap that's not proven yet but there's some significant progress and I'm I will tell you something about >> what's the equivalent uh spectral statement >> what is the equivalent spectral um okay so if you take so I'm not sure if this is your question but let me say something and then okay um so so if we take another set of generators here we have a different operator And we can ask what is sigma 1 and so on. But so I think you were wondering is if we took another set of generators there would that be related to the spectrum of the plashion of something? Is that a question? >> Okay. Um okay so not not as far as I know. Um, and so you so you might say, you know, this theorem is great because it connects to this hyperbolic geometry and it tells us something really interesting estimate for the spectrum of some surface. With other generators, maybe it doesn't exactly do that. Um, but on the other hand, it says some interesting stuff about this group, which is interesting in some other problems. Okay. Um, yeah, let's leave that. All right. Um, all right. So, suppose we're just given any set A inside of SL2FP and we'd like to figure out if there's a spectral gap. One thing that we know could go wrong is that A could be contained in a subgroup. So, if A is contained in H, which is a proper subgroup, then sigma 1 TA is one. All right. So, so that's elementary to see. But in order to really use this, we would actually it helps to know what are all the proper subgroups. Um, so let's talk a little bit about the classification of subgroups of SL2FP. So, um the classification was done by someone named Dixon in 1901. And it's not that hard, but it's not that easy either. Um, and uh, I was a little surprised to learn that if you'd like to classify the subgroups of SLDFP, that was only done, first of all, it's only done approximately and it was only done around the year 2000. So some of these problems actually are are really pretty hard. So done by Dixon in 199. Um, okay. Well, let's think of some subgroups. We could have the diagonal subgroup, which is typically called T for Taurus. There's this guy. We have the upper triangular like unipotent subgroup like that. Um, let me put a little knot here. And we have the more general upper triangular guys which which have Okay. Now if you take a subgroup group group you can conjugate it and you can get another subgroup. So you can conjugate all of these. Okay. And so let me write B that means a conjugate of B 0. Okay. So those are a bunch of subgroups. Those are the only ones that I was able to think of without effort. Um there are a few other sort of small subgroups like for instance the apparently the icosahhedral group appears in SL2FP for some PS. Um and the statement of the classification is a lot easier if we don't say exactly what groups appear but just kind of roughly and ignore small groups. Um so so there's a theorem about this and the rough theorem would say if H in SL2FP is a proper subgroup um then there exists a oral subgroup B one of these guys and um B intersect H is a large fraction of H. So this C bigger than zero is a universal constant. So more or less H is in H is not quite in B, but almost all H has a very large part that's in B. Okay. And B is a conjugate of B 0. And the fine print is conjugate of B 0. um conjugated by not necessarily someone in SL2FP, but maybe the maybe the matrix you conjugate by might involve the algebraic closure. I think it's fine. Okay. Um, now let's make a remark. The analog of this is not true for SL2FQ. Q Q is a prime power. Um, because SL2FP is a subgroup of SL2FQ, but SL2FP is not contained in any like upper triangle or something. Um, so the analogous there's an analogous theorem for SL2FQ, but it needs to be stated in a little bit different way to take account of the sub fields. So this may already start to remind us of something that we've seen that projection theory is different over FP and FQ. Okay. Um okay so now I can state uh the second main theorem that I wanted to say about random walks on groups which is a generalization of Selberg's theorem and it allows to take any set of generators where it's not trapped in a burell subgroup but it requires a little quantification which is perhaps not quite as strong as one might fantasize about. All right. So, um for every epsilon bigger than zero, there are a couple of positive constants. um every P um okay so if I have a subset of SL2FP and the subset is not contained in a burell subgroup and also it doesn't concentrate too much in a burell subgroup so for every B or if I take A intersected with B this is at most um uh p to the minus epsilon size of b and with this small constant. So a smallest sorry size of a so only a smallest fraction of a is in this burell subgroup and it's a p to the epsilon kind of fraction where you you that's a pretty small fraction you might hope to do a little better but anyway that's what it says. Um, and here I wasn't positive if it so I'm when I proved it I needed to say co-et but I'm not sure if it's co-set or subgroup anyway. So if it doesn't concentrate in something closely related to a subgroup um then it expands. So that then it has a mixed sigma 1 of TA is less than 1us. Okay. So up to a little bit of quantification you know if a set if if a is contained in a boral subgroup definitely we won't have a spectral gap and if a is doesn't intersect a burl subgroup too much then we will have a spectral gap. It's almost if and only if although you might hope to improve this a little bit. Okay so this is kind of its own story to talk about. So since we're almost done, let me just make a a couple of highlevel comments about it. Yeah, >> it's a burell subgroup. >> A burell. Yeah. So I don't know why so burell is involved in this. A burell subgroup is these guys. B it's the take an upper triangular matrix that that's a burell subgroup or conjugate that. Okay. So one comment about this theorem is that it you know we had better know this theorem better know something like this. Um and so what the first part of this theorem is to prove that if you don't have a spectral gap then there must be a subset that's kind of approximately a subgroup that intersects a a lot. We don't have a spectral gap. There must be a subject subset that's kind of approximately a subgroup where maybe a convolved with itself many times is heavily concentrated in this approximate subgroup. Okay. And that's a a very nice argument and it uses it turns out to use the tools from additive combinotaurics. It uses like bality gowers and things like that or in a non non-commutative version. Okay. Then the second part of the proof is to say is kind of a robust version of this theorem. This is a classification of actual subgroups. We want to make it a little bit stronger and have a classification of approximate subgroups. Um so not only any actual proper subgroup would have to intersect a burell subgroup a lot but actually any any kind of approximate subgroup. So any subset where when you multiply it by itself two or three times it doesn't get very much bigger. um the only way that can happen is if your um is if your subset heavily intersects a burell subgroup. Okay. Now that second part you'll notice is not true over FP is not sorry is not true over FQ. Um, and so the second part was we'll draw on some product theory and our our like theorems that we worked very hard on that give a projection estimate over F over FP that's not true over FQ. We'll need that. Um, okay. And so I I think this is a nice example of how those, you know, those theorems are only an epsilon improvement on a trivial estimate where epsilon is very small, but it still is meaningful. There's an important difference between epsilon being zero or not zero. And they're used to prove kind of an, you know, this c of epsilon is pretty small. But um um but there's there's a just a really important difference between whether you had zero here, which is like a completely vacuous statement, and whether you had one minus epsilon, which even if epsilon is a small constant, is a qualitatively sharp statement about um about how this random walk mixes. Okay, cool. So we'll talk about more more about those things on on Thursday.