Okay. So, uh first let me look at a curb and plate. Talked a little bit about this last time at the very end. Okay. So, so let's first talk about curves in the plane. So we have uh um we have functions uh f and g on some interval say from a to b uh into r and they are uh I'm assuming that uh f and g are differentiable and uh and that the derivative uh are continuous. Okay. And then I'm thinking about uh so I'm thinking about the curve. So gamma here of s is a curl and it's given by the gamma of s is f of s comma g of s and I want to look at the length of this curve right so s here is running in the interval from a to b and so the length and this is the definition of the length But then we will justify it. So the length of gamma um so L is equal to the integral from A to B of square root of F prime of S squared plus G prime of S squar DS. Okay. Now why is this the case? So so why do we why is this a sensible definition? So suppose that this thing here is f of a comma g of a. So this is the starting point of the curve and suppose that the curve looks like this. So here is here's the end point. And now imagine that you take the interval from A to B and you partition it into a lot of small. So so you have this partition of this interval and then you're looking at so so again so we have the curve here. This is maybe x i minus one. And here I have x i and under the the map gamma this little interval here is mapped maybe into this piece of the curve. Right? Now this piece of the curve I will then approximate it by the line segment from here to here. Right? So if you do that then it means that you are looking at so you have that you're looking at right? So you have that. So here you have x i minus one. Here you have x i and you're looking at the curve on this little uh uh interval. And so and there the curve goes from so the initial point is is this right? That's the image of that point. And the image of this is gamma of Xi, right? And so the line segment from here to here, right? So this is so the length of this line segment if you have this point here. So this is gamma of x i minus one and this is gamma of x i. Then the length here is the this the vector here. So gamma of x i minus gamma of x i -1 the length of this. But this thing here is right. This is the end point is this. Sorry. Yeah. And the beginning point is this. So this here. So it's the length of this. But the length of this by pyagoras is um is the square of the coordinates and then taking the square root of that. So this is what the length of this of the line segment here is. Right? And now, but now like the mean value theorem tells you that this thing here is essentially the derivative at some point in between these two, right? It's it's there's the it actually is equal to if you will uh the derivative at some intermediate point um times times the length of that little interval right this is this different here and likewise so this is u x like this some intermediate point and likewise for this there's some intermediate point times the length here. So this means that this little line segment here the length of this little line segment um is equal to and you see that when you take this thing here and you square it then you can factor out. So let me just write it out. So you take this thing here. So it's f prime like this squared delta xi squar plus and then g prime squar delta x i squ. Okay. But now you can factor this out. So you can write this as square root of uh delta xi squared and then frime like this squared plus g prime in this intermediate point squared right and this factor out both of them. And so now you can just take when you take the square root it actually goes out as the this is anyway positive. So it comes becomes like this. And now the functions g prime and fprime are both continuous. So this thing here is like roughly what it is at one of the end point right. So this here is like roughly equal to right like this and then it's like one end point or you can even take like the Yeah. So it's like an end point. And so you see that this thing here. Now when you sum up when you sum up all of these over this partition and you let the partition the the the delta xi goes to zero, then this here is going to converge to the integral from a to b of the uh square root of frime of s squared plus G prime of S squ D S right so so that's why so you take this little curve it's parameterized or you take the curve parameterized by a to b you're looking at this uh at at a partition and then on each of these little intervals you approximate the curve by the by the line segment And then you let the as you let this refinement uh the length of these individual interval goes to zero then actually this approximation will have a limit and that limit is this integral right. So that's why we define it to be the arc length. Okay. So that's our arc length. And so let's look at an example of this. So we look at two examples. Let me first look at case where f of s is equal to s and uh g of s uh is equal to uh s squared. Then I have that. So then the curve is uh so the curve gamma of s is is s comma s 2 and uh frime of s is equal to 1 and g prime of s is equal to 2 s and so this means that um and let's say that it's parameterized s here from 0 to one. So then the length here of this curve is the integral from 0 to 1 and then square root and then you have to take this thing here squared. So that's one plus this here 2 s squared ds. So this is and is this integral here 1 + 4². So that's the arc length. just given us this integral. The second example I want to look at um about for aren uh is uh if you you have the unit circle. So suppose that you have the unit circle. So here you have one. So this is supposed to be the unit circle. So it's x^2 + y^2 = 1. It's a unit circle centered at the origin. Okay. Now this means that um that if you take a point right then um then y here is so this here means that y is given in terms of x with that y^2 is equal to 1 - x^2 and so if you're assuming that you are in this upper where y is positive so if if uh y here is positive positive then you're looking at y = of 1 - x square. So in this part here where y is positive you have that you have the curve uh this part here of the this part here of the unit circle this one here is given by the parameization gamma of s equal to uh s and then square root of 1 - s² right and s here is Now running uh right s is the first coordinates so it's between minus1 and one so s here it's between minus one and one okay now suppose that you take some x here and suppose that you want to look at what is the arc length of this part of the circle right Well then uh in this case if you're looking at the arc length of this part of the circle let's call that arc length uh teta theta um so theta here is equal to this part it's now par metricized like this but x here is so this here is this length of gamma. But now gamma by now s here is running from x to one right because x is the first coordinate and it's running from the first coordinate is running from x from this point right this here to to one right and so now let's try to calculate this length or at least write it up as an integral So if we write it up as an integral um we have that so in this case so gamma s is equal to s square of 1 - s² and so if we define f of s = s and g of s= to square of 1 - s² then we take f prime well that's equal to one and uh g prime right so there we use the chain rule so this is equal to 1 / 2 square of 1 - s^2 and then we have to take the derivative of this also so this is times -2 uh s like that right and so this here is of course then equal to the two cancels and you're getting - s over of 1 - s 2. Okay. And so now if you're looking at so f prime squar + g prime squared this is equal to f is one. So this is one plus this thing here squared. So this is s^ squ and then the denominator squared is just of course 1 - s squ and we can now put it on a common uh with a common denominator right and so you see that this is 1 - s^ 2 1 - s^ 2 that's how you write 1 and then plus s 2 1 - s 2 and so you see that This whole thing is the s squ cancel in the denominator and so you're getting 1 over 1 - s^2 right and so this means that the integral so this means that the integral so this length here um and the length uh is so actually uh we call the length theta and uh it will be clear in a minute why I do this. So the length here is then the integral from x to one right and then it is uh of the square root right so it's supposed to be the square root of this thing here so it's the square root so if you will is one square root of 1 - s^2 ds Right? So that's the length, right? But if you think about it, so you have here the unit circle again. What we now calculated was that we take some x here and then we calculated the length of this piece here, right? Well, that piece is um this here is also the this is how you define this is if you will this is the angle, right? So theta is the angle, right? And um and so you see that so theta here is the angle and x here x here is so and and and this point here sorry this point here is uh is cosine to the angle comma sign to the angle right that's piece so this means that X is X is actually cosine to the angle. Okay. So, so this means that that uh theta here in terms of X uh theta is the inverse function. So it's what's called arc uh co cosine 2x right. So this arc cosine it means that it's the inverse function. If you take the inverse function on both sides of this right then um so if you take the inverse function so arc cosine so you get r cosine to x on this side this side you're getting arc cosine and then cosine to theta but these two functions together gives you the identity so this is to theta Okay. So, so in other words, in other words, what you have is that arc cosine to x is given as the integral from x to 1 / of 1 - s^2 ds. So you have this formula here which is not so so surprising but anyway you can get it from this and so now you can get it. So now the fundamental theorem of calculus. So by the fundamental theorem of calculus of calculus then you have that. So if you have a function that is given like a integral like this then this thing here is the derivative right the one thing you that's what the fundamental theorem calculus say except you got to be a little bit careful because this is if the variable is up here but now it's down here because it's down here the derivative is minus this okay let me explain that so you get from the from the fundamental theorem of calculus. The derivative of this function I claim is minus this thing here. Okay. And then this should be evaluated at x. This is the r cosine at x is equal to like that. Okay. So now let's just see that. So why is this the case? So you take So remember that if you have a function f ofx and this is given as you're integrating from some x some a to some x a is fixed and then you're integrating of a function like this right assuming that the function is nice etc. Do we then we have that the fundamental theorem of calculus fundamental theorem of calculus the derivative of this function is little f right but suppose I now switch so now suppose I now look so I don't look at this but I look at at suppose that g of x is the integral from X to A X to let's call it X to B just because we usually have the end point as the the the the the last point as B. So suppose that the function is like this what is the derivative right? So but but this is just the fundamental theorem of but you know that's one of the rules we had with writing the integral is we can write this one here as so here I'm thinking about that the function little f is defined on some integral from a to b and I can rewrite this thing here in this form here because I can just think about this thing here as the integral from a to b of f of s right so sorry let me let me write it over here so so I'm just making the trivial observation that we have that so if we have a function into r and we have some x that lie between a and b. Then we proved that the integral from a to b of f this thing here is equal to the integral from a to x plus the integral from uh x to b. Right? That was one of the rules that if you if you take this if you have like a dividing point in this interval then you could integrate over the first half and then in add integral of the second half. But this thing here just tells you that this thing here you can rewrite as this minus that. So you have that the integral from x to b f of s d s is equal to the integral from a to b f of s d s minus the integral from uh from uh a to x f of s ds right and so a and b are fixed and when you think about this thing here as a function function of x then it's equal to this is just a constant and then minus this. So when you take the derivative of this, this is a constant. So this derivative is zero. The derivative of this, well that is straight the fundamental thermal calculus. And because of this sign, you get minus little f, right? And so that's what I applied over here that if it is of this form here then the derivative of this function is minus little f. Okay. Okay. So this was this is so right. So this is how the angle is defined if you will right. The angle is defined as the length arc length of the curve, right? And we can calculate it using this formula here. And we're getting a nice uh uh nice uh I mean we get you know we know what the this arc cosine we know actually what the derivative is just from this arc length and the fundamental calculus. The next thing I want to talk about is I want to talk about uh pointwise and uniform convergence of functions. So you have a sequence of functions. You have a sequence of functions fn. So suppose you have you have some interval I and you have a sequence of functions fn and you have a function uh another function f also on this interval. Then we say so this is the definition. We say that the sequence here converts to f pointwise if for all x fixed. If you're looking at this, so x here, think about x as x as being x could be anything, but it is fixed. And then you're looking at this sequence here, right? So this is a sequence of real numbers because x is fixed. Then you want this thing here to converge to f of x. Yeah. >> Sorry, I had a quick question about the last thing. So how do you know that the integral of a to bs is zero? So no uh so so um so the thing is that what we're looking at here so I was asking so um so this here is uh so if you have a function capital f that's given like this the fundamental the calculus gives you what the derivative is so I'm just asking suppose that the function that the variable was not up here but it was down here what is the derivative and so in order to figure out that derivative I'm just using that so that if I was integrating over the whole interval a and b are fixed right so this is just some number whatever it is it but it's probably not zero right I mean general wouldn't be zero but it's just some constant right and so for each x you get the same constant here and and it's equal to this plus that. And so, but this is what we're interested in. So, I'm just moving this one over on the other side. So, I get this thing here. But remember, this here is a constant. So, when you take the derivative, it's zero, right? And so, >> okay. So, >> if you were to set a goes to zero and then you can get like But that's but if uh right so but if you if if if you if B is equal to A if B is equal to A uh yeah I mean but it's not I mean so then this interval is just a trivial interval right >> right but doesn't allow you to get identity there >> right but but the thing is so the reason why so why did I want to do it yes but it's like H but but but but it's it's kind of using something implicitly. You see what I mean? I'm assuming that X is between A and B because when we took this interval, you know, if X is not between A and B, we had to figure out what the hell do we mean by this sort of integral, right? Anyway, and so yes, it it works even if you re you know if even if you have the ordering differently but you just have to all I want to point out here is that if it is downstairs and not upstairs you have to you know just remember the sign. Okay. Okay. So this here so so again so I have a sequence of functions on the interval I have another function on the same interval and I uh we say that this sequence is converging pointwise to f if for all x fixed when we're looking at this sequence it converts to that right and so let me look at two examples of that Um so the first one is so the first example I want to look at this is where the functions fn of x is equal to uh x to the n and uh and x here is between zero and one. And so this is my fn and my f uh my my function f which is now of course also a function on this interval. This is equal to zero if um x is uh bigger equal to zero but strictly less than one and is one if x is equal to one. So of course this function f is not continuous. The other ones are continuous. Now I claim that that this sequence so the sequence fn is converging pointwise to f. So fn converts to f pointw right because if you take if you fix if you fix x let's say fix x and let's assume uh and uh assume that that that it's between sorry it's between zero it's strictly less than one right so you're fixing x and let's first deal with a case where that x is strictly less than one well if I'm looking at x to the n so I take some small number by small just means that it's strictly less than one and I multiply it by itself n time well that certainly goes to zero right if the if X here is fixed but it's now one then X to the N. If X is one then this here is still one. Right? So you see that in this case so this here is f to the n of X and this here is F of X. So these things here I mean they're actually equal to this. So in particular they converge right? And this here is what f of x is. And this here is again fn of x. Right? So you have that this sequence of functions converge to this slightly crazy function. Um right. Okay. So that's the first example. They converge pointwise. The next example I want to look at is um so the next example is where uh the functions uh are you just summing here you're summing you just take the power series for for the exponential function. So you take your summing where k is equal to 1 to n and that's my fn of x and then my f of x is the infinite sum which is the exponential function and we have already proved that if you fix x right so we fix x then this fn here of x converts to f of x point you know for each fixed x for each fixed x right so so this sequence of functions pointwise converge to the exponential function now so this is one notion of convergence for functions and there's another notion that is also useful. They're both useful. Uh the other one is stronger. And so, of course, if you have the stronger version, you often get something much better. Oh, I shouldn't have erased this, but anyway. So, uh and so the second the second notion is uh so this is is is a notion of uniform convergence. uniform is is means that it's that it's uniform in x. So, so we what we have here is we have a sequence of functions and f defined on some interval into R and then we say that this sequence here converts to f uniformly. If for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a capital n. So that if little n is bigger than this capital n then f of x minus f n of x is smaller than epsilon for all x. And again right the uniformness is that it holds for all x right you can use the same capital n for all x and so now uh now what you have is that if a sequence converge uniformly then it converge pointwise. So we have the following lema that follows directly from the from the definition. So lema. So a uniform convergence of fn to f uh implies point polarwise convergence. of fn of fn to f to to f okay so uniform convergence imply pointwise convergence and that's that's clear that's really just the definition if I had written out what it means for so this here I've written out what it means to have uniform convergence. If it was pointwise convergence, right? Then you have these functions again and you have that this converts to that pointwise. It means that the sequence fn so so once you fix x then the sequence fn of x right. So once so once x is fixed then these here converge to this. But saying that this sequence here converge means that for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a n but this n is now allowed to depend on x. So that if little n is bigger than this capital n then f n of x minus f ofx is smaller than epsilon. Right? So you see that clearly uniform convergence implies pointwise and again uniform just means that this capital n can be chosen to be the same for all x. Right? Okay. So now let's look at the examples. Unfortunately, I raised like the most important one. Uh so I'll just go through it again. Let me just talk about the example again and then we'll see why this um this example here does not. So we had this example from before where the sequence of functions uh was x to the n and x here was between zero and one and then we had this function f that was this function that was not continuous but this function was given to be equal to zero if x here strictly less one and it was one if x is equal to one right that was this function f and we know we already shown that the fn converts to f pointw wise but we want to see now so that this so I claim that fn does not converge so This does not converge uniformly to F. We know already that it converge pointwise and I claim that that this sequence does not converge uniformly. Okay. So now why is this the case? Well, this is because you see by the intermediate value theorem the functions Fn are continuous at zero they take the value of zero at one they take the value one so for each n by the intermediate value theorem um uh for each since since each uh fn is continuous then there exist there exist a x n but it really will depend on n so that f n of xn n will take the value 1/2 right so the functions here this is the functions oops this is the functions this is the function fn it takes at zero it takes a value of zero at one it takes a value one so there is somewhere where where a half is achieved and this is at this exit Right? So you have that and again this xn is depending on n and the thing is that as n get large this point will have to move very close to one. Okay. But if you're now looking at f(n) uh of x minus f ofx right so we want to we if it was converging uniformly it would mean that this difference here would be smaller than some epsilon for all x right but if you're just looking at this point Here this difference here is this point here xn will lie strictly xn here will lie this is where this value here is a half it's not one so it's lie be strictly between zero and one right so you see that for each n this function f at xn this will always be zero. This is because the function f is zero except at one and this point is definitely not one. Right? So you have that. So you have you see that this thing here this is this here is zero. So this is just the value of this the absolute value but that's actually a half. So this is always a half. Right? So the function would converge uniformly as long as that if you right. So uniform convergence would mean so uniform convergence. So, so now let's show So let's prove that FN does not converge uniformly to F. Right? And so I just pick my epsilon So I pick a epsilon less than half, right? And then if it was converging and and suppose and suppose not i.e. That is fn converts to f uniformly. This means that for all epsilon but I just use this epsilon. Yeah, I just take use this one epsilon. But then I would have that there exist capital n so that um so that I mean I can even take it to to be equal to a half. So there exist capital n so that such that if little n is bigger than capital n then this thing here minus f of x would have to be less than strictly less than a half for all x. Right? If it was converging uniformly then in particular for this one choice of of epsilon you would have this for all x but we already know that if we looking at now depending on what this is but that's fine you know if you insert x= to xn then this is actually equal to a half right so this is this here does not hold this is the contradiction Okay. Now, uh in the other example that we looked at before, um in the other example, uh we have that um in the other example which is this example here. uh this sequence here is converging and I'll return to this in in a minute uh that so in this case the these here converge to f uniformly on each uh interval on each bounded interval. So in each interval of the form minus L to L. So on each bounded interval. Okay. And we will talk about this more in just a second. Um okay. Um and right because this is uh this is this is uh this is the contact uh uh content of the uh what's called bas test. So this hold more generally that if you take a sequence so you see bias M test. So, so in bio stress end test you have a sequence of functions fn and you have that this sequence. So fn sorry is functions on some interval into r And then you have that the fn uh is are bounded by some some constant mn and then you have that the mn. So these are clearly non- negative numbers and you have that this that this series here this here is um is uh is is finite right so this is a series of non- negative numbers so to say that it's that this series is summable is the same as saying that it's finite and now the claim is so then bias M testers. so this is that if this is the case then this sequence converts to some f uniformly. Okay. So that's why M test. >> Yep. Oh yeah. So this here so this here means this here just means that fn of x is lesser equal to m for all x. Yeah, that's a kind of you know quite common used. Okay. Uh so let's try to prove that. So we are looking at so suppose we look at suppose we define sn of x. So this is just when you're summing from k = z to n of fk of x. Suppose you're looking at this and we want to prove so want to show yeah sorry about that this is not what we want to prove. Sorry this is uh sorry I should have said yeah this it's not these functions that converge it's a sum of them. So what I want to prove is that I want to prove that this thing here as k equal to zero to n that this function here converge uniform. Okay? Right? So think about it. You want this to kind of probably apply to a to to some power series. Right? And so the individual uh fk is like this polomial it is you right it's some of some degree okay so so we define this function sn and I want to prove that this sn and then converge and and and and and if It's okay. I said it's better to call this something else than little f to call it s, right? Because it's not these guys that converge. It's a sum of them that converge, right? So we want to show that these guys here, the sn converts to this s uniform. Right? That's what we want. Now let's look at the difference between Sn of X and SM of X. And so here I'm going to think about N as being larger than M. Suppose I'm thinking about this thing here. Well, this here is when you're summing the first I guess we're starting at k equal to zero. So then we're summing the first m + one, right, of those guys here. We're summing more. We're summing those guys, but then we're also summing some some more, right? And so this thing here, so the the let me just write it out. So k = to zero to n of f uh k of x and the second one is when we're summing right n is bigger than m. So here we are actually summing fewer and so of course the differences between these two are how many more of these guys are there than those guys. So this is summing absolute value where we're summing from k = m + 1 up to n of fk of x. Right? So that's what it it's equal to. And we didn't even have to have absolute value, but in a minute it's useful to have absolute value because now of course this sum here is less than than the sum of the absolute values. k = m + one to n and then we take the absolute value in under the summation sign like this right but now we can use our condition here so this thing here is less or equal to the sum here from k = m + one up to n of m k Okay. But but those guys, right? This is just a sequence of real numbers, right? This is not a function. It's just real numbers and they converge. So this means that that so this means that given this means that you have that you can make this saying here as small as you want as long as m is sufficiently large. Right? So so given So given epsilon greater than zero there exist a capital n such that if m here is bigger than capital n then the sum here of the tail this thing here up to anything else, right? Right. Uh is of this MK that this is less than epsilon, right? And so you see that this really say that the so this implies that the Sn for each X for each X if you can think about this thing here as a sequence, right? And so you have that that now this sequence here is a cushy sequence, right? For each x this is a cushy sequence. So this means that these sn of x they will actually converge to something and that's something I call s of x. So that gives you a function s of x but it gives you more because you see it's uh right it actually show you something about because this inequality here that this difference here is less than that that hold for all x right so this means that this means that as you're sending that you have right. So now let n go to infinity. If you take this inequality here. So you have we have this inequality sn of x minus sn of x is less or equal to the sum here k = m + one to n of mk. So we have this inequality and we have in fact you can write it as if you're summing over the entire tail right and so now this side of it this side does not depend on little n right this here hold as long as all here we required was that this here was bigger than that and so as n go to infinity. You have that s of x minus s m of x will have to be less or equal to this sum. And the key point here is for this for this size m test is that this here holds for all this inequality holds for all x. Right? You see the little n is gone. there's only this capital N uh this sorry the the M right and so now we again we can so if you as long as you choose some n sufficiently large then if little m is bigger equal to this n then you can make this sum here that have no reference to x you can make this less than epsilon right so this here is less than epsilon And you have this inequality for all x. So you have this one here less than this for all x. And that's exactly uniform convergence. Yeah. >> Um where did we get the first um like when we said that the sum of these k are less than ep. >> Yeah. >> Where did that? >> Okay. So the the the right so let let me just let me just um I I'll get to this in just a second but let me just say what is the strategy here so you have so we have this sequence uh maybe I erased the statement unfortunat So we have this sequence of functions on an interval and you had that this function here was bounded like this and then you had that these these are just real numbers and you had that these real numbers here was summable. So these are non- negative real numbers of course right and so then and I claim so the claim is that these that the sum here of these guys these here I claim that these guys here converge uniformly to some function s of x. The first step is to say that they actually that there exist some function s and they converge to that function pointwise. Right? In order to prove that I proved that this se this the this these these sums here for each fixed x is a cushy sequence. Right? Once there sequence for each fix x then they will be convergent and the limits I now defined to be s of x right. So that gives me a function and then the thing is that I have to upgrade this convergence which initially is pointwise to uniform convergence. Okay. And so now you were asking so now >> like why did so we got the sum of MKs but then >> where did we like how do we >> that's fine and so now so so this here was just very general and it just used this inequality that's all it used right now I'm using that these guys are summable so this means that if I'm starting this summation sufficiently far out then I can make it less than a given epsilon. >> Oh it's like >> because it's just like that these are non- negative number and that they are summable just means that if I go out really really far then from there on and out it makes very little contribution to the total sum. Okay. Okay. So uh right so right and so right so so you see like the first thing is for each fix x I prove that these sn of x is a cruise sequence that then allow me to define a function uh s of x and I get that the sequence sn of x is converging the sequence function is converging pointwise and then again Then once I have that then I need to upgrade it to be uniform convergence and that's what we did. Yes. >> Okay. Um okay. So now let's try to uh apply this. >> Uh yeah. >> So what if the MKS are a kind of converging sequence that >> but in like the small side the zero side is on a low index. So then like as I go further out, >> it's getting bigger. >> Um >> can can we look at an example and see if it become clear? Um so let's look at a sort of um let's look at an example. Let's look at it very yeah let's look at at an example. So in fact let's look at the function the example we just looked at but we said that it followed from stress M test. So what was the example I just looked at? So I take a function fn of x this is now x to the to the n divided by n factorial. Okay. Now I define uh sn of x. So this is now the sum from k= to0 to n of this fn of x f k k of x sorry. So this means that this thing here is the sum from k =0 to n of x k over k factorial. Okay. And I want to show that this. So want to show that this Sn of X converge to the exponential function uh uniformly on on an interval of this form. So L is some fixed number and I'm looking between minus L to L. Right? And I claim that they converge. Okay? Now let's try to apply Bas M test. Right? And so what are the MN? The MN in this case the natural one is N to the power N* N factorial. Okay. If I'm looking at those numbers, these are just these are non- negative numbers, right? And we already know that this sequence of non- negative numbers is summable that these non- negative numbers like this that they are summable, right? And so then and suppose now I have suppose now I take this f uh n of x. So this is this function x ^ n over n factorial. x here remember is in this bounded interval. Well, let's look at fn of x. So this is x n / n factorial. But this thing here, so this is just x to the power n factorial. This is right. It's lying in here. So it's it's the absolute value is bound by L. So this is L n / N factorial. Right? So I have that this sequence is less than these m MN right and so now bias stress but it is it we restrict to this interval here and so now based M test tell you that that this that the sum here when you're summing from K to zero to N X K over K factorial that these actually converge to the limit uniformly on but remember we we are restricting. So and the limit here we already have defined the limit to be the exponential function. Okay. Does that is that clear or not? Uh does it answer it or not really? I'm not sure. >> Okay. >> So I guess my question was y >> is is it that mn must be a convergent like series like >> Yeah. So mn that's right. So mn m uh you know in this example or in the general example it's it's it's you know so why so why is the mn so much easier to determine because they are just numbers they are just non- negative numbers and you're just asking if the series of non- negative numbers is not function it's non- negative numbers if that's convergent or not right and so since they're non are negative, it just means that the sum is finite, right? And so that's that's much easier to to determine. Okay, right. So now we can do this sort of same argument more generally. So this lead us to the following that suppose you take a power series. So suppose you take a power series. So you summing here n = 0 to infinity a n xn. This is a power series right? So power series remember that a power series is where you're taking a sequence of fun of numbers real numbers and you think about these as coefficients in this polinomial and then you're summing o over them right but it's like you know the it's the a n is the coefficient to x to x to the power n okay so this is a power series and a power series again means so like you think about it as a series because like for each X it's like a regular series right but then it's like the value of that you get depends on X right and so for this we define the radius of convergence and let me remind you how this radius of convergence was defined you take the AM and you take the absolute value of it and then you take the n root of that and then you're looking at lean soup as n goes to infinity right that gives you some number that number potentially it could be infinity it's always non negative but and it will always give you a number it could be zero it could be infinity and It could be anything in between. And then the radius of convergence of convergence of the power series is um so this is what I write by r and this is one m and where where there's this convention in this case usually you you know don't let divide by zero or infinity but in this case if m here is zero this means that the radius of convergence is infinite if m is uh is uh is infinite then it means that the radius convergence is zero and now this sort of slightly surprising fact but we proved this but I'm just reminding about it that that the the thing is that that the power series is convergent. So here you have zero is inside. If this has the if this here is r it's convergent inside here and it's divergent outside but it's not completely clear what happened on the boundary. Right? So you have to check the boundary uh uh you know in you know separately and that that depends on the power you know there's no general formula for that. Okay. So now the theorem here is that so the theorem is like this and this is just generalizing this example that we just did and the theorem is the following that if you take a power series. So if you have a power series and um and R is the radius of convergence and uh L here is strictly less. It has to be strictly less than than the radius of convergence. Then um then these functions here k= to zero to n a n a k sorry x k that these functions here converge to uh to this to the limit uh uniformly on on this interval here from minus L to L. But remember that L had to be strictly less than the radius of convergence. Okay. And so so this is like extremely useful like if you have um and and and it will be clear next time why it's useful because if you have uniform convergence then it becomes very easy to if you have uniform convergence then you can argue about if you want to take the derivative of integrating this thing over here. If you have uniform convergence then it will say that it's then a lot of operations we'll be more precise about that next time but a lot of operation like integration and differentiation you can do that over here and then go to the limit. So instead of you know if you were to integrate this thing here right so just say that but this seems maybe very very hard but the thing is if you can integrate here then you can just use the usual sum the usual formula for the sum that you it's just a sum of the integral and likewise for differentiation okay and so uh okay maybe I will just uh uh yeah maybe to stop here. I wrote out the but the proof in the notes. Uh I already posted the notes the lecture notes. Are there any questions? Okay, great.