So um right so to one of the things I want to focus on today and we'll get to this in just a minute is uh how to write a proof. So this is going to be uh how to write uh a mathematical proof. So how how do you write a proof as opposed to you know how do you think about uh why something should be true, right? And so this is like one of the important topics for this uh course. So uh you know overall I mean there's a lot of uh important concepts that we will talk about right but some of the general things that we learn is how to prove something but also how to write a proper mathematical proof right and those things are a little bit different and we'll talk about this in a minute. Uh I also want to say that so on the course information the last page of the course several people were asking about this on the last page of course animation there is uh there is right so there's a notes there's a notes for the class that I write uh and I typically I try to write them in advance a couple of days in advance and then I try to go over it the day uh also to make sure to find tbooks and things like that. So that is more readable. Uh so if I were you, I would first read the lecture notes that I post after the lectures. Uh and then there's also on the last page of the course information there is uh and I try to do this in advance but it's a little bit difficult to do it in advance. So uh it say the the date and it say the material some keywords from the lecture uh on that date. So I over the weekend I posted for the two lectures for this week but then I go back I will try to go back. So I actually went back this morning and changed some of it from the second lecture so that it fits more and I think I will only uh I give references there to the book but and initially I was thinking giving both references to Ruden and to the main textbook. I think it's probably just uh maybe it's I mean I think it's probably smarter just to give it from the main textbook. Okay. But I and uh Rudin is a great book um you know this was a book uh that was that was um that was created here long time ago and it it is like a classic in the subject. It's a great book. It's more formal than the other book. So the other book is a little bit more accessible. Uh, and so that's why we're using that. But but actually Rudin is a fantastic book. If if it was just myself, uh, I would just I think Ruden is hard to beat. But but but the other one is is more accessible and so it might actually be better the first time you learn it. And but so I think from here on out, so I deleted the references I had to root in. I think I would just give references to the main textbook uh and and but but you know I certainly encourage you to look at root and also I also encourage you to look at chapters that we will skip uh but there's also things that that we initially skip and then we come back to but but again you know you should and it's like the when I list the things that we will cover in the lecture in advance it's only sort of approximation right so um once I write lecture it might be slightly different okay so um so we had uh so last time we talked about the theorem we didn't prove it that the real is a complete uh order field, right? And so in particular, it was an order set uh that was uh also a field and it was complete, right? And so again, complete meant so if you had a subset a here, which was a subset of of R, then uh A is bounded. It's bounded from above. Uh if there exist uh m in uh r such that for all uh a in a a here is less equal to m. So, and then if that's the case, then we say that and M here is set to be uh an upper bound. Likewise, might likewise uh if um if a here is a subset of r uh uh then we say that that uh a is bounded from below. If there exist uh little m in in R such that uh m here is less than a for all Okay. Okay. So, this is upper and lower bounds. Okay. And several people ask on on Piaza they ask um you know they were a little unclear about um you know where does this M capital M where does this have to be in what set does it have to be? And likewise for this little M, right? And so let me try to give you some example and I try to do that on P, but let me just uh just because several people were asking about it, let me just say again. So that this capital M when you have it like this, this capital M does not need to be in the set, right? A is bounded. So here's an example. If you're looking at the set 0 one. So this is the interval. This is the interval but it does not contain zero and it does not contain one but it contain everything in between zero and one. This one here is bounded. So this if this here is a and we think about a here as a subset of r then a is bounded and so one usually say it's bounded if it's it's it's both from above and below. All right. So if one just say that it's bounded then one means that it's bound from above and below it's bounded and uh right and so because like bounded from above about because you can just you have that if x here is in this interval then of course x is lesser or equal to one right in fact it's strictly less than one Right? But you see this set here, there is no element in the set that is an upper bound for this set, right? The upper bound is outside the set, but it is an all of our and that's that's fine, right? An upper bound uh is will typically just be in a larger set. And the same with uh with with lower bound. Now these this kind everything on this board except this theorem but you know this in terms of ordered sets right has nothing to do you know it's just much more general than R. So if you take if S here is an ordered set and A here is a subset it's a subset. So it's a ordered set. So so it it's a set with an ordering. And if a here is a subset of s then again we can say that uh a is bounded from above. If um if uh there exist m again m does not have to be an a but it can be just in the larger set so that such that for all a in a it's lesser equal to m Right? So this is just this is like the definition in general being bounded above if you have a order set and you have a subset. Right? And now just to illustrate it. So typically we're going to think about where the set is with a usual ordering and you have a subset of it and you talk about whether it's bounded from above or below. But of course, you could also do it in in a more general setting like this, right? And so here's an example that if you look at which maybe is counterintuitive, but if you take if s here is is the half line. So it's it's all the real numbers between uh say zero and infinity. Um and um and then uh you would have a here is a subset zero to one. Right? Now a here and the ordering. So this is this is of course a subset of r but you should forget about r. I mean you know you know the ordering from r but forget about it because this is now what you think about the set s right? And so if you're looking at A as a subset of this then A here A is bounded from above. Right? Why? This is just because for all a in in a you have that A here is strictly less than one. So one here is an upper bound for A. Right? But now think about does this set here has a lower bound, right? Well, a lower bound have to be inside this set S, right? Because we're thinking about this here as a subset of this ordered set. We don't think about it as a subset of the real line. But if you think about it as a subset of this set here, then there is no lower bound, right? because zero is not in this set and no negative numbers in this set. So this here so and this seems maybe a little bit counterintuitive but a is not is not bounded from below as a subset of of s. Obviously it is bounded from below if you were thinking about it as a subset of real real line. But if you think about it as a subset of S, it's not bounded from below. Okay. So another person was asking the infinite and minus infinity those are not uh real numbers. Okay. >> Yeah. try. >> Uh uh if it's not directly stated that if that it's not directly stated that there's a set S uh and then it has to be a subset of that set, right? then it would be assumed that is a yeah a of course you welcome to to ask on pat is you know I don't have the homework here but but but I would say that you're safe if it's if it's not stated directly what the larger set is then you can assume it's are because we're going to concentrate mostly on our this is another distinction between Ruden and and this book that is the main textbook ruden is more abstract than the main textbook we are using in particular. Um you know the this the main textbook here and I'll do the same in my lectures is that a lot of things are motivated from R and then you abstract afterwards. So whereas ruden starts with abstraction and then it specializes to R and and of course there's you know there's an argument for maybe starting with a familiar and then abstract instead of doing the other way around. Okay so right and so for a whether it's just a order set I mean just in general so so remember that completeness So completeness. So this is when you have a order set. So if you have a order set and a here is a subset uh of s that is bounded from above from above. uh then if this if it is complete if S is complete. So if S is complete then any subset that is bounded from above uh has a has a least upper bound. Then uh then a has a list upper bound. Okay. And that least upper bounds is denoted by the soup of a. Right? So, so this thing here it has the property that uh that a is lesser equal to m for all uh a in a and also if m_1 is another upper bound upper bound for a then uh m is less or equal to m. So that's a least ups and the same thing is so similarly when we have a order set and we have a set if it's complete and if we have uh if uh a here is bound from below Boom. Then uh then uh infair of A is the least up is the the largest the greatest uh lower bound for A right. So this again means that this number here little M. So M here is lesser equal to A for all A in A. And if M1 here is another lower bound. then uh m1 here is less or equal to m. So this is the symmetric property. And so again r the reals uh is complete. So whenever you take a bounded subset of the real so if it's bounded that means that it's bounded from above and below then it has a least upper bound and a greatest lower bound. Okay. And those are are denoted by soup and if right and and in general soup and in are not in the set itself in the set a right I mean they could be but in general they wouldn't be. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> That's as right. Uh so uh no so so if you're looking at this set here right so suppose that this here is is the set um uh s then and if you take a here is a subset of s and a here is bounded from let's say that a there is bounded from below, right? If it's bounded from below, you know, then it couldn't be this set here. This here is not bounded from below, right? So, it sort of means that if it's bounded from below, then a here could not have numbers that was approaching zero. Right? And so actually if it is bounded from below, if it's a subset of this and it's bounded from below, then actually it would have a least lower bound lower bound, right? You should mean so it is it is I mean I'm not going to prove anything is complete or not complete but but it's pretty convincing that it is actually complete. Um in this sense there's an other sense that is not complete but but anyway in this sense it is complete. Yeah. No it's it's it's a little bit uh it can be confusing. Later on we'll talk about maybe some other notion of completeness and then it's not complete but but this notion it is complete. Okay. So, so um the the the next thing I want to get to is this with how to write a mathematical proof. Okay. And so and and again I mean that's a super important thing to learn in this class. Uh and and it's not just a it's not just a a formal thing. Uh I mean, you know, it Yeah. I mean, it may seem like a formal thing, you know, why bother with that? Uh uh but it's really really useful and the more complicated things become, the more useful it is. And so um so I want to illustrate this with how to write a mathematical proof. So I going going to illustrate this. So, so we will illustrate it by by uh proving again by by by uh by writing a a formal proof of time square root of two is a real number. So I want to write a AI want to you know so last time we talked about that square root of two was a real number and but that what we when we proved it it was more like we talked about the idea and so and so then the question is so if you have like you imagine you have a piece of scrap paper what we did last time was what you would be writing on the scrap paper. So I want to talk about you know if you were handing it in or showing it to something somebody then you wouldn't do that uh you would do what we do now and but it doesn't necessarily make for a great a formal proof doesn't necessarily make for a great lecture because it's kind of formal. So, so, so let me try to explain how you should should write this. And again, this is a very simple example. Um, but hopefully it will give you an idea of what to do. And again, this is a really important part of this class that you know you you're bound to use in many other classes later on. Okay. So let's first talk about what was square root of two. So square root of two this here was a number and it was given by that it has a property that it's positive and when you square it then you get two right that was what square root of two was. Now um so we again so we want to prove so this is the theorem. So theorem square root of two is a real number. So I know maybe I should write it more formally. there exist alpha greater than zero. Uh there's alpha in r with alpha greater than zero and alpha squared is equal to two. Okay. Now we look at the set uh A. The set A is the numbers uh the it's the uh X such that X is positive uh and uh X² is lesser equal to two. Yeah. So x here and so now I was specialized to the real numbers. So that was why I didn't actually write it but but you're right. Certainly can't hurt. Uh okay. So that's the theorem and so now we try to write a formal proof. Uh observe first that um a here is non empty since one is in a right one is positive and when you square one you get one so this is definitely less or equal to two so a here is non Um uh next observe uh a here is bounded is bounded from above. In general, by the way, when you write a proof, then you then you really only try to establish the properties that you need because otherwise it's confusing. If you establish all kind of other property that is not needed, that just makes it confusing. So it's bounded from above and this is just because um since since uh two is an upper bound for okay now the next thing here. So now we have a non- empty bounded subset. So we set so set alpha equal to the soup of a and we we want to prove want to show that alpha is positive and alpha squ is equal to 2. Well, right by definition the way we defined uh the way we defined a all the elements in a were positive. So by definition uh uh uh zero is a lower bound. So so you for sure have that zero here is less or equal to well it's actually I mean even one is a lower bound. So, so uh we can also just say that one since one is a lower bound since since one here is in a you also have that this alpha here must be bigger equal to one because it was supposed to be an upper bound for a. So in particular now um and so we have that alpha is less than one and it's the least upper bound and two was an upper bound. So you are to have this since uh maybe I should write if you write write it with this uh since since one is an a we have that one here lesser equal to alpha. Uh and since alpha is the least of a bound and true is an upper bound. We have that alpha is less than equal to two. Okay. Now remember I mean we're going to do it exactly like we did last time but we're just going to write it down uh in a proper way as a proof. Right? So remember that last time we then divided the proof into two steps. Uh the first step was uh so part one. So, so, so now, so all we need to prove, maybe I'll just say that all we need to prove to show is that alpha square is equal to two, right? Because we already have it as positive now because it's bigger than one, right? And so there was two parts to this to step one and step two or step part one and part two. The first part was so part one we will show that uh alpha squared is less or equal to uh two and so we prove this. So assume not uh we will show that that leads that. Um this leads to a contradiction to that alpha is the least upper bound for I mean I'm writing everything out here right just to illustrate is right as you get more and more familiar with this right then the structure is the same but you know some of these steps will seem almost too trivial and that's probably fine right but of course it's always good to air on more details than fewer details okay so so this is what we want to do so so we assume not so assume so assume that alpha squared is strictly bigger than two. Right? Then and this is where it sort of deviate more from how we did it last time and that's why you know what we did last time is really what you want to have on on the scrap paper. I mean that's what we did last time was like the idea and then once you see the idea then you try to write it as a formal proof like what we do now and so so so assume not set h equal to so I'm going to set h equ= to alpha^ 2 - 2 over 4 alpha. Okay. Right. Obviously, if this was like the first time you would do it, you wouldn't just come up with this sort of thing, right? I mean, this is coming from the scrap paper that you have, right? You're setting h equal to that. And then you observe you observe that since since uh since alpha here is bigger than one and uh alpha squared is bigger than two. Since that right then the nominator here is positive and the denominator is positive. So h here is positive right? You also have that you also have that h is um uh uh right you also have automatically that uh that h is maybe we don't need that. Let's see if we need that. Uh okay. So now uh you def set uh alpha 1 equal to uh alpha minus h. And what I want to prove is so we want to show that uh alpha here alpha 1 is an upper bound for a. So I want to prove that this is an upper bound for a the first thing I want to do if it's an upper bounds it does need to be need to be positive. So let's check that. So um so since uh since so since we already have that h was positive so this here was h was positive alpha^ 2 - over 4 alpha. Right? This thing here is less or equal to I can even forget about the two. So I can write it as alpha squar over 4 alpha. And so this here is I can just divide by alpha. So I get alpha over 4. So I have since we have that h here is less than alpha over 4 then uh alpha 1 is uh is bigger than uh is bigger equal to 3/4 of uh of alpha right because I'm subtracting at most alpha over 4 and so there's still 3/4 of alpha left right so I have This in particular, this thing here, it's actually bigger than 3 over 4, but I just need it to be positive. So, it's positive. So, so alpha over alpha 1 is positive. Now, I'm looking at alpha 1 squared, right? And so alpha 1^ 2 is uh is equal to alpha minus h squared. So this here is equal to alpha^ 2 + h^ 2 - 2 alpha h. Okay. And this thing here is less or equal to uh alpha squared. Uh here h here is uh h is uh so now I like to say that h is lesser equal to one. Uh actually I'm going to use that it's less than a half. And why is that the case? It's actually uh alpha itself. We already know that alpha was less than two. So you have that this thing here is less or equal to 2 over 4. So this is equal to a half. Right? Um so now uh now I have that um now I have that this thing here is less than um then plus um here I can here I I just use that it's less than uh this thing here by this here I just I think it's fine to just use uh h here I could use h over two. Maybe I'll use h over two. So one of the h I just replace by a half that is an upper bound and the other one uh I just keep right. So I have that and then minus 2 alpha h. But if you multiply alpha by h then it's disappear in the denominator. So you're getting minus 2 and then you're getting uh alpha squared - 2 over uh 4 right and so here you get this here becomes uh alpha squared uh plus and here I'm just writing in and I think it's at the moment we're sort of overkilling it here. Um, and so I can replace this one here. So, uh, right, let me just write it in. Alpha 2 - 2 over, uh, 2 * 4 * alpha, right? And this thing here is alpha 2 - 2 / 2. This two cancel with one of those two. So, this is what I have. Uh and so now I get that uh this thing here is so so I get that this thing here is uh um uh we adding it here. So this thing here is uh alpha squared. So, let's just let me just bring these two together. Let me u let me just maybe I'll just uh combine all of these. I don't think I need it this well. Um um right. So, if I if I combine these two here, I think I'm fine with just having a a two here. H four, sorry, instead of the two. So if I if I do that then I get alpha squared maybe I should just bring it on the common denominator. So this here this alpha sorry I'm get rid of I'm just I'm replacing I'm bounding this from above by alpha squar plus and I'm going to I'm going to just make it easy for myself. So I think it's fine to just uh use that alpha is bounded by one and then you can just bound it by alpha squared minus 2 uh over 4 uh and uh and this in here is uh is alpha squared minus 2 over 2 right here again I'm just using that alpha was bigger equal to one. Uh and um right and then I I just actually ignore this true right. So this is definitely an upper bound. And so now you see that this thing here is equal to alpha squared. This thing here you can think about this thing here. You can write this in here if you will as alpha^ 2 + alpha^ 2 - 2 over 4 - 2 alpha^ 2 - 2 over over 4. And so what you get is that it's alpha^ 2 minus alpha^ 2 - 2 over 4. Right? And this thing here is now this thing here is positive right because alpha square was strictly bigger than two. This is positive. So this is strictly less than alpha square right. And so this here would also which is still right. This is right. So this thing here is also an upper bound. Uh, sorry. Sorry. Oh, I need to Oh, sorry. Okay. So, I have this. No, no, sorry about that. Okay. So, yeah. No, I I sorry. I um Okay, let let's go over this again. Sorry. So what I'm trying to prove here I'm trying to write down the formal I mean that that's a problem that it got so formal that that I was now in. So what I'm trying to prove here is that I want to say this part one is that alpha squared is lesser equal to to one. Right? This is what less equal to two. That's what I want to prove. Right? This is part one, right? And so I assume not so I assume that alpha square was strictly bigger than two, right? If alpha square was strictly bigger than two, here you have zero. Here you have alpha and now we define this alpha zero. Alpha zero was to the left so to speak of alpha because it was subtracting a little bit and what I want to show is that this alpha zero I want to show that this alpha zero is also an upper bound so I want to prove that this square here is also bigger than two that's what I want to prove right so I want to find I want to to find a lower bound B and that lower bound should be two. Right? So this is not exactly what I wanted to do. Okay? So let's just go through it here. Sorry. So this here was correct and this here is for really for the second part. Uh okay. So we define it like this. And now I say that this thing here is bigger equal to But I want to bound it from below. And so then I can ignore the h squ. So it's bigger than because that's positive just bigger than alpha^ 2 - 2 alpha h. Right? And this thing here is so this is equal to alpha squar minus 2 alpha. I fill in what h was. This here was h right and uh and uh then you see that this here cancel with that and this here and you're getting that you're getting alpha squared uh uh this is this alpha squar minus uh alpha^ 2 - 2 / 2 And this thing here is equal to this is equal to alpha squared over two. This is subtracting that and then you're adding right you're adding one. So this is what it is right alpha we have already proven that alpha here was bigger equal to one. So, so using so this here is bigger equal to I claim that this here is bigger equal to two using that alpha is uh bigger equal to one right and so you see that alpha one that is a smaller number because you're subtracting a positive number from alpha that is also an upper bound right. So this is contradicting. So this contradict and then one often writes uh one often writes this symbol here. This is a standard symbol that means this is a contradiction. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Then you get two. But that's fine. I just needed to show I all I needed to do was I needed to prove that I I I I have that. So So you see that I have that I'm assuming that this thing here is strictly positive and then I define alpha 1 but alpha 1 is strictly less than alpha. Right? And then I have that alpha squar alpha squar alpha 1 squared is bigger equal to two. This here means that alpha 1 is also an upper bound. This is strictly less than alpha. This was supposed to be the least upper bound. That's a contradiction. Right? And so you see I fell into the trap. I was doing it so formally that I lost track of what I was doing. So I was actually in a process of proving the I mean that's a danger with but but the formal proof is is much easier to read afterwards, right? And so you see the difference here with a formal proof was last time we we sort of did a little calculation and then we try to figure out what should this H be and then it sort of came at the end. Right? But but when you write down the formal proof then you would sort of upfront you would already have done that little calculation and you would up front say what h was supposed to be and then you kind of run through the argument. Right. Yeah. >> Sorry. >> Uh um here. So uh if I'm I'm I mean of course alpha is much bigger than one but I'm just using we already we I'm only need here that alpha is bigger equal to one to say that this thing here is bigger equal to two >> sorry >> this is right this is alpha so the the inequality here is that alpha 1 2 is bigger equal to two and I'm using that alpha at this stage here to conclude this inequality. I'm using uh sorry no no you're right yeah sorry about that you're right I'm using that alpha no I'm not using that I'm using that alpha squared is bigger equal to two yeah sorry that was what you meant yeah saying you okay so that was uh why that was a formal proof of uh parts one and then there's part um part two so the other inequality So, how do we do that? And and and when you write this, when you write this, it's always good to try to explain um what you're going to do and in in in this case what is going to be the contradiction. So let's try to prove part two and hopefully we get it straight this time. So so part two so I want to show that um so we have so part one was establishing that alpha squar was lesser equal to true. Now we want to prove so part two uh uh want to show that alpha squar is bigger equal to two. And so uh again we're proving this we will show this by contradiction. So assume that alpha squared is strictly less than two. Right? And now it it's it's it's you know it's it's I think it's helpful. Well, you don't necessarily have to do it, but I think it's helpful if you say um maybe it's too, you know, too long, but it's at least helpful to think about uh where is the contradiction coming from. So, if alpha square is less than two, uh in so I I will say it, you don't necessarily have to write it, but indeed we will show that if this is the case is the case then they exist. uh there exist some numbers alpha 2 bigger than alpha such that alpha 2 squared is also less than two. Contradicting that alpha is an upper bound for for for the set A we defined. Okay, that's what we will prove. Okay. And so we want to find a a a real number that is larger than this but still uh but still uh the square is still less than two. Okay. And so in this case I'm going to so so now we sort of do the you know the structure is going to be the same. you know, we had this little scrap paper where we sort of outline the argument and figure out what H had to be. And so I'm going to use this H. So, so we're going to again maybe I'll just erase this here so we don't get confused with the first part and the second part. Okay. Okay. So, so I'm going to set h again. I'm going to define it very similar to what I did before, but now I have to remember that I'm assuming that alpha squar is less than two. So I define h to be 2 minus alpha squar over 4 alpha. Okay, this is how I define it. uh and then I what I'm interested in is so I have here zero I have this that is supposed to be the upper bound but I want to prove that that really isn't an upper bound that's an element in in my set A and so this is this alpha 2 so I'm defy so I'm setting set this and alpha 2 equal to alpha plus h this here was just to illustrate you shouldn't you don't necessarily have to include that okay and I want to show you we want to show I think it's good idea to write what you want to show in particular if I really had written that before uh then I wouldn't have been in trouble right because I was trying to prove something else uh so you want to prove that alpha squared here is also less than two. Right? So this is this is so so we already have that alpha here uh is is positive. It's um it's bigger than one. So uh so this number here this here we already know is bigger than alpha. Okay. And so if I can prove that so this here is so this bigger than alpha if I can prove that the square is less than two then alpha here alpha here sorry would not be an upper bound right there's another element in the set uh a that is bigger. Okay. So I want to prove that. So now I'm looking at alpha 2 squared. So that is alpha plus h. Right? That's how I define alpha 2 and I square it. And if I do that then I get alpha squared plus h 2 uh plus um 2 h uh alpha right and I now uh so now I want an upper bound right and so we already have that alpha is this one here h is you see that h is in this case here. So h is is equal to 2 - alpha^ 2 over 4 alpha. Alpha is bigger equal to one. This here the denominator is bounded by two. So again it's 2 over 4. So this is bounded by a half. So h is positive and we have that h is positive and h is less than half. And so now uh I this here I can bound I can bound trivially by just using that h is bounded by one. So I get this plus h + 2 uh and then h * alpha again or 2 h alpha. This is right when you multiply this by two alpha then the alpha cancel out and the two cancel with one of these uh with two in this form. So you're getting 2 minus alpha squar over two. Okay. And so now I get that this thing here is bounded by so h here h is also a a very rough bound for h is so using sorry so using so I have that and now using that h here is equal = to alpha 2 - alpha^ 2 / 2 / 4 alpha which is less than uh 2 - alpha^ 2 over 2 since alpha here is bigger than one right so I have that right so using that we have that alpha 2^ squared is less or equal to let me just write that line I'm just now filling in alpha squared to the h here I'm using this inequality here 2 - alpha^ 2 / 2 and then I have the same thing again and so you see that this here it's this here times 2 so this is just alpha^ 2us - 2 + 2 - uh alpha square and and this inequality here was one of these inequality I should have replaced by a strict inequality. This because h is positive and is strictly less than one. So this here is actually a strict inequality. So this here is a strict inequality. Okay. But now you see that this thing here the alpha cancel out and you're getting two right so you have that alpha 2 squared is strictly less than two that's what we wanted to prove right and this this this gives that alpha 2 is also in a and yet alpha 2 was bigger bigger than alpha. And this is the desired contradiction. Okay. So again, you know, we already did this last time, but but the the point here is that how do you write down a formal proof, right? And a formal proof in this case is that you try very clearly in this case it was divided into two steps. So you you you you try to divide it into the two steps and then maybe you have a a last line that say that you know part one part one and part two together show that alpha squ is equal to two. uh completing the proof, right? And again, the point here was that so we already knew how to prove this, but like how do you write down a formal proof, right? And so in in in for this proof, it was divided into these two steps. So you try to write each step separately. They were both both of the two steps was proven by contradiction. And so you would say up front you would say that you're going to prove it by contradiction. And then of course there would be you would you know it the statement that you want to prove since you're proving it by contradiction you would assume the negation and then I think if you can and it doesn't fill too much I think it's very helpful to write what you are trying how you are trying to get the contradiction right that's what I tried here right and then but and then you see then the big difference from when we were trying to figure out how to prove it is that you now go ahead and you just define you define the things. You define H and alpha 2, right? That sort of seems to come out of nowhere and then you establish the property that you want to prove that that leads to the contradiction. Okay, that's sort of the structure. Are there any questions to this? Yeah. >> So, >> right. So, we're using a few things. We're using um I mean and and and uh we're using a few thing uh we're using that is ordered that is ordered. We're also using uh something about that is a ordered field. And why? because we're using something well we're using something about multiplication to at all define square root right and also we're using something about that one is bigger than zero right uh and um and then um and then so we're using and then we're also using of course completeness in order to define this least upper bound right so we're using a bunch of these things, right? But of course, if you have Yeah. I mean, uh I mean, if you're asking when I mean and that's not really I mean you know uh at this stage I mean like very very soon um in one of the next few lectures things will be in the real numbers. I mean we're not going to work on general fields and we're not going to yeah I mean general fields this is not part of the subject but you but of course it's interesting to ask and you see and and I think that's your point is like when can you define something like a square root of two in a field something like that and and there's a lot of things you're absolutely right that there's a lot of these things that was just sort of general property but maybe we shouldn't get too much into the so I wanted to there's a few more things I was hoping to do. So I also wanted to just talk about the Archimedian property again. And so I wanted to again you know just outline uh how to write a formal proof and again and the reason of course why I'm illustrating how to write a form the for the writing a formal proof is an important part of this class and and I'm obviously uh using the syncs that we already proved last time just so so that you can kind of focus on how to not not the proof not the statements why the statement should be true but just how to write it. Um and so let's let's talk about the Archimedian property and so the Archimedian property just saying that so this is the theorem that the natural numbers is not bounded from above. Right? That's one way of formulating it. Right? You could also say like we did last time that whenever you take a real there's a larger uh natural number than that real, right? This but that's the same. Okay. So now how do we prove this? So again here we're thinking about things as being subset of R. We always you know when when we don't really mention it then we always think about it as being subset of R. And so we uh we pro we will show this by contradiction. by contradiction. So suppose alpha is an upper bound for the natural numbers. Well, uh we can assume after replacing uh alpha by by soup of a. We can assume that alpha is the least up about Right. So, and now uh and and then then I think it's nice again uh to to write where the contradiction is coming from. So, so we'll show We will get the desired contradiction by showing that's uh that that's alpha minus one is also an upper bound contradicting that alpha was the least of okay and So now uh since since uh alpha so so so this is what we want to prove that and since alpha is an upper bound for all natural numbers. Uh if you add one to the natural number, this is also this here is also a natural number, right? N + one is also a natural number. So n + one must be lesser equal to this upper bound, right? But this implies that n subtracting one on both side implies that n is less or equal to alpha minus one. And this which holds for all n are all natural numbers. So, alpha minus one is also an upper one. Okay. And that's and this is this is the right this this proof gives you this the side contradiction. Okay. So that's how you would write that. Let me um talk a little bit about sequences and we so this will be a big topic. Uh so sequences so well first so we talked about that a little bit. So if you look at at the So how do we think about of of square root two uh on the on the real line I mean so the way to think about square root of two is what we did here that it's this positive thing so that the square is two right but if you want to place two on the real line then uh you could sing about it as one as a limit of a sequence. If you take one and then the one is less than 1.4 which is less than 1.4 one which is less than 1.414 etc. Right? And so this here is a sequence. I'll be make that precise in just a minute. But it's a an increasing sequence of numbers. And the limit the limit is square2. Right? So if you plug it two in on the calculator, it will bring out a lot of digits, right? And these are the first digits and it will continue on. And that's how you think about uh square root of two. If you want to think about it on the real line and so we want to and so square two is going to be the limit of these and we need to make this precise and we also need to make precise what really a sequence is. So a sequence so a sequence of real numbers. This is a map. It's a function from the natural numbers into R. So for each natural number you get a real number and and so right so a function it is you know a function is is defined by the value at different points. So this thing here but if it but if you want to think about it as a sequence then it's common to denote it to denote this here like that. So this is how one typically write a sequence where instead of the you know what the the argument is this what what this is inside a bracket you write it as a subscript. Okay. So this is a sequence and so uh and so in in the case over there if you're thinking about a1 say to be equal to 1 a2 to be equal to 1.4 4 83 and now I'm thinking about the sequence here as I'm thinking about square root of two and I take the number of you know the subscript here I'm just taking the number of digits in square root two so now I need three digits here I needed two one 41 a4 is 1.414 4 1 4 etc. Right? And so so then you have so then a n here is a sequence of real numbers and it's actually increasing that the sequence a n is less than a n + one. we have this property and uh and we want to talk about next time we want to talk about uh uh what does a limit mean? What is a limit? And and so uh square root of two indeed will be the limit of this sequence and the limit you write like this sometimes as n goes to infinity of a n. But we'll talk about this next time. Okay.