The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> Uh, okay. So, I'm actually going to keep discussion today pretty short because the games that we've got lined up are pretty long. Uh and uh there are >> two of them I know are really good. One of them was good last year. So we'll see again this year. So So we'll see. Um are they all for playing games at least? >> I'm blessed. I we're going to have Puerto Rico which I told >> I call thieves. >> Cool. Uh for people have you played thieves before? >> No. Good. >> Okay. So, uh, for people >> who played San Juan last time, I think, uh, Puerto Rico is an interesting comparison. Uh, because San's actually a sequel to Puerto Rico. Uh, so you're kind of playing in reverse order. >> Uh, that was the one where, uh, sort of like, how would you describe it? >> Is it related to Race the Galaxy as well? >> You choose the action. >> Ah, Race. Okay. So that that takes us right into today's uh >> so Puerto Rico is kind what was >> Puerto Rico is the um I'm going to I'm going to guess it was actually the first in the series. I certainly do not know of any immediate predecessors or inspirations and uh San's kind of the carc version of this. um which is why we introduced it earlier because you guys were working on on card games. Race to the Galaxy is more of a um spiritual successor uh as as described in in in reading or uh but you could also think of it as a clone with few upgrades because it wasn't the same people. It wasn't the same people who made uh >> to clarify the guy who did San Juan and the guy who did Race for the Galaxy were kind of collaborating So the games are really similar. They influenced each other, but they were not strictly the same project. So you can think of it as multiple people from the same artist community turning out similar games at the same time. >> Nice. >> You know, uh but yeah, informed by each other. And um and when Race came out, it was very much seen as this is this is uh Puerto Rico with problems fixed or uh or gameplay expanded uh >> problems added to >> and problems added to and you know and of course a completely different scene but you can s but at least in terms of game mechanics that's a nice a nice connection that you can actually see among the games that you played before and you're going to be playing today. Um, not every single game that we've got here is got that kind of u that kind of heritage. In fact, today's games aren't specifically picked to meet to meet to match up with today's team uh of our of sequels. The only reason why I talk about sequels cuz we have to talk about it sooner or later. >> Um, of course, Battle Star is, you know, straight up adaptation of of of the TV series. And uh and you know I wouldn't quite call this a sequel in a sense because simply this is not based on a previous Battlestar Galactica game. I'm sure there were previous Battle Star games that you know were based on the old 70s TV series that have nothing to do with this one. This is more of a adaptation. Um and I and the reason why I'm using that that phrase is so that we can be fairly clear in our in our vocabulary. This is taking elements of a something that's in a different medium like a film or a TV series uh and trying to figure out what in that TV series in that world that has been created that fictional world um might be might yield interesting gameplay and this game is pretty much about figuring out who is Sylon among all the players >> uh you know among all the players there's going to be traders and you try to hide your activities and you try to help people uh help human race survive. Uh if you happen not to be a traitor, but some of the things that you end up doing in order to help the human race not to survive, they end up looking suspicious. And if you play Mafia, it kind of has a little bit of that feel. This is way more heavyweight in terms of game mechanics because they really really wanted to make you think like the charact like you have the same dilemas that the characters in in the TV show have. >> Does the Sylon know that he or she is a Sylon? I believe that I believe you can find out halfway. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Uh if I recall the rules correctly. Um and then there are people and then there are uh players who will know right from the beginning. So there may be more than one >> generally is more than one. >> Um >> I'm psyched. >> Okay. So um to um there were a bunch of different things that were that were listed in previous reason as reasons why people want to do SQL but for for the most part the big one is just you're building off an established base. You're not having to build everything from scratch. Um in many cases a sequel doesn't actually cost less or take less time than making the original game. you just end up spending hopefully spending the development time a little bit more wisely, right? You start you you you you avoid a lot of pitfalls because they're pretty much making a very similar game. And game industry has been one of those fields where uh um oddly enough, part two, you know, the the followup tends to be better than the original as opposed to um you know, how many movie sequels are generally better than the original. Godfather, that's >> back. Uh, it's rare. >> It's really rare. Um, I'm thinking >> the Kendy's word man of No Name series, Godfather. Any other >> Back to the Future? >> Back to the Future. >> I don't know. It could go either way. >> I don't agree. >> It could It's arguable. >> It's arguable. >> You mean like Empire Strikes Back? >> Spider-Man. >> Spider-Man, too. >> I don't know. I felt like they were all >> true. >> It was better. But yeah, you know, it's really difficult because >> Dark Knight. Uh yeah, I will yeah, I will give you that. Um but you know, it's it's still kind of tough. Uh whereas how many good game sequels, how how many games can can can you think of where you play both the first the original and then the sequel to it? >> Also, just the sequel. >> Oh. Oh, okay. Because Okay. for some of them the space apart so far that you actually only ended up playing >> I mean like Halfife >> Halfife Halfife 2 for instance you know Starcraft >> Starcraft 2 >> Age of Empires >> Age of Empires one two and then three >> Shogun Total War >> well the Total War series >> yeah Total War is kind of an interesting thing because they don't pitch them as sequels but they but they very much pitch them as a series and they and the whole idea is that if you liked one game you actually know a lot about what any of the other games in that series do. Sure. Graphically they're upgrading game game mechanics wise. They're trying to port over a lot of things. They just some of them are medieval, some of them are Japanese. >> Yeah. >> In reading they mentioned that Final Fantasy 7 was a sequel to six. Is that corre? I don't think is that like correct nomenclature. >> Uh you see and I and I will disagree with that actually. It's like I don't I mean Final Fantasy 7 actually has a sequel for instance. Uh was it crisis score actually? There's more than one and it's okay. Sure. Well, I mean, first it was the movie, right? Their sequel was the movie and then they they did a bunch of things. >> Oh god. >> Final Fantasy 7 is Final Fantasy >> an entry in a series, but um >> but I think when it comes to this is what we're going to be pitching to a publisher. I I'm not sure if Square Enix needs to pitch Final Fantasy. >> I I think of another game that has a long series, you know, um if anyone can come up with one. Bersgate might be actually a good one because different different companies end up working >> working on different types of revisions. Uh actually most of the sort of yeah that well actually Fallout and Balders's Gate both come from inner play I believe originally. So like >> they went out of business after Bloodlines. We were talking about this yesterday. >> I suspect that that was vampire >> Yeah. But uh but basically it know leaving aside what makes a company go out of business. Um yeah the the the issue of when you have a series and then you have different companies making different brands. Guitar Hero 3 nice old re so boware was did the first one and Obsidian did the second one. Um Fallout was Bethesda. Obsidian, I believe. OB Obsidian's really built a whole business model around making part two or something. Um, >> or expansion packs and stuff. >> Oh, expansion packs. Yeah. Closely closely re related to that. And in those cases, sometimes like in the case of um boware obsidian connections, they they have a good relationship. They're borrowing a lot of technology and they are getting that advantage of. We kind of we we we've kind of ironed out the kinks. we're just sort of continuing the story, especially if it's a story based game like Knights of the Old Republic. Clearly, you've got to fit it within the whole Star Wars story. Um, and they had the interest to basically keep the tale of these characters going. Uh, even more so for well for Mass Effect it was by the way by you know that sort of thing. Um but then you have the other you have the other angle where uh you just want to sort of get the same success but you want to tell a different story or in the case of Guitar Hero 3 have a completely different set of set of music. Um, and uh, you know, Final Fantasy 7, you have the certain game mechanics and certain things that carry on from game to game. And definitely you want to carry the fans from game to game, but part of the appeal of the Final Fantasy series is that every single one is going to be a different story. Not dramatically different, but it's going to be a different story um, with different characters and different world. So um but it's pitched very similarly when you go to a game company and the whole idea is how do we get the fans to buy even more or even more fans to buy version uh two. There is a there are kind of two ages to that sword though because what typically happens in a lot of sequel development is that you're trying so hard to please your original fans and often by adding complexity by adding things that build on things that you that players of the first game already know that you actually start alienating new players uh the game becomes just so complex or you know just complex enough that people start getting turned off. Um uh couple of weeks ago over here we played Guitar Freaks um on Friday on Friday games for Gambit and the first version is actually extremely accessible. Once you get from the second version all the way up to I think the version four that we were playing uh it is almost impossible for a new player to jump in because they've got like one beginner friendly song and everything else is based for fans of the game. So you imagine a Guitar Hero game that's built entirely for people who've already mastered expert on the previous game. That's kind of what happened with Guitar Freaks. And in many cases that might be enough to, you know, if if game was particularly successful the first time around and you only get 80% of the fan base to buy the second version, that's still a lot of money and it's a way lower risk compared to, you know, coming up with new IP from scratch. Um but um and and a lot of companies when they're creating IP they're very much specifically thinking right off the bat what are the SQL opportunities even now of course you got downloadable content so it's even narrower than that is what are downloadable content uh uh opportunities how do we release expansion packs you know really really quickly and uh how do we create stories worlds technology that just going to be able to anticipate all that um there's a game up there now on Xbox Live Arcade called Monday night combat um and uh and they they did some little clever hacks to basically allow them to update the game on a week- toeek basis. Whereas typically that that kind of certification that's required from Microsoft is really expensive. Every time you want to release a new version, you have to put it through an entire rigorous QA testing schedule again. But they came up with some technology that lets let them make at least game tuning changes on the fly uh without having to go through the Microsoft tuning uh uh testing uh so it's not technically releasing a sequel. Uh but they were very much thinking about how do we keep updating this game. Um I wouldn't be surprised if Steam started off as that Blizzard uh battle net kind of started off as just an easy way for them to get up patches and to keep tuning this game. Eventually someone involved decided hey we could sell games this way and you know launch was kind of bumpy but you know it's fine now um there is one thing which the which the book didn't mention which is the reboot the sort of franchise reboot um this can sometimes happen when you have a uh publisher who's got control of an IP that kind of floundered halfway you know maybe there was a bad bad execution on the on on narration and lost most of the fans or they just played out the formula to death. Uh and then they want to try to get a new batch of fans. You know, few people who like the original one. Um, and I was talking about the Tomb Raider game uh uh you know that that um where they're just trying to they've rebooted the Tomb Raider several uh Tomb Raider franchise several times at this point each time trying to say okay you've probably heard from Tomb Raider from the huge amount of advertising that we've done but you may not actually have liked the previous versions of the games and we're going to reboot this franchise by making a different game in that same world where maybe we'll make and Tomb Raider will use the characters and we'll use the fiction but we'll change the game play significantly. Um because we're not going after the old fans anymore. We're going after a new batch. Um it's uh probably about the same technical challenge as uh updating as trying to make a SQL for a completely new platform. So uh uh because you're basically having to write everything from from from scratch. But the good news of course is that all that previous advertising that you did, you know, a decade ago still still still works. Um, let me think of uh Can anyone think of a good example of a good reboot? >> Is Mario 64 a reboot? >> Uh, I think it was seen to a lot of pe a lot of people that it was cuz it wasn't clearly a uh a sequel to any of the previous Mario games. And it was kind of Nintendo kind of saying, "Hey, >> it's not really a clone of anything. >> It's not really a invented a lot of invented a lot of things for the first time." In fact, I would say that Mario 64 and and and and of course the way how they branded it, they didn't brand it Super Mario World what, five or Super Mario World 4 or something. They called it Mario 64 to sort of distinguish it from >> I would almost call it an upgrade more than a reboot though because it was mostly just the move from two uh 2D to 3D. Um, >> it was more it's a good challenge because to the player it may seem like it's not that, but for a technical point of view, they had to completely reinvent the way how Mario moves, the way how Mario jumps, frankly. Uh, uh, the way how the camera moves never used to be a huge problem in the 2D games. Uh, but was the primary thing that they managed to figure out how to get working in in in 3D was was the camera. Um, I think I mean I wouldn't be surprised if their marketing pitched it a little bit like a sequel, but it was also very very clear of like this is going to be a whole new generation. You've never played a Mario anything like this. So don't expect your previous Mario experience to cover to carry over necessarily. >> I was going to say Metroid as well. >> Metroid Prime. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That's that's a really good example of um in fact Metroid Prime was an instance where they gave the franchise to a completely different developer. You know, previously it was all old internal Nintendo and then Nintendo went to Western Developer um Retro Studios over in Texas and basically had them make the first person uh version of of Metroid, but they had a very heavy hand in controlling that. Whereas um I'm not sure we're going to be playing this later, Castlevania Laws of Laws of Shadow, which just came out was a kind of windy other way around. a western developer, a spe a Spanish developer decided to make a Castlevania clone. Um, you know, they love Castlevania and they were going to make a game that was just like Castlevania, but they wouldn't call it Castlevania because they didn't have the rights for it. And then they showed it off at like a E3 or something. And Konami basically said, why don't just turn it into a Castlevania game and they put Kojima on it to to to make it work. >> That must have been their dream come true. >> That was probably their dream come true. That's probably what they wanted. And you have the advantage of all the Castlevania fans now now now saying, "Okay, this is this is going to be in Canada. If we like Castlevania, we probably like this one." Which is exactly what they were trying to get across. It's like imagine the people who made Torch Light being approached from Blizzard say, "Why don't we just turn this into Diablo 3?" >> A bunch of people who made First Light were from Blizzard, right? >> Uh I wouldn't be surprised Diablo team. >> I wouldn't be surprised in the same sense that a lot of people who made Guild Wars were from the World of Warcraft team. Uh so that's that is less issue of sequels and more an issue of just that's just how the game industry works. People move from project to project and carry knowledge with them >> like Call of Duty was elemental modern people, right? >> Yes. Call of Duty. Yes. >> Got tired of it. We're like we can do better. >> That that that's an interesting discussion of the instead of sequels uh you have companies making effectively clones uh competing against the original franchise. And this particular case that you're drawing yet there's people who left EA uh of 2015 I believe and then they started Infinity War and they made a game that basically competed with the original. >> The first Call of Duty was so ridiculously good. At least it marked me when I played it the first time. >> But it but it's very clearly trying to be Medal of Honor the next version. >> Yeah, clearly. Yeah. No, of course. Of course. >> Yeah. So, so, so that's that that's an interesting situation where uh it's hard to be a spiritual successor when you're competing against the original tournament. Uh, but you know, you can think of them >> by that dragon I mean not competing spiritual success with Dragon Age because they don't have the right gate anymore. >> Uh, yeah. Well, Dragon Age is more of a DND clone I would say. Uh, which >> yeah, I guess >> Empire Earth is reinvented itself with with Empire Earth. Empire >> with with zero success doing wonder. >> Oh. Uh I kind of lost track of this. You >> in the whole game the whole game the first game was like you can go through 15 ages. We will like model you can literally play a game against someone and go from prehistoric units to nukes >> in the same game with everything in between. And then they release a sequel which I think overseas and then they decide to read it themselves and go we're going to simplify everything. there's just going to be like four ages kind of like in ancient empires and we're not going to have this like massive progression and and they try to simplify everything and it totally >> you see I think that's a reboot >> but but but I think that's that's that's a reboot gone wrong that's that that that's a our original game is not selling well enough among new players it maybe and it's not entirely satisfying our old fans. So, we're going to take this franchise that we've advertised really, really well. Uh, and we're going to make a completely effectively a new game, maybe with the same theme, but but a new game that's targeted at a new set of players. Sometimes it works, sometimes it bombs. Um, Mind of Magic released a game called Clash of Heroes. Might Magic. Clash of Heroes for the Nintendo DS. And who's played any of the original Mind and Magic games? >> They're different from Heroes of Mind of Magic. >> Uh, either of them, actually. So, who's the Heroes of Mind of Magic? >> Okay. Can you describe the game? >> What's it like? >> Do you want to go for it? >> Well, it's like a it's essentially just a turn-based strategy game >> where you have cities and you have heroes and these heroes lead armies and you encounter other smaller armies and try and defeat them and stuff. And you have like >> and build up your city and turn to have you have an economy. >> Yeah. you have an economy and and you you build things in your city that can then like produce better units for your armies and stuff and you can take over other cities and >> so civilization I would say >> yeah it's it's like civilization but if you took civilization removed everything that wasn't like military >> and battles are played out we sort of distinctive like arena >> yeah you have like a battlefield field where it's turnbased and you have your units on one side and the opponent's units on the other side and you move units together. So like if you have, you know, Pikeman and Bowman, you have like the clump of all Bowman who then move together as a unit and so on and so forth. >> So Clash of Heroes is a Nintendo DS game in the in the Might Magic series. And what they did was they made a match three game. They made a game where you it's like Bejeweled. You take three Bowman, put them in a row, and then they become a bunch of Bowmen who are going to attack. Uh, so they they get the same idea of let's take and because of Nintendo DS, there are two screens, so the enemies uh armies are on one and yours are on the other just kind of like sending troops up and down. Uh, but the game play is dramatically different. Uh, it's effectively a franchise reboot. Uh, they they they want to sort of get the same idea of, you know, leading massive armies against each other. I think they take some of the characters or at least some of the technologies that came from the original heroes might m magic. Um but that that that's as far as it got. Everything else that everything else they changed because they're going for a completely different audience. The the assumption being Nintendo DS players like match three games. Um like Joel. Um it's actually really good. I I I will encourage you if you like match three games. Um, so, uh, I was going to put Sarah on the spot, uh, for, uh, having worked on, uh, Thief 2 and Thief Gold and Thief Two Gold and, uh, a number of, uh, of releases, but you can start telling us a little bit about your original involvement on Thief. >> Sure. Uh, you're going to stand up so you can actually hear me. >> I can bring the microphone. >> Um, so, um, Thief, the dark project, um, I came on as actually as lead tester. Um partway through it I became QA manager essentially and then I actually stepped into design role um for about the second half of the project. Um and I continued to work as a design designer and a project manager on thief 2 and uh thief. >> What were you designing in thief? >> Um in thief one I was pretty specifically designing gameplay for a level that someone else had already built. building levels took a lot longer than putting in gameplay. Um, at least from my point of view, I think the person who built it thought that building levels was a lot faster than putting in gameplay. Um, so it was a good combination, but it was built by an artist who didn't have the scripting experience or the testing patients to go through and make sure that all the exper the gameplay experience was working. So, I was basically handed the level and said, "Okay, make it fun." >> Now, Thief is a first person stealth game. Basically, you're looking through the eyes of a thief who is not physically all that robust, but uh he can sneak and uh he can shoot arrows usually at your back uh and you know and hide. So, >> and the AI is unlike in most games where AI is tuned to sort of aha we noticed you, we recharge you. The AI is is carefully tuned to both tell the player if the AI sort of notices you if the AI thinks he's looking for you and is looking for you and if he's actually coming after you so that a player who makes a noise while sneaking up on them will realize that oh he noticed that I should go be more quiet. Um so uh the AI feedback and tuning the AIS was actually really pretty important to playing experience apart. If you didn't give the player an avenue to approach a guard from behind or to sneak up on them in some way, you were pretty much guaranteeing the player would get play get killed because the player could not in fact take one guard on one to one um many times. You could probably kill one guard face to face, but then he'd be sufficiently wounded that the second fight would finish off. So, you had to be giving the player uh channels and ways to sneak up and places to hide and things like that if you wanted to have an interesting game. a challenge. >> And that's the gameplay tweaks that you're talking about. >> Those are the gameplay tweaks I'm talking about. Yeah. Placing AIs, determining their paths. Um, putting actually this little particular level had a lot of traps in it. So, um, creating the traps and then giving clues to the player in game so that they could a either notice the trap was there before getting hit by it and, uh, find some other way to trigger it or, um, notice that it was there or notice it was there and then discover how to get out of it. Thief is a uh 199 >> 198 at this point. >> 199 1996 was it was it was released around the same time Doom was. >> And and it's pretty impressive because in Doom you can't look up. I believe you can shoot them but you can't. >> Yeah. In in Thief you can crouch, you can lean around corners. Um you can in fact shoot your bow while leaning around corners and Yeah. um you can look up and down and all around. So yeah. >> So that's Thief one. How what happens when Thief 2 gets approved or you know >> um well the first thing I need to do is convince people they want to do Thief 2 because while Thief was a great game and it has actually sold fairly well over time. Its initial sales were not what publishers want to see because the initial sales the publisher wants to see is oh my god it sold 10 million copies. Awesome. Instead, what we did was we sold a fairly good first initial sell through and then it just kind of kept going. So, the first thing we had to do was convince them that yes, Thief 2 would be a good idea. Enough people are continuing to buy Thief 1 that those same people will all run out and buy Thief 2 on the very first day. Um, and the way we did that was first of all taking a look at forums and saying, "Hey, look, people are pretty excited about this. They're enjoying it. It's got good lasting power. Our fans are going to stick around to play with it a second time." And that was sort of a marketing and analysis that kind of went into the publisher. And the other part was saying, okay, what are the improvements we're going to make to this game? How are we going to change this game to make it better than Thief 1 while still taking advantage of everything we did? So, we created basically a big design doc with here are the areas that we thought we could have done better in Thief 1. Here's what we're going to prove. And here are the changes we're going to make. So, we're not going to make Thief 1 again. We're going to take what Thief One was, add some improvements to it, make a deeper story, and hopefully give a more variety of gameplay was what we actually ended up aiming for in our initial docs. Um, was we wanted to give Garrett additional abilities, give him a little bit, give him give vary the gameplay. The gameplay in Thief 1 was all speed. We tried to have some additional types of missions in Thief 2. It's been long enough that there was a little more face-to-face fighting. there was a little more um subtrafuge instead of just sneaking around. We also had okay so now you need to disguise yourself to someone and sneak in and sneak out again because you need to achieve you need to pass for them while getting a goal done and things like that. So we tried to find what are additional stealth and subtrauge um issues in gameplay we can have. >> How many of those features in teeth do were inherited from like dropped features of teeth or ideas? A lot of them, a lot of them inherited from dropped ideas from Thief 1, but when we first when they first started designing Thief, and I was not on the initial Thief design team, so now I'm I'm making up what they were talking about. Um, it wasn't clear that it was going to be it was it was sort of like it's going to be a stealthy e game, but we hadn't actually defined what stealthy gameplay was yet. So, um, it was Thief one that kind of told us what this is what stealth play is that works. And once we found the one or two things that worked and kind of went with that and hung with that, it was a thief too. We got to play around with what are some other ideas of selfie gameplay. What are some other ways to trick people into if people have played Metal Gear Solid or any of the games in the Metal Gear Solid series, it always a lot of especially the really really noisy NPCs. You want I heard something. I wonder what's over there. That's awesome. >> DSX also. >> But but DSX also also got >> Yes. Well, that's what I'm saying is that DSX also actually took a lot of thieves lessons and went on with them from there. >> Again, a lot of people working on thief DSX >> uh DSX 2 or DSX 2, but yeah, um Looking Glass folded and went out of business and um a lot of people moved to Austin to then work on Thief 3 and DSX 2 and and and those projects there. So, >> um I have a question about um the gold the gold version. >> The gold version. the gold versions of the games are um really a way to try to convince from the marketing point of view is a way to convince players to buy the same material again. So it was it was I'm being a little cynical here and I admit that. Um but we added new we did in fact add what we did was we added several new missions. So, it was expanded play and then we went back and problems that we knew were in the missions, we fixed them and we actually added some richer gameplay to several of the missions that, oh god, we have to take this out the door. We have to take this out the door. This would be so cool if we could set this up, but we don't have time to. And out it goes. And so, we went back and we touched up over half of the missions. We added some additional gameplay. We added extra goals. We added we took areas where we thought the gameplay was particularly weak because we'd gotten rushed on finishing it. and we made the levels a bit longer and a little more interesting in our opinion. And then we also added three new levels in. It was kind of a chance. It was a doover. Um, we had very limited programming resources, so we didn't really need to add any add in much in the way of new features, but we were able to go back and tune it and make significant changes to the levels, to the way that the guards worked, to the scripting behind the levels. If anyone's working on a 3D mod, you know, there's usually a fair bit that a designer can do behind the behind the walls of of telling the AIs what to do and how to think and how the gameplay flows. And Thief especially had an extremely rich editor that u more powerful, I think, than any other editor I've ever worked with. Even though it is now 15 or 20 years old, 15 years old, I think, um, it's still the most powerful editor for a designer that I've ever seen. >> So, um, Do you feel that in like how much you you mentioned you looked at the forums and you looked at pan input and how much of that of what went into creating the sequels actually came from pan input or was it just like verifying what you already wanted to do? >> Part of it was to verify what we wanted to do. Part of it was to verify there was enough interest that people would want to do it. Part of it was to see what did people like most? Which of the missions did people like most? And what are there any good ideas out there for how to play how to play a game that we think yes, you know, they're right. We never thought of that. I think that one of the things people talked about a lot was actually disguise missions. And I think we had two disguise missions in Thief 2 where you kind of disguise yourself as as no, no, nobody look at me. I'm I'm just another guard walking around. Don't worry about me. Um, and that was something that we said, oh yeah, that would be really cool. And that's something we had no time to implement for Thief. But if we're choosing our if we're choosing which features new features to implement for thief too, that was actually not an amazingly difficult one because you just figure out a way to put a tag on the player that says, "Oh, guards don't get upset when you see them." >> Did you have uh situations where players came out with exploits that you tried to address in the gold version? >> There were not. No, actually there were a couple of places where people found bugs that were um level enders that got people stuck that we went in and fixed. There were not a whole lot of exploits um that I recall us trying to get in and fix. >> So if somebody like deliberately found something that put them on the roof of the castle or something like that that you didn't bother trying to >> um if it if it allowed the player to get to the place where it broke the game, we did try to fix it because we tried to fix anything that was a game breaker where you could get up on the wall and then leap off into the void. Um, but sometimes what we do is rather than stop you from getting up on the castle and proving how cool you were, we'd let you get up on the castle, but we put invisible barrier so you couldn't hurl yourself into the darkness and then crash the game. So, right there, if players enjoy finding those things, so taking them out doesn't taking them out doesn't enhance the gameplay. And the point of the goal project was to try to make something where the gameplay was sufficiently enhanced that it was worthwhile to go out and buy again. >> So now we're in an environment where patches are pretty much just downloaded, right? We don't we don't necessarily have that situation in the early 90s. Uh is there still a rule of space called gold versions re-releases? >> I think now again that would be an expansion pack. I don't think I don't think that you would do a gold version. you do an expansion pack and with a with an expansion pack patch you could fix old problems and you might introduce new versions of levels but I don't think you go through the hassle of doing you just expansion pack >> thanks questions for your experience >> so pretty much all your dat forums we >> oh no oh no that was just one of the places where we looked we also looked at sales and continued sales and things like that. Like I said, that was actually more of a marketing sales to sort of do here's the hard here's why we think players will like it. Here's some experiences we got. Here's the hard data on our sales, how our sales are continuing. Um, and the fact that Thief is having while it did not come out and sell 100,000 copies the first month, it's continuing to sell 20 or 30,000 copies a month, which means that word of mouth is pretty strong and people are continuing to go out and buy it and go out and play it. And here's the forum where a whole bunch of people are using the editor we released and the activity in that forum is going up over time, not down over time, which indicates you've got more people coming into it. People are coming in, they're staying at it and using it. And you've got more people continuing to come in. The community is growing, which is means that there's interest there and there's people who are paying attention to project continue to pay attention to product. >> But also for gameplay, for finding dead ends, for finding So you said you fixed some dead ends of games you found out about those. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, the difference between a Let me think. At our height, we had a 12 person QA department. Um, and 50,000 users is pretty big. Um, I we did our best on testing it and we had like another 10 or 15 helpers through our publisher, but I mean, we had comparatively speaking a ridiculously small QA department for for the game. But then you have a situation where someone does something on the forum and then you can verify it when you give it to. >> Yeah. >> And you can actually figure out whether what they were seeing was exactly the problem they were describing. >> And it being a solely single player game. I know a lot of games do um you know beta do large beta tests where they ask you know 500 200 or a thousand people to to play the game. We did not do any external testing like that at all. >> Also back in the 90s that would have >> also Yeah. It was not the sort of thing that was really done in the 90s as well. So, it's a it's very much a developmental shift. >> Did you ever explicitly ask on the forums like if there were another sequel, would you buy it >> or did you just >> I don't know. I did not do that. Um, >> I was not on the forums. I helped some of the forum data and read forums, but I didn't really post on the forums a lot. >> Um, >> do you think that'd be a viable tactic or would you just say people would probably just say >> I think that your data would be very good. Okay. I mean, the most you're probably going to get is a thousand people who read the forum say yes and that's a thousand people and that's um not enough sales to justify doing anything. >> It's more interesting. I think it's more useful to look at trends like if you've got like a survey out maybe. I don't know. I've seen I've seen companies bring in focus groups of their people who played the first game to come in and they're bouncing off either prototypes or features that they're planning for the second version to see how they will respond to them. I would say that the information you get back from that is also not very good. Um, but it might be something that is done to gain traction in internal studio politics. And I was like, well, we did this exercise where we brought these people in and they said these features are okay, so we can take the risk of actually developing it as opposed to, you know, saying driving the entire process of >> games. Games don't respond really well to um focus test based development. Well, focus group. >> Focus group based group development. Um, getting feedback on your games is great. Um, finding out how many people are likely to like your game is a lot harder, >> especially if they never if they can't actually see it when you ask them that question. Uh, then they have no idea uh what they're commenting on. You'll make something up that they think you want to hear. Uh, it's like, "Yes, of course, we'll buy a copy of the game. We love the first one. Sure." You know, but they've never actually seen the second version of the game. of you. So you don't actually know that the case. Um for those of you who do miss Iran Goi's talk uh last week uh he was talking about how um in amplitude which was a sequel amplitude or frequency >> frequency >> frequency is the first one amplitude. >> Oh yeah I think it wasn't the very first one. So that was frequency. uh he was talking about how uh how the folks from Sunny were helping them run their their focus groups and um and they did two tests and one of the tests was you know after they played the game they would they did a survey of how many people were planning on buying this when it came out and they had like some ridiculously high score like 80% or something like that like the highest but they also did a survey of how many people were planning on buying the game just by looking at the box before they played the game and that was a ridiculous be no number and it's only and it's only people called it. It's like this is not going to sell because you know sure the people who played your game are going to enjoy your game but no one's going to play your game in the first place because people can't figure out what what your game's about and you try to address those problems with the sequel. Uh that's that uh that's one thing Brenda talks about your your chance to do a doo a chance for you to go back and fix the problems that you found in the first one especially when you find those problems really close to ship date. There's nothing that you can do about for the first time around, but if you're lucky, you get a second chance to do it. >> Yeah. I also noticed that frequency was not called in or rather it wasn't um frequency too. >> It was it wasn't frequency too. They called it amplitude. So, it was actually kind of a reboot as well. It was like they kind of just wanted people, okay, let's pretend frequency didn't happen and that's we'll make sure that the frequency people who love the game know that >> have a ton. Yeah. It's much easier to to tell the a small base who liked you, oh yeah, and buy this game than it is to say to tell a large group of people who weren't interested the first time, no, no, you didn't like it the first time, but trust us, you'll like it this time. Um I've seen a couple of uh companies do uh effectively uh go versions every time they move to a new platform like the latest platform which they release it from tends to become the definitive version that if you're a big fan of the franchise and you're willing to buy this game multiple times you want to get that because of a few extra features that they put in. Maybe it's different endings. Maybe it's upgraded cut scenes. Uh if it's a role playing game I see that a lot. uh maybe they redided the cut scene from scratch or reded the audio from from from scratch. So it's the same assets but clearer and science higher resolution. And of course, you have games that uh that started off their lives as online flash games and stuff like that and then get moved on to other platforms like DS or PSP. And those those games tend to have not only completely reworked controls because controls are different um but also a lot more features because you have to now justify to people who may have loved the game but didn't pay any money for the first version to actually put down money for it now. Um so N is a good example of that. It's one is a game that came out by Xbox live arcade. um and did DS and PSP but started it live as a free flash game and lots of people loved it but lots of people didn't have to pay any money for the first version so how much they love it is uh kind of a weird factor okay so well that's not really I guess we should start with the games more questions