Okay. So, we are talking about healthcare. Um the uh just to remember the context, we're sort of still this general social insurance framework thinking about the costs and benefits of our social insurance programs. Um, and we talked last time, we ended last time a discussion of sort of how can we apply the principles of chapter 12 to think about what an optimal health insurance plan should look like. And we talked about essentially this trade-off between consumption, smoothing, and moral hazard. And talked about how it's hard to really justify a health insurance plan that doesn't impose some patient co-ayments because for small co-ayments, there's not a lot of consumption smoothing loss. uh as long as you're not too poor and there could be a large moral hazard gain. Um now however there are exceptions in particular really uh if people are very resource constrained this could lead them to not use care that's beneficial and even studies I review in the book show that even people who aren't that resource constrained do cut back in a lot of care that might be beneficial and so that suggested sort of a more subtle approach of a system where the cost sharing imposed on patients should relate both on their resources and on the sort of value of the care. um which is fine in theory. In practice, it's hard. Uh but that's sort of what what an optimal insurance program, health insurance program might look like. Now, what's interesting is um health insurance doesn't look like that. Uh 15 years ago, health insurance actually was pretty much first dollar coverage. There's been a growth in deductibles. Um if you look at fig at the figure from chapter 15, you see the growth in the average deductibles uh for employer sponsored insurance over time. There's been a large growth in the last 20 years in the deductibles people have to pay, which is sort of the most common form of co- insurance. Um so we have moved towards more patient cost sharing, but we haven't really done so in a discriminatory way of the kind that theory might suggest. And we're still in a world where, you know, these deductibles are still relatively small for a higher income person. Even a $2,000 deductible, which is a lot for a lot of people, is still sort of pretty trivial for many, you know, for higher income people. And the question is why why is insurance not even less generous? Why is it so why is it really in some sense a system which is sort of in many ways overly generous to a large part of the population? And the answer traditionally has been one answer has been the tax subsidy employer sponsored health insurance because remember the way that health insurance works is if you're paid in wages your uh you pay taxes. If you're in health insurance you don't. We talked last time about how that would lead people to be distorted towards getting their health insurance through their employer. but has another implication which is it makes health insurance relatively cheap compared to other goods. So when I if I want to buy apples I have to pay taxes first then buy apples. If I want to buy health insurance I don't have to pay through my employer I don't have to pay taxes first. I just buy I buy health insurance with pre-tax dollars. So it makes health insurance relatively cheap. As a result people over consume health insurance. The story I always tell is, you know, I had a choice when my kids were little of buying the basic or comprehensive MIT dental plan. And basically, you could think of it as I could say, you know, imagine MIT coming to me and say like, look, would you rather earn $1,000 in salaries or $1,000 in dental benefits? Well, if the $1,000 in salary, that would basically, you know, mean if I had another $1,000 salary, I take about $500 home. If I get another $1,000 in dental benefits, I get the whole $1,000. So I did it and my daughter got these cool braces that change colors and they were awesome. Okay, because why the hell not? Okay, so basically we think part of the use of the overg generosity of health care of health insurance in America is because of this tax subsidy. Now so the tax subsidy, let's focus on the tax subsidy for a minute because it's an important policy tool. Basically, there's three fundamental things wrong with this unequal treatment of compensation in the form of wages and compensation for more of health insurance. The first thing wrong is it costs a lot of money. So, if we think that look either one's compensation by treating one tax-free and taxing the other one, we lose $350 billion a year in revenues. The second is what I just described, which is it's potentially inefficient because it induces excessively generous health insurance. The third is that it's also inequitable. We haven't really talked a lot about equity in this class. We'll get there more soon. But the bottom line is you think about it, the way this works is you can deduct you don't get taxed on the cost of your health insurance. That means the higher your tax rate, the bigger break you get. Well, what caused people to have a high tax rate being high income? So, basically higher income people get the larger tax break in this system. So, if you think about it, what the tax subsidy is, it's basically a bribe for employers to offer health insurance and that bribe gets larger the richer the employee is. That's not really doesn't sound very good as a policy design principle. So, many people have said we should get rid of it. Indeed. Um, uh, one fun family story is I was, uh, coming back from the beach one day with my kids and I got a call from a friend in the White House. This is in 2009 or 2008, 2009. Friend from the White House saying, you know, the president wants you to come down, president, want you to come down, talk to him about, you know, the Affordable Care Act. And I was all excited. I hung up. I said to my kids, "This is great. I'm going to talk to the president." My daughter, who was, I guess, 10, said, "Um, that's so cool. You're going to meet with them alone?" I said, "No, I'll be in a room with a bunch of other economists." and she said, "Oh, that's not that impressive then." [laughter] So, kids keep you humble. Um uh but I did get to meet with him with these other economists and he said, "Well, how should we control health care costs in this bill?" And the only thing we all agreed on for sure is get rid of the goddamn employer health insurance subsidy. That makes no sense. Okay. Um the problem is uh that there's um there's a political economy problem which is that while I can talk till I'm blue in the face about how this is removing a tax subsidy, people say it's a new tax. Okay, so that's hard to do. Um the other problem is that there's a political problem that's also potentially economic problem which is this part of the reason we have so much health insurance through employers remember is this tax break. If you take it away and employers stop offering health insurance, will people become uninsured? And that's a concern as well. So that's one reason people didn't want to take it away. Now the answer to that is to have systems outside employers. We can get health insurance. I'll talk about that next lecture with the Affordable Care Act. But nonetheless, that was a concern that basically if you got rid of this tax break, people would lose their employer sponsored insurance. They become uninsured. For that reason, a much more popular idea is the idea of capping the tax exclusion. So, let's say [clears throat] instead of saying you're never taxed on your health insurance, let's say you're only taxed on health insurance that costs above the average level of health insurance. So, if you buy a typical plan, it's taxfree, but if you buy a more generous plan, we're going to start to tax you. Okay? The idea there is a we raise money. B then the tax break isn't encouraging excessively generous insurance. We're basically saying look, we can't get rid of the tax break. altogether want to make sure people get insurance. We're worried about them losing insurance, but we don't want to subsidize generous insurance. So, let's have a tax break that's tied to sort of a typical cost of an insurance plan. Anything above that, you lose the tax break. It's called capping the employer tax exclusion. So, that became a very a very popular idea. Um, and I'll come back next time and talk about what happened when we tried to do that in the Affordable Care Act. But that's sort of one way people have thought about dealing with the economic fallout, the potential fallout of people losing health insurance, which say we'll let you keep this tax break, but only up to a certain level. And that's sort of one one idea people had. Okay, questions about that? Okay. So, that's all I want. Yeah. >> Ens less. What? >> Oh, well, but um that's a great point. So, you're saying as a percent of income, are they getting more back? Um the answer is the percent of income they it so the very richest aren't sort of the near rich are getting more they're also more likely to have insurance coverage in the first place. So r so but you're right this comes something we're discuss a lot in chapter 18 which is how do you measure fairness? It's very tricky. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. So the question is why is the government subsidizing it? We're not saying you can't have it, just saying why is the government paying for you to have on the margin. The idea would be if we go back to our flat of the curve that we think giving people some insurance might be good for their health, but there's no reason why we should be subsidizing very generous insurance. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Last class we talked about some of the benefits of insurance, >> right? >> Which maybe it's the selection cost. Is there a reason why it might be good to incentivize employer? >> That that's one reason why. So in some sense you could think of this as what economics in economics we talk a lot about what's called second best problems. The first best is 1401 like everything works. The second best is well if something goes wrong what's the thing you can do given under those conditions the constrained best optimum. There might you might make what's called a second best argument for the employer tax subsidy saying well look there's reasons why we want people to have insurance through their employer. The only way you can make that happen is through this sort of bribe to employers so let's do it. It's like a subsidy to insurance. the problem and you could say and you might the counter would be well if you're going to subsidize insurance why do with their employers and the argument well they're a natural pooling mechanism and we'll come back next time to talk about why it might make more sense to use other pooling mechanisms but that would be the kind of this important kind of argument we need to be get good at developing which is recognizing that we're not in 1401 given failures what's the best thing to do and the trade-offs in those yeah >> the medical effectiveness curve Okay. Now, so that's what I want to say about the first. We t I said we talked about the benefits of insurance, the cost of insurance, but there's a whole another dimension now that we skipped in chapter 12 and 13 and 14, which is the role of the medical provider. In chapter when we talked about unemployment insurance, for example, the key thing that determined how long you stayed unemployed was your trade-off between leisure and UI benefits. But what determines how much medical care you use is mostly your doctor. I mean, you might decide whether you go to the doctor. When you get there, you're not, you know, you're largely not going to not do what the doctor says. The doctor largely determining it. So now we have to ask ourselves, there's another component of moral hazard we have to worry about, which is moral hazard on the provider side, which is how do we think about not just what patients have to pay when they get healthare, but how we should pay the providers to deliver that healthcare. Now, traditionally in America and the whole world, we had what was called a fee for service fee for service medical system. What is a fee for service medical system? What sounds like the doctor does a service and they get paid? You know, you know, Dr. Amet fixes my knee. Dr. Amet bills me for a knee. As long as the bill isn't insane, I pay it as the insurer. Okay? If Dr. Amet bills me a trillion dollars fixing my knee, I know Dr. Dr.'s not on the level but basically as long as it's sort of you know they had thing they called usual and customary reimburse as long as it sort of sounds sensible. The problem with this is that this led to a concern of doctors over overusing health care. So think about a doctor as having utility function. Let I'm not about malicious doctor scumbag doctor. A regular Joe doctor good guy. Okay. Regular Joe Dodge utility function includes two things. Your health as the patient and their income. They care about their income. They're not selfless. I said they're regular. They're not criminal, but they're not selfless either. Okay. As a result, think about the incentives facing that doctor to do any service which has an even infinite decimal chance of benefiting you but might make them money. They'll do it. Okay. Indeed, you could go further and say if it doesn't hurt you too much, they might still do it. measures which infin infantestally hurt you that makes them money. They might still do it because they care about both things. As a result, as you think about that flat of the curve, doctor incentives are pushing way out towards the end of the curve because as long as it doesn't hurt you and as long as there's even a chance it might benefit you. So let's say the doctor sees you and you have something which once in the last 50 years someone found some someone of those conditions had brain cancer. So they order a brain scan for you, okay? and finds nothing cuz it's one out of a gazillion cases that found something. But why not? Doesn't hurt you that much. Doesn't hurt you at all. It's a brain scan. It makes them some money. So the concern with a fee for service system is it lead to overuse of health care, over prescribing healthcare by doctors. And that's why in the 1980s we started moving away from the fee for service system towards managed care. a term you're all familiar with by now. Okay, managed care is the notion of not just a purely system where doctors do what the hell they want and bill you for it. Okay, managed care began in a very simple way with what was called preferred provider organizations. Preferred provider organizations or PPOs. This is what started early on. The way these worked is they simply said, look, this wasn't really dealing with a moral hazard. This was sort of saying, look, there's all these extra rents being made by providers and could we redistribute those rents back to insurers and people. The way it worked was the following. It started out in California, Northern California, and an insurer went to Hulip Packard or company like Hulip Packard, and said, "If I can save you 25% on your health care bill, would you be willing to tell your patients they can only use hospital X, Y, or Z?" And Hulip Packard said, "Sure." Then they went to hospitals in the area and said, "Whoever will give us 40% off, you can get the Hulip Packard patients, but if you don't, you won't get them." The hospitals like, "Well, geez, we're making gazillions of profits. We'll happily give you 40% back to get the patients." The PO pocketed the 15% difference. Went back to Hulip Packer, said, "Hey, look, here's a list of hospitals. Restrict your employees to going to these hospitals. You can save 25%." Essentially, they became a middleman scooping up the rents that were being excessively earned by these healthcare providers. and PPOs's lowered health care costs a lot, but not necessarily through changing the efficiency of those healthcare. They weren't really addressing the moral hazard problem. They were just sort of scooping up the rents that providers at that point. Essentially, imperfect competition created rents. PPOs became a competitive mechanism to recapture those rents. Okay, so that was um that was the first wave. But the really exciting wave was the wave of the HMO wave, health maintenance organizations. Because what HMOs were is they were essentially the integration of the delivery and the insurance of healthcare. HMOs said let's get rid of the separation of the company that insures you and the company that delivers the care. Let's integrate them. And I you know the most famous of which initially was Kaiser Kaiser Permanente in California. What they did is they said we are now going to have a system where your insur instead of signing for blue cross and blue cross pays whatever doctors want you sign up for Kaiser you then go to you have to go to a Kaiser hospital or doctor so you get sort of the PO effect but moreover we're going to change the way our providers are reimbursed we're going to move from a fee for service system to a prospective reimbursement system what is a prospective reimbursement system prospective reimbursement system is where doctors are paid not based on what they do to you but based but based on something else. So for example, one type of prospective system is doctors just paid a salary. Kaiser just paid their doctors a salary. Didn't matter how many people you saw or what you did. So there's no more incentive to give the extra test. Didn't you make much more money? You made your x $100,000 a year regardless of what you did to people. So we got rid of the incentive to overtreat people because your salary didn't depend on it. You can go further than that. So that's one approach. Further approach is the evil sounding capitation which is not decapitation but capitation approach which is to say to doctors look um we are going to pay you per you're going to have a panel of it's the easiest thing with a primary care doc you know pediatrician we're say to the pediatricians you're gonna have a panel of kids for every kid who's enrolled with you as their doc you get x dollars stop full stop doesn't matter what you do to You get that? Think about this system. It flips all the incentives on their head. It used to be when that kid came in my system, every test I did, I made more money. Now, every test I do, I lose money. Why? Because I get paid the same amount for the kid if I ignore them or treat them. So, it flips the incentives on the head and now instead of anything to undertreat because basically you it what it does is it changes the risk. who bears the risk under a fee for service system. The payer bears the risk under capitation system. The provider bears the risk because they get a fixed payment regardless of what they do. So if they do more, they're going to lose money. If they do less, they make money. Yeah. >> And money losses. >> No, because they literally >> Well, if if but their time is money. That's why I use a pediatrician. I mean, I'm not talking about a surgeon. I'm not a pediatrician. like they get paid for their time. So now they're spending their time. So So the point is if I if if if I if a Mets's got if a Met's a pediatrician, Val's a pediatrician, and a Met's going to spend three minutes like my workers comp doctor in three minutes seeing kids all day, he can see a ton more kids than Valerie can. So he'll make more money. Okay. So basically that was the switch was basically the idea of kind of moving towards a perspective reimbursement system. This was a very radical change. Now, HMOs eventually evolved into two types. The original Kaiser type was what was called IPAs, independent practice organizations, literally the full integration of an insurer and a doctor. But many people found that too restrictive. So, we actually went to um panel models of HB HMOs. The way the panel model worked is the HMO set up a panel of doctors. have to work for that company. So there's now AI belong to the Blue Cross HMO. The doctors don't work for Blue Cross, but if you want a Blue Cross HMO, you it's it's like a PO. You have to sign up for it and you agree, but it's a PO with prospective system with prospective reimbursement. So my doctor gets paid a fixed amount for having enrolled me by Blue Cross Blue Shield, but doesn't get paid anymore based on what he does to me. Okay. So IPAs are the most extreme form where basically literally the insurer and the doctor are are one and the same. The typical HMO is not that. Typical HMO is like Blue Cross where the doctor's independent but the doctor to be signed by Blue Cross has to accept I'll take this payment per patient or Blue Cross says I won't sign you up. Okay, that because of this and we'll come back to this next time. This is why the key differentiator across insurance companies is becoming their panel of doctors. Insurance companies don't differ that much, especially since the ACA in what they cover. What they differ is in which doctors they've signed up. Okay? And obviously the more money you pay doctors, the more you can sign up. Okay? So we've moved towards this prospective system. Now what effect has this had of moving to this? Okay. Well, on the one hand, the strong prediction would be it would save money because you move from where the doctors make more money by doing more on the margin to one want the doctors make more money by doing less on the margin. The problem is you can't just compare those who are in HMOs to those who aren't because it's indogenous. People get to choose. A sick person is not going to want to be an HMO. They're going to want to be able to go to whatever doctor they want. HMOs limit your choice of doctor. You have it's only the doctors signed up with them. So the problem is sick. You have a natural bias problem comparing those in HMOs and outside. There's been a bunch of papers that have dealt with this in various ways. Okay, they all come to a very consistent conclusion which is a there is enormous selection. Sicker people are much less likely to sign up for HMOs than healthier people are. B when you control for that selection, HMOs save a lot of money. like maybe 20% 25% a lot of money through through this alternative model. Okay. So the first fact is the selection. Second fact is they're lowering spending. Yeah. >> That that same money is just generally or the actual person. >> Ah great question. Who what is the as we'll talk about in tax what's the incidence of that savings? Um and basically uh we think that a lot of it has gone to the insurers and some has gone to the people. In a perfectly competitive market would all go to the people. In fact, one test of lack of perfect competition insurance markets is showing that when insurers save money uh they their profits go up. In a perfectly competitive market they wouldn't. So we have an imperfect insurance market. And so they've been keeping a lot of it. Now that raised the other question which is what about what about healthcare out? What about quality? Have they saved money by going too far? And the answer is no. The answer is that the quality of care overall delivered by these HMOs was no lower than it was delivered by traditional fee for service medicine. Now, there was a range. Some studies found it was lower. Some studies found it was higher. But the consens of the literature is basically zero. The consensus of the literature is these organizations are delivering comparable quality care. Okay? At least in terms of patient health, comparable quality in terms of patient health at lower cost. Why? Because we're on the flat of the curve because doctors under fee for service were delivering excessive medical care. They these HMOs managed to get rid of the excess without going too far. Now there's a question, why didn't they go too far? Why doesn't a Met see a patient every 15 seconds and just make ood oodles of money? And the answer is because there seems to be enough incentives in our system pushing the other way that doctors still don't undertreat people in particular medical malpractice pressure. They might get sued or just norms. Doctors still have patient utility and their patient health and their utility function. So bottom line is it feels like this move to managed care was a move which managed to move us in the right direction not too far if you measure by patient health outcomes. But there is another reason people like managed care, which is it's just a less pleasant experience. It used to be you go to whatever doctor you want and they just treated you. Now they have to review what procedure you're going to get. There's a bunch of extra paperwork. It's extra time. You might have to wait longer. So they've made the the the incidents in terms of who's won. Part of it is patients have lost because it's a less pleasant experience, but it's a lot cheaper. This is a little bit like if you remember those took 1401 with me. Remember I talked about airline deregulation where everyone about airline service but no one about the fact that airline the flights are a third lower third less expensive than they used to be before we deregulated because basically they were providing excessive quality. Doctors are providing excessive quality before. They're providing less which is a little less pleasant but we all like having the savings. Okay. So that is sort of the bottom line. Where does this leave us on optimal? So we talked about optimal design of insurance from the patients perspective which is about how you design cost sharing. What an optimal design of reimbursement where this lead design of reimbursement is that basically a pure fee for service system almost certainly makes no sense. The evidence is good that a managed care system may be a better approach but there remains concerns in certain contexts of providers going too far. So you really want sort of a managed care system with some checks on it to make sure so for you know for example something which may allow some escape valves so that providers don't or you know just monitoring to make sure providers don't go excessively too far. Yeah. >> Insurance >> much lower what >> are people less for these days? Yes, the price. Well, it's I it's just a time series, right? But certainly insurance is cheaper than it would be under the old system. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's it's this model is very much vertical integration. >> Well, that's that's a great question. This comes to you know, we don't do antitrust in this class. You can take 1420, which is a terrific class to learn more about antitrust issues. But basically, that's the trade-off with antitrust in a health care setting is that vertical integration can deliver efficiencies of this type, but it also lowers competition. And um you'd think now it's it's an easy horizontal in mergers are very bad for competition. Obviously, vertical are not obviously bad for competition because the insurer and the doctor weren't competing with each other. The question is whether uh you you end up with these vertical institutions that self-refer and up limiting competition and so that there's there's a rigorous debate about that. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Right. Does that like kind of like not die or just like >> Well, that that is a great that is a great question. I mean, in some sense, this comes to the very fact that economists think about health insurance differently than people do. Not that we're not people, but you know what I mean. Basically economists think about health insurance the way I taught you in this class which is as a means of protecting you against risk. That is something which says that for example rich people should have high deductibles. People think about health insurance as medical prepayment. Think about I've already paid my premiums. I don't have to deal with anything else. Okay. Now we can tell in the blue face they're wrong. That's not the point of insurance. But that's what people part of what people like. So for example, people hate the idea of having to pay when they go to the doctor. and you can explain well actually it's a small price to pay and it lowers your premium whatever no they hate it. So if you really think of insurance as just something which makes your life you pay once every month and forget about it then maybe people ra would rather pay more every month and have a hassle-free life later on. And the trick is I'll come back to this later this lecture do they really have that choice or not and we'll come back to that. Yeah >> it's a great question very complicated and interesting question is does it spill over? So if I if I treat you know if half my patients are managed care and half are fever service does that affect how I treat the fever service patients compared to all and the evidence is not great on that. >> Okay. Yeah. I would imagine that incentive. >> No, there's no incentive to be more productive with fee for service. They're incentive to do more stuff. >> Y >> but that's not productivity. >> They're incentive to work harder. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. But if but working harder C it's it it's an interesting point. It flips on its head what we learned about when we thought about labor supply labor supply. We're like look you don't want to get in the way of people working hard. Well, the problem is people working hard on labor supply is increasing social welfare. People working hard here is lowering social welfare because delivering a bunch of care that as Feldstein showed has dead weight loss. So it's not productivity. It's a good it's a good distinction. Okay. So now that's sort of a lecture and a half on sort of basic healthcare economics. Now we're going to come for the next lecture and a half to the government programs and how we can take the tools we just learned and use them to think about optimal design and government health insurance programs. So let's start with Medicaid. Medicaid is insurance for the poor. Medicare insurance for the elderly. Okay. So let's start with Medicaid insurance for the poor. Let me sort of now like I did with the other social insurance programs, let's do five minutes on sort of institutions and let's dive into the economics. So what is Medicaid? Medicaid is a federally subsidized but staterun program that provides health insurance to lowincome individuals in that who reside in that state. Okay. Now who is eligible? That has changed a lot over time. Traditionally Medicaid began as a program for just those who were very poor who were getting cash welfare checks from the state. So think people whose earnings were like five grand a year or less like tiny. Okay. Then during the 1980s and 1990s it expanded to for two groups for children especially children under five and for pregnant women. expanded quite a lot to the point where it ex where in many states people were eligible instead of you know if you weren't pregnant as a woman you couldn't get Medicaid unless your if your income was above $5,000 but if you were pregnant you get if your income was up to $50,000 so there was a huge expansion right up into the middle class from the very poor to the middle class for those groups. Yeah. >> 50- So, it's a huge expansion up in the middle class for those for those groups. Um the um and basically that happened that kept going through the 1990s. Um and basically uh you had a situation by the mid by the by the year you know you into the 2000s where basically essentially all basically any kid anyone for pregnancy is eligible up to about the typical income in America. So basically if you're below typical income in America in most states you're eligible for health insurance as a kid or or for expensive pregnancy. But except for those groups it was very hard to get. you had to be very very poor. That changed with the affordable care act. The Affordable Care Act made it a universal what we call means tested program which is for everyone below 133% of the poverty line which as I said for a family is probably about 30k or 32k a year you now get Medicaid regard not kid whatever okay now the kids still get it up to higher incomes kids still get it up to higher but but for everyone now they get it uh 133% of poverty line but um because of a supreme court decision 2012 states can decide if they want to offer this. And I'll come back to this next time, but for reasons that I will charitably characterize as political malpractice, uh, a number of states have not taken up this option. So, in about 10 to 12 states now, you still can't get Medicaid if you're poor. Um, uh, even if you're at 100% of the poverty line. Okay. Yeah. >> From the feds. No, Medicaid in general is basically 67% fed, 33% state and the formula is an inverse function of state income. So basically Massachusetts 50/50, Arkansas it's like 7030. Okay. So the states I'm sorry on average the states the federal government pays about 56% of the cost of Medicaid. But these expansions under the ECA were 100% federal. State went to the states and said we'll pay all the costs to expand. number of states still said no. Okay, so that's who's eligible. What's covered? Basically, Medicaid is really good insurance. I like to call it the best insurance money can't buy. It covers pretty much everything pretty much free. Okay, so basically any medical service is pretty much covered for free. In many states that includes dental, vision, etc. Things that many health insurance plans don't cover. Okay, that's the good news. The bad news is that state Medicaid programs, they don't have a lot of choice over what they cover. They have a choice over two things. Who's covered, and as I said, the ACA sort of taken a lot of that choice away. Said pretty much you have to cover poor people. And how much providers get paid. And states vary a lot in how much providers get paid. In a particular number of states, providers get paid very, very poorly for seeing Medicaid patients. Typically on the order of it can be as low as 10% of what they get for a privately insured patient. So for many many years um uh uh doctors in New York if they saw a Medicaid patient I don't know what it is now you got about like $12 where you're getting $200 for seeing a private patient. Okay. So basically and this has been shown in survey after survey to cause doctors to not want to see Medicaid patients. And that's legal. It's illegal to turn someone away at the emergency room but it's legal to turn someone away at the doctor's office. So as a result there was on the one hand Medicaid is this great insurance but you can't find doctors to take it uh is the challenge in particular problems particularly acute in rural areas and inner city areas. It's particularly acute finding doctors that will take take the Medicaid coverage. So it's a mixed it's a mixed bag. Okay that's Medicaid. Now let's go back to the chapter 12 framework. Okay moral hazard we don't need to cover with Medicaid. Basically, it's got all the moral hazard free health insurance would have subject to the fact that if you can't see the doctor, there's no scope for moral hazard. Let's talk about though the other side, the benefits. So, how do we think about the benefits of health insurance? Well, one benefit is the consumption smoothing benefit. Does having Medicaid help you smooth your consumption in particular when you get ill? And the answer is strongly yes. There's a number of studies which show that when Medicaid expands, if people get Medicaid, they're they are much less likely to go bankrupt. They're much more more the bankruptcy is mixed, but much less likely to have bad credit scores, much more likely to be able to have more to eat, much more likely to be financially stable and secure. So, it looks like it is smoothing in consumption um of uh of of individuals. So, it does lower bankruptcy. That's right. Okay. So that's the one piece and in some sense that's the main piece right it is health insurance but remember the role of health insurance is to protect you financially okay that's the goal of health insurance to protect you financially and the answer is Medicaid does that job people are not well self-insured against these medical risks and when they get Medicaid they're protected financially however really truly what most people seem to think is they want enough health insurance is good for your health or not that's what we sort of want to know with healthcare and so the question then is does having Medicaid actually improve your health? And it turns out this is kind of a complicated question. And so to do that I developed this highly technical chart which is the first chart we have figure 161 which talks about the steps through which making someone eligible for Medicaid might actually lead to improved health. So let's say you imagine let's take these ACA expansions. We we increase eligibility for Medicaid. How does that translate to improved health? What it does through a number of steps. The first step is well you have to actually take that health insurance. So for someone who was previously uninsured to the right, previously uninsured to the right, you have to take up. Remember we said take up is imperfect. Moreover, it may actually impact enrollment in insurance if you're already insured. Like I said, MIT makes me pay six grand a year for health insurance where I have a $3,000 deductible. Medicaid would pay pay nothing for a plan where everything's covered. I might think, gee, that's a pretty good deal. If I'm eligible for Medicaid, maybe I want to drop my private insurance and move over to Medicaid. That's something that's a typical example of crowd out where you had a private insurance that's crowded out by this public insurance. And that can happen as well. So there's two ways that increased eligibility could lead to increased Medicaid coverage through take up of the uninsured and crowd out of the insured. Now but coverage then the question is does that lead to increased utilization? And the answer is it's not clear because of the doctor access problem. Coverage clearly will increase the demand for health care but will increase the actual delivery of healthcare depends on how supply constrained you are. So the next question is well if we get coverage does it actually increase their utilization. Then the next question is does that utilization actually translate to better health outcomes? We've talked about a lot of studies which are showing that changing health insurance doesn't seem to change health. We saw that with the rand health insurance experiment. We saw that with these managed care example. So does it actually improve your health? And then the last step we care about as public finance economists is does it do so cost effectively or should we just give people cash? Okay, this is a cost-effective way to improve health. Okay, so to study this, there's been a large literature I've been a contributor to this literature which has looked at the effect of Medicaid on various outcomes. And what we have is we have the huge advantage that the expansions in the 80s and 90s in Medicaid happened in a very differential way across states and across demographic groups. So for example, if you look at table 161, this shows what happened to eligibility for Medicaid among kids in two states. So in 1982, 12% of kids in Missouri were eligible for Medicaid. 20% of kids in Michigan were. Michigan is higher income and at higher eligibility. Why? Because their program was more generous in 1982. By 2000 when the states had expanded now 76% of all kids in Missouri are eligible for Medicaid. That's what I meant. It really went up to the middle class. It's 34% in Michigan because Michigan's a richer state. So you have a difference in difference here where because of a national expansion that increases to a certain poverty where people are poor than it did in Michigan where people are rich. Yeah. the chip program I'm folding into Medicaid. So basically that is a classic diff and diff we can use to study but it's better than that because states expanded differentially for different ages of kids. So if you look at Missouri um in 1982 18% of um kids at age 13 we're el I'm sorry this is Washington DC another example in 1982 18% of kids at age 13 were eligible and 48% were eligible at birth by 2000 the share at birth had barely budged but the share at age 18 had gone up a lot so that's another difference you can exploit is different age kids within a state so it's got all the fun chapter 3 stuff going on lots of differences differences floating around here. And so lots of people have used this now. There's probably hundreds of articles written and now of course we have a whole new literature because some states expanded on the ACA and some didn't. So we had an old literature. Now we have a whole new literature that's using those experiments. So what have we learned? Okay, first of all, we've learned that takeup is very impartial. If you look at a straight line for Medicare eligibility to Medicaid coverage and you ask for every person made eligible, what share actually gain coverage? The answer is about 20 to 25%. Really low. Every person made eligible only 20 to 25% get covered. But that ignores the fact there's two channels because it turns out most of the people made eligible by the expansion of the 80s and 90s already had health insurance. So what you really want to know is the two separate channels. How much is covering be among people who are previously uninsured and how much is crowd out. And what you find is that among people previously uninsured the takeup is probably more like 2/3 which is kind of typical for a social insurance program. Twothirds is about how often people seem to take up these entitlements. By the way, it's crazy, right? This is a free entitlement, okay, that you're getting worth thousands and thousands of dollars and a third of the people turn it down. We've talked about reasons why that be that might be information failures, hassle, cost, stigma, etc. But nonetheless, it looks like it's about twothirds take up. Yeah. >> Is there a reason why automatically? >> Well, the question is how would you give it automatically? It is given automatically. I mean, literally what you could do, I mean, you could you could send people letters, but the problem is um the reason it can't be given automatically necessarily easily is because it's income targeted. So you have to first confirm my income. Now you can go back and confirm it with tax data, but that's old and takes a while to get. And the federal government doesn't like sharing tax data across branches. So this leads to a major issue we're having now in Medicaid, which is that during the crisis during COVID, we essentially made everybody who applied eligible for Medicaid. We didn't check your income. Basically, as long as you self attested you were poor, we let you on. We didn't check if it was true. So, the problem is now we're checking and it turns out a huge huge number of kids on Medicaid weren't actually eligible or aren't eligible now. And there's millions of kids being losing their health insurance as a result, which is an issue we're dealing with now. >> Well, no, it's a great question. It's it's fraud if they lied about their income when they signed up. What about if their income has changed? Then it's not fraud. They ask about your income now. Now technically, so the way Medicaid works is they do a re-evaluation every periodically every six months or every year where they reask about your income. So the idea is when you're made eligible, you are guaranteed that eligibility even if your income goes up till the next reertification. At the next reertification, they ask you. The problem is the following. They do these reertifications, tons of kids lose Medicaid. It turns out almost many of them, the best estimate is about twothirds or half to twothirds are actually still eligible. they just missed the letter or they didn't couldn't read the letter or something like that. So, this fascinating trade-off that no one's ever really figured out how to deal with, which is on the one hand, I don't want to give rich kids Medicaid. On other hand, when I try to kick people off, I kick a lot of people off who shouldn't be kicked off. And how do you resolve that trade-off? That's a really interesting problem we're dealing with right now that many of the kids who are losing eligibility now may still be eligible. The parents just didn't get the letter or they just can't read it or they're not paying attention. >> Yeah. >> Just like at the time of service how the equivalent of that letter. >> No, the problem is how's the doctor going to know your income? >> I mean the problem is you know once again that's universal would solve this but without universal it's hard to solve. >> Is it fair to say that like I don't know let's say >> I don't think so. I don't know. I mean, you know, you could talk about a model certainly you could talk about a model where like you'd have to have a situation where Yeah. I mean, you could imagine you they got health insurance, they found out they had cancer and they kicked them off before they could deal with it and they're sad or knowing they have cancer. Either way, their cancer wouldn't been dealt with, but they're sad or knowing they have can. So, it have to be something which involve people sort of well-being of like knowing whether they're sick or not. That would be the story you'd have to tell. Um, what about crowdout? Well, crowd is real. I mean crowd by the way it's ambiguous whether crowd will be real or not because remember on the one hand I described why I might want to drop IMT insurance. On the other hand if I drop my insurance and my income goes back up and I can't get Medicaid anymore. Maybe I can't get my insurance back and maybe I like my MT insurance I don't want to be in the government etc. So it's ambiguous how big crowd out would be. The best the estimates here are varied but the best estimates are crowded out and the even how you define it. The best estimates are that of the people who get who get covered about half were covering about half came from previously uninsured and half came from previously insured. We call it A-50% crowd out that of every person who's gaining of every thousand people gaining coverage through Medicaid, about 500 used to have health insurance and about 500 didn't have health insurance. Now, why do we care? Well, we care because the people who used to have health insurance now are it's on the public bill used to be on the private bill. Distributionally, we might be okay with that, but efficiency wise, we're not really changing anything. We're just shifting costs from the private to the public sector. Classic crowd out issue. So, that's the first note of this chart. The second note is well given that much of those people already had health insurance anyway and given it's hard to find a doctor do you actually get more healthare and the answer is unamiguously yes study after study shows large large increase in in Medicaid uh eligibil in using health care when you're be when you get Medicaid despite the barriers despite the crowd out huge increase in healthcare utilization okay Then the question is, well, does it improve health? Now, here it's a fascinating I'm going to diverge for a minute to a fascinating sort of lecture on methods, if you will, in economics, because it's interesting, at least to me, and you got to listen. Okay? Well, you don't have to listen. I'd like you to listen. Okay? Basically, there was a literature in up till about 2010, up until about 2008, and that literature was fairly consistent that giving people Medicaid improved their health, that they use more health care and health outcomes were better. And there were all these sort of cool quasi natural experiment studies. Quasi experimental studies showing some by myself showing that for example when mothers got Medicaid they were much the babies were much less likely to die. When kids got Medicaid they're much less likely to be sick and go to the hospital. Lots of evidence that Medicaid was improving health and actually that it was doing so cost-effectively. That if you looked at the cost of increasing we're spending on Medicaid versus what we're getting for health. We're doing like saving a baby's life for a million bucks, which if you think back to chapter eight is not bad. And we think lives are worth 10 and a half million. Saving a baby's life for a million bucks is not bad. So, we're doing things. We were improving health and doing so fairly cost- effectively. Okay, that was sort of round one. Round two was this very famous Oregon Health Insurance Experiment. The Oregon health insurance experiment was a study where the state of Oregon decided they want to expand Medicaid. which is preaca decided they want to expand Medicaid for adults. They want to add 10,000 more adults to their Medicaid program. So they took applications from uninsured people and a 100,000 people applied. So decided they decided a fair way to allocate it would be to have a lottery. So they ran an experiment. They ran a lottery and 10,000 people got it, 90,000 people didn't. And a team that I was part of but which was led by my colleague Amy Ficklestein and Kate Baker formerly of Harvard, now the provost at Chicago. um they looked at uh what effect this had using a is an experiment and the findings were people used a lot more health care like I said that's clear but their health wasn't measurably much better now one exception okay there in their measures of physical health weren't better their blood pressure didn't change things like that one exception was mental health depression went down by 30% % almost instantly. So that's sort of weird because even Prozac doesn't work that quickly and it wasn't like they're putting it in the water. What happened was it comes back to we were discussing a few minutes ago. It was the our theory, the co-author's theory is just the lack of stress of being uninsured that facing constant financial risk is depressing and that basically by relaxing that risk on people, we improve their mental health. Which comes these other questions about what is insurance for? Sort of contradicts a bit my earlier perception. It it doesn't really actually contradict it. I would argue it doesn't. What it's saying is that's a measure of the benefit of ensuring the idea of insurance to protect against financial risk. A measure of the value of that is how much better people mental health was. Yeah. >> Uh adults. They didn't really survey it. It was only expansion for adults. It was only expansion for adults. Side note on that side note of a side note talking about the way healthcare is viewed in America. This art this study was very famous got coverage New York Times and stuff and they wrote the articles they said study finds health insurance doesn't improve health. In the last sentence they said oh yeah depression went down 30%. Which sort of talks about the sort of weak role mental health is on society relative to physical health. And I think that's changing with your generation. There's a lot more attention to mental health than there was even 15 years ago when we did this study. But uh sort of an interesting side note about the value of people's view of the value of mental and physical health. Anyway, this was shot across the bow because people said, "Wow, we have this whole literature saying Medicaid improved health. What if it doesn't?" Okay. Then we ran another experiment called the Affordable Care Act where we had some people r getting health insurance because their states expanded, others not. Okay. And what that study what they did in those studies is they took massive samples of individuals so they could find really precisely what effect that had and they found huge positive effects on health much like the previous literature. Okay, from very convincing methods indeed there was another randomized trial which is really cool. Under the affordable care acts I'll talk about next time. There was an individual mandate. That individual mandate said you to report on your taxes whether you were insured and if you weren't, you paid a penalty. Well, the IRS after the first year, the IRS is our tax system. After the first year of this program decided people who did who paid the mandate penalty, they should remind them, hey, get health insurance, you have to pay the penalty. Someone convinced them, some brilliant person convinced them to randomly remind people. So they randomly randomized and some people got a reminder letter and some didn't. I don't know how they got away with that. Okay. What they found was the people who got the reminder letter were much more likely to sign up for health insurance and their health improved. So here we have a situation where we have this sort of conricts in the literature. I think the answer is pretty clear that the problem with the Oregon health insurance experiment is only followed people for about a year and the samples were too small. Now, as a co-author, I'm not sure the lead authors would agree. I'm a junior co-author on that paper. I'm not sure they'd agree with my assessment of that. Uh, but that would be my assessment of what we of this debate that basically pretty much sealed the deal that health that Medicaid expand and Medicaid coverage is good for your health. Um, and that it probably improves your health cost effectively. But it it is sort of an interesting study in how scientific consensus evolves. Okay, questions about that? Yeah, >> I remember when I was younger and like politics. >> Oh, come come come to the next lecture. We'll talk all about it. Believe me, I I'll show you my scars. >> Okay. Okay. That's what I want to say about Medicaid. Now, I want to turn to the other big program, Medicare, which is insurance for the >> elderly. All right. Good. Remember, anytime I can sneak up on you and ask you this question. I have to write any time to ask this question. Okay. So, how does Medicare work? Well, Medicare, unlike Medicaid, is a federal program, not a state program. Okay? It's a federal program. You pay, as I said, it's a program where if you've worked for at least 10 years, paying in your Medicare taxes, you then when you turn 65 become eligible for the Medicare program or if you become disabled after two years, you also become eligible for Medicare. So, it's insurance for the elderly and the disabled. Elderly is a fine summary. I won't hit you with the disabled part, but for the elderly and disabled people on disability insurance. Okay. Now, how does Medicare look? Medicare looks let's traditional Medicare looks very much like old school fee for service medicine. Basically, you get the insurance, the government's your insurer, you go to any doctor you want, and the government pays the bills. Okay? And until the 1980s, that's basically how it worked. And we'll come back to what changed in a few minutes. Now, Medicare, however, is really three different programs. There's part A, part B, and part D. I'll come back later to part C. Why do we skip C? I'll come back to that. Part A is hospital care. That is what we pay for with our payroll tax. Our payroll tax goes in the Medicare Part A trust fund. That pays for your hospital care. Part B is doctor care. doctor care you actually have to sign up for. So, and like 97% of elders do, but basically it's a program where the government provides pays for your doctor care. That one you don't pay any payroll tax, but you pay a premium that is 25% of the program costs. So, that's more like the kind of insurance you have an employer. Okay? You pay a premium that's 25% of program costs. Okay? And that's part B. Part D is coverage for drugs. And I'll talk about that uh separately in a little bit. Now, what this means is while Medicaid may be the best insurance money can't buy, Medicare is actually not that generous. 20 years ago was much less generous to typical employer plan. Now, it's probably equivalent to a typical employer plan. This is shown in table 162. This compares Medicare and Medicaid in terms of what you have to pay. Okay. First, I have the eligibles. Talk about premiums. Okay. Well, for med medicaid, there's none. For Medicare, you have to pay for physician coverage and you also have to pay for prescription drug coverage. That's variable. We'll come back to that. Deductibles are co-ayments, nothing in Medicaid. In Medicare, you have to pay a 1484 deductible. And then for for hospitals, for physicians, there's a $200 deductible. And this is important, a 20% uncapped co insurance. This is worse than any other insurance program. Every other insurance program you sign up for has a maximum. They say you have to pay out of pocket, but it's some maximum will stop you. Medicare does not. If you spend $100,000 on doctors, you owe $20,000. Uncapped, and we'll come back to this. It's a real weak feature of Medicare. Uncapped co- insurance system. Okay? And Medicaid doesn't exclude anything. Medicare exclude used to exclude prescription drugs. It used to exclude routine checkups. At least it wouldn't make it free. It excludes dental care, nursing home care, eyeglasses, hearing aids, etc. Okay. And then finally, reimbursement under Medicare is sort of between private insurance and Medicaid. It's it's a if Medicaid is on average like less than half of private insurance, Medicare reimbursement is like on the order of about 70% of private insurance. Okay. So, that's basically how the program works. Let's talk about prescription drugs. This is a fascinating debate. Real time, at least in my life, real time debate. Okay. When Medicare was set up in 1965, it did not include drugs. That's because outofpocket drugs wasn't really a thing. It's like if you got drugs, you got in the hospital, all of a sudden you took two aspirin and called them in the morning. Okay? It wasn't a thing. But by the time by the late 1990s, the typical elder was spending more on prescription drugs than the whole program cost in 1965. Prescription drugs have become a big deal and there's a there's increasing awareness. this is a hole in the nature of the Medicare program. So, um, basically in the in George W. Bush's first term, there was consensus that something should be done about this, but there was a vigorous disagreement goes back to chapter 7 between the two parties and how it should be done. Democrats want to do med this new drug program like we do the rest of Medicare, a singlepayer fee for service system. Republicans said no, we should have a privately provided but federally paid system. We should have private insurers provide the prescription drug benefit competing with each other and the federal government will pay in the back end to those insurers. So it'll be like other insurance where the contractors the federal government but it'll be private insurers delivering it. And you see arguments on both sides. [clears throat] On the one side the Republican army makes a lot of sense. Competition works in many contexts. The idea is to have these competitive insurers and they can have innovate and things like that. On the other hand, innovation, what is innovation in insurance? Largely, it's innovation about how to keep out sick people, right? I mean, that's how insurers really innovate is by trying to decide how to keep sick people out. So, it's not quite clear why you want innovation. Now I think the counterargument to that which is valid which is that so the Republican counter-argument is actually a lot of innovation is in negotiations with the drug companies that basis innovation how you decide to get the prices down on those drugs to which the Democrats responded well the best way to get prices down is have one giant payer just screws the pharmaceutical companies and that's what Medicare would do. vigorous debate between these two things. Um, and Republicans won and we set up this program where basically people get their Medicare prescription drug benefit from a private insurer that's largely paid by the federal government. People pay a premium which is, you know, a small fraction of the cost. The federal government pays the rest. Okay. So, that's how it ended up. How did it do? Well, basically it was much cheaper than we expected. The early evidence on part D was quite good in terms of relative to what we thought the program would cost. These private insurance companies really got the cost down. Did they get them down more than the government could have negotiating? Not clear. And we'll come back to that next time. Talk about the inflation reduction act. But certainly it was less than we expected. They certainly did a good job negotiating these prices down. At the same time, we had the problem that people were confused by this array of choice and did not do a very good job choosing their plants. That's something I've done a lot of research on. We've shown that the typical senior, we looked at all seniors, we looked at the plans they had available and what they chose and we sort of estimated what their cost would be under the alternative. And we found about 12% of seniors chose the lowest cost plan. And the typical senior could have saved on the order of $600 if they chose better. And basically, it's a very it's a very confusing choice. And basically, so the downside of the choice was seniors were not choosing the best plan for them. Yeah. like a benefit to having right on the end of that plans and now here is a small >> we'll come back to that absolutely well you know basically could the government play with a choice architecture in a way they could have the best of both worlds and we'll come back to that okay what's was most funky about part D okay was the way they set up the cost sharing let me explain how it worked Okay, the numbers aren't quite precise and they're out of date, but here's how it worked. Okay, so this is on this axis we have how much you spend on drugs and this axis we have your co- insurance rate. Okay, what percent of the cost of drugs you pay. Well, it was a $250 deductible. That meant for the first $250 you paid 100%. Okay. Then after $250, it fell to 25%. So at that point, you paid 25% of the cost of the drug. The insurer paid 75%. Until you got to, let me get the number. Until you got to uh $2,500 of spending. At that point, it went back to you paying 100%. until you got to 5100 when it went down to 5%. Now I think I hope you can see this does not make sense. It is hard to think of a chapter 12 justification for a structure like this because remember the whole idea is we're trying to combat moral hazard versus consumption smoothing. Well, these people, they're spending a lot on drugs. They need the consumption. It's not. Why do these people need better consumption than these people? The moral hazard is probably less because you're taking expensive drugs, you probably really need them. And the consumption smoothing is probably higher because this is a lot of money to spend. So, this is just clearly wrongheaded. Why' they do it? Why did they set up the structure this way? Chapter nine answer. Give you a hint. It's a chapter nine answer for why they set up the structure this way. Yeah. >> Most drugs are here or here. >> Here. >> Uh that um yeah, but this the pharmaceutical companies get the same amount of money either way. It's just what people pay. So that's not quite it. What else? >> Yeah, the risk is here. the voters are here. So basically or the voters are really here you know in this flat part. So the idea was instead of designing insurance to minimize risk they designed insurance to maximize votes which is if they' done the right thing which said look we're going to have a 25% co insurance to say $4,000 and then we'll get rid of it. All these voters been like no no no I don't or or if they said you know we'll have a 30% co insurance or something then get rid of it. people like, "Oh no, I'm so upset." This way, we're like, "Okay, for most voters, we'll keep them protected. These guys get screwed, but this is where the do there's where the risk is, but not many voters." So, [clears throat] it's a classic political economy trade-off. Fortunately, the Affordable Care Act fixed this, changed this to 25%. And now, uh, there's now a cap at $2,000 where it goes to zero. So, the new structure starting next year, the Affordable Care Act made this 25% to here. Okay. And now you don't need to know this just for, you know, just ratification. Now the new structure is 25% till $2,000 and then it's you're capped. Okay. Yeah. >> Uh that's part of the inflation reduction act start takes place in January. Okay. So that's an interesting sort of just interesting political economy of how these things happen. Now with Medicare, with Medicaid, I talked about the benefits and not the costs. with Medicare. I'm going to flip the tables. Yeah. >> 2022, I think. Yeah. >> Why wait two years? >> Um, >> we always, you know, um, that's a good question. I mean, you need to wait a little while because companies need to, it's a, that's a big change for insurers and how they structure the nature of their insurance. I don't details. They things like call formularies about which drugs are where. So, you need to give them a little while. It's not, you know, it's it's interesting. I'll talk about the Affordable Care Act and why the fundamental mistake was waiting so long. You know, more time allows for better design, but it has costs as well. We'll come back, we'll come back to that. So, um, so with Medicaid, I talked about trying to measure the benefits and ignore the costs. With Medicare, let's ignore the benefits. It's good. People have health insurance. Let's focus on the costs. Okay, the costs here are interesting because this remember the first lecture I talked about CBO, the Congressional Budget Office and how they're sort of the only thing keeping our democracy safe because they're the people are sort of truth tellers in Washington. Well, it's a fascinating example that I like to use CBO. This Medicare was developed by Lyndon Johnson before CBO and he basically kind of lied. He basically had his advisers say what they Medicare would cost and they were just way off. Now, were advisers just wrongheaded? I think probably not. I think they just understated it, but Medicare grew exponentially. Okay, so basically um Medicare started at a there was $64 million program in 1966. 14 years later, it was a $ 32 billion program. Okay, it' gone from 64 million to 32 billion in 14 years and was growing exponentially. And Congress is like, "Wait a second. [clears throat] That didn't that didn't quite work out like we thought. we need to control costs. So, Congress came up with two different approaches to controlling costs which are fascinating to study. The first approach once again always I use the term fascinating loosely. My family makes fun of me for this but you know once again you have to you have to listen. Um the first approach was to say hey let's move away from fee for service towards a prospective managed care prospect not managed care but a prospective reimbursement system. In particular, they set up what's called the prospective payment system for hospitals in 1980. This was very early, very innovative. How did this system work? The way it works, they said, "Look, we're not just going to pay you whatever you bill. We're going the following thing. We're going to we're going to take we're going to pay you based on how sick people are when they come to the hospital. Pay a fixed amount." So, some comes in with levels this level of sickness, we'll pay you this much. This level of sickness will pay you this much. and then you do whatever the hell you want. We're not paying you anymore. So, it's prospective reimbursement in hospitals. Instead of hospitals billing for every test, hospitals bill based on how sick the people are coming in. So, what they did now there are roughly 10,000 different diagnoses and they didn't want to deal with the different price. So, they set up what was called diagnosis related groups, 457 DRGs. These are basically like you know hysterctomy not hyctomy you know depending on a woman's age or various things or you know broken arm not like where which part of the arm is broken etc. heart attack there's four or five for different ones for heart attack where there's hundreds of different diagnoses for heart attack. So basically said we're going to have a fixed amount we pay per DRG. So it's a true prospective reimbursement system. We are going to pay a fixed amount per DRG. Okay. Now, what if this is a great experiment? What effect did it have? You basically something we're moving from retrospective to prospective reimbursement, but without all the other managed care features. This just a pure reimbursement change. So, it's not tangled up in all the things like independent practice organization stuff. It's the same doctors. You're just paying them different. So, it's a great experiment. What did we find? What we found was more evidence for the flat of the curve. that basically what we found was there was an enormous reduction overnight in how the elderly were treated. So the average hospital say for an elderly person fell from 10 days to 8 days within like two years. That's amazing. Okay. Um basically we saw a huge drop in the intensity of hospital care with no evidence of adverse effects on elder outcomes. classic flat at the curve that these hospitals doing excess care into the fee for service system. You move effective payment, they deliver less, but not so much less the patients are worse off. Just enough less they don't quite make as much money. Okay, I did skip one thing that I want to come back to for one second, which is what I didn't mention is you could have asked me, you could have said, "Wait a second, John. I'm confused by something." The Rand Health Insurance Experiment showed that the general acts of insurance didn't seem to matter for people's health. But you've just argued passionately that getting Medicaid matters for people's health. How was that consistent? And I would argue those two put together exactly illustrate the curve, which is getting people from having no coverage to some coverage. It matters for the health, but how generous that coverage is doesn't matter nearly as much. So that's sort of those two pieces put together are really what traces out this curve I keep coming back to that it matters that you get some healthare it [clears throat] might not matter as much how generous that healthcare is coming back to that before I forget now we're back on Medicare perspective payment they put in perspective payment it worked lowered healthcare costs healthare outcomes weren't any worse for a while then it stopped working hospital costs grew slowly for a while and then started growing again very rapidly Because basically hospitals figured out multiple different ways around this system. How would you get you're you guys are smart. Let's say you're running a profit maximizing hospital. I put in the DRG system. How would you get around it to get back to making more money? What could you do? Doctors aren't allowed to answer. What would you do? Come on. You guys are smart. I know you're not evil, but imagine you were. Yeah. You could change how people are diagnosed. If you look at the data, America's elders got incredibly sick overnight. Okay? There was a big jump in the diagnosis because you're paid based on diagnosis. They started diagnosing people sicker. Now, you can't diagnose a broken arm as a heart attack, but you can diagnose someone who came with a broken arm and a heart attack. You can focus on the heart attack part, not the broken arm part. Okay? because the heart attack part gets paid more. Um this was um uh now this is just um there's that there's the general like gee will sort of on the margin code a little more complicated and then there's the extreme examples like um Cedar Sinai in 1995 Cedar Sinai Medical Center Miami once again it's always Florida okay they coded there were two DRGs one for respiratory illness with a complex respiratory infection and one with pneumonia with complications. So, I have a respiratory illness, pneumonia's respiratory illness. I could either call pneumonia with complications where I got paid $1,700 or respiratory illness with complex complex respiratory illness for which I got $5,700. Well, at Jackson Memorial, which was a nonprofit hospital nearby, 28% of the case were coded as the complex. In the for-profit Cedars Medical Center, 93% were coded as complex. Now, maybe they got a little more complex cases, but it's hard to imagine it was that different. Um, and indeed, uh, a number of, um, uh, a number of hospitals actually got were subject to huge lawsuits for clearly abusing the system. But to be fair, the system was designed to be abused. What do I mean by that? What I mean by that is literally anyos that is designed to be abused in the sense that it was partially retrospective. What do I mean by that? What I mean by that is for example, if someone comes in a heart with a heart attack, you could code them as cardiac arrest unexplained and get $5,000. Or you could do a coronary bypass, which is a different DRG. heart attack with a coronary bypass got $33,000. Well, that sounds a lot like fee for service medicine to me. You do something, you get paid more. That's not prospective reimbursement anymore. So, part of the problem was they didn't really commit to true prospective reimbursement. They said, "Well, gee, we'll actually pay some more if you do some of this stuff." So, that was part of the problem that it was still sort of a fee for service system. Okay. Another problem was it paid hospitals per admission. So, what do you do? Well, you know, Paul comes in. Don't worry, Paul. You're not actually sick. I'm just using your name. Paul comes in. He looks shocked. Paul comes in and we treat him and we're like, Paul could use a couple more days. We're going to discharge him and read him and get paid twice. So, hospitals started doing a lot of excessive discharge and readmission. Indeed, part of the Affordable Care Act, I'll talk about next time, was actually a policy to penalize hospitals for the successive readmission. Okay, so that's another thing you could do. Another thing you could do is you could recognize that patients get treated in many locations, only some of which were reimbursed by PPS and some of which were still reimbured fee for service. So for example, when you're if you break your hip, you go from the you go to an acute care hospital to a rehab hospital. The acute care hospital, you get your surgery in the Qare hospital. They keep you for some amount of time, then they ship you off to the rehab hospital where you get rehabbed. The acute care hospital is reimbured by PPS. The rehab hospital is still fee for service. So what they do is kick people real quick out of the acute care hospital, put them in rehab, and they paid. So they save money. Our acute care hospitals went down but our rehab hospital bills went up. So basically hospitals became very good at figuring out ways to game this system. And it sort of talks about the what I talk about in the book is basically the difficulty of partial reform. It's like squeezing a squeezing a pillow. Okay, you squeeze the middle it comes out the sides. That basically it's very hard when you have underpaid overworked government regulators and overpaid underworked private executives. the private executives are going to win and basically the trick is whenever you try to sort of play whack-a-ole, you're always going to be behind. It doesn't mean it's not worth doing. Even with all these changes, health hospital costs still grew more slowly after PPS than they did before. Okay? It's just they slowed a lot than sped back up, but never as fast as they were before. So, you can't The problem is people take these lessons as sort of nealistic like, "Oh my god, we shouldn't have done anything." That's not the answer. We were still controlling healthcare costs better with this system than before we had the system. It just had a number of flaws because of its now. So we've tried to deal with So what do we do? We've whack moles. We've put in a readmission penalty. I'll talk about that next time to try to lower cost. We've moved the whole system to PPS. So now you don't you can't game the system by moving someone to rehab because the rehab's on PPS too. So we've taken steps to try to address some of these holes, but it's never going to be perfect. Yeah. >> The example is that incentive. >> Well, certainly no more incentive than they had before because they always got paid more. It just didn't decrease the incentive. Basically, it used to be you'd bill more for it. Now, you get a higher DRG for it. It's the same thing. So, it didn't decrease incentive. Yeah. >> Oh, excellent, excellent question. So, how do you do the empirical work here? Great question. Uh, two ways. One is that PPS was phased in in different part. It was phased in over time and the rate at which hospitals got phased in differed based on what their costs were initially. So you have sort of a diff and diff based on what at what point hospitals were subject to PPS. It was over several years. You also have the fact that some states already had a system like PPS. So they were exempt from the PPS reform. So you have a state difference indifference. Um you can also do things like if you look at last thing if you look at figure 162 what happened was in this is just a national change. It used to be that at long-term care hospitals you used basically they would keep patients a long time. Okay. And they changed and they were worried they're overpaying these hospitals. They put in a policy which said they were worried you were abusing long-term care hospitals when when they didn't need to be there. So we're going to pay less for the first 29 days. only once you've been there 30 days will we pay more. Look what happened afterwards. There was a huge increase in people staying 30 days because that's when the reimbursement went up. It's a national change, but it's pretty obvious something like that's going on. So, you either look for sharp event studies like that or you try to find control groups. Great question. Okay, let's stop there.