Okay. So last time we talked about at towards the end we talked about sequences and so in particular we talked about square root of two right. a square root of two. We could think about this if we wanted to think about square root two on the real line. Then we have here one and we have two. And we could define a sequence of numbers where the first one is one, the second one is 1.4, the third is 1.4.1 4.1 and the next one is then the next digit in square of two. So 1.4.1.4 etc. And so so this is like a sequence of numbers that are increasing uh and it is square root of two where you're taking more and more digits. Right? So square root of two is in some sense the limit of this sequence. And so precisely a sequence uh is so we talked about that last time but let me just remind you what that is. So a sequence is uh is a function from the natural numbers. So f goes from the natural numbers into the real and the value at some natural number n. the value of this function at a natural number and this we denote usually it's a standard notation then one denote it like this with where the n is a subscript okay uh and so let's uh let's take a look at a couple of different uh sequences. So we told that so this here really is a sequence. Uh another example is um where you have a n = minus1 to the power n. So uh so n again is is this natural number. So this means that this sequence a1 is equal to minus1 a2 is equal to -1 * -1. So that's one. A3 is -1 * -1 * -1. So this is min -1 and a4 is -1 multiplied itself four times. So that's one. Right? So this sequence here is it's it's alternating between the values uh minus one and one. So it's starting off at minus one and then it goes to one and it goes to minus one one minus one etc. Okay. And so this sequence here right it doesn't really right it's not you know it doesn't really converge it it's not it doesn't really have a limits right so this here we'll make this precise in just a minute so this sequence does not have a limit uh another an example of a sequence is is a decaying sequence like this. So a n is equal to 1 / n right? So so a1 is equal to 1, a2 is equal to a half, a3 is equal to a3 and then a4 is equal to 1/4. Right? So these numbers here are all positive. Right? the the values of a is all all of them are all positive and they become smaller and smaller right so you could write that sort of suggestively this here is going down like that and so right so it seems sort of obvious that this limit here uh that this sequence has a limit this here has a limit and the limit is zero. Okay. So now let me make the formal definition. So so what does it mean that a sequence is convergent? So um a sequence uh a n is convergent to uh to to a. So a is another real number is a sequence a n is converging to a if the following is the case. If the following hold uh for all epsilon for all epsilon greater than zero there exist there exist an anal such that if little n is bigger than this natural number then the difference between a n and the supposed limit is bounded by epsilon. Okay. So if you think about it, so if you think about it on the here you have on the real line here you have a and so if you give me an epsilon so then I'm looking at a here I'm looking at an interval around a so this is an interval here from a minus epsilon to a plus epsilon and the claim is that the sequence a n is converging to a if there exists some n. So that if n is little n is larger than this capital n then all of these a n lands somewhere here right all of them a n is in this little integer for n uh little n bigger than this capital n right that's what it means to be convergent right but it's like for all epsilon so you you allowed to you know someone else else is allowed to pick the epsilon and then you have to prove that there exist a capital n so that from there on and out all of the a lie in this little interval. Okay. So this is what it means for a sequence to be convergent. So we say that a n is convergent uh to a if this here is the case and in that case in that case one also writes that uh that the limit as n goes to infinity of a n is equal to a a sequence. So if you have a sequence or a sequence that is not convergent uh is said to be divergent. Okay. And so now let me look at an example. Um, so suppose you're looking at the number 0.9999 etc. Right? This number here, this is really this number here, we really think about this number here as one. This is indistinguishable from one, right? And in fact what you really think about is that you think about that you have a sequence uh a where a1 is 0.9 a2 is 0.999 a3 is 0.999 A4 is equal to 0.999 9 9 etc. Right? So a n is where you have zero point and then nine n times right? If you're looking at that sequence here, right? Then you have that this sequence a n is convergent to one. So a n this one also write that is convergent to one like this. So a n is convergent to one. Right? So there's various ways of writing that is convergent. You can write it like this. This means that it's convergent and the limit is a. You can write it like this. This means that the sequence is convergent and the limit is one. Right? Or you can write it out in words. Okay. Um so so this sequence I claim that this sequence here defined like this and this is really how you think about this right when you think about this number you sort of think about it that's you know this is you know 0 9 with more and more uh numbers nines added and the limit which is really what this number here in itself is is one. Okay. Now let me explain why the sequence defined this way why this is convergent as a limit one. Okay. And so so now so now of course now you give me an epsilon. So given epsilon given epsilon greater than zero then I need to find a capital n so that from there on and out the a is within epsilon. So we need to find to for this epsilon we need to find capital n so that if little n is bigger than this capital n then a n minus one is less than epsilon right that's what we need to do right but for your epsilon so to do that we need to choose this capital n. So I'm just choosing uh I just choose capital n. So to do that choose capital n such that uh that 1 / n is less than epsilon. Right? We can do this by the archimedian property. Right. So this is uh so we can find n by the uh such an n and capital n by the archimedian property that we discussed last time. Okay. But now you see if you're looking at if you take if you now if you now look at little n that is bigger than capital n then you have that one minus a n. Well, 1 minus a n actually for all n this here is less than uh 1 / 10 to the power n right because like if n is equal to 1 this is this here this is within one10th of one and likewise this here is in 100 of one etc. Right? So we have this inequality. It's actually equality in this case. This here is a equality. Okay. But now you see that this thing here this is obviously 1 / 10 ^ n. It's lesser equal to it's actually it's less than uh n 1 / n. And so if little n is bigger than capital n, this is therefore less than 1 / capital n. But this here was less than epsilon. And that's what we needed to prove. Right? So for the given for your given epsilon, I specify a capital n and then we need to prove that if little n is bigger than that capital n, then we come within epsilon of the limit. Okay. Um okay. Now let me prove a little theorem about uh convergence sequences. Then this is like if you will this little lema is like the first test for whether a sequence is convergent. So still if a end is a convergent sequence then uh a n need uh then a n is bounded. Sorry, let me explain what I mean by that. I mean that then the set of a n so just explain that. So then the set um the set a1 a2 a3 etc. This set here is bounded Okay, it's not enough to be bounded that to be convergent but it is a necessary criteria. Let me just as a side remark say that that if you're looking at the sequence a n that we looked at just a minute ago this here that is alternating between minus1 and one right this is a bounded sequence because the value there's only two values so it's obviously bounded but it's not convergent right so but it is a necessary for a sequence to be convergent is necess necessary that the sequence of of numbers here uh is uh is bounded for for okay so so now let's try to prove that so we have so since a n is convergent Then there is some a so that a end in converts to this a right and so now I can I can just focus on one single epsilon. So in particular if we choose epsilon to be equal to one then there exist then there exist capital n. So that if little n is bigger than this capital n then a little n minus a is less than one. Right? This is this is that is convergence just applied to this single epsilon. Right? Okay. And so now so now so this is the first observation. The second observation is that if we now look at all the a that are not considered here. So if you're looking at the set the set this is the first capital a capital n minus one a n right those are the ones that doesn't fall in under that this little n is bigger than the capital n so this set here is finite so obviously So for any finite set you have that. So there exist Cal number such that that A N is less or equal to C for any of these guys. Right? For any A in this any A in uh in this finite set. Right? So this means in other words this means that a n is less or equal to c if n here is between one and n minus one. Right? So now I look at So now I look at uh now I want to look at the numbers a n and um this number here right and I want to look at so I'm thinking about the set uh a absolute value and where in here is one up to one two etc. Right? Well, I claim that this thing here I can now prove that this set here is bounded and this is just because that the first uh n minus one those are bounded by c. So I claim that this set here so claim is that that uh that uh the soup of this set where n uh from one over all ends the soup of this set is uh is lesser equal to the max of C and A + normal absolute value of A + one. So I claim that right. Now this is clearly if you're taking the first n minus one then we already know that they are bounded by c right so you just need to worry about the one starting at capital n right so we only need to worry about when so this is obviously the case for the first capital n minus one so we only need to worry about only need to show this for little n larger than capital n larger equal. Yeah. >> Um are you explain the max over there why there's the absolute value of a plus the plus one? >> Yeah, I I would explain this and then I I'll get to this and this is part part of the proof. Yeah. So it it hopefully it will be clear in a minute. If it's not, you you should complain. Okay. So I only need to prove that when I'm just looking at the set here and I'm starting at capital N, then the soup is bounded like that. And so then I so I'm looking at a n but a n I can write as a end I can write sort of in a stupid way I can write a n as a n minus a plus a right so I can write it like that right and then I can just right so I have the sum of two things the absolute value is less than the absolute value the sum of the absolute values. So I have this right. But now you see that since little n is bigger than this capital n this capital n was chosen so that this here was bounded by one. Right? So this thing here is less than one and this here is less than the absolute value of a. Right? And so we have for the whole tail starting at capital n we have that this thing here is bounded by one plus the absolute value of a and for the remaining capital n minus one those are bounded by c right and so so together all of this is bounded by the maximum of these two things. Okay. Now the next thing I want to talk about is that there's there's some sort of algebraic property of limits that is often very useful. Um, and I will prove there's four of these. Um, and I will prove two of them and the other one I will um I will outline the proof of >> Y. >> So in that the soup is Oh, soup is less than. So we we don't need to find >> Yeah. No, you don't need to actually find the soup, right? Yeah. And and the reason I want to write soup and not maximum is that of course if it's infinite numbers, it's not clear that is a maximum, right? So we need to use the the terminology soup. >> So that that max of CN + one is not a soup. >> No, no, that's right. is is a bound for the soup but but the soup presumably is is is less >> and one there really just one >> and the one really to some extent could be almost anything. Yeah, it's a it came from the epsilon, right? But you see if you made that epsilon smaller then then probably the c would jump up, right? Because that is you right because the c was the maximum of the first n minus one. So if you're further out then there are more numbers that you're taking the maximum over. So anyway yeah. Okay. So so we want to prove some algebraic properties of limits. Okay. So, so the idea is that we take um so we have four of these and the first one is that you take a sequence. So maybe I would just say throughout a n and bn are sequences. uh and a n is convergent to a and bn is convergent to b. Okay. The first one, the first property is that if you take a real number, sorry, if you take a real number, C here is a real number and you form a new sequence where CN is just this real number times A N. Right? So each CN is somehow almost like a N except that they're multiplied by this fixed constant C. So this here so the first one is that CN is also convergent uh and the limit is just C * A. Okay. The second one is that um that if you take that a if you define a sequence. So this is a different sequence that this one. But if you define a sequence cn by its a n the nth element is a n + bn then this sequence is also convergent. Cn is convergent and the limit is a + b. So that was the second property. The third property. The third property uh is uh right the third property is that if you take a product sorry so if you take a n if you take if you define cn as a n * bn right so this is a new sequence then cn is convergent and the limit is a * b and the Last property is that if um if the a um are uh all of these are different from zero. So this here is for all n and also you have that the limit here is not equal to zero. uh then if you define a sequence to be 1 / a n then cn here converge and the limit is one away. And so I will prove sort of rigorously the first two and I will basically tell you how to prove the other two. But I the first two I will kind of write out um formally as you know as we talked about last time how you write formal approve whereas the what I'm going to discuss for three and four is very very close to a formal proof but it's more like what you would have on a piece of scrap There you go. Okay. So now, so now let's prove the first one. So prove of one So since so given epsilon greater than zero since so yeah so first of all of course if this capital C if this capital C is zero then everything is zero So it's like trivally the case. So we may as well assume So may as well assume that's capital C that capital C is not zero. So now given epsilon greater than zero since this sequence a n is converging to a this means that there exist there exist n such that and now I'm not going to use that epsilon you gave me that epsilon uh I'm not going to use that epsilon in the definition that a end is converging to a. I'm not going to use that one, but I'm going to use one that is closely related. I'm going to use epsilon divided by the norm of c. Right? Because that's another positive fine. So you gave me an epsilon. I'm going to look at this number here. That's a positive number. And I can use that in the definition that a n converts to a. So I'm going to say that because a n converts to a there exist a capital n such that if little n is bigger than this capital n then a n minus a uh is less than epsilon over capital s uh c sorry a norm of capital c right but now I just multiply on both sides So multiply by by the absolute value of capital C on both sides. And so if we do that then this here pops in right it actually go in as c * a n minus c * a is less than epsilon and this is as long as this n little n is bigger than that capital n. This is exactly what we wanted to prove. Right? Okay. Now the second one is right. So the reason why I'm doing the the first two you see you see that those are pretty straightforward. I mean it's not like that it's it's not like any of these is complicated to prove. Um the next two is a little bit more uh I mean I wouldn't say complicated but a little bit more involved these two and but I want to give you the idea because it's a kind of a very simple but useful idea uh in these two so I I don't want to skip the the proof okay so now uh we uh so we want to prove the second property Okay. So we have that. So we have that a n is converging to a and bn is converging to b. And so again you give me an epsilon that I have to work with. So given epsilon given epsilon greater than zero then I'm going to not again use this epsilon in the definition that a n converts to a and I'm not going to use it in the definition that bn is converging to b but I'm going to use epsilon over two in each of them. So since a n converts to a there exist there exist a capital n and let me call it capital n subscript a such that if little n is bigger than this capital n subscript a then a n minus A is less than epsilon / 2, right? And likewise, likewise, since um since BN converts to B, then there exist just a capital n but and I denote it by this this may be different than the one coming from a the sequence a n such that n subscript b then uh bn minus b is smaller than epsilon / 2. Okay. And so now I have to choose right. So you gave me the epsilon and I have to choose a capital n. I haven't chosen that yet but I will do that now. So we set so set capital n equal to the maximum of these two ends. So you're setting it equal to the maximum of these two. Now if little n so then for little n bigger than this capital n if you're looking at a so now we want to look at so our sequence cn was the sum of these two right so this here was cn so we want to prove that so we want to look at cn minus a * b and we want to prove that if little n is bigger than this then this here is strictly less than epsilon right but this thing here is cn was by definition a n plus bn sorry and this was not a product it was a sum um minus a + b so but this thing here you can write as a n minus a plus bn minus b. And now you can just take the absolute value of this. It's bounded by the absolute value of the first. So plus the absolute value of the signal, right? And now you see that if um if little a uh if little a let me keep. So if little a sorry if little n since little n is bigger than capital n which is bigger than capital n of a in particular then this thing here is less than epsilon / two. Right? So you have that CN minus A + B is less than epsilon / two that comes from this. But you also have that capital n is bigger equal to n subb. So you also have that this thing here is less than epsilon / two. Right? So, so you have that this thing here when little a is big n is bigger than this capital n this thing here this difference is strictly less than epsilon that's what we needed to prove in order to prove that this sequence that was a sum of the two sequences converging to the sum of the limits yeah >> um we initially defined like a less than epon what was the justification for why we could If we know that convers >> right so that's right so because a n or bn because they converge so like say a n converts to a right then for all epsilon you gave me the epsilon but and I'm using that it's converging not just when for that choice of epsilon but also even for epsilon over two right that epsilon if you right so you gave me the epsilon then I'm using that is converting so I will have to choose probably a n that is much larger if I'm using epsilon over two than if I use directly the epsilon >> so it assumes that n increases like epsilon gets smaller where >> as epsilon gets smaller presumably you need to choose capital n larger >> okay so you couldn't run into a case where we're assuming like the convergence is like smooth as was like oscillating about >> right right that's right I mean so so um right I'm just I'm using that for I'm basically using that for all epsilon that it wasn't just for a fixed epsilon right and so that's why when you came with this epsilon then I'm actually used it for epsilon over two yeah okay so that was the first two property those are the the it's not like the other one is super difficult. Uh but but that was but those two are the most straightforward. Let's look at the other two. And so right in particular because it's like a like for the next one there's a little trick that is useful in in various different settings. Um and so so prove but but the next two I will just outline. Okay. So proof of three. So outline. So we need to look at a n time bn right that's so cn is is a n * bn and we want to compare cn with a * b right we want to show that this thing here if little n is sufficiently large so given h epsilon if little n is sufficiently large then this difference is bounded by epsilon but this thing here is a n bn minus a b. Okay. But and so the little trick is now that in itself it's kind of difficult to compare these two things. But the little trick is that if you're looking at A and B and if you sort of by instead of comparing them directly then comparing this with something that is halfway between this and that then it gets a lot easier. So what you do is you're looking at A and B and and you subtract A and B and then you add it immediately again. So this is certainly the same, right? And now I can write this thing here as a N. I can just concentrate on these two first and there I can factor out a in. So I can write that as this. And this thing here I can factor out at B, right? So I can write it like that. And now now you see this is like it looks much more promising. This one look like the problematic one. This one looks like no problem at all because this is just some fixed constant times this difference here. This one looks a little bit more problematic because it's not a fixed constant, right? But we'll deal with this in just a second. But the first thing I can do is I just take the absolute value of this plus the absolute value of that. And now I just take so so then this here is actually the same for a product. You can just take the product of the absolute value. It's the same. Now, now the next thing is that we're going to use the theorem that we proved earlier that since since this sequence here since these numbers here all of these numbers for all when you take right when you take the set um when you're looking at this set this set here since this set here is bounded and it's bounded because the sequence was converging right and so we already prove that then the the values the set of values is a bounded set right so it's bounded and so we can assume so there exist See, so that uh A is the absolute value is bounded by the C, right? And so now so now I have and and um Okay. And so now I uh have that uh CN minus A * B. This is what I had up there. And I'm just using that this is now bounded by just because these thing here are bounded by C. I get C B N minus B plus B over A N minus A. Right. And now you see now it's going to follow like so so so this here was just some observations right and now when you come to the proof so to prove to prove uh three then given given epsilon greater than zero. Now we want to make sure that this thing here is less than epsilon / two and that this thing here is less than epsilon / two and so I don't want to get in trouble if this here was zero or if this was zero. So I'm just so given epsilon since a n converts to a then I can um um find now I'm basically writing out the whole proof but a n I can find capital a n sorry capital n a so that if little n is bigger than capital n a then you have that a n minus A is less than I don't quite use that epsilon and I don't quite use epsilon over two but I take absolute value I multiply it like this okay because I don't want to have something where if b was zero then it really didn't make any sense what I wrote so now there's no problem it definitely makes sense even if b is zero and likewise likewise since uh so likewise likewise since since BN converts to B then there exist so again you you gave me a uh epsilon. So there exist a np such that if little n is bigger than np then actually you have that bn minus b is less than epsilon again over two and this is not quite what I use because I don't want to be in trouble. That's c is already non- negative because it's bigger than these absolute value. So, but I'm just adding one for the same reason. And so now you see that if little n so therefore if little n is bigger than the maximum of these two then both of these inequality hold right both of them hold and so this means that you now have that cn minus a * b this thing here so we had it here this is less and C. And then this difference here was now assumed to be epsilon over 2 1 + c. And likewise this here is bounded by this number here times and then this this thing here. So epsilon over two uh absolute value of b + one. Okay. And but now you see that this thing here that's c divided by 1 + c that's bounded by one. Right? So this thing here is bounded by epsilon / two. And this thing here same reason is that this thing here is bounded by epsilon /2. And so the whole thing was bounded by epsilon uh when uh when little n was bigger than the maximum of these two. So this in the end I I wrote out the whole proof, right? Um in the I already posted the lecture notes. In the lecture notes, I didn't write out the whole proof, but I gave the idea. So I sort of stopped once we were here and somewhere here after this one somewhere anyway. But you see okay so the right so the next thing I want to talk about is that if you no no I still need uh property four and that's also useful sorry so let let's go through that and then then we'll come to subsequences So I want to prove that if you take a sequence of real numbers none of them is zero they converge and the limit is not zero then one over the sequence is another convergence sequence. Okay. But but again just the main takeaway the main takeaway I think from property this third property was that this little idea about inserting something that was halfway between the two things you were comparing because they weren't very easy to compare directly and that's like a little trick that is useful in various places it comes up almost the same thing one place it comes up is what's called lightness rule that if you take two functions and you take the product of these two functions and you try to prove that what is the derivative of the product. It's exactly the same trick and it comes up various other you know more fancy ways. Okay. So now let's look at let's prove property four. So property form group of property form. So we have this. So CN is 1 / a n and we know that a n are not equal to zero and we know that a is not equal to zero. This here makes sense and and also 1 / a makes sense. So we want to compare this here with one away. And so this thing here is 1 / a n minus 1. And now I can put it on a common denominator. So this is a - a n / a n * a. So like that can write it like this. Right? Now already the denominator looks very promising because we know that this goes to zero. Right? And and now but now I need to bound says so need to bound uh right. So need to bound we need to bound. So we we want to bound this here right by epsilon when little n is sufficiently large the top the nominator here looks great the denominator maybe we're a little bit worried about but the thing is that so we need to a n times a this here from from below Well, we want to bound it from below because then when you're looking at one over it, then that's an upper bound, right? And really because a here is just a fixed number that is not zero, then it's equivalent to proving. So it's this is this this is equivalent to bound the norm of a n from below. Remember we we don't need to bound it from below for all a n but we need to bound it from below for a for n sufficiently large right and so now you you make the trivial observation so that a n you can write a n as a n minus a plus a right and so therefore uh therefore the norm of a n is bounded by the norm of a n minus a plus the norm of a. Sorry, this was not the this was not this was uh this was not how I want to write it. I'm going to write it slightly differently. I'm going to write AI'm going to do the symmetric syn thing but I'm I'm doing it so I'm writing a n as a min so I'm writing a as a minus a n plus a n right and then then if I do that then I can just take the absolute value of a is bounded by the absolute value of this difference plus the absolute value of a in right and now I can move this here over on the other side. So this here implies that norm of a minus the norm of a minus a n is lesser equal to this here. Right? And now you see that this thing here is so so now we're going to use that uh this here was not equal to zero. So this here is bounded away from zero. And so now we can we can take say a here uh over two. So we can use this here. We can use a norm of a over two. This is a positive number because a was not zero. And we can use this in the definition of that a n. So use this. So, so use this in the definition of that a converts to a right. So this means that if you are this means that there exist a capital n let's call a capital n1. It's not the final n that we want to use but there exist a capital n1. So that if little n is bigger than this capital n1 then actually we have that a n a minus a n is less than this thing here. Right? But now you see that this means that when you're looking at when you go up here and you're looking at when you go up to that line be before. So this is the line from before. Sorry this here minus this here. This and this. When you're looking at this line here, well, this thing here, this here is at most half of this. So, this thing here is bigger than this thing here over two, right? And so, now you see that we have bounded these guys from below, right? And so now we go back up to So now we go back up to we're looking at C minus sorry we're looking at CN - 1 / A. This is this is this up here. I'm just I'm just uh I'm just transferring that equation down to this board here. So this here is a n a minus a n divided by and I can just take the absolute value separately of the denominator and the denominator a n * a. Okay. So, so now you see that this thing here as long as so when n here little n is bigger than n1 but then we have that this thing here is at the very least the absolute value of uh a over two. So this means that this thing here we can now bound from from above like this. This is as long as you have this inequality here and this thing this is just a norm of a this give another norm of a over two so the two jumps up so it's like this thing here right and now you see that now you see that this egg is just like a constant Right? So this means that I may have to go even further out than N1. But if I go even further out, then I can make this in here smaller than the given epsilon. Okay. All right. So this was like the outline if you will, but that's not at this point there's not very much to fill in. Right. Okay. So now I want to talk about uh subsequences. And then I want to then I want to prove a little theorem about subsequence. So, so I have a sequence and uh and so I have a sequence and then a subsequence. So I'll give you first some examples and then I will explain uh then I will give you the proper definition of what a uh what a subsequence is. So I start with uh this sequence from before. So this was a sequence where a1 was minus1 a2 was one a3 was minus1. it was alternating between minus one and one. And so in this case here, in this case here, if you take uh this sequence, let's call it let's call it B uh let's call it um let's use a different index. Let's call it B K. This is right. So k here play the same role as n before but I want to use a different symbol to not somehow confuse with the n over here. So if I take so I could take a sequence that was like one all the time. This here for all K. This here would be a subsequence. This would correspond to that you took all the the even ones, right? That you you just take all the even ones, right? So this is like a sub. You could also have another example. So this is example one. See another example is where you took all the odd ones. So this here is is also a subsequence and you could do something more elaborate where you take say first you take the first two odd and then you take the next two even. So you could have a sequence that was like B1 is equal to minus1 B2 is equal to minus1 B3. Now it becomes the next two even ones and then you go back to the next two odd ones etc. Okay, that would be another u subsequence. Um, let me look at a few more examples. So for instance, if your sequence, your original sequence, so here's another example. If your original sequence was just that a n was equal to n, right? Then you could take a sequence. So then the sequence where you just take the odd numbers. This here is a subsequence. And likewise if you take all the just the even numbers this is also a a sequence a subsequence. Okay. Um but if you're looking at if you look at say something like this where you're taking so if you define a sequence where it was one one uh one one two even like this. This here is not a subsequence. This is not a subsequence. Because you have what you have done here is that you have taken the same number several times and it doesn't appear several times. The value doesn't appear several times in the original one. So that's not allowed. It's also not allowed to do something like this. This here is also not a so not a subsequence. Another thing that's not a subsequent when you take things out of order. So if you do if this here was the original sequence, if you're now looking at a sequence that was three, two, and then four, five. This here is etc. This here is not a a subsequence either because things are taken out of order. Okay. So now what is the formal definition of a subsequence? So here's the formal definition. That's so if so you have a sequence a n a subsequence of a n is where you have a map uh g from n into n. This is a increasing map. This is strictly increasing. And then if you're thinking about this thing here, right? You think about this as a function f, then you now could think about the composition of these two functions. So this thing here and maybe I would use a different notation like this a different uh index like this. This thing here BK this here is a subsequence right. So you see that this here right when you pick if you have a sequence like this you know the first one could be anything in the original one but once you have fixed the first one you can't look back or you can't go to this you have to the next element have to be somewhat further out in the sequence okay and and and that sort of continue right and this here is often just to indicate that it's a subsequence of this sequence. Then the standard notation is a n and then another subscript. Okay. So anyway, so of course hopefully there's not too many subsequences of sequences because each time it's supposed to be another subscript. Okay. Now there's a little theorem that we can just prove here at the end and that is that if you and and it's yeah it's sometimes it's a it's a very simple fact but it is sometimes a useful fact and that is that if you take a sequence so a sequence it's a theorem Um that's so so uh a sequence a n is convergent to a if and only if all subsequences of a n uh converge to to a. Okay. Now to prove this there's two two things we need to prove right because it's a if and only if statement. So we need to prove that if it is convergent then all subsequence are also convergent and then we need to prove that if all subsequence are convergent then the original sequence is convergent but one of the two implication is trivial. So one of the two implications is trivial and that is that namely uh since right so the the the map remember that the map to define a subsequence has to be strictly increasing, right? So that so remember that a sequence was a function like this. That was a sequence, right? And a subsequence there you have another map that is strictly increasing and then you're looking at the composition. But if you take this other map to be the identity, right? that that the other map is like g of k is equal to k of of course this is strictly increasing right and if you did if you if this hair map was the identity then the subsequence would just be the original sequence right so so one of the two implication here is trivial since a n itself is admittedly trivial still but it is a subsequence. So, so if all subsequences converge to a well then the original sequence since it is a subsequence suddenly will converge right? So that was trivial. Okay. Okay, so we not just need to prove that if a end converts to a then any subsequence but this is not much more difficult uh because you see if you so given an epsilon so now given epsilon given so now so now we have so we we now have that a n converts to a and we're looking at a subsequence a n and k and we want to show that a and k also converts to a right so given epsilon given epsilon greater than zero there exist um capital n so that if little n is bigger than capital n then a n minus a is less than epsilon. But now you see that if k is bigger than capital n then then what correspond to this here is the right this is this here how to think about it this here n k you should really think about that this thing here is the value of this strictly increasing function right but this thing here is because it's really increasing is bigger than K. Right? So you see that if this thing here is bigger than this, then means that this index here is further out than in particular the the the capital N. And so this means that if you have this here, then a N k this is some element like this but it's further out than capital N. So this thing here surely will also be less than epsilon because it's fall in under here. Okay. So that that that that uh implication wasn't too much harder. And that's sometimes useful that so so like if um yeah it's sometimes useful that you're looking at a sequence and um and you see that if it is convergent that you you're looking at you're looking at a sequence and you see that there's a subsequence that is not convergent or you have that there's two different subsequence of a given sequence that converts to different limits. then then the original sequence wasn't convergent either. Yeah. >> Can you not have like a finite subsequence of subsequence that like doesn't get to end so hasn't arrived at the point of convergence? Um I mean so convergence is always something about the tail about the end right it's it it never care about what happened in the beginning right so there might be finally many ends initially where you know things are crazy but then from there on out >> subsequences that we care about in this case are those subsequences that also >> yeah yeah so all sequences including subsequences are infinite things, right? Yeah. So like that's right. So because the thing is that that you had to have this map uh maybe I erased it but G here has to be a map from all the natural numbers into N. So it means that for each element here you get something right. So there's really infinitely many of them. Yeah.