Okay. Well, thank you for coming uh to the last lecture. Once again, I'm sorry again about having to move the time. Um uh I I have a good excuse, which is my uh co-author Simon Johnson won the Nobel Prize and has invited me to come to the celebration in Stockholm. So, I'm flying out tonight to Stockholm to go to the Nobel Prize celebration. So, I'm I'm sorry it comes out of your hide, but I couldn't pass that up. So, um anyway, so that's why we're doing this today. Reminder, the final review will be uh the final review be in class, normal class time on Monday. So, we're in we're talking about chapter 25 and we're talking about sort of wrapping up all our lessons on taxes. And in particular, the motivation for the chapter is why we might want a flatter, simpler tax code. And we talked about three reasons. The first reason is uh evasion that a flatter tax code with fewer opportunities for evas with fewer loopholes and things like that will make it harder to evade taxes. The second was simplicity which is people like filing simpler tax forms although that comes with costs. And the third is efficiency. And this was highlighting we ended with last time was highlighting that the more that essentially the total effect on tax revenue of tax on tax revenues. It's really the central parameter for thinking about the efficiencies of taxation is essentially the elasticity of the tax base with respect to the tax rate is essentially the key parameter for thinking about the efficiency of taxation. There's lots of things that go into that which is labor supply effects and savings effects and things like that. But the key elasticity is elasticity of the tax base with respect to the tax rate. So what do we know about that? What do we know about that key parameter? Actually we've learned some very interesting things. The literature which sort of grew up in the last 25 years which is focused on this key parameter. We know some interesting things. First of all, we know that overall the elasticity of the tax base the tax base with respect to the tax rate is about minus0.4 that is for every 10% you raise taxes you revenues go up by for every 10% you raise the tax rate revenues go up by about 6%. Okay, as opposed to if the the direct effect would imply zero. So that says there's offsetting indirect effects of raising the tax rate. What do we know about the indirect effects? Well, we know a couple of things. First of all, almost none of this is through what we might call the laughter effect. Almost none of this is through people working less hard or saving less. Okay? It instead comes from the more in the other indirect effects of things like people um taking more tax breaks, changing how they report their income, and cheating. So that's the first thing we know is that there is an elastic tax base but almost all of it is from what we call sort of non-economic responses or you know non non sort of fundamental uh economic supply responses and more sort of recording and and things like that. The second thing we know is the elasticity of the tax rates with respect to the tax rate is basically zero for the non-rich. That basically for people who aren't rich, there is not much effect of change in the tax rate on the reported taxable income. Once again, not surprising. There's not a lot of opportunities for doing much. If you're a regular working stiff and you just all your income is withheld, there's not a lot of games you can play. So that's the second thing we know. The third thing we know is the tax base is fairly elastic for the wealthiest taxpayers. That the wealth when you raise the tax rate for the wealthiest taxpayers this elasticity is more like around you [clears throat] best sets around maybe minus.7 or eight. Okay, that basically the most the richest taxpayers are very responsive in what they report as income with respect to the tax rate. Once again, it doesn't appear that they're working less harder, saving less. is that they're take doing various things to um they're doing various things to um lower their tax burden like changing how they're compensated, cheating, things like that. So that sort of has leaves us with a couple of um this leaves with a couple of lessons. Um oh the other thing the rich do actually the super rich do and there's a fun literature on this is they move. So there's a large literature in the mobility of the super rich. There's articles looking at stop paid top paid soccer players and top paid executives especially in Europe that if a European country raises top tax rate they move to another country. So that's another way once again something that like a rich person can do that a regular Joe isn't going to move the country because the tax rate changed but a rich person's a big enough incentive that they can uh change their residency. So basically there's lots of responses. Where does this sort of leave us? Well, basically what it says is there is a once again it's a strong economic pressure towards a broader flatter tax system that basically steeper tax systems which are which have more loopholes and more rates and things like that um tend to leave opportunities for evasion. They make the tax system complicated and they have efficiency losses. Remember we talked about in chapter 20 progressive taxation has large efficiency losses because of the um progressive taxation has large efficiency losses because of the dead weight loss at the top. Now of course pushing against all this is progressivity. Yes, it's less efficient tax the rich but it also raises it's also more vertically equitable. And in fact, as I said, the only time I've ever gotten praised in the Wall Street Journal in my life was uh I wrote an article with a very famous economist named Manuel Sees who was a student of mine here at MIT. And what we did was we highlighted, look, you can sort of have your cake and eat it too. If you have a system that has modestly progressive tax rates, but a large rebate. So we proposed something where essentially tax rates were pretty flat, but that there was but that there was a large rebate to the poor out of that tax system. So yes, the super rich didn't pay much higher rates than the medium rich, but the poor were very protected. And the Wall Street Journal of course loved that because the super rich were paying less taxes. Um I think that um Emanuel has then gone on to be sort of he's changed his tune a little bit. He has gone on to be one of the leading advocates for very aggressive taxation of the rich. He's gone on to have an incredible career documenting how wealth has been concentrated in the hands of the wealthy and arguing that all uh for political as well as economic reasons we do want to tax the rich more highly. But this is kind of how where that sort of note logic comes from. And I would say there's a law broad economic consensus that the tax system we had in 1986 three rates broad tax base no different rate for capital gains you couldn't really take as many tax breaks was preferred to what we have today. So why don't we have that? Well, there's two reasons, political and economic. The political is pretty straightforward, which is that basically it is easier to do policy if you call it a tax break than if you call it a spending increase. And this is showed vividly in 1992 when Bill Clinton was elected. He promised that there'd be massive investments. He ran it was putting people first was his campaign. That was going to involve massive investments in education, in um local infrastructure, etc. And as soon as he tried to put those in, he realized that it was very hard to increase spending at the federal level at that point because people were sort of saying, "Well, that's what Democrats do. They're big spending Democrats. You're going to do that." But as soon as he said, "No, instead of spending on education, I'm going to tax cut for education." Well, everyone loved that because it's free. It's a tax cut. And basically, the point is that I showed you last time the tax expenditures, the holes in our tax code because of tax breaks. Well, that's not that's not in the official government budget statistics. Government statistics turns what we spend and what we tax. And so people were like, look, that's great. Do us a tax break. I love that. Don't do it spending. That's big government. So it turns out there's sort of a political asymmetry in how easy it is to get changes done. Calling it a tax break versus calling it spending. So that's sort of the politics. The economics is much more interesting. And the economics is real. This comes back to this concept we talked about in chapter 18 which is a concept of horizontal equity or fairness across similar people. And this is highlighted because basically when you change taxes you create critical horizontal inequities. And to see this let's focus on the concept of tax shelters. What are tax shelters? Tax shelters are activities whose only reason for existence is tax minimization. they are not economically productive or they're or they're economically inefficient. Let's say it that they're economically inefficient but they exist because of tax breaks. So basically um uh essentially to turn an example of that let's think back to the mid1 1980s the golden era pre pre the tax form act of 86 was the golden era of tax shelters and that was because um there was very favorable tax treatment of a number of asset classes. For example um if you invested in real estate you got rapid depreciation deductions. We had very accelerated depreciation. Okay. Um and uh you could treat your profits as capital gains, 60% of which were taxexempt. So you could rapidly depreciate and take your profits as capital gains. Um there was an investment tax credit um uh and other features and this led to a large rise in tax shelter activities. Okay. Um by the mid1980s more than 10 billion a year was being invested in tax shelters. Um and one investor uh one industry insider estimated that the sector where this was most visible was oil and gas because there was huge breaks for investing in oil and gas. They estimated that 75% of all investment in uh independent oil and gas companies came because of tax shelters. So how does this work? Um let's let's imagine a simple example. Imagine that um you had had a let's say someone in 198 in 1983 had an income of $250,000 which today sounds like chump change but was actually pretty rich in 1983. That put you in the top top bracket. The top 50% there was A-50% tax rate was the top rate in 1983. And you'd you'd be at that rate with income $250,000. Now imagine that you wanted to invest $100,000 of that income in an oil venture which yielded no income and you sold one year later for $90,000. Well, that would be pretty dumb. Absent taxes, but with taxes, not so dumb. Let's look at the math. And that's on table 251. So you invest your $100,000 in oil venture. You sell it a year later for $90,000. So you've lost $10,000. But at the same time, there was a special tax break which was a 60% deduction for all investment in oil and gas. So you get to deduct $60,000 an immediate. This was a this was a deduction of your spending in that year. You deduct 60% of your spending. So you get a $60,000 deduction. Okay? So that's going to save you $30,000 in taxes at your 50% rate. Moreover, next year you get you get to deduct the $10,000 loss you took. That saves you another $5,000. So on net, you make $25,000 by making this investment. So this an example of tax shelters can promote economically inefficient investments. And that's what was happening. In fact, my father was very mad when the tax act of 1986 passed because he had money in some of these tax shelters. You know, they were totally legal. was a productive investment opportunity. So what happens? Why is my dad mad? Well, 1986, they wipe out the tax shelters. They say these tax shelters can't be used anymore. Well, here's the problem. Asset prices had adjusted to the existence of these tax shelters. What that means is that if you had invested in a totally legal activity that was money-making, suddenly you could get screwed. Let's think about that. Um, let's think about uh let's think about that uh as a simple example. Imagine that there's two apartment buildings for sale in a city. Okay, one is in a low-income neighborhood and one's in a high-income neighborhood. The building in the low-income neighborhood is worth $100,000 and the building in the high- income neighborhood is worth $200,000. This is a much nicer board. I don't know why. It just feels better to write with chalk this board. Um the income the in in the uh in the higher it's worth $200,000. But the government has a special tax break where for every dollar you spend on low investing in low-inccome neighborhoods, they'll give you a dollar in tax credit. So if you spend a 100k on a building in a low-inccome neighborhood, they give you the government is going to give you another 100k tax credit. What that means is that these buildings are worth the same. They're both worth 200k. So you invest, you know, Paul buys one, I buy one, we spend our 200k, we each invest in one. Then the next year the government says we're getting rid of this. What does that do? That lowers my that screws me. Paul and I had equally valuable assets, but since my asset was through an embodied tax break, when they remove that tax break, I'm screwed through no fault of my own. No one's evading taxes. No one's cheating here. They're just following the rules. And this is an example, a clearest example what we call a horizontal inequity that two people took the same action because something out of their control end up with very different tax burdens, very different economic implications. And this leads to so this occurs because this leads to what we call a transitional inequity. a transitional inequity which is basically as you change the tax code you are screwing people who made investments based on previous rules and that is very uh that can be very costly for them. Okay. So as a result you don't realistically you're not always going to immediately do the right thing. You might want to do make adjustments that ease the pain of those who suffer from those transitional equities. Let's be clear, the people who suffer, Paul and I are rich guys. We're buying this building 1983. We're rich guys. So the person who's imposed pain on is a rich guy. But nonetheless, there is so this is where vertical and horizontal inequities can conflict. When they got rid of the tax shelves of tax form act of 1986, rich people got screwed because they now some poor people got screwed is the wrong word. They they they had transitional inequity. Some poor people, mostly rich people. So the question is you're writing the tax act of 86. Here's your conflict. On the one hand, you don't feel so bad for them because they're rich. On the other hand, you do feel bad for them because it's sort of unfair. They made a legal investment. They're getting hit very differently. Yeah. >> And this is a transfer made in the government >> basically. Yeah. Which essentially you could think of it as if the government is a big spudge. That's basically right. So in some sense uh what do you do with that? So what the tax reform act of 86 did is they essentially limited tax shelters but didn't get rid of them. They sort of eased the pain by limiting what by by limiting your use of tax shelters but not getting rid of them. But this is what leads to a common thing features discussed in political a term you might have heard in political economic policy which is the term grandfathering. Grandfathering is the notion that when you change policy you exclude those who were previously affected by the policy as a way of trying to deal with horizontal equity. So for example in Virginia um uh every Virginia 65 and older received a tax deduction of $12,000. Virginia was in budget trouble, so they wanted to get rid of it. Uh, but people went uh people went nuts. And so he literally put in a grandfather clause. Get it? Because they're over 65. Where basically he said, "Okay, anybody who has already turned 65 as of the day this law, they still get it. It's future people who don't." Now, on the one hand, he cost West he cost Virginia $300 million by doing that. $300 million in loss revenues. revenue could have been used for highly valuable activities rather than giving money away to often very wealthy 65 year olds. On the other hand, maybe he wouldn't have passed the law if he hadn't done it. So this is the difficulty we face uh when we try to actually change government policies and recognize many decisions and things are based on pre-existing policies and that means that essentially you want you might want to go uh you might want to go slow. Okay, questions about that. So big picture where we are at this point is flatter flatter less loophole ridden tax codes economists like better. We love where we're in tax form active 86. We wish we get back there but there's political and economic challenges facing us in getting there. Now that is one piece one way get to simpler taxation. But there's another way we could get there which is we could just say look why are we taxing income at all. Thomas Hobbes in his famous treatis Leviathan said it is fairer to tax people on what they extract from the economy as roughly measured by their consumption than to tax on what they produce for the economy as roughly measured by their income. Why do we tax people who are making money? Why don't we tax people who are spending money? Why don't we instead of an income tax have a consumption tax? And there's a number of reasons why moving from an income tax to a consumption tax, think of it as a we'll come back to details, but think of as a national sales tax. Okay. Well, there's a number of reasons why that might be a positive thing to do. The first reason, so why what are the what are the sort of pros and cons of a consumption tax? The pros of a consumption tax is first is uh improved capital allocation. Why is that? Well, if you think about an income tax, different kinds of investments are treated differently. Even in tax form act of 86, capital gains, even though they were no longer tax favored, were still implicitly favored because you didn't have to weren't taxed till realization. And in general, tax systems generally feel different tax. There's tax wedges between different kinds of investments that have the same economic return and that's inefficient. With a consumption tax, that goes away. You invest in whatever the hell you want. We tax you when you consume it. So there's no there's no reason not to make the most productive investment because they're treated the same by the tax code. We're just taxing you what you get out of your investment. It's no re you might invest less overall if there's a high consumption tax rate but there's no reason it would distort your allocation across across investment opportunities. So that's one reason we like it. The second reason we like it is it is both more it in both um it both increases savings and improves horizontal equity in an improvement dimension in an important dimension which is the horizontal equity between savers and non-savers. Okay. And to see this, let's go to um table 252. Oh, first of all, figure 255. This shows how little we rely on consumption taxation, how much we do around the world. So 255 shows you that in the US 18% of our tax revenues are raised by consumption taxes. The OECD average is almost twice that at 32%. Okay. So basically um and in fact as you see to the right are more developing countries at in the developing world most of the revenue comes from consumption taxes. Income taxation is more of a developed world concept but even in the develop world we're relatively outli relative outlier. Yeah. >> I that's exactly what I'm talking about. I'm going to get there. Uh so basically um why do we like consumption taxes? So one is improved capital allocation. One is because uh it increased savings. It's fair to savers. So let's go to table 252. Consider Homer and Marge. Okay. Imagine Homer and Marge each earn $100 in period one. Okay? And imagine A-50% income tax rate. 50% income tax rate. So they each pay $50 in taxes. Homer being Homer then eats everything that's left. Marge being Marge saves uh saves $2561 saves $24.39. Okay. There's a reason I chose that particular weird number. Okay. Now, in period two, Marge had earns $244 in interest. Home earns nothing because Homer didn't save any money. Well, we have an income tax. So her interest is also taxed. She pays $1.22 in tax on her interest. So her period 2 consumption is equal to her period 1 consumption at $25.61. So Homer is a full-time period one consumer. Marge is a split your consumption equally person. Okay. So otherwise identical, same income, same animator. Okay. Uh but one person likes eating all their income in the first period. One person likes splitting it. Well, look what happens. The PDV of taxes of Marge is higher. Even though they had the same opportunities going in, because Marge chose to save, she pays more in taxes. Why? What's driving that? What's driving the higher amount of taxes Marge pays in PDV? Not even in PDV. What drives the higher tax she pays? Well, they're both taxed on their income. What's the difference with Marge? Yeah, >> she's taxed on her interest. Marge is double taxed because she's taxed first on the income. She then saves what she earns and is taxed again on the interest on that savings. So there is double taxation in this system. Marge is taxed twice. Homer's only taxed once because he doesn't save. So what this means is that Marge pays more taxes. So now let's replace this with a consumption tax system designed to raise um with a consumption tax system. And the way the sub tax system is going to work, it's going to be a 100% tax on consumption. What that means, it's sort of a weird it's 100% tax sounds crazy. What it means is for every dollar you consume, you pay a dollar to the government. Okay? It's sort of a government sharing of consumption expenditures. For every dollar you consume, you pay a dollar to the government. Now let's look at these same people. They each earn $100. Homer spends 50 and pays 50 in taxes. Homer's treated the same way he was last time. He doesn't care. Income tax, he pays 50. Consumpt taxi pays 50. Marge, however, saves. She she consumes uh actually a little bit more in period 1 than she did before, 2619 instead of 2561, and saves the rest. She earns interest. Therefore, she consumed more in the second period, but she doesn't pay any tax. She she then pays a consumption tax on her consumption. So, in the first period, she consumes 2619, pays 2619 in consumption taxation. In the second taxation. I should have said the interest rate here is 10%. Um, so in PDV, her tax burden is the same as Homer's. Okay? Because there's a 10% 10% there's a 10% uh discount rate. So basically what you see is that under consumption taxation two things happen. Taxes fall for the saver relative to the consumer and you have more horizontal equity between savers and consumers. The first system unfairly penal unfairly in view of horizontal equity unfairly penalize those who choose to save. The second does not. So the argument for consumption tax system is that it will lead to more savings and fair treatment of savers. And indeed this is the main reason why I think probably the majority of economists would favor replace the income tax with a consumption tax. I know there's a majority but certainly a healthy minority. This is I'll talk about multiple reasons. This is the main reason that basically would improve savings and therefore improve the amount of capital in the economy and improve productivity. Okay. So that's a second main argument for consumption taxation. The third main argument uh is one that Stephen alluded to which is simplicity enough with 250 pages of instructions and all these forms of just whatever you buy you pay a tax. It's pretty simple. Okay. It's pretty simple. Okay. Moreover, related to that is um is uh yeah okay so simplicity. So those the big three pros. So you ask why do countries have concept taxes? These are the reasons. Okay. What are the cons? Well the cons are also pretty strong. The main con of course is vertical equity. And that's because you say well why is vertical equity changed? They're both pay the same consumption tax rate. It's a flat consumption tax of 50%. Or 100%. Who cares? Vertical equity changes because the rich save and the poor don't. Okay. So the facts are that those in the lowest income quintile in America, the bottom fifth income distribution, save 3% of their lifetime income. So over their whole lives, everything they earn, their savings amount to 3% of that. Those in the richest quintile save 25% of their lifetime income. And the richer you get, the more your savings is sort of you just can't, you know, Elon Musk just can't spend the money. Okay, fast enough. By definition, your savings can be very high the richer you get. Okay, so basically uh in the top 1% of the income distribution, those people save roughly half their lifetime income. Well, changing to this tax system, while from the perspective of that table, it looks fair. Remember, we got to think about the ch the transitional impact. We're going to move to a much more regressive tax system. This essentially a huge tax break for the rich because basically they're the savers and the system favors savers relative to the existing system. It's neutral relative to no taxation, but relative to today's system, it favors savers. Okay. Now, you might say, "Look, we could uh we could, you know, you might say, well, look, there's a couple ways we could deal with this. First of all, the rich save the money. What happens to it?" Well, eventually they just leave it to their kids. So, if you had a consumption tax that included estates as a form of consumption, that would solve the problem. So, you said in your consumption include what you leave behind. Well, then they wouldn't escape the tax. Wouldn't matter. They save more. They'd eventually get caught. The problem is we already have a huge fight over a tiny estate tax. And indeed, there's an article about this. I I wish it came right before I taught the lecture. It's New York Times article just yesterday, maybe two days ago, about noting that the share the share of in the share the wealth of the richest Americans gone up four times in the last 30 gone up fourfold in the last 30 years. But estate tax revenues have stayed flat because we've increased the the we we increased so much the exemptions and people taking more advantage of the loopholes. So the notion that we're going to suddenly put in a massive we're going to massly tax every dollar in every estate is insane. That's not going to happen. So we could get rid of that. We're not going to. Yeah. >> Sorry. >> The wealth the amount of wealth the richest are holding has gone up but they're not paying any more in estate taxes. >> The absolute amount of >> the absolute amount. Um, so that's that's one way. Another way you could do is say, well, look, we could have a progressive consumption tax. We could basically say, look, instead of having a sales tax, we would a sales tax by definition can't be progressive. You can't walk in, I can't say, that's a nice suit. I'm going to charge you more for your cookies. It's not going to work. But you could say, what instead of a sales tax, we an expenditure tax. I mean, the expenditure tax would work is literally I'd add up what you spend all year and I would apply a progressive tax schedule to that just like I do to income. The problem is it's impossible because if you think tracking income is hard, tracking spending is a nightmare. Okay. There's no way that we can actually and countries that have tried it's absolutely failed. No one's ever ever been able to successfully implement an expenditure tax. Yeah. Is there any research around? >> Yeah. >> Oh, yeah. It does what you think it does. It lowers consumption, increases savings. Absolutely. Um, so that's one argument against it. There's actually a subtle version of this vertical equity argument, which is sort of a targeting argument. Remember when we talked about welfare? We talked about um how a good welfare system might find who really needs help and target them. Well, there's a similar issue in taxation, which is imagine a world where you can't you know who's rich and poor, but you can't tell who's really who's really needy and who's not. And some of the rich guys are actually sort of unskilled guys working incredibly hard. Some are guys who just are living off the fat of the land and happen to make a lot of extra money uh through their parents or whatever. You'd like to tax the latter and not the former. Well, you can't because they're both have high income. But it turns out if being a saver is correlated with being a high underlying ability with someone who underlying is going to be rich, you might want to use the amount you save as a way to tax people. You might want to say, "Gee, you save a lot. That must mean you're a guy who really is rich. Let's come grab you and let's tax you." So, it's sort of a targeting argument. It's a little subtle. The other major problem is the transition issue. Okay, here's the question. Think about this for a minute. Come on. Last few opportunities to answer questions. Let's go. Here we go. Think about this for a minute. Think about three groups of people. Babies, 40 year olds, and 70 year olds. And imagine we're going to replace the existing income tax with an equal revenue consumption tax. Okay. Who wins and who loses? Let's start with who loses because that's the easier one. Who loses when I take I got to say look starting tomorrow I'm not going to tax your income. I'm just going to tax your consumption. But I'm going to have have to raise the same amount of revenue. Who's the big loser in that? Yeah. >> Because >> they are probably retired make no income. >> They paid income tax their whole life and now as they spend their money they're going to hit again. They are totally screwed. Okay. Who benefits the most? Well, the babies because this consumption tax is going to increase the capital stock raising wages in the long run. The 40-y olds are kind of indifferent. Maybe 35 year olds, I don't know what age you're indifferent. But the bottom line is there's a this parallels a bit our discussion of social security. There's a bit of a legacy debt issue here when you switch from income to consumption taxes, which is that basically you have ended up screwing the people who paid income tax their whole life and now going to have to pay consumption tax as they draw their as they draw their savings down. And that's going to be a very hard thing. Uh that's going to be a very hard thing to deal with. Much like um uh and indeed people have estimated models, you know, Eno asked about the economic effects of consumption taxes. People have estimated models showing that consumption taxes increase efficiency. But if you have to bribe old people, imagine you had to say to old people, we're going to put the consumption tax in and we're going to grandfather you. We're going to make you not pay and just put that on extra debt. That would undo all the efficiency gains of moving to consumption tax. the consumption tax, a lot of the efficiency gains come from actually screwing the old people. And if you're not willing to do that, you're not going to get a lot of efficiency gains from switching to consumption tax. So that's that's that's a third problem. A fourth problem is so you can't do an expenditure tax, you have to do a sales tax. Well, the fourth problem is compliance, which is basically when I when I earn income, okay, for most people that's recorded ways the government tracks, but I can always buy stuff off the back of a van. The government has no idea. So, it's actually if you and imagine a world where there's 25% sales tax, which be talking about to replace the income tax there a lot of incentive to buy stuff off the back of vans and there'd be new apps that wouldn't be tracked by the government. Every Bitcoin would take off. Actually, the Bitcoin advocate should love this, right? everybody suddenly start using Bitcoin to buy things the government couldn't track it and they'd never pay taxes. So compliance is a nightmare. And then finally we have a more subtle problem but a subtle problem that motivates the next step which is what you can call the cascading problem. The cascading problem is that some consumption goods are inter intermediate inputs into other consumption goods. So think about the classic example of fruit basket. Well imagine a fruit basket maker where you buy the fruit, you put it in your basket. You buy the fruit, you buy the basket, you put them together, you sell it. Well, if you pay consumption taxes on the fruit and consumption tax on the basket, and then you sell this consumption tax on what you sell, that's double taxation. Now, if you have three levels of inputs, it's triple taxation. It explodes. So, in a world where consumption taxes are could be levied on inputs in theory, you have a problem. So, these are the arguments against that. But these last two in particular have led to a particular form of consumption tax that's used around the world called the value added tax which any of you have traveled to Europe you've dealt with the value added tax. Okay, the value added tax. What is a value added tax? So value added tax is literally a it's what it says it is a tax it's a cascading consumption tax where each level of production is taxed only on its value added. So let's look at uh an example. Imagine you're making a kitchen table 25 table 253 not you're making kitchen table in table 253. Okay. Um basically you've got three stages. First the logger cuts down the wood and sells the manufacturer. The manufacturer makes the table and sells it to a retailer. The retailer sells the table to you. So the logger has no inputs and maybe buys an axe or whatever, but assume he has no inputs. He sells the wood for $25. So his value added is $25. The manufacturer buys the wood for $25, then sells the table to a retailer for $75. So his value added is $50. The retailer sells the table to you for $100. She paid $75 for it. So her value So what we do is at each level, we tax people the value added. How does it actually work? It literally works that when the manufacturers to produce the receipts for what they paid for their wood and the receipts for what they sold their tables for and they're taxed on the difference. Okay? And what that means is if you want to raise $20, you could either have a 20% tax on a $100 table at the end of the day or you could have a $5 tax on the loggers, $10 the manufacturers, and $5 in the retailers. Now, either way, you raise $20, but there's two key advantages of value added tax. The first is it gets rid of the cascading effect because everyone's only taxed, you only tax on your value added. So that fruit basket person would only be would get to get to deduct from her taxes what she paid to get the fruit in the basket. So she only tax the value added. Okay. The second uh advantage is that it helps with compliance. And why does it help with compliance? Why don't people just cheat cheat like mad in this? >> Yeah. instead of having like each person is faced with a smaller sort of tax hit along the way. >> Smaller tax hit. That's one thing. And we know from the last thing that the smaller the tax rate, the less incentive to cheat. But it's it's better than that. There's another feature. This feature becomes self- enforcing. Why? Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. If the if if if if the logger claims he only sold it for $20, then the government says, "Wait a second, the logger says $20, but this table manufactur bought it for $25. Something's going wrong." So it becomes self-inforcing. So if you're going to do a basically this is a well a well functioning consumption tax design. Okay. So that is one way you can do uh the consumption tax. Okay. Now the US there's actually another way you can get to consumption tax which the US is part of the way to getting there which is what is consumption. Consumption is income minus savings. The US taxes income. We can move to consumption tax in two ways. We could tax consumption or we could let people deduct savings. If they deduct savings from their income, then you're taxing consumption. Well, guess what? We do a whole lot of that. We let them, you know, they can they have we have low tax rates on capital income. We have savings, retirement accounts, etc. So, actually, we are in between an income and consumption tax because we have a lot of tax breaks for savings that we covered in chapter 22 and chapter 23. Basically, the tax break for capital gains is incentive to save. So we have lots of tax breaks for savings. So we're actually partway to a consumption tax in the US. And once again, you can now see the argument for why, which is gee, by taxing incomestead of consumption, we are reducing incentives to save. So we want to increase the set of saves by moon consumption tax. But the same arguments, the same vertical equity argument applies. Essentially, the fundamental trade-off here is between efficiency and equity. That basically it would probably be more efficient to have a value added tax than an income tax, but it would be less equitable. And like many other things, for that reason, it's hard to imagine today that if the if the fairly liberal countries in Europe had an income tax, they'd be very eager to switch to a VAT. But since they had a VAT a long time ago for a long time they are able to to do that. Yeah. >> So so basically it's it's it's confusing for you because you guys just lived through a big big recession. As I said this course runs in a full employment economy. In the long run saving is productive because saving converts to capital. Now we we've lived through a period when there's when in the short run when there's periods of insufficient demand you want to spend you want to encourage spending but in the long run you want to encourage savings because that builds the capital stock in the economy. So it's really sort of a short run long run distinction sort of a full employment you know full employment macro versus sort of cyclical macro. We talk about this in chapter 4. So basically that is kind of the fundamental trade-off we face when we think about how do we um how do we deal with uh thinking about consumption versus income taxation. Other questions? Yeah. >> Enoable. >> What's that? >> Less equitable than an income tax. >> Income tax. >> Yes. Not not than other consumptions. Less equitable than income tax. Absolutely. Other questions? Yeah. >> Well, that's a very interesting thing. So, in Europe, this is actually a really fascinating contrast between the way taxation works in the US and Europe. Europe actually has much higher taxes on labor or consumption. Remember, an income tax consumption tax operate in similar ways. They have much higher taxes on their average Joe. Okay? And they actually have fairly low taxes on capital. So you might think, well gee, we thought liberals all Europe. Well, the difference is they raise extra money and do a lot more pro poor spending. Not a UBI because they want to target the poor. But the idea is if you and in some sense this is quite interesting actually. Great question. This is why Andrew Yang was off his rocker. Okay, sorry for all you Yang fans out here. That's 2020 election going back. But Yang wanted to move to a consumption tax to fund a UBI. Think about that for a second. We have a current income tax which is progressive. He wants to move to a flat consumption tax and then give money to everybody including the rich guys. Okay, that doesn't help progressivity at all. That massively hurts progressivity. You're essentially a progressive income tax system to a flat system where you're giving everybody the same amount of money. Now, a consumption tax that funded a basic demog $20,000 that would that could be equitable. So, you could that's basically what Europe does. What Europe does is they have a consumption tax that funds very progressive spending. But a consumpt tax fund a UBI is just we're just going to move from a systems progressive to a flat system. Everybody pays the same tax. Everybody gets the same money. The rich are in the same place as the poor. That doesn't do us any that that hurts. Does that make sense? >> Sorry. Sorry for Yang fans out there. Yeah. You said a basic grant. >> What's that? >> You said >> a basic demog, which is just just a flat amount of money to just I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let me back up. I said it wrong. Amount of money that's targeted to the poor. I didn't mean a demog. A basic amount of money that's targeted to the poor. So, in other words, think about something where you say a consumption tax and basically we're going to take everyone below this level of consumption, give them an extra $20,000. Or alternatively, what Europe does is not that. They say we're going to have a high taxation and we're going to have universal health care that's going to mostly help the poor. And you know, you might say it's universal. Why is universal healthcare like universal basic income? Well, going back to healthcare chapters, universal healthcare in Europe is not the same as universal basic income for a simple reason, which is that the healthcare is mediocre. So the rich guys buy have to buy extra. Essentially, it is not truly universal. It's basically better for poor guys and the rich guys buy extra. But what Europe does basically is set up a more redistributional welfare state funded by higher taxes. And it's not clear which way we feel about that. It's not, you know, it's a very interesting contrast in how they do it. Other questions. >> Yeah. >> That term >> demograph. That's just that's UBI. I used the wrong term. >> Yeah. So consumption meaning >> great question. most that like sorry I don't know how to >> no no let me you actually asked a great question I didn't cover this I cover this in chapter 19 in the book so when we talk about progressivity I I think I'll answer your question let's see talk about progressivity we talk about in terms of current income but current income is not a good measure in many cases of lifetime income so for example you are currently very poor you will eventually all be well off I predict okay um but so but so it's not So if I I say right now you got the same as some guy working at a gas station. Well lifetime you're going to have way higher income than some guy working at a gas station. But I'm taxing on your income now. Consumption under the life cycle model is a representation of my lifetime income. So under life cycle model with borrowing you should be borrowing right now and consuming more. Now you're not fully but you're probably consuming more than you would if you knew this was your permanent income. If you knew forever this is going to be your income. you probably wouldn't consume what you're consuming today. Okay, so the point is that's why people said when we think about tax fairness, the right measure use not income, it's consumption. And in fact, if you use consumption, the tax system appears it the tax system appears um much less progressive than if you use income. Uh and basically uh because a lot of the lowincome people are actually going to end up rich. So they're actually we're actually taxing them. we're actually going to taxing rich people too low. The rich people won't end up being poor, but the poor some of the poor people could end up being rich. And so basically that's is that sort of what you're getting at? >> That was interesting. But I guess >> that's okay. I'm good. I'm done. Next. No, go ahead. >> That was like part of the question. But another partap. >> Yeah. But and why does that matter? >> Or not a me but like In other words, if you're saying you're saying in some sense, but equity is about signaling who really needs help and who doesn't. You're saying consumption is a worse signal in some sense of who's really truly needs help. >> Maybe. Yeah. There's like certain like necessary >> Yeah. No, exactly. You're saying that like if we tax consumption in substance, we're going to tax even if you're really poor, you're going to have some level of consumption. So we're gonna Yes, that's a great point that basically we're going to end up it's in some sense a less essentially your point and my point bound the truth. So my point is consumption is a good measure because it represents your lifetime resources. Your point is consumption is a bad measure because if you're you got to consume a certain amount. The truth depends on to what extent the life cycle model explains reality. If people really behave by the life cycle model perfectly then consumption is the right measure. But if they don't and they basically have to spend extra just to survive and it's money they don't are never actually going to have. They're going to be in debt the rest of their lives and never pay it off then that's a problem with consumption taxation. Does that make sense? >> Yeah. >> Okay. So that's consumption taxation. Now there's another approach which is just to say well look let's just keep the income tax system but go to a flat tax. And this was all you know the very popular proposal like Herman Kanes and others was basically uh a a flat tax. And so here's for example a way the most famous economist flat tax examples, the Hallraushka tax. Here's here's how they set it. Here's how they set it up. It's actually pretty pretty interesting. It's not a flat tax, but it's sort of a a simpler tax. Basically, they say all corporations, all businesses pay a VAT, but they deduct the wages they pay. So, it's a VAT with an extra deduction. You deduct the wages you pay. Okay? Individuals then pay taxes just on their wages. Okay? And capital income is exempted um all capital income is exempted from taxes. Okay? So, basically this is like a VAT. So, why not just use a VAT? The difference is that a VAT can't be progressive, but this can be progressive. So, we take wages out of the VAT, but then we have a progressive tax schedule on wages. And that way is a way of introducing progressivity into a consumption tax system. Then the question is, well, how much progressivity do you want to introduce and how flat should the tax rate be? And basically, the answer is you can raise a lot of money. The other thing they would do is they beyond this all loopholes are gone. Health insurance deductions gone, everything's gone. Child reduction, all loopholes are gone. So you have a huge tax base. It's the broadest possible tax base. And it turns out you can then raise a lot of money with a fairly low rate. The problem is that low rate leads to a lot of change in progressivity. So for example, here's a flat tax. Here's a example of a halluska tax. Okay, just for certain parameters. This just for you can design it any way you want. This just to give you an example of a flat tax where basically what you see is tax rates rise for those who are more towards the bottom distribution because they're b because you have a flatter tax. You're raising the low the bottom rate and they fall a lot for those at the top of the distribution. You raise the same amount of money but basically it ends up a flatter tax rate system. It's going to have less progressivity. In the tax act of 86, let's be clear, the richest people only pay twice as high a rate as the poorest people. Whereas today, the richest people pay a rate that's about four times. So the top rate's almost four times the bottom rate. Tax Active 86, the top rate was only twice the bottom rate. Now, there are people who don't pay tax at all. They're always exempted. But among taxpayers, if you replaced, if you followed my advice and got rid of today's system with the tax react of 86, people like, "Wait a second. You've gone from a bottom rate of 10 and a top rate of 40 to bottom rate of 15 and a top rate of 33. How is that fair? Yeah. >> Rather than just >> under this system >> like >> right. Oh, how have they >> Oh. Oh, that's chapter 19. We showed that. We showed that those in the tables in chapter 19. Basically, what's happened over time is poor people have paid less tax as a percent of their income. Rich people have paid about the same amount of or a somewhat rising share of their income in taxes. Not rising as much as inequality's risen, but actually it's it's, you know, it's interesting. We say the risk of tax breaks. Well, the truth is the share of t income the rich pay in tax has actually gone up over time. But critically, let me back off on that. That depends on how you treat unrealized capital gains. If like I talked about the other day, you treat unrealized capital gains as income, then the rich pay much much lower taxes, >> right? But but that's sort of a controversial topic is should we think about this because it's not actually income. They didn't realize it and how should we think about that? So basically the progress of the tax system depends a lot on how you think about unrealized >> Sure. So I guess maybe the same question wealth. >> Yeah. Then basically I mean I I don't know the full distribution but um the tax rates in the rich are I don't know if they're lower than the poor but for many rich people they are. For the wealthiest people they are. So basically you get this strange inversion then because the super wealthy are the ones with huge unrealized capital gains. So basically would it I don't know how much it would change 25,000 versus $200,000 incomes but the billionaires get a huge break. So basically where does this leave us? Well this leaves a situation where the tax section ends up a bit where the redistribution section ended up with our fundamental equity efficiency trade-off that we can design a more efficient tax system if it's flatter. A flatter system be more efficient. It would help with compliance. It would help with simplicity. But um you would have vertical equity concerns. So it seems to me now my editorializing it seems to be the best of the both worlds is have the flat tax base and just have a steeper schedule. If you know basically in some sense there's two steps. There's the base and the rates. The holes we've put in the tax base are a major source of inefficiency. In fact, there's a one of my favorite economic studies reestimated this taxable income elasticity at different kinds of tax bases. The US, the tax bases changed over time and they found the more comprehensive was the tax base, the lower was that elasticity. Why? Because there's less loopholes to take advantage of. So in some sense this is the toss squared effect on steroids that basically the more that ba not the toss square it's it's really it's the whole dead weight loss debate on steroids we talked about how higher tax rates can cause dead weight loss and in particular among high income payers but the dead weight loss itself is a function of the base. It's not exogenous. The more comprehensive is the base, the less dead weight loss from taxation because much of that dead weight loss comes from around with trying to get different holes in the base. That's gone. So it's actually a fascinating interaction that taxes you when you broaden the base, you not only raise more money, you make taxes more efficient to collect. So it's an extra boost to the Hague Simons argument. The Hague Simons argument was yeah, this is the way I want to say it. The Heg Simons, you remember our dead weight loss formula was a function of elasticities and toss squared. The Hague Simons argument was all about toss squared. But there's actually an elasticity part of the Hague Simons argument, which is when the base becomes more comprehensive, you not only get to lower the rates, lowering the toss squared effect, but you lower the weight loss of taxation, lowering the elasticity effect. So a broader base has a double whammy in terms of tax efficiency. So basically what we should do is move back to the tax form act of 86 base. I would advocate somewhat more progressive rates. But that's then just a social debate about we have a social debate about the inefficiency of higher rates versus the versus the social distribution. But once we get the base off the table, there's not that much inefficiency from progressive taxes. And that I think is the key thing. Does that make sense? That's the key thing to realize that the base that the inefficiency of taxation depends on how you define the base being taxed. Okay. Okay. Well, let me then wrap up with a couple of final points I want to cover. The first point is and the most important point is what I want you to take away from this course. Okay. Now, if I took anyone this class, convince them I'm going get a PhD in economics. That's a bonus. Uh but the main thing I want you to take away from this course is just how to be intelligent consumers of information about government policy. Okay? I don't expect you to remember. The only thing I expect you to remember is the difference between Medicare and Medicaid. Other than that, you can forget the rest. I just want you to remember when you read an article about this wonderful sign of tax break to think, wait a second, is that a good idea or not? That depends on how much money you're going to spend versus how much the behavior you're going to encourage. When you read something about um a new social insurance program to think, well, what's the benefit of that? What's it going to do in terms of inducing bad moral hazard? When you hear something about the environment, think about is that the best way to try to accomplish his environmental goal? So just be smart consumers and go out there. We are in a period of time of sort of the lowest respect for expertise of my lifetime. Okay, this is just we have a crisis of expertise and part of the problem is due to place like MIT and why is due to MIT because we don't talk in ways that we can understand. We talk to each other through very arudite articles and we don't explain to people clearly how to think about these problems in a in a nonjudgmental, non-dismissive, clearly understandable way. I've given you the tools to do that here. Okay? So now go out and do it in the real world. Make sure when you're encountering people in the real world and they're thinking about these issues that you help them understand the right way to think about it. Once again, in a non non, you know, non-praternalistic way, but in a way which makes which which puts these tools to use. Okay, so that's the main thing I want to get out. The last thing I like to end with, and I apologize for how many people took 1401 with me. I know Enick did. Okay, I apologize for the same joke again, but others that didn't hear the joke. It's my favorite economic joke of all time. They're my favorite economics joke of all time, which is um about the uh the doctor, priest, and the economist who go golfing. Um they're on the golf course. They get in the golf course and um there's uh someone ahead of them, one person playing alone who's going unbelievably slow. They are taking like 25 shots for every hole. And I'm not a golfer, but apparently good etiquette in golf is if you're very slow and there's people behind you, you're supposed to let them play through uh you get ahead of you. And he the golfer wouldn't do it. And so like they were like there was like lines of like 20 people waiting behind this person taking it forever. Finally after nine holes, they quit. They go to the clubhouse. They're pounding their beers. They're really upset. and and they're like, "God, what what an I can't believe let's play through." And some comes up and says, "Well, excuse me. Are you new at this club?" And they said, "Yes, we are." I said, "Well, I I I know you're new because if you weren't new, you'd understand the person you're playing behind is blind." And actually, the reason they take so long is because they're blind. And actually, it's pretty amazing they'd make it at all. That's pretty incredible. So, you know, you might want to think about that. They walk off and there's a dead silence and the doctor goes, "Oh my god, I can't believe that like I said such a mean thing about a blind person. like my whole job is to help sick people and here I'm insulting blind people. I'm going to dedicate a wing of my hospital to the blind. And the the priest goes like, "Well, you I what about me? I'm supposed to be like this holy man takes care of people and I'm insulting this blind person. I'm going to set up a free soup kitchen for the blind." And they go to the economist and the economist says, "Well, if he's blind, why doesn't he golf at night?" And I love that joke. That could of course be told about any engineering field, right? I love that joke because it shows our roles to be a pain in the ass. Okay, a well-communicated non-pater paternalist paternalistic effective pain in the ass. Okay, and that's what I hope I trained you in here and you learn in fortune one you learn economics at MIT is how to be a pain in the ass and how to basically live up to our title the dismal science in a way which actually makes the world a better place. Okay, so I'll stop there. Good luck on your exam. Uh and I hope to see all of you more. Remember like I said my doors I'm still around the spring so feel free to stop by. Thanks. >> [applause]