education economics. So let's remind ourselves we showed last time uh that basically it doesn't look like across countries what you spend in education really correlates with outcomes. We then sort of ask the question well why should this is what the government spends. I'm sorry. We then ask why should the government be involved in education? Why not just have a private market where everyone just pays for it themselves and take loans if they need to? And we came up with another a number of answers uh from the fact that sort of minimum standards of citizenship we want to meet to improvements in productivity that spill over to others um to credit market failures. Uh and importantly let's and I think an important one here is this failure to maximize family utility. Let's remember that um uh it's kids who ultimately bear the consequence of their parents' decision to educate them in important ways. Income mobility is a critical aspect of success in life. Income mobility depends critically on education. So only if we really think parents are really doing what's in society's best interest, not just their own best interests, do we really want to leave it total in the hands of families about whether kids go to school or not. We probably want some government involvement in thinking about that at least. Okay. So now with that as background, now that we've answered the first question which is the when should the government intervene. The answer is the answer is generally it should in a case like education. We come to the second question which is what how should the government intervene. And here we're going to start with what the government actually does and then think about whether it makes sense. So what does the government do? Well, the government in practice provides free public education of a certain amount. So to understand how that works, let's think about a simple model um uh where individuals much like our model of grant is much like our model of grants at the end of the last chapter, but now it's an individual making a decision. They're deciding between how much to spend on education and how much spend on everything else. So this is this is the figure figure 112 in your handout. The government is deciding how much spent in education, how much spend on everything else on the individual, I'm sorry. And they face a budget constraint. They can either spend an amount, they have a budget. They can either spend it all on education in which case they'll get B of educ amount of education or all the other goods in which case they'll get G2. Okay? And let's assume despite the cross-country graph we saw a few minutes ago that education spending is productive. Let's assume that the more you spend in education, the better education your kid gets. Okay, we're just going to make that assumption. We'll come back later to evidence on that. Let's assume that here. So the x-axis is both spending and quality. Okay, so parents have to make some decision. And absent government intervention, they'll make some decision. We have three illustrative parents here, X, Y, and Z. They choose different tradeoffs absent government intervention. Okay, so the Xante, we end up with three different education levels. E1, E2, and E3 for three different parents. Now, the government comes in and says, "We're gonna provide free public education up to an amount E subf." Okay? So, anybody can have EUFF for free. But we're going to make a key assumption here. If you go to public school, there's no supplementation. There's no tutoring. There's no like extra, you know, uh, you know, Russian math school you can send your kids to. It's a world where basically if you go to public school that's all you get. So your choice is either you go to public school or you go to private school. If you go to public school you get E subf for free but no more. If you go to private school you still get what you pay for. So how does this change the budget constraint? Well the new budget constraint much like we saw with the grant example last time is a flat segment that goes all the way to an amount E subf all the way out to point C. because you can get that much education for free without giving up any other private goods. At that point, you stop getting free public education. The budget constraint drops from C to D and you return to the original private school, the original private budget constraint. Student budget constraint goes G2 C DB. Okay, that's the new budget constraint. Okay, questions about that. Now, let's ask how does that affect people's choices? Well, let's start with person X. Person X used to not want a lot of education and a lot of private goods. Now they can get more of both. They can get a lot more education and more private goods by just enroll by dropping out of their crappy private school and joining this public school. So person X is a no-brainer. They've improved their they've made themselves ambiguously better off. For person Z, nothing's changed. the public schooling level is so much lower than their desired level of education that they're not interested. Person Y is the interesting case. And what is particularly notable about person Y? What's notable about person Y is that their indifference curve, their indifference curve that's tangent to the original private budget constraint passes through the vertical segment from C to D. What does that mean? That means that graphically they are better off at point C than they are at their current choice. So they will move from their current choice of E sub 2 to E subf. And how do we know that? You can just tell you just prove geometrically that since their difference curve cross that vertical segment at point C, they'll be in a higher indifference curve. In other words, person Y is willing to get less education to get a lot more other consumption. This is a case of more than 100% crowd out. Okay, this is a case where basically the government providing it doesn't just reduce private provision to zero. It produces private provision by more than the government actually provided. That is total educational attainment for person Y falls. So on net what happens to society? Well, that depends on the proportions of people who are X, Y, and Z. If societyy's all like X, education ambiguously increases. If societyy's all like Z, education unbigously doesn't change. But if it's like Y, education can actually fall. This is this is a key point made by Sam Peltzman in 1973. It's a famous model, another Chicago economist, showing that the government can make things worse. That in principle, free public education can lower educational attainment. It's pretty striking finding, but it's pretty clear from this graph that a free public education can actually lower how much education people get. And whether it'll happen or not depends on how big Y is compared to X basically. Okay, X is getting a lot more, Y is getting somewhat less. The size of those groups will determine whether total education goes up or not. So this is really a quite striking finding that free public education could actually lead to less educational attainment. Now, Peltzman said, "Look, there's an easy solution to this problem, which is what if instead of telling people they have to go to a public school, we gave them a voucher." And that voucher was for the amount E subf. And we said, "Look, there will be public schools that will provide EU subf, but if you don't want to those public schools, you can take your voucher EBF and apply it to any private school as well." So, we're going to give you a piece of paper. You can just turn that piece of paper back into the public school and be done with it. You turn that piece of paper into a private school and then pay the extra and pay some extra on top of that and go to private school. So, it's just a coupon off of private school for the amount that we spend on public school. What would that do to the budget constraint? Well, that moves the budget constraint to something like figure 113 where now there's still the same flat segment along the top but now below that the whole budget constraint shifted out. This is like the conditional block grant example from last lecture. The whole budget con so you basically so what happens is person X continues to go to C. they didn't get education but now person Y person Y also gets more education and person Z gets more education so now you unambiguously increase educational attainment so relative to a simple limited public education system by giving a voucher you can unambiguously and this is one of three arguments supporting what has become a very significant voucher movement in the US, a movement in the US and around the world to allow students to essentially instead of being forced to go to the public schools to be given a choice where they can literally direct their dollars to the public school or to other alternatives. And there are three arguments people make for vouchers. One is it sort of, you know, it's a crowd out argument that it ends this crowd out of group Y and actually increase attainment for group Z as well. The second argument that people make is a consumer sovereignty argument that basically look I spelled sovereignty whatever uh that basically look we think we should respect the consumer of lots of things. Why do we think the government knows better than we do what the best school is? The government may just the government may just stick kids in some crappy school. Let's let people decide what's best for their kids. And an advantage of allowing that is a third benefit which is efficiency which is basically if people efficiency from shopping. If people can shop they'll choose the best schools. What are local public schools? They're government sanctioned monopolies. Okay. And we have a government takes a monopoly, it's by definition going to be operating ineffic it's going to be operating inefficiently. It's a mon it's a nonprofit monopoly. A for-profit monopoly operate efficiently and suck up all the re suck up all the profits. But a nonprofit monopoly is no incentive to operate efficiently because it can't keep the money. So last thing you want is a nonprofit monopoly. Okay? Not the last thing you want, but a cost to have a nonprofit monopoly because they're just not there's no incentive to operate efficiently. If operating efficiently is stressful, why bother? you get the kids no matter what. So that's the clear arguments for a voucher system. Okay? And that is why there's a very strong advocacy typically on the conservative side of the aisle, but this is a little more bipartisan than some other things we'll talk about. It's typically conservative, but it's a little more bipartisan appeal to this uh for vouchers. So what are the arguments against vouchers? >> Why not vouchers, Eno? What about the kids left behind? Remember what vouchers do is they say basically you take your voucher, go to another school. And the idea, the efficiency, I should have said this, by the way. I won't clear here. The way the efficiency works is when you go to the school, you bring your dollars with you. So the good school get more dollars, the bad schools get less dollars. And ultimately, if it's a company goes out of business, that's the idea of efficiency. Efficiency works through exit and entry. The problem's pointing out is if somebody's got an absent parent who's not paying attention and their school goes out of business, they're screwed. Okay. So basically, in some sense, the problem is you are essentially allowing people to make the best choice, but you're relying on family utility maximization. They will make the best choice and the ones who don't make that choice end up getting left behind in increasingly poorer and poorer schools. So that's one problem. What other uh what other problems are there? Well, this is a related one to this to this one. Let's come to this. What's the other problem with this argument? What's wrong with this argument? >> Yeah. >> It's hard to shop. People are there's bad information. People don't do it well. So, there's basically an an a market an imperfect market for schools. Both market imperfections and market power are going to make it that you won't get efficiency from shopping. Okay. So you may do better from shopping but the notion is the first best is clearly wrong given imperfections in this market. So the second thing is market imperfections. So that's what's wrong with that argument. What's wrong with this argument? Consumer sovereignty. How would you argue back against that, >> Stephen? >> No, but that would be sort of a market imperfection or what gets left behind. But it's related to that. What What else concerns you? Yeah. >> Yeah. How do we know the parents are going to choose a school that delivers a socially optimal outcome to their kids? I mean, right. If you're in Texas and you want to compete for the best resources, you offer the best football team. You don't offer the best math classes because basically the high schools with good football teams get all the good par get all the rich parents. They get a lot of money. Okay. Is that what we want? Is we're in a market where high schools are chosen based on their football team, not their educational attainment. Okay. So basically the problem is we could the problem is that you could have sort of excessive specialization that basically parents say look I care about my kid spending the entire class learning that you know evolution is real evolution is fake and when it's creationism is the truth. Do we want that? This is not just a vague idea. There was actually a massive expose of the worst schools in America by objective school tests or the certainly the worst schools in the state of New York by objective school tests are a set of specialized hidic high schools. Hidic acidic a sect of Judaism in New York City which are set up as essentially religious schools masquerading as educational institutions. The students in those schools are uniformly on every single test. The very worst students in New York State students who have been those schools can't say they come out totally unprepared for they don't take math or reading or anything. They just learn they just learn religious studies and so they come out unprepared to live in modern society. But these are private schools and they are sanctioned by the state and basically you have excessive specialization. Now in principle Yeah. Stephen Yeah. So in principle you could try to address that by saying okay there's a certain things you have to teach certain standards you have to reach okay but in practice at in the limit it might just end up be easier to run the school I mean some given how difficult it is to maintain those standards and monitor them you got at some point say do you really want to just do that and that's in some sense the whole privatization debate we've gotten to chapter seven which is is it better to let a private company do it and try to monitor the quality and the product or have the government do it it itself Okay. What else? What's another problem with vouchers? >> Yeah. >> Awesome. Great point. Think about the equity implications. Who is likely to be person Z? A rich person. Who's likely person X? A poor person. Okay. Okay. Now, in this case, it's not true because they all have the same budget. But in general, who sends their kids to private schools is richer people. And for those people, we are just paying them to do something they were already going to do. We're not reducing extra education, but not through changing their behavior just by giving them more money. Okay? We are going to spend a lot of the taxation section of this course talking about the concept of marginal versus inframarginal consumers. A marginal consumer is one whose behavior is changed by a change in government policy. An inframaral consumer is one who benefits from the government policy without their behavior changing. When you put in a policy that's designed to change behavior e. To increase education, then all the money you give to rich people who are living who already send their kids to private schools in for marginal, it's just a waste from the government's perspective. It's only redistributional. Marginal changes have efficiency consequences. If I induce someone to go to school wasn't going to school, that's a marginal change. That is an efficiency consequence. If I take someone who's already going to school and just give them money, that is an inframarginal change. It's redistributive, but it has no efficiency consequences. It does. Look, more people in group Z go to school, but they just go to school because they're richer. We could have more people go to Z school by just redistributing money to rich people. Wouldn't have to have vouchers. So basically the marginal if we think about marginal versus inframarginal the marginal piece is about efficiency the inframarginal piece is about redistribution. So you have to ask yourself well who are we redistributing to? Well vouchers were redistributing towards rich people because they were the ones that already send their kids to private school. So, it becomes an inefficient use of public dollars to offer a voucher because yes, you might induce some poor people to get to go to private school, but you're also buying out rich people already sending their kids to private school. Now, in practice, once again, you could deal with this. You could have income related vouchers. Okay? And in practice, that is something you could approach. But in some sense, then the question is where's the income off? And really remember on this x- axis is not income, it's desired educational spending. So you really like to target the voucher by who really who really need to push to send their kid to private school versus who's already sending their kid to private school. Well, that's correlated with income, but not perfectly. Okay, so cutting by income doesn't really solve the problem. You really want to cut by underlying educational spending desire and that's immeasurable. Okay, so that's another problem is the equity problem. Yeah. >> Um, not really. I mean, no. I mean because actually the truth is private school attendance you know while I sort of parodyied you know the private school attendance that we think about is you know and over exit but 90% of kids in private school in America go to parochial schools which are actually not that expensive and actually attended by not by the poorest but typically often not by the richest either. So in some sense it is hard to actually income is actually a reason is not a great proxy. It's cly the private school demand, education demand, but it's not actually an outstanding proxy for it. Um, and so basically that's the problem is you deal with the equity, but you don't really get the vouchers who you want them to go to. You want to induce the people who are you want you want to get them to X people who are going to you're going to most increase their educational attainment, but you don't know how to target them that way. Does that make sense? That's a very important concept we'll come back to over and over again. We talk about taxation. Okay. Um, one other problem that's very important here, which is what about segregation? And segregation is interesting because it's on both sides of the line. Voucher opponents say, "Look what's going to happen." Well, all the motivated families got their together will pull their kids. It's related to the first point. All the motivated families that have the together, pull their kids out of the out of the public schools, put them in the private schools, the ones who are left behind are the less motivated, the people with less odds of succeeding anyway. And so you're further segregating society, those who are likely to succeed and those who are not. Okay? Now, supporters of vouchers actually recognize that argument and said, "Well, that's actually because we already have incredibly segregated schools in America today." Okay. So the fact is that um um the typical white student attends a school that's 75% white, but 40% of minority students attend schools that are 90 to 100% minority. Okay, so basically um uh this is really kind of the idea that look, we're already segregated by race. Maybe segregation viability isn't so bad if it made if it allows a poor black kid who's stuck in a minority school, but who's really able and his parents want to succeed to go to a private school with other white kids, then yeah, you're separating more by ability, but you're separating less by race. So, this is a tough one to evaluate. Okay, so that's the pros and cons of vouchers. This is how I want you to learn to think about problems. There's almost nothing we learn about in this class was an easy answer. Okay, this is not equals mc^2. Okay, this there's almost nothing not that so easy, but it's there's a formula there just a formula. There's always trade-offs and we want to think about how to think about those those want to get you trained up in how to think about those trade-offs. Okay. Yeah, Eno is >> there any evidence like >> um you know actually it's not clear well two types of literature in segregation. So one type is you might specifically say segregation education is that bad. The evidence there is mixed on that one because sometimes putting students who are very high achieving together has positive externalities um and having a low achieving kid with high achieving kids can really have a big negative external them. So that evidence is mixed. There's more general evidence segregation in society and that evidence is pretty uniform that's bad for the people who get left behind. There's not great evidence on how good it is people who don't get left behind. The trick with all this stuff is you really want to care about social welfare. It's pretty clear it's bad for the folks who get left behind. It's less clear if it's overall bad for society or not. One place in one sense in which it is overall bad for society is a lot of political economy research which shows that more segregated societies are less likely to provide public goods that benefit everyone because if you don't know the other folk, if you're not with the other folk, you don't want to help them out. So we talked about uh social capital and and altruism that is that is there's less social capital and more segregated societies. other questions. Okay. Now, when you're in a situation like this, what do you do? You call up the empirical economists and you say, "Well, we don't know what's right or what's wrong. You tell us." So, that's where the empirical economists come in. So, we have a lot of evidence. There's been a huge literature built up on thinking about the effects of reform and education markets at large. Now, we don't have a ton of US evidence on vouchers. We have a little evidence. The evidence we have actually comes from a very clever generalized approach that we use in empirical economics these days, which is what's sort of called the waiting list design or randomized lottery design, which is the way vouchers work when they're assigned is essentially too many kids want the voucher relative to how many vouchers are available. They'll limit them to limit the fiscal cost to the government. They'll they'll limit them. Too many kids want it. So what they'll do is they'll decide who gets them by lottery to be fair. Once you decide who gets it by lottery, you've set up a randomized trial of the type we discussed in chapter three. So you have a lottery, you know, and Paul wins and Valerie loses. Then you have two identical people, one of whom won, one of whom lost by random chance. You can compare them and see what happens to them five years later. Was it good for them or bad for them? So we so this sort of randomized lottery design is essentially a way that society gives you a true randomized control trial without you having to set it up and run it yourself. And that method's been used in many ways to study voucher programs. I think the evidence in the US is positive but modest. Okay. I think the evidence will be interpreted as positive but modest. Um the more compelling evidence comes from other countries where voucher programs are much much larger. My colleague Josh Angress did a very important paper on Colombia which which covered a large share of the population and he found very large positive effects on the lottery winners versus the lottery losers. Okay. So there is some evidence from other countries where the lotteryies are quite large where it's the more and you know the US voucher advocates would argue well you don't see big effects in the US because you can't get this effect when just a few people are getting vouchers. The only way to test vouchers is to give them to a huge number of people. So you let the market react. We have what we call in economics partial equilibrium and general equilibrium. Another term we'll talk about in taxation. Partial equilibrium is holding everything else constant. What happens? General equilibrium is what happens not holding other things constant. And voucher advocates would argue, well, if you give a hundred guys vouchers and look at what happens, that doesn't tell you whether it's good from the bad for them because you don't get the market response. >> Yeah. Question. Yeah, I mean I think they're not at that level yet. This is still just voucher, no voucher. Now this does however raise a very interesting question um which is this when you use this lottery study you get the effect on the winners versus the losers but you don't get the effect on society right just like I was saying about segregation what you care about is whether society as a whole is better off so yeah the winners may better off but are the losers worse off and are the losers worse off in a way that offsets the gains to the winners there's starting to be some literature on this in particular is a reasonably sizable voucher program in Florida and the evidence suggests no overall the whole cohort's better off. We lost school choice maybe because the competition however it works maybe because of better sorting in other words segration is sorting and that could be good or bad whatever the reason the evidence seems to be that overall the system improves okay so with vouchers the existing evidence seems to suggest there'll be improved educational outcomes but at a cost of clearly lower equity and the other concerns that are raised the question is Are there other alternatives that might do better? And we've tried a number of alternatives. One alternatives is instead of having is instead of having vouchers have free choice but only among public schools. That is try to get this efficiencies across public schools rather than giving subsidizing private entities. And that's been done a lot. And there's two forms of that. One form is cities like Chicago or Cambridge where they let you go to any elementary school you want in the city or any high school you want in the city. So where I grew up in where my kids grew up in Lexon, you go to the local elementary school and the middle school and the high school's all assigned to you. In these cities, you go to anyone you want and you apply and you go to the best one you want and once again there's waiting list so we can study what happens. And the answer is not a lot. Doesn't seem like letting people shuffle around like that makes that much difference. The other big change here that's made is the rise of charter and magnet schools which are essentially public schools which are kind of outside the existing regulatory and union guidelines. So essentially what a charter school is it's they're typically private often for profit but they are funded by the state and they're still considered they're sort of they're still considered public schools although in some sense they're sort of halfway in between. So they're not private in the sense they're heavily regulated by the state and teach and they need to meet and and they meet certain state standards. They are private in the sense that um they are not subject to some other rules that public schools are sub to in particular unionization of teachers uh and other standards. There's been a and once again people get into charter schools by lottery. So a huge literature and actually the world leaders on that are my colleagues Josh Angger Patak at blueprint labs here at MIT. They've done dozens of studies looking at the effect maybe not dozens but many studies looking at the effect of charter schools and I would say the evidence is once again un in on on average positive the evidence seems to be that charter schools benefit the kids who go there and here's the exciting part the benefits are the largest for the least advantaged kids that's why it's sort of more exciting the voucher literature okay because without giving extra money to people already going to private school you're not giving away You're just taking people and shuffling them across schools so no one's getting extra money here, but you're doing so in a way which actually improves equity because the charter schools are better for the more disadvantaged students. Why is that? Well, it seems to be the evidence once again is not determinant, but it seems to be there's a set of things that correlate with success in school. Most importantly, things like stronger discipline, stronger standards, wearing uniforms, more norms that basically see things seem to correlate with success in school. basically less z more zero tolerance strategies. Now that raises separate issues of equity and fairness and you know uh etc. Um but that is sort of what seems to be the reason that they do better. Yeah. >> No, they're not imposed on public schools because parents would about it or whatever. >> Uh it could be legal. The school could be worried about getting sued, etc. That's a good question. I don't know why, but some public schools are moving towards that, but it's really kind of the charter schools have been the lead on that. Yeah, >> that's a great point. The other thing that charter schools have done is they have moved towards more innovative ways of hiring and recognizing teacher quality. So once again, because they're free, they're more flexible. There's no unionization. They're more flexible in terms of air and fire. They'll do things like hiring people who are not trained as teachers but have shown greater aptitude for that set of skills and give them a shot as a teacher. Okay. So there's more there more flexibility and more effort to try to find people be better in teaching rather than people just traditionally been in teaching. So that's another another way that's a good point. It's another thing they're doing. Okay. So this has been successful. Now once again here's a critical thing big lessons today. Another big lesson for today. We always have to think about two views of evidence. There's data and anecdote. There are also plenty of shitty charter schools. Okay? If you're John Oliver fans, he's the king of the anecdote. Okay? If you saw the John Oliver piece on charter schools, you think they're the worst thing that ever happened. It's because there are some bad ones. Okay? That's not the way we as social welfare maximizers should think about the problem. I think he's a hilarious guy, but I've gotten kind of sick of him because basically he's not think about the way social expert should be inaccurate is a good thing or not. Now, there may be things you can do to bring up the bottom the lessons, those anecdotes, maybe here's some regulations we need, but you can't take those anecdotes of some bad charter schools and say we shouldn't have charter schools. Okay, basically what that says, we need to change the regulations around them, but we deal in data. Okay. And so, for example, my colleagues have shown that the charter school program in Louisiana was not successful. Here's a particular charter school program didn't work. It didn't work because it was badly run, etc. So, they're not always good, but the bulk of the evidence seems to be positive. Okay. So that's the second thing we've done to try to So we've done two things to try to sort of fall short of vouchers but go in that direction which is public school choice doesn't seem to really matter. Allowing students these sort of quasi public alternatives does seem to be a good thing. Okay. Finally, the last thing we've done is we've mass massively increased um we've massively um increased um uh the way we use um testing and incentives to reward and penalize schools. So, remember I said that the way schools are financed is, you know, 45 probably like 47% state, 47% town, like 5% federal. Okay? Well, the federal government starting with George Bush and the No Child Left Behind Act and then subsequent administrations as well has started to put more of a thumb on the scale, but the way they've done it is they said, "We're going to reward schools based on their performance." So, it's been a massive increase the amount of standardized testing. You guys who went to public school took a lot more standardized tests than I did. Okay? It's been a massive increase standardized testing and that testing is being used to reward or penalize schools. So it's not quite the put them out of business model of vouchers, but it is a little bit take money away from the schools that are doing badly and give money to schools that are doing well. It's like a minimum a smaller version of this efficiency point. Okay. So basically that's caused a huge growth and once again evidence versus anecdote. The evidence is that overall this has been quite positive for the US educational system that basically students have o overall student outcomes have improved from this testing regime. However, it's not been uniformly positive in two senses. First of all, if you talk to anyone from a high quality school district, they'll say this is unnecessary. Well, sure it's unnecessary. They're a high quality school district. Okay? That's why it's the disadvantage kids that benefit from charter schools. This has really been a change that's been mostly about bringing the bottom up. It's not really helping the top. They were already providing good school. It's just a pain in their ass. So ideal system, you'd sort of figure it was a good school, not put them in the system, but you can't. Okay, so that's kind of the that's one complaint. The other problem is it's actually led there's a whole literature on sort of funky ways people have tried to get around these tests. Okay. Um uh for example um schools I don't how many of you guys I hate to say this because I'm going to hate the answer. How many of you guys have watched The Simpsons more than 10 times? people. This is the most important show in the history of television. Okay. This is where you should get your life lessons. Your humor is from the Simpsons. Okay. And the Sibs is a great episode which actually mirrors reality where it's test day at the school and they take a certain set of kids like Bart and say, "Hey, it's there's a field trip and they just want to take them out of the school so don't take the test to make the school look bad." Turn out that actually happens. Schools would take would raise the rating which they kick kids out for disciplinary problems on testing day. So the kids who are troublemakers do badly test wouldn't be there and wouldn't take the test. Okay. Even better example, one of my favorite papers on this, schools would actually manipulate school menus to sugar up the kids right before tests. They literally they looked at school menus and literally the days that certain grades had tests, their school lunches had more carbs and sugars in them. Okay, so now those are cool studies. I love them. They don't mean testing is a bad thing to do. They just mean that there are everything comes with there's a trade-off to everything. So there's been these fun reactions, but the bottom line is where does this leave us? You know, when I look at this whole thing, where does it leave me? Well, I guess the way I like to think about is the following. Imagine that over on this extreme, we have no school choice. And over in this extreme, we have sort of pure Chicago dream vouchers. Okay, US education has been here. It's moving a bit to like here. All the evidence suggests that's been positive which suggests continued movement in this direction. Okay. Should we go all the way here? That's a pretty extreme outcome and I think we need more evidence to see that. But certainly the existing evidence says we should be moving towards more school choice uh along the way would be my read of the evidence. Yeah. >> No, I mean if kids should eat well, they should eat well. They shouldn't just do before a test. So I know I think that's pretty dishon and not dishonest but you know profit maximizing which some people call dishonest. All right. Okay. So that's all I want to say about that. Let me go to the second topic of the lecture which is the field what we call returns to education which is a field of studying. Okay we know we want government involved in education but government involved in education can mean lots of things. in particular, how much should the government spend on education? And that's going to depend on what is the rate of return to that investment. Remember, government is always doing costbenefit analysis. If the rate of return to education exceeds the rate at which the government has to borrow has to spend to borrow the money, it should make the investment. If it doesn't, it shouldn't. So, the rate of return to education is a critical parameter in thinking about optimal government uh government involvement. Now the typical estimate this is very rough typical estimate is that another year of education raises your earnings by 7%. That for every year of education you get a raising of 7%. Now that's not it's not linear and obviously your MIT education is different than year of other education but that's kind of a number to have in mind that would suggest a fairly high rate of return to education. A 7% boost in lifetime earnings is pretty large compared to the cost of like hiring another teacher. However, we have a problem which is it's not clear how to interpret that result. There's two interpretations. One interpretation which is called the human capital view is that people are like machines and just like as we spend more in a machine we get more capital. If we spend more educating people we get more human capital. That the more we spend your education the more you know the smarter you are the more productive you are. the more you're producing valuable things for society. In other words, we are raising your marginal product of labor. So, there's a 7% rise in not just your wage, but your marginal product of labor. That's why your wage is going up. That your marginal product of labor, it's actually your value, marginal product of labor. It's the value of what you produce, and that's why you get paid more. That' be the human capital view. But the evidence that people who are more educated are paid more is absolutely consistent with another story, which is the screening story. Let's say that the way all educational systems worked is they consisted of memorizing baseball statistics. And let us posit that baseball statistics is totally irrelevant to producing what you're all going to produce in your jobs. And not it isn't, but let's imagine it is. And furthermore, let's say that how far you get in education is determined by how good you are at memorizing baseball statistics. You will find that the people who get the most education earn the most. Why? Because the smartest people the best at memorizing baseball statistics. So they go on the most and they earn the most. But you didn't actually learn anything in school. School just separated people who are good at memorizing baseball statistics for those who aren't. So you didn't raise your marginal product of labor. It didn't make you any better at making computers. It just was a way of screening out who was smart and who wasn't. The problem is that would also show that those with higher education would earn more. Why? Because what you're doing is you're actually if we go back to chapter 3 terms, there's an omitted bias in our regressions which is we regress education on years of uh earnings on years of education. There's omitted variable called ability and ability is correlated with both what you earn and how many years of education you get. So we have a non-comparable the treatment group that got more education is not comparable to the control group that got less education. I was told you can't just compare them and say education improved your human capital. Yeah. could be it screening could be valuable. The point is it's not clear that you want to spend 35% of the entire state and local government budget in the US and helping people navigate which job is best for them. Okay. Uh we could probably have a lot more efficient system. Okay. So in other words, the other name for screening is called Harvard Business School. Okay. Okay. You don't learn anything but they basically they're they're people who go to Harvard Business School are the cream of the crop. They get in, they have a great way of finding the best people. Now, it's not true that's not productive. It's productive most of making connections. I'm being extreme obviously, but the point is that basically these are two different views. How do you distinguish them? Well, you distinguish them using the tools of chapter 3 to develop experimental or quasi experimental methods to look at what happens when you randomly give some more education. And there's tons there's a massive literature replete with incredibly clever approaches. So one approach my Nobel prizewinning colleague Esther Duflow in her thesis she looked at what happened when the government of Indonesia randomly built a bunch more schools in one place than another. The two places were identical one got more schools one didn't. She found it years later the ones place that got more schools that kids were earning a lot more. That's evidence it was a human capital improvement. Another great study is by when Adriana Yeras Muni had at UCLA in the early 1900s in the US. kids didn't have to go to school and then they put in minimum school leaving ages. But these ages varied by state. So compare with two 17 year olds. One who's in a state where you have to go to school till you're 17 and one school we can state where you can leave when you're 16. Well, the only difference between them is one was forced to stay in school one more year. Do they earn more later in life? The answer is yes. So there's a lot of evidence for the human capital story. There is some evidence for the screening story. Okay. Um so basically um uh that basically there was this great study in Sweden where they found that teachers discretionarily were moving students from not passing to passing. And they can look at teachers who were using the discretion to move students and those who weren't. Now it was the same score. Let me clear back up. You had two students, same score on the test. One's with a teacher that's kind of a soft heart and they she'd pass a lot more students. the other teacher that was a hard ass and wouldn't pass the students. Those students have the same human capital, but the ones who passed earned a lot more. So that suggests well there is some screening function here too. Okay, so both are operating but primarily it's human capital. There is a real return to more education. Okay, there is a real return to more education. More now let me stop there. Does the fact that there is a high rate of return to education mean the government should invest in it? Why not necessarily? Let's say that it's true that every year of education makes your earnings 7% higher. Why should that necessary justify the government getting involved? >> Yeah. >> Well, no, you've made it too hard. Let's say there's no externality. Then the government shouldn't get involved. I mean, basically, the government should say, "Look, um, I should just Why should Bri public schools? I should just, you know, give loans to everybody. Like if if basically all I'm doing is increasing your wages. What's the case for the government to invest money in this? Now, there's a case for all the other reasons, making sure you're good citizen, that you don't commit crimes, things like that. But basically, literally, all education is doing. So, once again, let's imagine education through through 9th grade is making you a good citizen, makes you don't do crime. Let's imagine all the stuff in high school beyond just about increasing your wages. Then the government shouldn't be doing it. The government should make it easier for you to do it. address the credit market failures, address the the parental failures, but the government, unless there's an externality, an effect on others, the government shouldn't be doing it. So the question is, are there externalities for education? And the answer is there's been a huge literature which has shown yes. Education leads to less crime. Education leads to better health for you and your children. Education leads to more informed voting and higher voter participation. There's a lot of studies which show that education matters not just it raises wages but it and also education has productivity spillovers that if you're around more educated people you yourself earn more. So there's clearly massive positive externalities for education. So the return is the return is positive not just privately for the individuals but publicly for society too. Okay. Now that says we should invest in education. But the question then is, do we invest in that by just letting people go to school more or should we actually care about the quality of those schools? How should we measure whether better schools actually lead to better student outcomes as opposed to just getting educated? We've just said getting educated leads better outcome. People who go to school commit less crimes. People who go to school are healthier. People to school earn more. But there's going to school and there's going to school. Okay? There's a there's a rich there's a rich private school and a crappy public school. We've just said going to school. What about the quality dimension? How much does that matter? Okay. And here once again there's been an enormous body of work looking at this looking at things like teacher salaries and class size. One of the most interesting literatures has been on class size where basically this is in some sense a little bit of a weakness of my field. I think if I could be honest, for years there was this view, well, we don't have good evidence that smaller class size matters, so we shouldn't care about it. But if you ask those same people, do you want your kids in a big class or small class? They'd say a small class. We knew it mattered. We just hadn't come up with a convincing way to get at it. Okay? It It's not like we didn't think it mattered. We knew it mattered. We just hadn't come with convincing way to, but we have. And there's been a number of fascinating studies. One really cool study once again by Josh Angress. Um in Israel they follow the biblical rule called called Mymonity's law. And what my monities law says is there a certain number of kids which is the biggest a classroom should be. Okay? And when your cohort size exceeds that number by one they split you into two classes. There's a random cutoff that determines whether you're in a big class or a small class. If your color is one below that number you're in a big class. If you're one above that number you're in a small class because they split into two. and he finds that being in the smaller class improves your outcomes. There's also real trials. There was something called the Tennessee Star Experiment where they literally randomized kids across class sizes in Tennessee and they found the kids who were in smaller classes did better. And not only in the short run, but actually in the long run, they followed those kids up and looked at their earnings later in life and they earn more. So really powerful. Here's a fascinating fact though. Um California in 1996 passed a law mandating a maximum class size which should be justified based on this evidence. So they basically said the class size had to had to be reduced to 20 students a year. Number one 20 year for grades K to three. It cost the state a billion dollars to do this and studies of it found that it did not improve student outcomes. Now this is very strange but it's an perfect example of partial equilibrium versus general equilibrium economics. Holding all else constant, a smaller class is good for you. But now, let's say the state of California, you're a city in California. You've just been told you have to overnight or very rapidly reduce your class sizes. What do you do? You hire crappy teachers. You put the first and second grade together so you can sort of split them more equally, which has actually been shown to be bad educationally to mixed grades. You do a bunch of stuff to meet this mandate, which is reducing class size through other actions, which are not productive for education. So this is a fascinating example of when we think about government policy change, we have to think about all the reactions to them. And while the evidence smaller classes are better, simply mandating California to smaller class without putting the resources in to make it feasible led to actually a not improvement in outcomes. Yeah. >> Uh that's a great question. I think it's typically viewed as teacher student ratio. Yeah. All right. So once again, where are we? Education. First of all, government should be involved. How should the government be involved? Well, basil is a trade-off with how much choice to leave. We think, you know, my view is there probably should be more choice, but we we understand the trade-off. Okay. Then the question is, well, is investing education worth it? The answer is yes. Is investing in higher quality education worth it? The answer is yes. Okay. And that's sort of where we are except for one topic which is a little bit germanine to all of you which is higher education. And that's what I want to spend the last 25 minutes on which is the system of higher education particularly focusing on the US. The reason I focus on the US in particular is that we are by far the best in the world. Okay. Um the US um every year um uh 1.21 mill 1.2 2 million foreign students a year spend more than 39 billion dollars to enroll in American colleges. At the same time, 60,000 Americans study abroad typically just to like go party in Europe. Okay, so basically the market has spoken and we have by far the world's best higher education system. And if you're a free market advocate, you say, well, here's an interesting fact. If you look at non- higher education, we are like terrible. We're way down the world rankings. 90% of it is public. If you look at higher education, okay, if you look at higher education, um 40% of it is private, only 60% is public. So, here's an interesting pair of facts, right? The system where we're the best in the world is where we have 40% private. system where we're one of the worst in the world where we're 90 plus percent priv 90 less than 10% private. So that suggests that gee maybe competition in private incentives maybe there's something to it. Now I wanted more to say about that. It's just an interesting observation. It's not that's not obviously the reason we're best in the world of higher education, but it's an interesting observation that where we have more private uh more uh um you know more private sector involvement uh we're doing better at least rel's role in high education now once again here we have to go back to the first question. It's not as obvious the government should be involved. I mean you know all our citizenship stuff should have been taken care of. our crime stuff should have been taken care of etc. So it's not entirely clear the government should be involved in higher education. Indeed the what is the main market failure with higher education? The main market failure is credit market failures is the fact that in principle in a perfect world we'd say look we're going to educate you through 12th grade. You want to go on that's great. Just take a loan and go on. Most of the returns will be private anyway. So why not let you just go on? And the answer would be two. One is there are spillovers even from education. So there is evidence that even educating people in college has positive externalities. So that's one argument for why we'd still want the government involved in higher education is there are still positive externalities for higher education. Two is credit market failures that like I said last time you can't offer yourself as collateral. We call that slavery. Okay? You can't offer yourself as collateral. As a result you can't necessarily get loans to better education even if that would be a good productive investment. So credit market failure is another reason why we think the government should be involved. Okay. So how is the government involved? Well, the government involvement is illustrated in figure 114. Okay. The major way the government's involved is public universities. Like I said, 60% of university students do attend public universities. Okay. And that is the by far the largest expendment expenditure of the public sector on higher education. Okay. Is these public universities um second biggest is what we call PEL grants. Okay. Pell grants is a program that is provides grants to attend school for lower income families. So it's a grant of several thousand dollars you can use to offset the cost of college for low-income families. We spend 28 billion a year on that. The third and the smallest is student loans. Student loans are interesting. We used to have a system where we had two sorts of loans. Direct student loans which were borrowing from the government which is what all of you do now if you have loans. It's the only program available. We also have something called the guaranteed student loan program. The gsl program where basically the government subsidized private banks to loan you money. Fascinating story. I'll divert for a second talk about this because once again it comes to the privatization issue. Okay. The way this program worked is the government said to banks, you loan money to students at a certain interest rate, we will guarantee you if the students default. Said to banks, essentially we are giving you a risk-free part of your portfolio. Okay. Now, the banks were like, great, we're making we'll make tons of money on that. Basically, why do banks charge interest? High interest because of the risk. Well, the government was saying you could charge a regular interest rate with no risk. The banks loved it. Now, people realized that was a problem and they passed a law which said by a date certain the government had to reset the interest rate for student loans. That date certain was while the treasury department. So, I was the guy in charge of this. Okay. Was charge of resetting the interest rate and student loans. This is 1998. Um and uh we looked at the data and decided that banks were being massively overpaid given the lack of risk and they should receive about a percentage and a half less. I forget the exact numbers about a percent and a half less in interest these student loans. We should cut it. Okay. We announced this. I was there the day they announced it. Algor even had the same tie on. I was very excited about that. There they announced it. We're going to cut student loan interest rates. All the students were very excited. The banks were super pissed. Oh, it's terrible. We can't afford it. We go out of business. Well, it turns out the banks have very good lobbyists. And the lobbyists started really putting pressure on Congress to not approve this. Well, meanwhile, the Clinton administration, the student groups were like, "We love you. You can't back off this." So, they're caught in a tough position. Congress administration caught in a tough position. They put this out there. Student groups were excited about paying lower interest, but the banks were mad. So, here's the interesting depressing chapter 9 lesson. between an immovable force between what? An unstoppable force and movable object. There's actually something in between them. It's called the deficit. So what did the government do? They said, "Okay, we'll continue to pay the banks who are paying them. Students will pay less and the government will pay the difference." So let's be clear about what they decided. They decided the government would send checks to the banks to make profitable loans to students. Okay, that is a one of the saddest episodes uh of my time in Washington. Um, fortunately under the Obama administration, they actually got rid of the guaranteed student loan program and now the government just makes the loans directly under the direct loan program from the government. Okay? And these don't cost a ton. Okay? Uh, these don't cost a ton. We'll come back later to the major issues with them. Now, let's let's look at this chart and ask how is the government spending related to the market failures we identified. We identified two market failures. One is that there may be positive spillovers. Well, that would be about the size of the pie. That really about how we divide it up. That would be like the bigger the spillovers, the bigger the pie should be of government spending. The second is credit market failures. Well, that would suggest that the big slice should be loans, not state spending. So, in fact, this, you know, just like we talked about Tibo and talked about how the way federal and local spending sort of lines up with the model, this doesn't line up with the model. Okay? The model would say we should be making big loans, not just spending tons of money to provide this education for free. Okay. So, what is the justification? Well, you know, it's it it's hard to be honest. I mean, the justification to some extent, some of the justification is that students who get loans may not choose these socially optimal career paths. So, some really cool studies, um, you know, because you al forget the state schools. Let's leave that alone. Just look at the grants versus loan size. we spend, you know, almost 10 times as much on grants and loans, whereas the credit market failure, you want the reverse. But there's actually some cool studies which have compared people who randomly get grants versus loans based on school policies and stuff. And they find that when you get a loan, you're much more likely to pursue a higher earning career as opposed to sort of what we might call a unreward leward or more socially valuable relative to dollars career. So for instance at law school they at New York NYU law school they changed from grants to loans or vice versa and students stopped going to public interest law and started going to corporate law. Okay. Now I don't want to just corporate lawyers. There's social value there. I'm just saying that that those things do affect choice. So that's one argument that still doesn't really isn't really a terrific argument for why we spend so much on state and local colleges. And that is an open I think an open and interesting question. Okay, the return to college is still high. So, there's been nice randomized studies. This is a really cool randomized study recently, super cool study. What the guy did, I saw it this summer, is um basically what he did is he said there's all these colleges in Texas and they essentially he could look at the data and each have somewhat different rules about the score you need to get accepted, your GPA cut off and you can actually see the GPA cut off in the in the data. So, he did what was called, we'll cover this later. He covered Did you do regret Valerie? Did you do regression discontinuity into chapter 3? Okay. So basically this is a a technique we'll spend more time in in a semester but essentially the idea is the following. Let's say you have some score distribution. Okay. You have some score distribution and there's some random cutoff put in here. Well these people are really different than these people but these people aren't so different from those people. So if you know there's a random cutoff you can it's called a discontinuity. You can compare people right around that cutoff who are pretty likely identical but one got in and one didn't. So it's like the lottery but it doesn't come from a randomized lottery. It comes from a cutoff and compar people right around that. Now it's not as good as the lottery. You can say well the people are different. They're not identical and we have methods to try to see how identical they are and there's lots of statistical tests you can do. But in principle, if you get arbitrarily close to this cutoff, it is random. Literally, if you have a million people who score 3.49 and a million people who score 3.51 and the cut off's 3.5, those are pretty much the same people. And you can compare them. And what this guy did is he com he found that this line moved for different schools around Texas. So all these little tests he could do and every school could do a little test. And what he found doing that was there was a very high rate of return to public education in Texas. So that does mean that doesn't that just says the size of the circle may be if anything too small. It still doesn't say why it should be public schools and not more loans to private schools. Now the answer to that to come to that we have the we turn to the last big topic I want to cover which is student loans and why don't we just all do student loans and here we have the big issue of student loan debt. Okay, as you know, we have about uh I think it's currently several trillion dollars. I don't remember what the stock of student loan debt is now. Uh it's 1.4 trillion as of a few years ago. It's bigger than that now. Okay. It's a huge stock of debt that students are bearing and a lot of students aren't paying it back. Um 24% of students are delinquent at least one student loan payment. 5% have defaulted altogether on the student loan payments. And 22% of of workers have student loan payments that amount to more than 12% of their income. That is more than one eight of every dollar is going to pay back their student loans. It's a huge loan burden. And so one argument for why we should rely less on loans and more on spending, although once again it doesn't tell you the purple versus the green. It's just the purple and the green versus the orange, is that essentially these student loans, people can't afford to pay them back. And that has led to a big debate over um allowing people to default on their student loans, forgiving student loans. This was something that Elizabeth Warren really raised people's attention as a candidate and the Biden administration's made a focus of their efforts to forgive student loans. Okay, they had a big plan to forgive student loans would have forgiven like a huge share of them. The Supreme Court turned it down uh and then they put in a smaller plan, but still it released student loans for something like four million people. It's like four million people got their student loans um uh paid for. They didn't have to pay back their student loans. So the question is what is the right strategy here? There's a lot of arguments against just a lot of people default in their student loans. And one is sort of the moral hazard argument that if you're going to let some people default, other people won't pay because they'll think they'll get to default. There's also an equity argument which is what about people who paid back their student loans and struggled and worked really hard to pay them back and someone else just had the government pay it back. seems that seems a little bit inequitable. So there's some arguments against that. The argument for it is a lot of these loans are based on students who were essentially fraud fraudulently educated. I'm not just talking about Trump University here, but I'm talking about a broad sector of for-profit colleges that have actually shown to be uh very bad actors in many cases. So for example, the ITT Technical St. You guys ever see the ITT Technical Institute ads on TV? Okay. They ran an aggressive campaign on aden radio. They found these commercials were dishonest. The government study were dishonest and targeted low-inccome student. They basically ITT would reach out to you, say, "We're going to educate you here. It's going to be free to you. Take out this big student loan, okay, to pay for it." And then they would give you um and then they wouldn't give you a really valuable education. And this was basically um more generally if you look at all students heading for-profit colleges onethird graduate within eight years. Okay. So you find graduating graduate eight years. Twothirds don't even graduate within eight years of attending. Okay. Um and uh the when here's a really cool study looked at what happened when for-profit colleges closed and the kids moved to community colleges, the graduation rates went up from 34% to 60%. So, schools on average are clearly doing a terrible job. And this isn't just there's fun anecdotes like ITT, but there's actually the data like I just said you which on average for-profit schools are doing a bad job and in particular a misleading job. Now, as always, it's not easy. On the other hand, there are studies which show that many disadvantaged students who did not have the ability to access traditional education succeeded in for-profit colleges. So there are students who succeeded there and it provided a road to success for some students who didn't otherwise have access but on average they don't seem to be performing very well. And so the argument was these people went to really sort of scummy for-profit colleges who misled them and made them take big student loans. They now have this big student loan debt. Um we shouldn't make them pay it back. Okay. Um uh now um that is an argument uh but it turns out nobody's talking about forgiving loan debt just for those students forgiving loan debt for everyone. So it's hard to explain that's the minority of students with debt. So the question is are there better things we can do? And the Obama administration tried to do some better things for example they um increase the quality available to students. So you sort of understood what you're getting into. Um they also a more aggressive strategy was to basically deny eligibility for student loans to schools that didn't show a good enough graduation rate that basically unless your school showed a good enough graduation rate you couldn't get student loans. This is an interesting example of sort of you know we talked here about a disadvantage of vouchers is sort of you know excessive specialization or sort of bad performance in this case. This is the way you can try to regulate that. You say, "Look, we're going to we're going to regulate it to make sure that you're a decent school by only giving you only we're not going to shut you down. We're let the market work, but you can't get student loans unless you can show you're you're uh you're you're decent." Um, the Trump administration killed that regulation. Uh, and it never and it never uh, as far as I know, it never went to effect. Okay, so that's one approach. Another approach that I like a lot is to do what the UK and Australia do, which is to replace our current loan program, what's called an income contingent loan program, which they basically will loan you money and you pay it back as a fraction of your income. So, if you end up not making much money, you don't owe much back. You get rich, you owe a lot back. And essentially the way that works in the UK is basically they exempt the first like 15,000 pounds of your earnings. And every pound above 15,000 you pay 9% back in student loan payments until you've paid back your loan or until 20 years at which point it just stops. So basically the government's still losing some money. They're not making them pay back enough to make people default. But it's not nearly as much as just paying for college. And it's doing it in a more equitable way because people pay back a share of their earnings. Okay. Now the US has a program like this and in fact it's fairly popular. Um the problem is that basically people are still defaulting on not paying back. So one change the B administration made was to make the income contingent loan program much more generous. Basically it used to be you had to pay up to 10% of your income. Now it's 5% of your income or something like that. I forget I don't know exactly what they did but they made the English program much more generous to try to encourage use of it. The problem is there's sort of two problems with this program. Okay, once again you'll get used to me saying that Harry Truman once said, you know, I wish I had a one-handed economist so he couldn't say on the other hand. Okay. Um you know the problem with this is twofold. First of all, as we'll learn later in the semester, taxes have distortionary consequences. And if you're going to have to pay an extra 9% everything you earn, you might decide not to work as hard. I have a paper on that. We looked in the UK. There's no effect there. It's not it's it's it's it's meaningless in terms of people don't really respond to that. The second concern is does this really work when it's not mandatory? After all, if you're going to college and you're anticipating your earnings, who's going to want to take the income contingent loan? And who's going to not want to take it? even yeah people are going to want to take it those anticipate the lower income the ones who aren't going to take it are the ones who anticipate they're going to go to get rich this is a problem that we'll discuss next lecture called adverse selection common problem in insurance markets that basically the problem is that if only the people who know they're going to have low income take it you'll lose a lot of money on the program so the other problem is it's hard to have a program like this be successful unless it's mandatory as it is in the UK um uh and in Australia Okay, you can you can not take a loan in the we're not saying you could you could not take a loan, but if you want to take a loan, it has to be income contingent. Okay, so it wouldn't fully solve the average selection problem because people who knew they were rich who were already rich could just not take loans. But they probably by and large already don't take loans. So it's okay. Yeah. >> No, there's no you cannot take a loan to pay back your college unless it's from this program. And also private loans, they wouldn't loan to you because there's no collateral. So you can't I mean the private market can exist and probably wouldn't exist otherwise. >> Okay, other questions about that? Yeah, >> Eno, >> you mentioned there, >> you know, it's it's it's a fantastic question. So in some Scandinavian countries where they had a certain number of slots in higher education, they would actually change number of slots to reflect where they felt people should be educated more like more STEM slots, fewer English slots. I mean I don't I'm preaching to the choir here, okay? But like basically that is a really deep and hard question which is fundamentally what do you think the nature of the education being delivered? So you know the Obama administration said we'll target loans on graduation rates. You could go further. You could target loans on who's ending up in a successful career. The problem is you have to define success. Uh and in some sense the problem with the England decision system is it has the opposite incentive. If you really think there's a lot of sort of education that's useless, people want you know education lead to useless jobs then you don't want to do that. It's sort of once again do we think wages reflect social marginal value product or private marginal value product? Think wages reflect social mar value marginal product then we should basically reward education at least to the highest wages. If we think wages reflect private value, marginal product, but that there's externalities that are aside from wages, we shouldn't necessarily target it. So that's a really interesting and hard question. Other questions? Okay, there's a cool study which tried to decide is going to MIT worth it? Is going to better schools worth it compared to going to worse schools? How would you test that? Obviously, you're different than kids that go to different schools. How would you test? How would you set that up? Let's say you wanted to test. Is going to school A better than going to school B? Yeah. >> There you go. There you have one of the most famous education studies, the uh Dale Krueger study. What they did is they did exactly that. They found a bunch of people accepted to multiple schools and asked if you went to the better school you accepted to, did you end up doing better? And the answer was actually remarkably little. uh that a lot of it is s a lot of it screening that the answer is the students who were good did pretty well wherever they went. So and indeed there's a really cool study done by Rash at Harvard where they what they did is they got data on par parental income and subsequent children income and rank schools by their income mobility. That is how much did schools improve your rank in the income distribution. And the answer is I don't remember MIT did but the answer is the best schools are schools like CCNY New York the city college of New York which takes a lot of disadvantaged kids gives them a really good education and promotes them up the up the income distribution. of the major universities, Berkeley was the best. Uh, and uh, I don't remember who did who did badly, but I'm sure MIT didn't do that well. I don't know how well we did. We probably did better than a lot of like the Ivy's because once again, we're training in high wage professions. So, anyway, this is bottom line. Higher education, fascinating topic, lots of work to be done, very relevant to all of your lives right now. The bottom line is a the government should clearly be in it. There's positive externalities. How much is still unclear? B, it's really unclear why we spend our money the way we do as opposed to more loans. But C, if we rely more on loans, we need to think about the structure of who gets those loans and how they're paid back. Okay, any other questions on that? >> Yeah, Eno, >> why don't we >> free college? Another idea. Um, once again, I mean, first of all, the main reason to be unbelievably expensive. Uh and uh second all comes to your earlier question which is not obvious college is the right thing for everyone. Um there's a big debate right now about whether people are wasting their money in college getting needlessly in debt to something that isn't actually making them do any better than not going to college at all. So I I I think that's that's an interesting debate to be had. All right, let's stop there.