All right. So today's topic is stochcastic calculus. And this uh topic is really an engaging one in uh quantitative finance because it extends ordinary calculus with real variables to calculus that depends upon stochastic processes and in particular brownie and motion processes. And so when we are thinking about how to model the value of a stock or of a derivative such as a simple option or a more complex option, um we can model the dynamics of these assets or uh derivative contracts as integrals of functions with respect to Brownie and motion where Brownie in motion characterizes the underlying dynamics of the asset. And so it's really neat to see how we can develop stochastic calculus and relate it to what's familiar to us with ordinary real calculus, but see how there are extensions of the uh formulas that accommodate the randomness in the uh increments with which we're uh integrating. So let's consider uh just reviewing first brownie in motion with drift. Um we discussed this earlier in our discussion of uh stochcastic processes. And a standard brownie in motion model is one where we have our process X depending upon the underlying brownie in motion standardized Brownian motion B of T with a drift parameter mu and a volatility parameter sigma or variance parameter sigma squared. And the key property of brownie in motion is includes independent increments and the variation of increments of the process being proportional to the length of the increment. So with standard branding motion where we have a drift parameter of zero and a sigma volatility of one um the extension of these properties to have essentially mean zero and standard deviation equal to sigma time t is to have the mean depend upon time with the drift parameter and the volatility uh or variance to be proportional to sigma squared times the length of the interval. Now in terms of understanding Brownian motion um it's going to be useful for us to focus on the conditional distribution of the value at time t plus delta as a function of the value at time x of t. And so when we think of a graph of brownie motion which is some path, if we fix at a given value t the value of x of t uh or maybe I should write this as s the value of x at time little t. Then if we know the value at time little t, what is the distribution the conditional distribution into the future? Well, this increment uh t plus delta t. Delta t in red, we can just expand that out to mu t plus delta t plus sigma b of t plus deltat t. And then we can group the known terms on the left hand side of the or the left hand terms of the second equation u t plus sigma b of t. Then we have a term mu delta t which is a constant not random. But then we have the increment of the Brownian motion process from time t to time uh delta t t plus delta t. So actually there's a typo here. That should be b of t plus delta t minus b of t. And so uh we have that our delta x increment is mu delta t plus sigma delta b of t. Now this increment has mean mu delta t variance sigma squar delta t. And for brownie in motion with drift, this increment is exactly distributed as a normal random variable with that mean and variance. And what's useful to uh think about is what happens as the increment deltat t gets infinitesismal. And so if we look at the infiniteesimal increment for delta t, then the expected squared value of the brownian motion increment is equal to sigma^ 2 delta t plus mu delta t ^ 2. This is actually an exact formula. And but what's important for us is that as delta t goes to zero as it becomes infinite tesimal then this squared increment has expectation that's of order deltat t and it actually equals sigma square delta t plus little o of delta t. So this little O notation means that as delta t goes to zero this remainder part goes to zero as well. And if we consider powers of our increment of delta x where the power c is greater than two then this will also be small o of delta t. So expressions that depend upon second or higher order uh will of delta x will actually be u comparable to sigma squar delta t. So in with brownie in motion and drift um we have the notation for a stochcastic differential equation which is simply the increment of x is equal to mu deltat t or dt rather plus sigma db of t. And with this notation um the uh solution turns out to be x of t is equal to the value of x at time z plus the integral from 0 to t mu dt plus the integral from 0 to t of sigma dbs. And um this solution sort of seems obvious when we think about what how we understand sort of differential equations or with real functions but it does extend to this solution when we have brownie in motion. And so as noted there this is equal to x kn + uh t - 0 * mu plus sigma * b of t minus b of 0. So our sort of integration of functions of brownie and motion sort of have this nominal solution which seems very reasonable and will in fact show that this solution is useful and it actually extends to uh more complex equations. Now the more complex differential equations are one where we consider a drift term mu that's not a constant. It may vary over time and it may also vary depending upon the magnitude of the process. So this kind of an extension is quite general and we can think about the same extension to the volatility rather than being a constant. It might vary with t and it might vary with xt. And with derivative contracts, um, we have values of contracts which at any given time depend on time, maybe time to maturity and the level of the process. And apart from those two sort of features or properties of the derivative at time little t we have a valuation model that applies according to some function. So it'll be very useful to have these generalized drift and generalized volatility parameters. Yes. >> How is the um second like defined because like obviously the first like the better reman integral. What about the second one? Like is there like an actual formal definition of I guess it's integral, >> right? And and we will get there uh in a moment, but you know if we're integrating from well here it's from zero to t. Um if we're integrating the process over increments, we're basically going to be summing over the increments. although summing on the infinite decimal time scale over the entire period between zero and t. And so if we break that sum of infiniteesimal increments, we basically get the last value minus the first. And so we we'll see that come into play. So um what we will determine with this general setup though is that when we have extended drift and volatility, we then will have a solution to this uh brownie in motion with drift with sort of generalized drift and volatility satisfying this equation. So, we're going to want to be able to compute these integrals in a consistent way and the eto calculus provides us with that. So, we have to define eto integrals. Well, in defining eto integrals, um we have this notation that we need to be comfortable with. Um we are going to first of all consider a probability process that is defined by this triple. Now let's see have anyone people here uh taken sort of advanced probability or measure theory? Um well we basically have here sort of a sample space and here we have what's called a sigma field of sets which are subset of omega. And then here we have a probability model where if we have a a subset of omega and it's an element of this sigma field we have this probability of that set is well defined. So this notation sort of encompasses the generality of probability models that are important to uh specify and be comfortable with. Well, with the omega set here, um these are a collection of little omegas which are possible sample paths of this uh brownie in motion. And we can think of okay here's one path one possible path. Um another possible path actually matches the first path up to time t but then continues on somewhere else. Another path could be one that is sort of reflected about a given level. We went through this a bit in our discussion of brownie emotion processes. And so we can think of just the collection of all possible paths. Now the filtration ft um we think of script ft. This is going to be the sigma field of events um or paths which are fixed or known uh at times s less than or equal to t. So with script ft the information up to time t if sort of this is our path up to time t. Um the event of following this path up to time t sort of is deterministic. If we look back deterministic for s less than t but then it's random random for s greater than t. So we have a uh a value or in script ft. It basically says okay we can work with paths that are deterministic before time t but then are random after time t. And so that's relates to the uh concept of being measurable. So we say that um events in ft are measurable with respect to bs with the information set up to time t. So if we consider times before t um the path is actually just a constant uh or as a as a function a path valued function that that's constant. Now um if we uh have this probability measure on omega the space of all possible paths um if we consider the sort of conditional distribution given x at time t. Then we're trying to specify the model for all future paths that start at the level x at time t. And um the uh sort of that probability measure over the entire space of paths um can also be restricted to the paths up to time little t. So we can um basically uh focus on probability measures that are unconditional but restricted to the information set up to time t. Now we'll want to refer to the value of the bronian motion at time t. And it's important to know that often this notation BT is implicitly the value of a specific path. So to emphasize that we'll indicate that it's uh the Brownian motion path indexed by little omega. And so we then want to consider the eto integrals with respect to brownie and motion first where we consider simple functions, real functions where f of bs is the value of little f evaluated at the position value of the brownie in motion. and we'll want to consider integrating that function from 0 to t. Um, and so uh this is this is our notation. So with a uh sort of companion uh graph with the same x axis as our brownie in motion. We could have f being some function which um varies and we want to basically integrate this function f evaluated at the brownie in motion. So actually this is uh this is actually a wrong graph. I thought we had had the same same graph. We basically want um for sort of let's say x= bs um of omega um some function. All right. Well, if we consider this notation to represent our eto integral, we're going to develop the formulas for these eto integrals. And importantly, this eto integral is going to have basically a sort of deterministic simple real integration term for each path. But the paths indexed by omega are random. And so this eto integral is actually going to be a random variable. And as a random variable, if it exists, it'll have an expectation and a variance. So let's consider a number of special cases that will define eto integrals. Okay, the first case is the simple one where f ofx is equal to 1. So let me just erase this and have the level one. So we consider f ofx equaling one. So if we integrate the increments of brownie motion over from zero to capital t. uh let's propose that that's equal to the increment from zero to uh from zero to t for each path. So the right hand side corresponds to the sort of simple integral of this path BS of omega between BT between time zero and capital T. And um I guess it's not in the notes, but if we were to consider the integral of 0 to t db s of omega. Um, we could think of this as the uh sum from zero to n of uh i t over n let's see let me do this i = 1 to n i -1 t over n the integral from i - 1 t / n to i * t over over n dbs. So here I'm thinking of busy dividing this increment from zero to t into different increments of width capital t over n. And if we approximate or each of these integrals here are basically looking at the integral of uh or the change in b s from these lower limits to the upper limits. And so the integral of dbs of omega you know in a consistent way or well- definfined way is defined by this increment of the whole process. Now if that's true then the when we consider the randomness in omega the expectation of this integral is zero where b is the standard brownie motion and this variance is equal to the length of the interval times the sigma of standard brownie motion. Well, if we change our function f to be not the constant one over the whole real line, but just the indicator of an interval, it's just one between a and b. So, we have a and b here. And we have basically zero up to a and then it equals one up to B and then it's zero beyond. Um then this eto integral is essentially looking at the change in brownian motion from time a to time b. So no surprise that that's a reasonable definition. Now from these reasonable definitions we can consider a second case where our function f is again a function only of time s but it's given by a step function over time with steps or levels given by the ais that are constant. So we go from this single step function here to considering um basically different step functions for our function f. Now these step functions could correspond to like the number of shares held of an asset. And so, you know, this integral could correspond to the gain or loss um if the underlying asset sort of followed brownie in motion. Um but here with this particular step function, we can define the eto integral to just be the sum over the increments of the step levels times the increment of the process. And so, you know, that's a pretty sensible uh definition of the integral and it would apply um if we had assets traveling uh values going by a brownie in motion process and say shares given by uh the a constants that were maybe uh deterine deterministic. Now at this point we're using functions f which are deterministic functions of time. We can then extend this to uh sort of random functions. And actually before I do so just notice in red the mean zero and the variance of this eto integral of the uh step function. The variance is simply the sum of the squares of the levels times the length of the increment over which that level applies. So now case three things get more interesting. We can allow our levels AI to be random variables and these variables random variables AI. Um so AI equal to AI of omega. This is a path and so we can have the levels vary depending upon what the path value is. And so we want the AI to depend on uh and I guess by depend I'll say be deterministic on script ft subi. So if we define our levels to be functions that are in this are measurable in this information set then um that's what we're doing here. Now earlier uh we talked about nonanticipatory variables and so this is a non-anticipatory variable. It basically says that the level from TI on for whatever that increment is is going to be a function of what's happened in the past. So this is like a realizable uh function f where when we apply the f function to the uh brownie motion increments we're applying known increments at all times. And so with this case, we actually want to make an assumption of measurability on that I uh information set and we want a bounded squared expectation of the level. So if we have those two properties then we can write out the eto integral as this formula and it will have expectation equal to zero and variance equal to the sum of the expected squared ais times ti uh + 1 minus ti. Okay. So, um I guess rather importantly with um these developments so far, we're thinking of the time S ranging from zero up to time capital T. And we have increments ti + one where this increment is something. Um for simplicity we could define this increment to have length say t over n for n increments and have equal increments. Um but this uh this formula for the eto integral is considering integrating the brownian motion over the interval from 0 to t. So so integral from 0 to t f of s bs dbs. This is our integral our eto process I of f and um we can write I of f evaluated at a particular path given by this formula. All right. Um well an interesting example just from a mathematician's standpoint is what if we define our levels to be equal to the value of the brownian motion itself. So we're integrating B dB. So we're thinking of this example. So case three special case three um integral from 0 to t of b subs dbs. Well, if we consider sort of discretizing this eto integral um with these random levels AI um actually I'm getting ahead of myself. This integral will be a limit of these for any fixed set of increments that we apply this random level uh given by the value of the brownie in motion on those increments. Then for each of these cases with n increments we get that we have mean zero and the variance is equal to the sum of the variances of each of the terms. And that turns out to be equal to the sum over the increments of the time increment t level uh ti times the increment to the next uh time value. And this sum of ti ti * ti + 1 - ti is essentially equal or close to the integral from zero to capital t of s dds which should be a half t ^2. Yeah. >> Um how do you conclude that the expectation is zero? >> Okay. The expectation is uh zero because each of these increments here have expectation zero. So we're assuming B of zero is zero. >> Yeah. But what if Oh yeah, but what if AI is not independent? Like when you take the expectations, >> okay, >> okay. Yep. Yep. Let's see. Okay. AI of omega is an element of f subti. So um it's uh it's uh constant on uh f subti. So um let's see so AI of omega um and b t i + 1. uh this increment into the future from time ti is independent of the pa of the past and so it's expectation if we take the product of these two and take expectations we can take the expectation sort of um given uh or the expectation over TI times the expectation um sort of given over TI + one given TI. So we can break down this expectation into its decomposition and the expectation of this factor conditionally will be zero. >> Yeah, that makes sense. >> So yep. All right. Um well uh this case four is the case that essentially defines uh EDO integrals in general which is if we consider taking the limit of integrals with respect to sort of step functions with random levels AI. But then allow the increments the time steps to get closer and closer to each other. Then uh the limiting value of this uh eto integral of the step functions is equal to the eto integral of f. So we have um the uh in our special case where f ofx equals x um f of the brownian motion is uh the brownian motion itself. we end up getting this formula and here we have basically the sort of discretized value of the integral and then what's of interest is to see how the limit of that equals this formula. And so to prove this there's a nice mathematical trick. Um and so if we look at this term on the right hand side here which is an element of the sum it turns out to be equal to a half the difference in the squared values at the end points of the interval minus a half times the difference between ti and ti + 1 squared. So this is simple to verify. It's trivial but incredibly useful. And so if we sum over all the time points from 0 to n minus one, we get the sum of the first terms minus the sum of the second terms. And so this first term is actually a telescoping sum. When you sum the terms, there's cancellation of a of the middle value in successive terms. And so we're left at the end with the 12 the square of the last term here minus the square of the very first term with i= 0 here which is zero. So this is a half bt ^2 minus b 0^ 2 which is zero. That's the first term. And then for the other we have minus a half the sum of the squared increments. And so if we know sort of what the last uh time interval term is tn that's capital t. And then we have the same terms on the right. And what's important to know is that the limit of the sums of these increments converges to t capital t and this was um the property of the total variation of brownie in motion over any increment. If we look at the sum of squared values of increments and take the limit as the number of increments grows large and the sort of partition gets um uh finer and finer then the limiting value of these sums of increments u is equal to capital t. So this is our formula now for the eto integral of b dbs and um let's see so so what's really important to highlight is that this is not equivalent to thinking of the brownie in motion process like a real function. where we're integrating B dB or X dx which is x^2 / 2 we actually have this drag on the integral that's depends on the variation of the process. Okay. Now we want to generalize um to the uh general case of eto integrals. And so what we do is we consider defining the eto integrals from 0 to t f of omega s dbs. But then um we want to basically consider this to be a process XT of omega. And we want to generalize this to an xt of omega where we're integrating just up to time little t. So what we want to do is once we have this definition for the eto integral over a fixed interval from 0 to t. We want to be able to define the eto integral where we're integrating only up to time little t less than uh capital t. And so um in order for this um kind of uh function to be uh to be well defined it will turn out that we need some very strong mathematical arguments and there's a book by steel chapter six on uh sort of quantitative finance where he does go into all the details and I have to admit it's not really a fun read. It's sort of interesting to look and see what's involved. So you know how important it is to sort of be a good mathematician if you want to prove things. But fortunate for us they are proven well and we can apply them. So what do we need? We need that the uh function little f needs to be measurable. Script fs, the information set up to time s measurable for every time s. And we want the integral of the squared f over time where that's for each fixed omega. We can integrate the square of f and then take the expectation of that. We want that to be finite. this term this term here this expectation is taking the expectation over the probability model given by capital p. Um, and we're for each omega we're integrating the squared f over time from 0 to t and we want that to be finite. So um with this notation we basically are extending our eto integral over 0 to capital t with the eo integral from zero to little t. And um we can define this by just replacing our f function in the eto integral i of f by simply the function f times this indicator from zero to t. So that step basically chops off the integration at time little t and gives us our definition. Now um let's see okay the uh the definition of this extension of our eto integral over z to t to integrating it over zero to uh little t's for any little t less than t. Um that's relatively straightforward and intuitively obvious. What's not necessarily obvious though is that our process XT is a martingale with respect to this stochcastic process model given by the Brownian motions. So um if we look at what it means for a process to be a martingale, if we look at the conditional expectation of the time t + k value given time t, then it equals the value of the process at time t, little t, plus the integral of the process process from time t to t + k and we're taking expectations conditional expectations of that given xt. And so the expectation of this future sort of increment from t to t plus k is basically integrating a function times increments of the brownie emotion where our function values depend on the past and the increments are independent in in the future with mean zero. So this expectation turns out to be satisfied. And if we look at the conditional variance of the t plus k value given xt then it's equal to the expected square of this uh f ds. And so when you look at the variance of the discretized sum of increments, you get the discretized sum of variances of those increments which are f2 and then the dbs squared are ddt. So this simplifies uh for the variance to that term. And okay, all of this is fairly uh I know it's like mathematical results and it's sort of like who cares. Um well it turns out that um this um variance turns out to be a squared norm of our function little f on the space of the probability space of paths cross the time increments. And so what's well, okay, actually I'm going to get ahead of myself. Uh but let me let me get to the let me get ahead of myself and basically comment that this norm of our function f is going to be a squared norm on the space of etorocess integrants let's see those of you who have taken uh I guess real analysis or metric spaces you know what's what's an important value of norms what what do we do with norms or squared norms? Well, with norms, we can talk about limits of elements of the space and talk about whether limits exist. And so with this setup we actually will have the space of eto processes and we can calculate the squared norm between different eto integrals. And so we can characterize uh limits in those spaces and be guaranteed that those limits exist. So with this sort of motivation of defining useful norms on different spaces, um we have this eto isometry which is if we look at the variance of eto integrals defined by integrant little f. Then those squared norms or the variances basically of the eto processes is equal to the L2 norm of the integrant little f. And if we write out the definitions of these sort of squared norms uh we get these equations. And what's um relevant here is um being able to express our variance of the eto integral as the squared norm of the integrant f. So we have limits and convergences of sequences of eto integrals. something that's important mathematically is if we take the limits of these eto uh integrals over increments that are getting f a grid of increments that's getting finer and finer. Do we have a unique limit or not? And so that's what's important and is um the squared norms and convergence are uh properties are used to prove that. So we basically can talk about closed linear subspaces with these uh norms on on the space. So what this does is it allows us to define sort of the distance between different integrants f and um the the uh existence of a limiting uh in uh eto integral um as we consider increments getting uh infinite. Tesmal. All right. Um well, we can think of this eto integral as a remon sum, a limiting remon sum. if we have time steps ti for simplicity equal to it t /n um we can consider the limiting sum of f of the brownian motion times the increment of the brownian motion. this sum actually converges in probability um as n goes to infinity um to the integral. So um so we have a limiting value that uh exists convergence and probability and um if we consider uh I guess the co-variances of the x process given by these eto integrals from zero to little t. Um then these will or this XT will be a mean zero Gaussian process with independent increments and the co-variance between the process at time s and time t will simply be equal to the integral of the squared f over the times where they both are non zero. So um all right so we take a partition from 0 to t we get this result um and we can prove that the limit equals the uh this integral notation. So basically there's a limit that exists and this is a notation for that limit. Um and steel goes into a lot of the details for that. Now um now what's of interest is that we can now consider sort of some general eto uh cases which will be referred to as eto's formula for different kinds of function fs functions f and so if we consider first the case where f little f is a a real function mapping reals to real. Then if it has a continuous uh second derivative then we can express the function f of bt in terms of its sort of tailor uh approximation um and we get this formula which is eto's formula for f of bt and uh in looking at this expression what's relevant is that okay the first term f0 is a constant the second term is a Gaussian sort of process integral is an integral of brownian motion and then the third term is the integral of the second derivative of f with evaluated at the uh bs value and So we have an adaptive sort of drift term and we can prove this formula or outline the proof by saying okay let's consider the tailor approximation of f at x plus delta x and expand it to second order terms plus a remainder. And then if we take the difference of f at time t with b minus f at time z with b. Then we're looking at the sum of the increments from time t1 to tn. And those increments are equal to the sums of the derivative of f times the increment of time plus a half the second derivative of f times the squared increment plus the remainder terms. And if we take the limits of those we get the integral of frime dbs plus a half the second the integral of the second derivative. So tailaylor series gives us this formula and um we can think of you know developing a notation with eo calculus which is that our sort of differential of f at bs is equal to fprime of bs dbs plus a half fp prime times at bs times the squared of db which is equal to ds the increment of time. So this is our etos formula shortorthhand and uh this uh shortorthhand corresponds in a similar way to derivatives and anti-derivatives where sort of here's the stochastic differential equation and here's the solution to that stochcastic differential equation on the top. Now um what's really neat and very powerful is that if we want to solve for the integral of a function. So suppose our objective is to solve for the integral from 0 to t f of bs dbs. Well, if we have the anti-derivative of little f. So that means that the first derivative of capital f is equal to such that fprime is equal to f. Then if we choose the anti-derivative with f of 0 equal to zero then we get f of bt minus f of b 0 is equal to this integral of the derivative of f dbs plus a half the integral of the second derivative of capital f which is simply fprime. So this formula is what we just derived for itto's formula. And if we solve for this first term on the right, then that's equal to f of bt minus a half the integral of the first derivative of frime of bsds. So what's what's neat as a sort of technique in stochcastic calculus is that if we want to integrate a function little f of bs dbs then we can just apply eto's formula in reverse and characterize as the anti-derivative of little f at bt minus a half that defining the anti-derivative to have f of 0 equal to zero. Now let's apply this just for the case where capital f of x= x capital f prime the derivative is one and the second derivative is zero. Um then the integral of DBS is equal to BT and um let's see so so basically um the integral of BS DBS is equal to capital F of BT which is BT and then plus minus a half the second derivative or the first deriv the second derivative of f which is zero. So this gives us this result. Um and if we consider capital f equaling a half x^2 then little f is equal to x and little f prime is equal to 1. And so we get the integral of bs dbs is f of bt minus that which is a half bt ^2 minus a half t. So this gives us sort of a a verification of the limiting results we went through before with these eto integrals. Okay. The next step is to extend eto's formula to functions of more than one variable. So we basically want to go from sort of f ofx. So one variable fs we want to go to two variables functions f and we'll write the notation of s comma x um which maps basically let's see the time space cross the or the time range r plus cross the real line of x into the reals. And we're going to consider functions little f that are continuous to different orders in terms of the time variable and the space variable. So we have um this notation C super one comma 2 meaning that um it's continuous with uh first order derivative existing and continuous and second order derivative with respect to x and continuous. And so we have a tailaylor series for increments of this function little f now of two variables which has the multi-dimensional d= 2 tailaylor series formulation and it equals the f without the increments on t and x plus delta t * the partial of f with respect respect to t plus delta x * the partial of f with respect to x. And then we have the part the second order partial differential terms. And the only ones that are going to be of interest are the second order partial of f with respect to x which be will be multiplied by delta x^2. the other second order terms will actually be of small order uh delta t. And um with this second order tailor approximation, we're able to derive that the function f of tbt is equal to the initial value plus an integral with over time of a function of the brownian motion ds plus an integral over increments of the brownian motion. plus 12 this integral of the second partial of f with respect to dx^2. And this integral here ends up being multiplied or being integrated with respect to the increments of time because the delta x squ terms are uh infinitely equivalent to increments ds. So um so for this uh formula um we have here if we look at the difference in the little f function from time zero to t it equals the right hand side. So this top formula here is simply taking this second order tailaylor series and looking at the increment from 0 to t and what that equals. And what we get is a sum of two terms. an integral with respect to time of the partial with respect to time plus the half the second derivative of f with respect to x. And um with this notation for the value of little f um what's important to notice is that if the argument in the time integral if that's equal to zero then this will be a martingale. because the second term is an integral of terms times increments of the brownie in motion and the increments of the brownie in motion all have expectation equal to zero. So we'll have the possibility of this function being a martingale if that's true. And this integrant equaling zero is equivalent to this partial differential equation on the little f. So there's this connection between uh martingales and partial uh differential equations for f when we're thinking of a process f of t. So if little f is a martingale um it will turn out that the partial of f with respect to t will equal minus a half d^2 fdx^2 which is a pde condition. Now the other thing we want actually for this to exist is um that the variance of the function f of tbt which is bounded by the squared expectation um is uh finite and so this will be finite. the variance if that second term has finite variance. And so for that to have finite variance, it's the variance is the integral of the square of that argument dfdx with respect to time. And so all right. Um now what's interesting with this EDO formula is um we can apply it to a function little f which is the exponential of sigma x minus sigma^ 2 t / 2. And importantly um well let's see this d partial of f with respect to t does equal minus a half sigma^ 2 f and so this um is actually a partial differential equation uh for little f and but df dx is equal to sigma f the second partial of f respect to x is sigma square f and itto's formula if we expand it out gives us this expression for little f and um this function little f is in fact a martingale if we look at the expected value of f given f of 0 0 um it equals 1. Now f of 0 0 is the exponential of uh basically zero which is one and but this function f little f if we plug in bt for x it's a scaled lognormal random variable. So this little f evaluated at x equal to bt. So it's a transformation of the brownian motion process path bt by this uh function um is actually a scaled lognormal random And so e to the sigma bt minus sig half sigma^ 2 t is a scaled logn normal. And the expected value of this e to the sigma bt is actually equal to e to the 1/2 sigma^ 2 t. We proved that I believe in a problem set. And so the expectation of f of tbt is going to actually equal one for all t. So this little f is in fact a uh martingale. Now um let's see with Brownian motion uh with drift the ruin problem we can actually use some sort of eto I u process ideas uh to deal with this um with this problem where we assume that xt is a brownie in motion with drift mu and variance parameter sigma squar. So here's its formula stochcastic differential equation for XT and we're interested in what's the probability of stopping at A before B where the stopping time tow is the first time T that hits A or minus B. And this argument is one that's uh very typical of uh quantitative finance developments I guess by mathematicians um and uh I it's actually a very neat argument where um I don't think I could ever have derived this but uh the derivation using martingale theory is really very elegant and so let's consider trying to solve for this probability by using martingale theory. So let's consider a martingale. Let's try to define a martingale with value h of xt defining mt where the tow is the same stopping time and the condition on h is going to be that if we sort of are at the value xt= A then the probability is one and if we start at minus B the probability is zero. So this is fixing the sort of terminal conditions of the function h when it hits the uh limits a or minus b. Well, we can if we have a martingale that satisfies this function h of xt then the expectation of the stopped martingale is simply equal to the probability that x tow equals a. And uh by the martingale property the value of or the expectation of the stopped time is equal to the m0 the initial value of the uh h function. Now the initial value is the value when x is equal to zero. So we're starting at zero with the x process and it either moves uh and hits a or hits minus b. So in order for this h function to be a martingale we have to have that the pd condition is satisfied on h. So the partial of h with respect to t is equal to minus a half the second partial of h with respect to dx. And so if this h function which is the probability of hitting a first depends just on the value of xt. Then it equals h of mu t plus sigma bt substituting in for what xt is. So we can work with the function little f equal to h of mu t plus sigma x. And if the partial of f with respect to t which is by chain rule mu h prime of mu t plus sigma x if that equals the second partial of f with respect to x. The second partial derivative of h with respect to x is sigma^ squ hp prime. Then this pde condition says we have this relationship this differential equation for h although it's in the first derivative of h. But we can then rewrite this as the second derivative of h evaluated at argument y is minus a constant times the first derivative of h. And so we can solve that equation by noting that sort of hp prime over h prime is equal to d by dx of log of h prime. So the derivative of the log of h prime is a constant. The solution to that is a linear function. And so we then end up being able to solve for little h of y equaling this formula. So this is the solution to this problem. All right, let's see. We we're at the end of our lecture today. So next next time we'll finish up these notes uh talking about standard uh processes where our sort of a function for the drift and our b function for the volatilities have to satisfy certain properties. And if you read ahead in these notes, you'll see that we need the probability of sort of integrating the drift over time has to be finite and absolute integral and the integral of the squared b's have to also be finite. If those were not finite then you would say have sort of explosive behavior of these integrals which uh where they won't exist. So these are reasonable properties to assume for those and anyway we'll go through some interesting results here with this particular problem um and then turn on to stochcastic differential equations next time. All right. Thank you.