All right. Well, today's guest lecture is James Shepard uh with Quant Quantile. >> Quantile. Yeah. >> Which is a uh wholly owned uh subsidiary of LSCG. and uh your background in quant finance is quite long. Yep. >> And so I'll let you share some of the highlights. Okay. Thank you very much, James. >> Thank you very much. Do I need that or not? Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you for having me. Um this supposed to finish about a quarter to 4. Yeah, I would hope to leave some time for for questions. >> Yeah. 10. >> Okay. Uh thank you very much for having me. Yes, I'm James. Yes, I work for Quantile Technologies. Um, that's a fintech company. Um, founded in about 2016 to do counterparty risk optimization, uh, which is the subject of today's talk. Um, a couple of years ago, we got bought out by the London Stock Exchange Group, which is why my email now says uh, LSEG. Prior to that, I was at Morgan Stanley for quite a long time, which is where I know kind of Vasili and Jake from, which is kind of how I've ended up here. Um, so we're going to talk today, we're going to kind of work our way up to talking about um optimizing a thing called initial margin, which is a measure of counterparty risk. Um, so we're going to start off talking about different types of risk. Sorry. Sorry. >> Uh, I've just emailed them to Peter. Sorry about that. >> Um, the first few is just kind of like warm-up stuff so you're not missing too much. Um, so the first the first part of the talk we're going to talk about are different types of risk that you have with um, derivative trading. Um, and we're going to talk about um, expected shortfall and and value at risk. Um just out of interest, do people know what these terms are or is it worth my explaining them a little bit? >> Okay, I will do that. Um then we'll talk about how that relates to initial margin uh and counterparty risk and then we'll kind of work our way up to uh how we optimize uh this initial margin uh within a network of uh financial inst institutions. and we'll talk a lot about the sort of challenges that you get in in the real world. Um, because this is a maths kind of talk, I feel morally obliged to to chuck some equations in the thing from time to time, but largely I'll kind of skip over that and talk a little bit about some of the intuition, some of the toy models. Um, and I put a bunch of references when you get the thing. There's a bunch of references at the end uh which have got sort of some of the proper maths and proofs uh and more detailed stuff behind it if if you're interested in that. Okay, so in the shape of derivatives, when we talk about the different kinds of risks that can arise when you're trading derivatives, um market risk is probably the most common one, right? So that's the value of your derivative goes up and down as the as the market changes. Um credit risk um again is sort of reasonably well kind of uh understood. It's um the the arises when you've got exposure to uh a data um defaulting, right? Operational risk is is largely when somebody screws up. Um it's probably actually the hardest one to do any mathematical modeling on operational risk because it's quite hard to to to to model people just messing up, right? Which is really what that is. Um liquidity risk um is when you've got a transaction which is um it's well as the name suggests illquid. It's going to happen when you've got a very large position. So if you're trying to sell a massive position in some particular stock you start selling that thing and then because you start selling it that moves the market and so you can't sell the whole thing at the position that the market was kind of when you started. Um so liquidity risk happens. It happens if it's a kind of obscure instrument and we'll come back to it in this it happens again if you've got a very very large position and what we're mostly going to talk about today is counterparty risk um which is the the exposure that you've got uh to when you trade derivatives to a counterparty defaulting um I think maybe question you might come ac have here is what's the difference between counterparty risk and credit risk. Um so the example you can have to differentiate this is if I do a trade with Goldman Sachs that's say a credit derivative swap that has some JP Morgan uh corporate bond as the underlying then I have credit risk with respect to JP Morgan because if JP Morgan defaults on its corporate bond then the value of my derivative will will will change and I have counterparty risk to Goldman Sachs because depending on what happens to the value of that derivative Goldman Sachs may or may not pay me that amount of money. Is that that's that's the difference between those those two make sense? Okay. Uh so once you've got uh type of risk once you've got some risk um generally speaking you want to mitigate it. I reduce either the probability of it happening or reduce the impact of uh that risk happening. Not just for counterparty risk for all kinds of risk, right? um should hopefully reasonably obvious that people want to try and make the the impact of the of once you've identified the risk make the impact of that smaller. So there's a bunch of different ways that you can uh do that. We're largely going today to talk about the hedging, right? Which means book some trades to offset book some new trades which will offset the risk that you've just discovered that you've got. Um and we'll talk about uh collateralization, right? which is really paying margin payments from um from the person you've got the person who you have you're exposed to. You would collect a margin payment from them which is kind of like an insurance payment against them defaulting and that's mostly what we're going to talk about today. Um there are other things you can do. Um, and there's a thing called central clearing counterparties, which I thought nobody would have heard of, but apparently someone's Andrew Gunstensson has already sort of mentioned this a little bit, so hope I might skip over this slide. Um, because they are kind of important in the trading of of derivatives. Um, so I have a quick slide on CCPs. Um, so normally you trade derivatives and they're bilateral trades, right? So JP Morgan trades with Goldman Sachs and so on. So, we've got here you've got four parties. Say A trades with B. A trades with C. Um, it's got a position of 100 versus B, 125 in the opposite direction versus C. And what a central clearing uh counterparty does, as the name kind of suggests, is that it steps into the middle of all these trades, right? And so instead of A facing facing B and A facing C, A just faces the CCP, right? And so does B and so does C and so does D. Um just by doing that you haven't really achieved much. You've just changed your counterparty risk from being uh from being versus uh uh blast and cruise to versus the CCP. But once the thing is in the CCP um you've got both the 125 and the 100 and you can net those two positions together, right? And so you can net that down and say, well now instead of having 100 plus 125, I've only got 25, right? As my as my risk, right? And the same story for all the others, right? So in the case of B, right, when it had exactly equal and offsetting positions, B's ended up with no counterparty risk at all. So B's in a very very happy situation and everyone else is slightly happier than they were before. Um there are other advantages of CCPs. Um which um I'm not really going to talk about too much, but the thing to know is that some derivatives are mandated to clear at CCP. So interest rate swaps pretty much if you have a standard vanilla interest rate swap, you have to do this, right? You don't get a choice. Um but more exotic trades like say an interest rate swap or something sorry an interest rate swapion. Um they are not eligible to be cleared at a CCP. So some are some are not. So what you end up with is a portfolio with some bilateral trades versus a bunch of different counterparties and some trades at the CCP. Right? So almost everybody will end up with a mixture uh of stuff. Okay. Um so now we're going to talk about uh quantitative risk risk measures, right? So what you want from a risk measure or any general risk measure. Um it should quantify somewhat the size of the total risk or the size of the total impact. How much money could you possibly lose? and it should also quantify the probability of uh of losing that amount. Right? So there's two aspects to it, the size and the probability. Um so in 1999 um there's a paper by Artsner um there's a reference in the at the back um kind of came up with these um properties of a risk function which are sort of nice properties right which are known as as a coherent risk function if it satisfies those uh five five properties right mostly they say things like um the function behaves kind of normally right Um we'll come back. So the important one is subadditivity, right? Uh anyone heard of subadditivity as a thing? So basically what that says is if I have two portfolios X1 and X2 and I've got some risk on X1 and some risk on X2 and then I bash those two portfolios together, right? And now I've got a combined portfolio. the risk on my combined portfolio according to my risk measure ought to be less than or equal to the sum of the risk on the two portfolios I had in the first place right which seems kind of sensible if I put two if I put some stuff here and some stuff here and put it together it seems unlikely that I've manufactured some risk out of doing this but conversely it seems highly plausible that there might be some diversification of putting these two things together and so my overall risk might well be smaller it seems a very plausible and reasonable uh property to um ask for from a risk from a risk measure. Okay. Um so we're going to talk about two risk measures in particular, right? Which are probably the two most common ones for looking at a whole portfolio. One is value at risk, which um I probably will keep referring to as VAR. Um and the other is expected shortfall, right? So value at risk right is this this amount here says if I've got it say is um what is the maximum for a given confidence level what is the maximum amount that I can say that I will lose more than that amount right so for example um can I be 99% certain that I won't lose more than $10 million over say the next 10 days Right. So I have a confidence level here is called uh beta. Um there's a time horizon which we'll talk about uh in a sec. And the VA is um that that how much money can I be 99% or beta percent confident that I won't lose more than this amount. Okay. The expected shortfall says conditional that I've exceeded that amount of that amount of loss. Right. So given I'm in the the 1% tail, right? If if if bet is 99% or the 5% tail if beat is 95% if I'm in that tail right what is my expected loss given that I've exceeded VA right so that's what expected expected shortfall is right so hopefully it's indicated on here that this is the percentage this dark area here is um one minus beta so this is say 1% or 5% right the var is the biggest amount before I get into the the tail right and the Expected shortfall is the average value of that tail. Yeah. Uh clearly the expected shortfall should be bigger than the VAR, right? Hopefully that's obvious, right? Uh for the same for the same confidence uh level. Um got that. Um so VAR was kind of popularized by JP Morgan and about the 1990s um something like that. expected shortfall came around in about 2000 and both of them are heavily used by regulators and lots and lots of kind of counterparty risk measures uh today. Um, var is probably the most well-known one, right? And most common. Um, it's got a couple of problems, right? The first problem is if you have these kind of weird sort of fat tail probabilities, right? So, you've got two probability distributions, red and blue, right? Um, the blue has this weird fat tail bit over here, right? And we'll just say, well, the area under the blue bit and the red bit is the same. So both these distributions have the same var right because the area up to here right assume there's a little bit of blue here the area up to here uh is the same as the area under that so both these but clearly the blue one has a much bigger probability of doing some fairly horrific loss right and also hopefully clearly the blue one would have a much bigger expected shortfall than the red one because the average of the blue one is about here the average the red ones about here, right? So that var doesn't distinguish between those two different cases, right? And you might say, well, this is ridiculous because nobody's going to have a in real life that kind of distribution can't possibly exist. But that is not completely ridiculous uh distribution. Um it's not totally uncommon trading policy to have to sell a whole bunch of out ofthe- money options. And if you sell a bunch of out of the money options, what most of the time going to happen is you're going to take a small profit from the sale of those options. And most of the time they will expire still out of the money. They won't get exercised and you're going to take a profit. But some of the time the market will move enough and if it moves enough they'll get exercised and you're going to lose a lot of money on those options. So that even though I did contrive that for the purposes of this lecture, right, that kind of distribution is not as ridiculous as you might think. Okay, so that's the first problem. The second kind of related problem um is that value at risk is not uh sub additive. Right? So this again a little bit of a contrived example um to show that um if you take say the 95% VAR uh I take two two portfolios A and B with those kind of uh probability of happening right um A and B by themselves that the VAR is zero right because there's a 96% chance I'm going to lose nothing right so 95% the VAR is going to be zero um the expected shortfall of those things is given I'm in that last 5% tail right um 1% % of the five I'm going to lose nothing and 4% of the five uh I'm going to lose 100 so I get to 80 right and if you do the maths and just add the two things up um and you do the a plus b you can discover that the var of the combined portfolio is 100 and the expected shortfall is 103 right um so that is a kind of example that shows that var is not subadditive expected short obviously this is not proving that expected shortfall is subadditive it is in this case um it's quite hard to isish to prove that expectant shortfall is subadditive. It is and uh I put one of the things at the end is is seven different proofs that it is subadditive. So you can pick pick your favorite one from the the the thing at the end. Um I also put an example at the end. So even though this one is a very contrived example, right? So in real life most things are kind of normal or normallike, right? And in that case, var is subadditive. Right? So in real life situations, this is not as much of a problem as you might think. And there's a paper at the end that talks a little also a lot about that and says actually lots of people criticize var because of they come up with these kind of crazy examples. But it's not too bad for our purposes given we kind of want to go on to optimizing stuff. It is critically bad, right? Because subadd additivity is we'll come back to this again in a sec is basically the same thing as convexity. So not being subadditive means var is not really a convex function in general and convex functions are way way way easier to optimize than non-convex functions. So even though it's not a problem if you just want to know var, it is a massive problem if you want to optimize one of these things, right? We'll come back to this uh again uh in a little bit. Um I just want to quickly point out that there's lots and lots of other risk measures you can possibly choose here. Uh v and expected shortfall just happen to be the two kind of common ones. um you can kind of characterize uh a risk measure by sort of how much weight uh it puts on a particular percentile, right? So VA is putting all of its weight on the beta percentile. Expected shortfall puts zero on everything less than beta and averages out everything above beta, right? But you could say, well, both of those h you could you can make some criticisms of them. You could say, well, I should put a little bit of weight on something that's a bit less than the beta percentage and I should wait the the the the really really extreme tail losses. I should weight them more than the than the just beyond the tail losses. Right? So you can imagine having these sort of exponential spectral risk functions that have these kind of functions which do exactly those things that they put an awful lot of weight on uh the the really bad losses at the 99 and 99.9% things and it sort of scales off going down, right? Um it's just to point out there's there's a there's a few different choices you can make here. Okay. Um, so both VAR and expected shortfall, they've basically got two parameters, right? They've got the confidence level and they've got the time horizon. Um, so um we'll talk a bit about the uh the the time horizon, right? So that means I want to make sure that I'm going to lose less than this amount of money over one day, 5 days, 10 days, right? What that's the time horizon. how how long have I got to avoid losing this amount of money, right? If you were to make the assumption that um the change in the portfolio, so this uh this delta p is a normal distribution, right? Then var and expected shortfall would have these two uh these these two formats here, right? So um they would also be normal. um or uh and if you assume that uh people make these kind of assumptions and I think that the uh the the mean change right on a daily basis is zero which is not a crazy kind of uh uh assumption then both VAR and expected shortfall would be proportional to the standard deviation right uh with these things they would be normal and if you did that and you assumed that all the daily changes were independently uh they were all kind independent identical normal distributions. So you could add them all up. Then you would discover that the t-day var and the t-day expected shortfall is proportional to the square root uh of the one day var which is the normal approximation that uh that people make uh with those things. In reality it seems that the uh the losses the changes that you have on a typical portfolio or typical market data are not independent. Right? If you lose a lot of money one day, there's a reasonable chance you might lose some money on the the market might go down on the second day. So there's a thing called kind of autocorrelation, which is basically the correlation of a time series with itself shifted by one day, right? And so you can which is what this uh thing here. And if you assume that that autocorrelation row is is some uh number then it would modify uh the t-day var accord well for two days by by this formula right which I put in this in this table. So the top row is assuming that there's no autocorrelation, right? So that's one, roo2, roo 5, root 10 and so on is the top row. Um and then as you increase the autocorrelation, um the t-day var right as a function of the one day var gets bigger and bigger, right? So I did some I'll show you some market data in a sec, right? So I took one a set of observations from the euro stocks uh stock index, right? And that suggests that the row right the the autocorrelation is about 0.1. I did some other indices and they were all between 0.05 and one 0.15. Um so now that so 0.1 is kind of reasonable and generally um people take a 10day VAR thing as a normal thing. So you'd be looking at about this um this number here right um this uh 3.46. It's about that means to say that the standard approximation of using the square root of the of saying the square root of the of of of the one day var uh sorry the square root of of of t times the one day var is probably going to underestimate the actual t-day var by about 10%. Right? Because the 3.46 divided by 3.16. Okay. Um but nevertheless almost everybody just says that the t-day var is the one day var times root t. Uh okay. Um so this is where I got the data from. So uh I picked uh four four stock indexes uh IBEX DAX and Euro stocks. That's um if you don't know Spanish, French, German and a pan European uh stock stock index. Um so from 2006 to 2024 you can see there's a couple of periods of uh stress in here. one in sort of 2008 kind of time time frame round about kind of here um which was the global financial crash and one in about 2020 which was uh COVID right and some degree of calmness in in between those in between those two periods right clearly some correlation between these uh um things um that's there on a practical note there's a couple of things worth pointing out I picked these stock indic indices because they're all European, which means I don't need to worry about FX rates when I'm playing with these things. Um, but because but even though they're European, they're from different countries. And the different countries have different um holidays. And so you have to decide what I'm going to do, what you're going to do when one of these indexes is is on holiday and not and not and not trading. Um, what I did here was said if all of them were on holiday, I'm ignoring the day completely. And if one of them was not on holiday, but the rest were, I just fill I just fill forward. And so you'd see a daily change of zero on those. The might not necessarily be the most sensible thing to do. Doesn't really make that much difference. But the reason I mention it is because if you work in this kind of uh industry and stuff like that, you end up spending a surprising and disproportionate amount of time dealing with both FX and holiday calendars, right? You probably don't expect to be doing this, but holiday calendars spend you spend a lot of your time trying to work out what are you going to do with these kind of things. Okay. Um so there's a couple of different ways you can estimate VAR. Um one is historical simulation and uh one is um doing a model building. We'll have a quick look at both of them. Um so the historical simulation basically we're going to go back and look at these look at the time series. We'll look at the we'll look at the value of each of these indices the CAC DAX and Euro stocks on each day right um and we'll come up with a portfolio. So I just made up some portfolio say I'm going to have 3,000 units of of CAC 4,000 of DAX and so on and so on. Um and we'll call that the portfolio weight. And so now um I can I can figure out that on the day the the change in value on on day I right is going to be the relative change in the underlying market index right so it's for example the second row minus the first row for the first day and so on multiply by the weight for that that uh that index then just sum it up over all the indices right and that will give me um the change on the i day okay um And so then I can take the distribution of those things and I will get something that looks like that. Hopefully that's big enough. Um so one thing to add here is that when you're doing that when you're looking at these um uh historical simulations, you have to decide over what period over what historical period am I going to look at. Right? And the main thing to notice here is that depending on what historical period you look at, it makes a massive difference to both the VAR and the expected shortfall. Um, so what normally happens if you normally talk about VAR, you talk about the most recent say two years. The these are all two-year periods by the way, right? So the top left 2022 to the end of 2023. Given my series went up to the end of 2023, this would what this this top left box would be what you would normally put in as as var, right? The most recent 500 days, basically assuming there's 250 days in a year, which is more or less true. Um, the ones on the right, they're from the two kind of stress periods, right? The global financial crisis and uh COVID. And as you might imagine, if you compute VAR based his if you compute VAR based off those two periods, you get a much much bigger number than you do of either of the kind of calm periods, the kind of most recent one 2022 or a period in between the global financial crisis and COVID 2015 to 2016 uh with with that right. So that makes by far and away the biggest difference which which period you choose. Um and because of that um regulators have recently introduced the well not that recently introduced the concept of a thing called stress var. So in addition to taking the most recent two years, five years, 10 years, whatever you decide to choose, you also pick a fixed period known to be stressful, right? So people will pick either COVID or they will pick uh the global financial crisis, right? And then that's generally known as SVAR or or or stressed far, right? Because there's such a big variation in these in these in these terms uh that are that are that are there, right? And then just to kind of break it down in terms of what you actually did here, what what I actually did was I took all those changes, right? So there was 500 changes in each period more or less. Um I ordered them from the biggest change to the to from the biggest loss to the biggest gain. Um these things here and then the fifth worst one, that's the VAR for the for the for the 99% VAR. Uh because that's that's 1%. And the 12th worst one, that's the 97.5. So there's there's not it's not that complicated. you just ordered the thing. You take the fifth worst one, 12th worst one. That's what virus and expected shortfall. Um for the 99% you take the average of the of the worst four, right? Um and for the 97.5 you take the average of the uh worst 11. Um there is some debate about that, right? Some people claim you should take the average of the worst five including the 320 uh and the average of the worst 12. Um I think standard market convention is to take the four. doesn't matter that much, right? But that that's all that's actually happening here, right? Uh to to to do these. Okay. All okay. So far, um to do the model building approach, um it's kind of similar, right? We just make the assumptions that everything is uh normally distributed. Um the daily changes are normally distributed with mean zero uh and a sigma i. um we assume that there's some kind of correlation between all the different indices and so you say well the sigma for the portfolio is going to be um uh this this this term here right um so there's a variance coariance matrix uh between the right that you that you get um and using the assumption that var and expected shortfall are uh proportional to the sigma again you get these two you get these two expressions so all you need to do for the model building approach is figure out what the uh variance covariance matrix is between these different uh elements which I computed here and I come up with a var and I get these two numbers 225 and uh 257 um the main thing to note about that is that it's significantly significantly less um than the historical VAR right so the 99 that's this is computed for the 2022 2023 period right so Um the historical VAR was those equivalent numbers were 320 and 377, right? Um basically showing that these normal distributions, right? It's clearly not a normal distribution. There's a fatter tail in there than you'd expect. Um but you can say well you can work out is this an acceptable VAR model, yes or no. Right? So what you can say is given I've got something where I'm going to take 500 trials and I expect to see an I expect the VAR the the actual loss to have exceeded the VAR 1% of the time. That's the definition of VAR, right? And uh what is the probability that I'm going to see 12 or more? Uh so this there there's 12 violations by the way. So if I take this um 225 right and say how many times did it actually according to that period how many times was it actually the loss was bigger than 225 or there were 12 scenarios bigger than 225. So what is the probability that I would see 12 or more days out of a sample of 500 that exceeded um the um that exceeded the VA right so that's comes from the binomial uh distribution which is that formula and you get 5.2%. And the general rule of thumb is that if the probability is 5% or more of getting that degree of that number of uh of of violations of the VAR, you say that the model's okay. And if the if there's the probability is less than 5%, you'd probably reject the model and say the VA is it's not a it's not a good model. So even though the VAR here is significantly lower than uh the historical simulation, um you would probably accept that as as an okay kind kind of kind of model. Um and the only other point I wanted to make on that is that what we've basically done there is a back testing of VAR, right? So we basically came up came up with a model and we said how good is that model, right? how many times uh based off some historical simulation was the VAR uh um exceeded right so it's really really easy to do back testing in VAR the main single main reason why people still use VAR over expected shortfall is because doing this for expected shortfall is quite tricky right it's not even clear what it means to do back testing of expected shortfall because I your the expected shortfall is is a function of the probability distribution. It's the mean of the tail. You can't really compare that with one sample that I've drawn from the distribution, right? It's like comparing apples with oranges. Um there's a whole bunch of debate around whether um back testing expected shortfall is flatout impossible, difficult um or or not. And there's a bunch of papers at the end kind of uh on on on this as as as well. But it's definitely a lot trickier than doing it for var. Um and that is the main reason people still use VAR despite its shortcomings around the subadditivity and the handling of the tails. Okay. So I'm just going to skip over some stuff. Uh this is some stuff around regulation. Um and I quickly mentioned this slide um because I um so one of the problems with uh expected shortfall is it's kind of defined in terms of uh VAR, right? Because it's the prop it's the mean loss that you would get given you've exceeded VAR uh in the first place. What you can do this is a this function here. This is in the paper by Rockefeller and Ria Sev which is in the the back says if you take this function f which is this expression here right and you try and then you minimize that over alpha consider this to be a function of x which is the portfolio and alpha uh is just a number right and you minimize this over alpha then the minimal value of that function is the expected shortfall and so you can find the expected shortfall by taking that f and minimizing it, right? And that is basically if you replace the integral with a with a sum, that's basically a linear problem, right? And so it's relatively easy to find the expected shortfall. Um, moreover, if you minimize it with respect to alpha and x, now what you've done is you found the portfolio with the minimal expected shortfall, right? I.e. you have minimized the expected shortfall which is basically what we're trying to do in this whole uh in this whole thing. So you just have to consider this function here. You can minimize that over x and alpha right which is basically a linear problem and um that essentially is how you minimize expected shortfall. Um no such equivalent thing exists for for value at risk. Right? So even though expected shortfall is trickier to um is trickier to uh uh uh back test, it's easier to uh minimize, which is what I care about more. Okay. Um skip over it. So that's expected shortfall and VAR, right? So now we're going to start talking about counterparty risk and and margin, right? So if you have um in the derivative uh world right so if I have A has got two trades one with B one with C right derivatives typically swaps means I'm going to exchange a series of cash flows between the two between between between between the two parties right and typically those cash flows will be exchanged say over a three-month period or six month six-month period so um A in this case is receiving some cash flows it's paying the series SI to be and receiving TRI from uh from B. A is exposed to the fact that before the next cash flow arrives from B, B might default and not pay the cash flow, right? And the same story for for C. So A has counterparty risk to both blast and cruise because when we get to the next cash flow date, say 3 months time or six months time or a year's time, they might not pay that cash flow that they're due. Right? So that's the fundamental reason why they have counterparty risk for for derivatives in order to mitigate against the fact that they might not pay uh that cash flow. What actually happens is that they pay is that both all these counterparties exchange on a daily basis the exchange variation margin right um which uh means that which is equal to the value of these derivatives. Right? So as the value goes up and down of these things, they'll be paying variation margin to one to one to one another, right? And that mitigates against the cost of the cash flow not getting paid. But if they're paying variation margin from one to another and then one party or other goes goes uh uh goes bust and defaults, then you still got to pay the variation margin to the other person. And as soon as one party goes bust, what A would try and do, so if C goes bust here, A would try and replace that trade. It would take it some number of days to replace that trade. uh with something else or unwind that trade, right? During which time the value of that trade might go up and because the value of that trade is going up, it's having to pay an increased amount of variation margin to to B, right? And so therefore, it incurs a loss, right? And so it incurs a loss because during the period between when C defaults and when it manages to replace that trade, the value of the trade will change or go go up basically. and that that is the loss. So in order in order to mitigate against that risk, right, A will collect initial margin, right? That's what initial margin is. That's the essentially a covering you for the risk um in between when a party defaults and when you've managed to uh unwind or replace that position. Okay, that slide just says what I just said. Okay. And then I have another slide which says the same thing again in a picture. Right. Um so you have the variation margin is getting paid up until uh here between all these things. Uh you get some default will happen here. We don't know what's going to happen. The risk can go up or down. Um and there's some uh loss could potentially be incurred right at this point. This should hopefully sound to you a little bit like what we just discussed right with VAR an expected shortfall. And so initial margin in order how much initial margin should I should I should I collect? Well, basically it's going to be a VAR based on how long you think it's going to take you to unwind that position which is called the margin period of risk, right? Um there's two kinds of initial margin depending on whether your trade is a cleared trade uh or a bilateral trade. Um the cleared margin is set up by the clearing house, the CCP. Um and that's always been the case for years and years and years. Um up until 2016, people were not paying uh initial margin on bilateral trades. Um that changed when ISDA came up with their standard initial margin. Um which is um the form I've put the formula down here, but it's kind of similar. It's basically VAR, right, is what they put here. Um, and the only difference compared to what we just discussed, um, is that because it's handling nonlinear portfolios, there's a gamma term, uh, in there, which I didn't talk about, uh, before. Um, and when you work it all the way through, you make exactly the same assumptions that everything is normal. Uh, mean is mean is zero. Um, you end up with the exact same term we talked we saw before, right? And you also sim assumes that it's a 10day margin period of risk, right? and it's a 99% confidence interval. So the 99% conf confidence interval uh is that's the inverse normal of of 99%. That's the uh 10day uh um margin period of risk. That's the exact same term we looked at in the VAR before. And then you get two additional terms that come from the convexity, right? Which is kind kind of similar. The main point is that initial margin is basically some variant of VA or potentially expected shortfall. Okay. in real life um there's lots and lots more simplifying assumptions um that uh people um make around all these things to try and uh simplify stuff um and all these kind of correlations between all the different uh parameters. This covers the entire world, all all different asset classes. Uhuh. And so they get kind of recalibrated on a yearly basis. Um, if you Google um, SIM COVID uh, now, you'll probably see quite a lot of stuff uh, in there because SIM 2.7 is about to come out in the beginning of December. And that'll be the first one that's calibrated without any of the COVID or global financial uh, crisis data in there. And what's going to happen, what people expect to happen is that the initial margin calculated by this sim is going to massively reduce by somewhere in the region of kind of five to 20%. Um, and what that will do is release something in the region of kind of $40 billion of margin back out into the wild because today people are paying initial margin or these different things with these high levels of uh using these high levels of VA. When they recalibrate in the first week of December, everything will come down. Everybody will release all the initial margin. Um so there's quite a lot of stuff around that kind of in the news at the moment. Uh um that just talks about how to structure you you um roll everything up into one number across all the different port portfolios. Um and skip over that. So that's what margin is right. So now we come on to trying to optimize the the initial margin. I put margin here. I I mean initial margin, right? So the the situation that we're thinking about is we've got multiple different financial participants ABCDE. Think of them as banks, right? And we've got I've put one CCP, right? There could in fact be multiple CCPs in the middle, right? And all these participants have got a bunch of bilateral trades versus each other and they've got um a bunch of trades versus the CCP. That's the situation that that that we've got, right? and they're all posting margin to to each other, right? In this situation, okay? And what we are trying to do by optimizing stuff is come up with a bunch of hedge trades, right, which is these XH variables between all the different participants in order to try and minimize the margin, i.e. the VAR, in the entire system, right? That's the goal of what we're trying to uh get to. Okay? And you might say, well, why are there no trades versus the CCP? Were you ignoring the uh cleared margin? Um, that's just a practical issue. We can't book, you can't book trades between the CCP uh and um and a bank. All you can do is book bilateral trades between A and B, A, A, and E, all these different things. And depending on which trades you choose, some of them will be cleared or not cleared. If you ch if you pick a trade where the trade type is like an an interest rate swap, then that'll be mandated to clear. And so even though it's between A and B, it'll get cleared and it will affect the cleared margin and not the bilateral margin. Okay, that's why there's no actual trades booked between the CCP and any of these people. Okay, so that's what we're trying to do. So that's the problem we're trying to solve, right? which looks like a lot of maths um but in fact is not that complicated right so what we're trying to do is we're trying to minimize summed over all of the parties right so all of the banks ABCDE E right the margin of all those people so the margin is made up of the sim the bilateral margin summed over all the all the counterparties right plus the cleared margin summed over all the CCPs that are there so that just says the sum of all the margin margin in the system is what I'm trying to minimize right and we say well where sim and the initial margin there's some functions of risk as we've just discussed right we know what the function is it's var like let's say right so we know that sim and uh whoop sorry initial margin are some functions of the risk and we know that the risk position that's there is equal to the initial risk which is this the zero plus the sum over all the hedges that we're going to book. So, we're going to propose a bunch of bunch of trades. So, we sum over all the hedges that we're going to book, the size of the hedge, right, which is the x, which is the thing we're trying to find, multiplied by the risk of that particular hedge, right? So, that's that's how we know what the new risk is, right? And we've got a couple of constraints that we need to put in the system, right? This is the most important one, right? This is this is what we call the symmetry constraint even though it looks like an looks like an asymmetry constraint. What this says is that if JP if if if P sells something to Q, Q had better buy that same thing from P. Right. Exactly. And this was when we first set this up, this was in reality the thing that people were most worried that we would mess up. Right. Because the biggest problem that could have happened here is that we told we we set up a thing. We tell uh Goldman Sachs, go and buy a h 100red million of stuff from JP Morgan. And then we tell JP Morgan, go and sell 200 million of stuff, right, to Goldman Sachs. So Goldman Sachs sees their thing, says buy 100 million. They think that looks good to us. We'll we'll agree to this, right? JP Morgan sees their thing, which sells says sell 200 million of stuff to Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan goes that looks good. We we'll we'll agree to this. Goldman Sachs doesn't see what we told JP Morgan and JP Morgan doesn't see what we told go Goldman Sachs and they only discover that something's gone horrifically wrong when they try and do that trade, right? Um so the reason that doesn't happen is because we've got this constraint in the system, right? That says that whatever I whatever Goldman Sachs buys from JP Morgan, JP Morgan better sell that exact same thing to Goldman Sachs, right? That is the most important constraint in the whole system. Right? The second constraint, the big one that we've got in there is this one, right? Which says this is cash flow flatness, right? This says that for any party, let's say Goldman Sachs, if I sell something, if I if I sell something to one party, I'd better buy that exact same thing from every from some combination of other people, right? That's what that constraint says. We don't need that to be in the system. It's a kind of safety valve uh that's in there, right? The advantage of having this in here is it says if I'm definitely sure that everything is cash flow flat across the system, nobody's going to make any money or lose any money out of the out of the whole system because I'm going to sell something. I'm going to going to sell something to there. I'm going to buy it from somewhere else. So, I'm just all I'm doing is shuffling risk around the system. Right? You could relax that and you could say, well, some parties could make some money, some could lose some money, some could change some risk, but it makes everything a lot trickier, right? So, we basically enforce this around around the system. And then the last constraint is a risk constraint which comes from the uh parties themselves, right? And what this says is that Goldman Sachs or some party might say, well, I don't really want to go uh I might not want to go long a particular risk factor versus some particular counterparty for whatever reason, right? Um so the first two are sort of systemwide kind of constraints that we kind of impose on the thing and the last one is a constraint which basically says don't change the risk too much, right? Which is what parties say, right? So all of that all of that math that's all it's saying. Okay. Um so if we look at it's kind of if we look at a very very simple example if we take a three-party system right uh ABC this might be a bit small uh and you put it in there and say well how could I minimize the margin around that system right and the way you minimize if you've got AC's got to trade with 10 AB's got a trade with two and BC's got to trade with nine. Well, what you do is you move the median trade around the whole triangle, right? If you move one median trade around, one trade around the whole triangle, right? I'm guaranteed to satisfy like by construction those first two constraints, right? Uh because I'm only moving the exact same thing around the whole system. And if uh I'm moving just say in this case nine, I'm going to A's going to buy nine, sell nine. B is going to buy nine, sell nine. C is going to buy nine, sell nine. So I'm going to satisfy the second constraint as well. Right? I've ignored the third constraint for now. Um and the reason I picked that is u those particular examples with 29 and 10 is that actually if you fiddle around with the maths a bit the thing you should move is the median trade given any triangle and you can take any network and you can always break a network into a bunch of triangles, right? And for every triangle you just move the median around, right? That's what you should do, right? The problems are this won't satisfy all the different con if you have additional constraints causes problems and obviously um some edges of this triangle would also be edges of other triangles and so you end up but you can it won't generally solve the problem right but it's a good way of thinking about it we always think about triangles and how you would move risk around uh in a particular triangle okay so it's that um In reality, we just use a big numerical solver around this. So, what we're in the business here is we're solving uh um minimization problems. So, operational research type type problems. They're of the form minimize uh f subject to uh some other stuff. And um as I mentioned earlier, solving convex problems is way way way easier than solving general nonlinear problems. And convexity is basically the same thing as subadditivity, right? That's the definition of convexity, right? And that should remind you of the definition we saw earlier of subadditivity, right? So we saw earlier minimizing expected shortfall. That's basically a peace-wise linear problem. All these things we're talking about sim is nearly convex, right? There are different add-ons that you can have which are usually convex. And some of the math that we get into is that how do you come up with approx approximations of these things which genuinely are convex. Right? We tried using non like proper nonlinear solvers on these things. way easier just to approximate the function you want and use a convex solver on it because the state of the technology for solving convex optimization problems is really really really good, right? Uh it would be crazy to write your own version of a convex optimization solver because there are loads of open source and commercial availables things available. Uh so don't do it. Just plug it into a system uh and it works. The thing to note is that that how difficult it is to solve the problem is really really really sensitive on the specifics of the problem, right? And that doesn't really mean the size of the problem. The size is not really too much of a an issue. It's it's all kinds of the structure of the problem. How sparse is the problem in the thing? These are the things that matter uh in the real world. Okay. Um also it's a good idea to use modeling languages, right? So um there are lots of modeling languages available. Gro is the one uh we use. I think you may people might have used it. I think you can get it free if you're academic uh in institution. Um in case anybody wants to spend 10 seconds trying to solve that uh in their head. Uh so this is in integer problem. Uh trying to minimize 5x1 plus 8x2 subject to those two constraints. Uh you can probably do do that in your head. Uh hang on. Do that. Sorry. Um, so we did it on Groi using 24 physical cores probably is overkill for that problem, but it uh comes up in uh 10 milliseconds with the answer of 31, which is hopefully if you did it, that's what you tried. Uh, just to show how easy it is to solve some of these uh problems. In real life, a typical problem that we would have uh might have sort of 25 different parties in the network might be say for FX delta 30 odd different currencies, right? Uh that we've got in there. Um we pick different kinds of hedge instruments. So we try and pick simple ones. The reason for picking things like non-deliverable FX forwards is that each individual hedge type there has exposure to exactly one underlying namely the currency. If I pick a dollar euro uh non-deliverable that's got exposure to the dollar euro FX rate and nothing but the dollar euro fx rates rate in this case right which turns out to be useful um and if you do that you end up with a system which is something like say 20,000 variables 40,000 constraints something like that is the real size of the is the real size of the problem right and really when you're solving convex optimization problems solving convex optimization problems is easy because they A convex problem looks like a bowl, right? And so they have one minimum. And so you can convert the optimization problem into a a root finding problem. Just find where the root of the derivative is so where where the derivative is equal to zero. Right? Um so that's root finding. People generally use something like Newton Rafson for for root finding. Uh when you use uh Newton Rafson, you've got to compute a Hessen matrix, right? And then you need to invert that hessen matrix. That's the slow part of the entire system is that you're repeatedly inverting hessen matrices, right? So the matrix might be 40,000ish, right? Um matrix inversion is basically an ncubed kind of operation. So you end up with this unfeasibly large number of uh operations to to solve. In general, most computers will not be able to factoriize a 40,000 uh matrix for a randomly chosen 40,000 uh by 40,000 matrix. Right? However, the problems that we have here are very much not randomly chosen uh matrices. They have an awful lot of structure involved and they're massively massively sparse, right? and any most solvers the reason why they're very mature is they take advantage of all this matrix structure uh that's there and so they can do way way way better than you'd expect from this so in particular for fx delta right the matrix looks a little bit like this right so you got a bit of stuff kind of at the top of the matrix which is the thing I talked around around the symmetry constraints and the flatness constraints right but the vast vast majority of the constraints are those ones at the bottom of that picture which are the the risk constraints specified by the individual parties and they are guaranteed to be uh block diagonal right because each if I have a particular hedge say the hedge a b right that's only going to affect the risk between party A and party B right at worst case and then the hedge the hedges between A and C they're only going to affect the risk between parties A and C right so I'm definitely going to get a block diagonal matrix down down here and everything else is going to be zero. So the vast majority is going to be zero. And if I pick these NDF trades as well, right, and those NDF trades only have exposure to one risk factor themselves, I'm just going to get a straight diagonal matrix here, right? And obviously inverting a straight diagonal matrix is trivially easy, right? So I've got a bit at the top, which makes it a bit more complicated, but it's a little bit at the top plus basically a massive big diagonal matrix, right? That's called a dancing wolf uh structure and it's it's there are techniques known to factoriize and invert those kind of things. Okay. So then I like this slide. I think this is one slide I've used all three years. Uh the problems that you get into in real life are not solving the uh kind of uh um the big minimization problem. You just literally write down the math that you want. more or less plug that into the uh the the the solver, right? But in real life, you get situations where you've got nearly parallel risks. You have two trades which are nearly the same, right? Um but not quite exactly the same or can't be represented exactly the same on a on a computer. So this example here, right? If I really wanted to solve this this first equation here, right? Obviously, everyone hopefully you can see that there's essentially there's there's lots of solutions to that, right? Uh w with this, but you can't represent a third properly on a computer, right? So if you actually tried to represent that on a computer, what you might end up with, for example, instead of putting a third uh a third x1 plus a third y1 as your second equation, you might end up with this thing here 333 uh x1, sorry 333 x1 plus 333 y1, right? And that has this solution 01, but you make a tiny tiny change to that thing, right? So all I did was I flipped over uh the um solution here instead of having three threes at the end having four threes at the end. And instead of getting a solution 01, I've now got a solution one zero. Right? And if I make another small change uh to those things, it says instead of I'm going to get 3, right? Then that has a single solution of minus 110 111. Right? That's that's that's that's the solution to that that problem. Now it's highly plausible. I might also say well I want all these x's to be positive right that might be a thing in there and so entirely due to numerical noise it will say if I want x to be positive but the only solution to this problem is minus 110 111 um any systems going to go well that's infeasible and so refuse to solve it and so the problems that we get into real life is trying to understand these things and coming up with techniques to remove these kind of situations from the from from from the system right um rather rather than trying to actually solve uh sort of convex optimization problems in in their general form. Um so there um this is the same thing as before except now for the FX delta the full kind of FX delta problem we're up to 48 cores now. Um and you can see here it really was 114,000 100,000 by 100,000 matrix right is what we ended up trying to solve. Um it's worth noting this um kind of presolve thing here removed close to half of it. Right? What presolve is is sometimes you get all these different constraints and you have them in there and you end up with a constraint that says X1 is greater than one and another one that says X1 is greater than two, right? So you might as well chuck out the first constraint and say well if X1 is greater than one and it's greater than two, chuck out the first one and just keep the X1 is greater than two uh constraint. And that happens a lot and so you can massively reduce the size. Um and we get down to a thing like this. Uh but you can see even this this problem we can solve it in um uh 11 seconds right and with very very few iterations which is basically a testament to the the amazing power of Newton Rafson quadratic convergence. Um so what happens when you try and solve it? Um this is kind of how you have the initial risk and this is with the optimized risk on the right hand side as you might expect it tries to form it tries to basically get it that I don't have some positive numbers and some negative numbers it tries to nest all the risk together right uh what you can kind of see uh here um you try this on a 20 uh party system again just removing all the constraints again it can remove almost all the margin between the different systems and you end up with either if for any given row either pink stuff or green stuff. It's either positive or negative. But you don't have pink and green stuff in the same row or in the same column. Right? What that says is it managed to get rid of all the situations where I was up I was up here and down there. I just want to be up or down. Right? So I've netted all the risk together. That's what the system was basically trying trying to trying trying to do. Okay. Um you try it on a real system with all the constraints and stuff like that. it's less convincing what it was uh trying trying trying trying to do because the constraints hold this stuff um in in check here right with there um just out of interest this this kind of diagonal line down the front that's essentially the margin versus itself right so you obviously cannot pay a margin to yourself which is why you get uh a kind of blank sort of line down the diagonal and the square stuff in the middle I originally thought that was kind of some bug Um but what that is is trading between inter affiliates of the same of the same entity right so somebody like JP Morgan or Bank of America will have lots of entities some of which don't pay margin to to each other what I probably did here was I ordered all the entities out alphabetically right so this is probably I'm guessing given I did that that's probably all the inter affiliates of JP Morgan is the one in the middle since that's uh or maybe it's Morgan Stanley it'll be some some company which has got a letter roughly in the middle of the alphabet with many entities not trading margin versus each other. Uh that um it's another example doing interest rate stuff. So what we've discussed so far is solving the optimization problems. It has to be feasible which means it satisfies all the constraints and it has to be optimal right which means it finds a good margin saving right um but on top of that it's interesting to try and make them nice right and try and make them fair. So what a nice uh thing would be is that you don't really want to have horrible looking notionals. You don't want to have to have a trade with some like complicated notional in there. you'd like to just have trade a 100 million of this or 200 million of that, right? The biggest amount of headache we got into ever was trading with these NDF uh FX trades where we would trade it with a dollar notional with some like 200,000 million.74 and then something else with the euros uh like 0.53 in the euros and then we compute the FX rate which would be the the the uh one divided by the other and the FX rate would come out to be a like 15 decimal point number and everything would be fine and then we give it to the uh the banks and they would complain and they would say well our system only handles six decimal places or eight decimal places in the trading system and when I do that and I put six decimal places in the FX rate it changes my euron notional right it gets a little bit off and so we ended up having to put notionals in that were round numbers of dollars and they came out as exact round numbers of euros using a four decimal base FX rate or a six decimal point uh FX rate and that turns out to be quite tricky because you need to round all these numbers right and you can't just take a solution right and just round it to the nearest 10 right so if I take if I have a party let's say I've got a and I'm I'm selling uh I'm selling eight units of something to one person and I've offset that by buying four units from a second person and four units from a third person everything is flat. But if I round everything to the nearest 10, right, then I've rounded the eight to 10, right? And I round the both fours down to zero. So now I'm no longer flat. So you can't do this rounding as a post-processing step afterwards because it breaks the flatness uh in the in in the whole system. So you have to do it as part of the optimization. If you do it as part of the optimization, that makes it into a mixed integer problem and that um makes it considerably considerably harder, right? Um we also people also want by nice they want like a small number of trades. They don't want to have to trade thousands and thousands of trades in order to get some of this uh margin saving. They like to have a small number of trades. We talk about it as notional efficiency. Um and there are other advantages of CCP as I mentioned earlier um in addition to just the netting. And so there's some advantage of saying, well, I want to put I I'd like to put more trades into the CCP, right? Um, and so you might do some that might be a nice thing to have, right? For other reasons not directly related to initial margin. So you can add all these niceness features into the system. The problem with adding the nicest things like round numbers, small numbers like trade counts, these these kind of things, they all make the basically continuous problem into a mixed integer problem which is which is hard to uh which is hard to solve. Um and so skip and then fairness um is well the first question is what does it mean? What does what does fairness mean uh in a optimization problem? So you have this example hopefully you can see this is a four back to the triangle system right four party system okay every it's kind of symmetric between A and D there are four there are three possible things you can do all of which have the same kind of overall saving here right essentially you can ignore D right and solve the ABC problem in which case D gets no saving right you could ignore you could ignore A right and get the and get the same saving right or you could kind of split the saving between uh A and D right so they're the three different scenarios that you can get right so I put them down in the table at the bottom so scenario one is the ignoring D this is the saving that you get A gets a saving of four ABC all get a saving of four right D gets nothing right um so this is where this is you can argue that's not fair Right? Because D gets gets uh gets nothing there. Right? You can argue scenario two is not fair because A gets nothing. Right? You can argue that of these scenarios um scenario three is the fairest, right? Just intuitively, right? It still might not be the fairest because well, why did A get two and B D get two? But blast and cruise got their full four allocation, right? So the concept of fairness is not a well- definfined uh one. One thing you can look at, right, um, is Whoops. Have a two-step system, right? So, you first of all figure out what is the best possible saving that any one party can get, right? So, the best possible saving that all these people can get is always four, right? And so you do a whole bunch of optimizations where you ignore everybody else and just try and optimize for A, then just optimize for B, then optimize for C, then optimize for D. Now I get the best possible thing that each one can be subject to all of the constraints still being there. Right? When I know that, now I'm going to say what I'm actually going to solve is how do I minimize the square of the difference from my actual solution to those things. Right? Right. So I've got a le squares problem that's uh that's uh in there which is this this problem here and that's the things and I'm going to do one more optimization at the end when I solve that problem right and I'm going to say that's the answer that I've that I've got and you can see if I did that in this case clearly um with the squared scenario three is going to definitely come out as being the best uh solution is blast and cruise will be zero in those things um and then uh for scenario three I'll get uh uh four plus four right whereas in scenario one and scenario two I will get uh a 16 right from the from the square right so if I were to do that on this case right it would this would this would be an algorithm that would deterministically give me scenario three as as the fairest um but there are other ways of of defining fairness um and I don't think it's a wellestablished kind of uh uh thing yet I think it's the single most interesting problem uh that we've got kind of in the optimization uh uh kind of kind of space. Um and then I skip over these are just some pictures of what we've kind of really got as terms of uh saving. The more interesting one is really this right which is showing the kind of network effect right so you can kind of expect obviously that as I put more and more uh uh banks or parties into the system right the saving should go up right that's kind of a reasonable thing but more than that um the saving divided by the initial that also goes up right so you get um not just the total saving in the system goes up but the total the the the the efficiency increases the more people you add into the the system. I wouldn't put too much faith into whether it's really linear or whether it's a kind of not linear uh uh thing in there. But the the there was clearly a drift upwards right in these things which basically says that if you want to do this the most effective thing you can do is get big networks of people and big networks of people are beneficial to everybody uh in in the system. That's basically the story uh of that of that picture. Uh that's there. I think that is the end. Yeah. So that's just a quick summary. We talked about value at risk and expected shortfall. Talked about the diff uh centrally cleared and bilateral. We talked about counterparty risk. What variation margin is initial margin. What we're really trying to do is optimize this initial margin. Uh that basically comes down to doing constrained convex optimization. The difficulty in constrained optimization is really all the numerical issues uh that you've got. Um and actually the interesting problems are not it's too much solving the feasibility and optimality bit but how do you add the niceness and the fairness on top on top of that. Hopefully that is the end of your slides. There you go. Thank you very much. that make sense to anybody or anyone have any questions? >> Go ahead. >> Yeah, a question about the sim that you mentioned that like >> it's going to like the new that's coming out in you said. >> Yeah. >> Is going to be the first one where it's not using um data from like like a stressful time for example. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Uh I was wondering like what goes into like that data cut off and then what implications do you think that will have for like just overall behavior or just affecting the economy? So I don't think it will necessar well the effect on the economy is going to be well potentially there's going to be a lot of margin released back into the system right so essentially margin is money that cannot be used for trading right it's essentially locked away in in in in sort of segregated accounts so the release of all that margin into the system means there's more margin available for trading right that's that's kind of the effect that it would have on the on the system um in terms of the kind of choice of parameters right I think effectively must show that really it's a sort roughly a two-year look back, right? Similar to what I was doing in the kind of toy examples that I had earlier, right? So, this this is this is even though it's looking at other different things, the stress kind of ended roughly 2021 22ish, something like that. So, basically, it's going to be looking at a at a at a region that's say from 2021 or 2022 beyond, right? And that's the reason that all these big shocks that happened in 2020, they're too far in the past uh to be to be counted in the correlation uh these days. Now, of course, there might be some more. This the exact same thing was about to happen in in 2018 2019 just before that happened and they would also uh been about to say, well, let's just smooth it smooth it all out. And then what did happen was then all these shocks came in and people decided that what SIM was doing was massively underestimating the the VAR and the fact that they were only reccalibrating on a yearly basis was kind of problematic, right? Because they had to wait a whole year and in fact a year and a bit because of the timing they had in December and the way they come out before they could start including these shocks that were um that happened in in in in 2020. So actually as a result of that they moved from a annual recalibration process to a semi-reanual process so that they could bring uh these um these the effect of these shocks in more quickly. >> Is they the regulators >> is the so it's the international uh swap uh derivatives association. So there's a panel they chair it is it's it's model they're the ones who ultimately put put that thing there. But there's a lot of collaboration with various banks and other other sort of uh parties and interested parties. >> Yeah. >> It's a different beta. >> Uh yeah. So that's a beta in terms of well this beta here is just a confidence uh interval right so that's just saying it's the beta is the I'm 99% confident I won't lose more than this >> yeah do you mind going back to the slide you talk about back testing or I guess the limitations on back testing expected shortfall >> uh yeah >> hang on that Yeah, I guess it was um I I guess in my what are some ways that you can like almost cut corners like make some assumptions that allow you to calculate um expected shortfall? What do you have to assume for it to be possible? to be possible to back test. Uh >> well, you kind of have to make some assumptions around the form of the tail, right? So, if you were to say, well, the tail is is is kind of flat, right? Or you have some structure in that. I think you could start to you could start to say, does it fit in there? What what normally happens in real life uh is that regulators have moved from VAR for saying well your actual initial margin and capital should be based that used to be VAR then it was stress VAR uh and now it's moved to expected shortfall but they still require you to back test VAR. So what you generally do is you build a model which contain which will will predict both VAR and expected shortfall. You compute the number using the expected shortfall number and then you back test the VAR because that's a lot easier, right? And then you say, well, I've built the model consistently and all I did was apply a different multiplier for the expected shortfall versus the VAR. So if the VAR back test properly, then I'm prepared to accept the expected shortfall, >> right? So if if you like assume a different shape of the tails, yeah, then theoretically that's like not necessarily like a valid um like statistical test >> well it is but when you're back testing you're back testing and you say well what happened on the 23rd of December 20 2015 well there was no distribution that's just whatever happened on that date right so there's no distribution uh there so you can't say it's difficult to make an assumption about whether or not that was kind of predicted or not predicted because it just it it's a single uh draw from the distribution as opposed to the shape of the distribution. It doesn't tell you anything. You can make any assumption you want about that about the the tail. But because I've taken one number, it doesn't really show me anything. Does that does that make sense? >> Yep. >> I guess building up on that. So you mentioned that you can like backpass on both the shortfall and bar on bar instead of the shortfall and that's like kind of like p like and then helps you like predict more accurately. Are these model like accurate enough to account for like the difference that bar and are they precise enough are they well it depends how you build up the model right so essentially my model here right the model wasn't really a var model or an expected shortfall model the model that I proposed here was that everything is that that the daily changes are normally distributed right and in this case that they're independent uh All the daily changes are independent. That was essentially my model, right? Having made that assumption, I get a VAR number and an expected shortfall number, right? And I can back test the VAR. In real life, people make more sophisticated choices. They don't assume that it's normally distributed. You can have other distributions. You don't assume that all the changes are uh in independent of of each other. But the model is not really a VAR model necessarily or an expected shortfall model. the model is what did I assume about the distribution having made those assumptions I get a var number and I get an expected shortfall number does that make sense on on this example when you were explaining it u you said that uh let's see I guess the actual shortfall was 5.2% 2% was it or through the model or through the historical simulation but >> yeah so what so what I said so what I'd said was that this came up as so the var came up as 225 right based on the model if I go back to this table right so this is the leftmost column here right in reality we can see that there were 12 uh there were 12 there were 12 actual days when I exceeded that number there should have been five that was the intention Right? So you say, but if I was trying to produce something that had a 1% that I'm supposed to exceed VAR 1% of the time, that's the definition of VAR, right? So if I'm trying to come up with a model and I'm where I expect something to happen 1% of the time. So I expect the VA to be exceeded 1% of the time, right? Then I do 500 draws of that thing and I say, well, how many times was it actually exceeded? >> That's and then the probability of it being 12 is 5%. >> So you were being conservative. At least this >> Yes, >> this bar is conservative. Therefore, it's okay even though it's wrong in a sense or at least it's not calibrated. >> It's >> but it's conservative. Uh >> it's not that conservative. A conservative VA would be bigger than the historical VAR. Right? The actual thing is the historical VA was 300 or something. Conservative would be a bigger number, right? But it's not overly aggressive, let's say. I think that's probably the way to to to put it. >> Any other questions? Anyway, thanks very much. >> Okay. Thank you.