Last time we start looking at what's called the rebound intervals. So we have for the reman integral we have a function uh f that is defined on some interval from a to b into r and this function is bounded and then we have a p here is a partition uh of this integral And so this means that we have a number of dividing points where uh a is the first and then we have x1 x0 that is a x1 x2 and so on up to say uh xn and that is the uh final point uh endpoint of of the interval. So this is a partition. You know these are the dividing points. Then we look at the length of each of these sub intervals. So we have the sub interval from x i minus one to x i and uh the length of one of these sub interval we denote by delta x i and so this is x i - x i minus one and then we we look at right so here if you have the function here this is the function F. Uh, and here we have the interval from A to B. And so this here is the first dividing point. This is the last dividing point. And then we have these other dividing points uh in between and this maybe extra like that. Then we look at the function uh on uh one of these sub intervals. So we look at um we look at the function and we restrict it to one of these sub interval. Right? And then remember the function is is bounded and so we're looking at it on one of these and we defined capital mi to be the soup of f over this sub. And we defined likewise we define little mi to be the in right and this makes sense the finite number because the function is bounded and then we look at the upper and the lower sum. So the upper sum so the upper sum is that we have this given partition and we look at the sum here of the MI times delta xi and we're summing this is from one to n. So this is the upper sum of the function for this partition. Right? And likewise we look at the lower sum. This is where we sum the infom and we wait them by the length of the intervals. So we look at mi and then delta x i and i = 1 to n. And this is uh the lower sum for this partition. And then just using then just using that. So of course for these MI here it's the infant sum on the same interval. So little MI is lesser or equal to capital MI. Right? But this also means right that these weights are the same. If this here is less than that, it means that that the lower sum is lesser equal to the upper sum. Now the second thing we looked at is so so again we looked at again we have this partition P and we looked at P1 is a subartition subartition or refinement. This is if uh if P1 has the same dividing point as P and then presumably some then uh then positive I mean then uh some more Right? I mean you could have uh that you could have that the two partition was exactly the same and you would still say that one is a trivial subartetition of the other but this is but in general right a subartetition would have more dividing points right and so then the thing is that um if you're looking at so let's say that so so that p here again has the partitions. This is it's a partition that comes from P and um and let's say that P1 here let me illustrate it as if P1 have one additional so here you have X0 which is A here you have X in which is B and then you have two others say this is X1 maybe and this here is X Okay. Then you have bunch of other this is the partition P and then um then um um uh P1 let's say have one more dividing point it could have many more dividing points but if you're looking at so you have here X I minus one and then you have X I and then maybe uh the the P1 P1 this partition have an additional dividing point just called that Y right well then the contribution that you get from from to the lower and upper sum so the contribution that you get from this or that for for P you can think about that as MI this is the contribution from the lower sum And here you have the contribution from the opposite. But now um now you see that um that for the sub partition then you have that so the intervals for the sub partition this here is the interval for the original partition P but uh for the sub partition it's this is now divided into two intervals this here and that here right and so Uh so you have that so this thing here this is in this case is split into two and one of them is y - x i -1 and the other is x i - one right now for if you're looking at the say the lower sum for this for this sub partition Right? So this thing here so the contribution that you get from this here well you have now you have two intervals and so you're getting a you're getting a contribution which is the in on this thing here on this little interval here of f times y - x i -1 and then you get a second contribution which is n on this interval here from from uh from y to x i of f and then it's x i - one right so this is a contribution that you get from this interval here but this thing here is smaller equal to the it's actually sorry this here is larger equal to the in where you take the in over the larger interval that goes from this point to that point right so you have that this is larger than y - x i minus one this thing here is is also larger than this little m i and then is x i minus y and now you can just factor out so you're hitting MI and then when you add these two together right then you see that this gives you exactly X I - X I minus one so this is little MI time delta X I right so this means that if you so you see that the contribution that you get on this little interval for this is larger than the same contribution that you get from this larger equal two, right? And so when you're summing over all intervals, then you get that if you if P1 is a refinement or subartetition, then this lower here, the lower sum go up. So this lower sum go up. And if you do it now, if you do the same stuff for the upper sum, then this here would instead of being in, it would have to be the soup. This here would have to be the soup. But the soup on the smaller interval is now then the this inequality would reverse. It's less or equal to and then it becomes a soup on the larger interval. This here remains the same. This here again becomes a larger one. So this here becomes less than this. This here becomes less than this. And so what you see is that the soup here go down. Right? So the the lower sum go up. And uh um and if you're looking at the upper sum this here decrease. So you have that right. And so putting this together you have that uh that you have that the lower sum for for the partition P is less than the lower sum for this sub partition which is less than the upper sum for the sub partition which is less than the original upper sum. Okay. So you have that and so this is this is like a key key fact. It's sort of an obvious fact but it's a key fact. Okay. So now so that was that was the upper and lower sum. So now we define the upper and lower integrals. So we define the upper and lower uh reman integrals. We define them as follow that uh the upper one we denote like this and this here is now the in of all partitions of the of the upper sum. And likewise we define the lower reman integral of this function this bounded function to be the soup of the of the lower sums like that. So soup of all partitions. Okay. So that is the upper and lower sums uh remals. And so now we say that the function this boundless function f is reband integral. So f here. So f is set to be a reman integral and rewrite uh and rewrite that f here is like this. So it means that it's remain integral uh if if the following is the case. So if uh this lower integral here is equal to the upper integral and if this is the case then we just write and then uh and then the reman integral uh of of f is then denoted by just like that. Okay. And so so this is so this is uh this is reman's way of defining integrals. There are other ways uh but this is I think this was the first way where um where you have a where it's it where you have a a definition that really made sense. Uh okay. So now the first thing I want to observe is that for a general function you always have so in general so we always have whether the function is reman integraable or not. We always have that the lower integral here, the lower reman integral is lesser equal to the upper. And so why is that the case? Right? So this is because right this is because if you take a a partition so fix a partition uh then you have that You have that the lower sum here uh is um is of course less or equal to uh this thing here right because this here was was the soup of all partitions. So you have that but in fact what you also have that you but More importantly, uh you have that this L of F here uh I claim that this is uh lesser equal to uh the upper sum. um for any any other any other petition for any petition. So I claim that you always have this here. If you take two partition P and P star then the lower sum for one is less or equal to the upper sum for the other. Why is that the case? This just uses that inequality over there. It uses that together with this inequality. So let's see. So if you take if you take if P here is a partition and P star is a partition then you could take a partition. So, so let bar be the partition that has all the dividing points of P and all the dividing points. of P star right so the dividing point of P bar is a union of the dividing points of the two partitions right but it but this means that P bar here so P bar here is a refinement it's a it's a refinement of subartetition of both uh P and P star, right? Because it has all of the dividing points of either, right? But this means that remember that the lower sum so if you're looking at this the lower sum if you take a subartetition that goes up right. So if you take a subartetition the lower sum will go up but the lower sum is always lesser equal to the upper sum for a given partition. Right? But this here is now a refinement of P star. So the upper sum go down. So this here is lesser equal to U F of P star. Right? And so there you have it that this thing here the lower sum for one partition is always smaller than the upper sum for the other. Right? And so this means that if you now take a petition, so now so now it means that for for a fixed partition P. So we have that this thing here is less or equal to this single about P is being fixed but this is now for all other for all partitions P star. So this is for all P star. But if it holds for all this here is a sorry say is lesser equal to if it holds for all then it also this inequal this is a fixed number. This means that this here is a lower bound for for this family. So this means that L f of P is less or equal to the in of those guys, right? It's less or equal to the in but that here is just the this here is by definition the upper reman sum up reman integral right but this means but this is for each so now you forget about the p star you have that this thing here is less than that number so this means that this number here is an upper bound for this whole family Okay. So this means that also the soup the smallest upper bound must be less than that. Right? So this means that the soup soup of of l f of p must be less or equal to this thing here. But the soup is by definition the lower integral. Right. So you always have and this is this this claim over here. Right. Um okay. So, so that's the that's the first let's look at so let's look at um let's look at a function uh that is I I added just a little bit if if you know if you find it interesting I find it interesting but maybe you don't but a little bit about reman that's uh he died rather young uh of tuberculosis But he had an incredible impact. He had an incredible I mean this is one of his contributions. His first contribution his he was a student of another really famous uh mathematician perhaps the most famous of all time Gaus. Uh and so uh at those times when you wrote your thesis then you had like six months to write your thesis and um and and you you know sort of formally you couldn't choose your subject but it was always you it was always anyway you always got permission to choose it. So you had to give three suggestions for something you would write your thesis on. And so but it was always it was you know a sort of unspoken rule that your advisor always picked number one and that's what you wanted. And then you could add some other crazy stuff as two other suggestions. But so Reman had you know three suggestions and the third one uh which he have absolutely no idea about was um to make sense of uh curvature in higher dimension and and so he just put it in there. He knew it wasn't going to be selected but actually at the time this was what Gaus was interested in and so Gaus said to hell with the rules. I'll pick number three. And so he had six months and nobody had figured this out. You know, Gaus is considered by many the greatest mathematician of all time. And so but after six months actually so reman came up with something called the curvature tensor which is this object in all dimension and that generalized uh Gaus's work and and this lay the foundation for general relativity. Yeah. Came you know many years later you know or uh uh 70 years or so later. Um so that was the Reman's first. This is one of Reman's other contributions and there are other things that was only published you know long time after his death that have had tremendous a tremendous contribution in other areas. Anyway, so this is so this was Reman's uh way of defining the intercourse. Uh let me um look at a function. So we talked about that a little bit but we didn't actually define it. So so here's an example of a function that is not reman integraable. So it's a function defined on the integral from zero to one. same it's bounded and so the function is uh f ofx is equal to uh one if uh if x here is rational and it's sure uh otherwise Okay. And so of course this function here is always between zero and one. So it's it's definitely bounded, right? But if you take now any interval so the so this here so I claim here uh uh f here is not uh remmanageable. And so the thing is that if you take uh if you take a interval like this and you take a sub partition like that uh and now you have that and now you're looking at one of these mi. So here you have x i minus one and here you have x i and so you're looking at mi. So this is some little interval like this. But on any kind of small interval you know if it's really a proper integral if it's not just a point but it's a proper integral interval then there's always point that are rational and always point that are not rational. Right? So this means that this here this here the soup here would have to be one but the in here would be zero right and so this means that for the upper so this is just any partition and so this means that for if you're looking at the upper sum the upper sum here but it's now the sum of these capital mi delta xi this here is one so it's just a sum of the length of these smaller interval but that's just one because the whole interval is from 0 to one and likewise for the lower interval a lower sum this is the sum here of these small mi delta xi these here are zero so this whole thing here is zero so you see that if you this is for all partitions. So this means that if you take the infreom of this you still get one and if you take the soup of these you still get zero. So so those two numbers are not the same. The lower and the upper reman integrals are not the same. So the function is not reman integral. So now the next thing is um right the next thing is so we want to know which functions are remman integraable uh and so here's a useful little criteria uh so lema so you have a function again that is bounded uh then um then f is reman integral and again we write it like this. So it's reman integral if for all epsilon greater than zero uh there exist a partition p so that the um so that the uh upper integral upper sum. Sorry. So that the upper sum minus the lower sum. Remember that this is always bigger than the lower sum. If this here is less than epsilon. Okay. So if we want to check that a function is remman integraable then we just need to check that for all epsilon we can find a partition um um uh with this property here. And so this is a statement that is if and only if. So I should say if and only if if and if if and only if if if. Okay. So just try to prove that and then we're going to use this later on to prove that a lot of functions are reman integral. So, so suppose that uh that f. So, if f here is reman integraable. So if it is reman integraable then we know that this lower reman integral is equal to the upper reman integral. This here was the soup of all. This here was the soup of all lower sums for all over all partitions. And this here was the in of all upper sum like that over all partitions. And now um so this means that so therefore given epsilon greater than zero there exist a partition P1 right because this has a super wall partition So it means that uh there exist a partition so that this lower uh lower sum here is uh bigger equal to this here minus epsilon / two right it's just because it's a soup over all these numbers so there must exist one that comes this close to to the soup. Likewise, likewise there exist Likewise there exist P2 sorry this here should be P1 right this is the soup over so so there exist a partition P2 so that the right so that for that this is one of the one where this value here is really small so this is not too much larger than this so this means that this for P2 is um is smaller equal to this here upper upper remain integral uh plus epsilon / two. So now we let So now let be the partition with uh all the dividing points uh of both P1 and P2, right? So it has all of the writing points on P1 together with all of the biting points on P2 right but now for this partition we have that well for this is a refinement of P1 so if it's refinement the value here goes up and this thing here is so this is less than the upper for the same thing and since it's a refinement also of P2 we have that it is less than the opposite for P2 right but now you see that uh this thing here so uh L right so the difference between these two the difference between these two numbers so this is the difference here so u FP minus U F P sorry LFP right this difference here this here is bigger than that so if you take this and subtract this you're getting something non- negative and this the spread between these two smaller than the spread between these right so this is less than Q of F p2 minus L of FP1. Uh but this thing here is this thing here is less than uh u f P2 minus this upper integral here the the assuming that it's remain integral. So the upper and lower are the same. So it's so this thing here we can write it as this plus uh minus sorry um uh l uh f p1 minus uh the integral here like that right I'm just you know subtracting and then adding back the same thing And this one here we already found that this here was bounded by epsilon / two right this here is remember we're assuming that it's that is reman integraable so this here is the same thing as when you have the upper one right and this thing here is this here is uh is also bounded by this is actually right this is this is negative but it's It's right. So this thing here is is um is bigger equal to maybe I should write it as um well let me write it like this plus uh and then I can write it as the integral from a to b of fx dx minus l f of p1. Right? But this thing here was bounded by epsilon / two also. So epsilon / 2 plus epsilon / two. So this is uh equal to epsilon. Right? So, so again if you want to test that a function is reman integral you just need to find for a given for any given epsilon you need to be able to find a partition so that the upper sum for that partition uh is uh minus the lower sum for the same partition is less than epsilon. Okay. And so now um so now this leads us to the next theorem. So the next theorem is that any continuous function is rem integraable. So any reman sum sorry any continuous function any in a continuous function on integral like this. This is you know a and b are real numbers uh is uh reman integral. Okay, so this is the next theorem that we want to prove. But in order to prove that we need a tool and so this is what's called uniformly continuous. So to to show this we need the notion of being uniformly continuous. So what is that? So, so in the proof we need the notion of uniformly continuous Okay, so that's the following that you have a function defined on some interval say could be all of R for that matter. So you have a function like this and f is set to be is uh set to be uniformly continuous. Uh if if all uh epsilon greater than zero, there exist delta greater than zero such that as long as x and y are less than delta, then their images is is less than epsilon. Okay. So what is the difference between this and continuity? For continuity you always you you looking at functions continuous if it's continuous at all points right and so it's continuous at a point is so there for to be continuous at a point is like you're fixing one of these two. So it's like x is fixed and then you're looking at if y is sufficiently close then the value the difference between the value at x and y is smaller than epsilon. But here it's like that the same delta works for all x. You don't have to fix one of the two points right the same delta work. Okay. So let's see uh where this is not the case. So let me look at two examples. So just to understand the difference. So to understand the difference the difference between continuity and uniform continuity. Uniform again refer to that that X is not fixed right or X0 usually we call it X0 and X so one of the two points was fixed that's the and uniform means that you don't need to fix it's like the same uh the same delta works for all X0 okay and so so here is is an example that suppose you take the function f ofx = to x^2. This is now on on r. So this function well we already know that this function is continuous right and so if it was uniformly so if f was uniformly continuous then for a given epsilon greater share there would exist a delta so that the value at X and the value where you say added uh delta this difference here would have to be less than if you want if you don't like it you could say delta over two right if you want it to be strictly the difference between but but it doesn't really matter I just say like that this hair would have to be the case right for and this hair would have to be the case for all x. But what is this here? This here is x + delta squared. That's the value of the function in this. And this is the value of the function in x. Right? But this thing here just squaring out gives you x^2 + delta squar plus uh 2 x delta right and this thing here would have to be less than epsilon right? Delta is positive and so sorry this here minus x² would have to be less than delta epsilon right and so you get rid of these two delta is positive so uh if you have this you would definitely also have that so this would implies that or delta actually this delta square I guess is positive regardless but you would have that 2x delta here would have to be less than epsilon right and delta is now now I'm using the delta is positive so this here would have to be the case for all x but if you just let x be delta is now supposed to be you know you're supposed to find some delta so that this here works for all x so this means that delta is fixed But if now delta x becomes incredibly large then of course you don't have this inequality anymore right so so this function is not uniform continuous right yeah >> because it's it only helps us right so I I I I you know if this here is less than that this is positive this means that this here surely is also less than epsilon okay so that's one example Um the other example is and and actually let me draw a picture to just illustrate it. So if you take so again the function sort of roughly looks like this. This is f ofx = x². This meaning of that it's uniform continuous means that if you take some epsilon right for any given epsilon so if you're looking at a interval over on the y ais here so that this is between you know this here is like a epsilon interval and you're looking at so if you looking at some point here. This here is this point here is taken to to this here. And now you want to look at some small interval so that you end up in that interval. Right? And the thing is that as you're moving further and further out this the length of that interval would have to be smaller and smaller, right? But you can't use the same uniform size, right? So that's why it's not uniformly continuous. The other example uh I'm going to look at is where you take a function. We're taking f ofx equal to 1 /x and x here is now in the interval from zero to one. One is included but zero is not. Right? And so there the picture is that this here is the function. And so you see that as you're getting closer here's one and as you're looking at things closer to zero then even a really small interval the functions the value of the function right would deviate a lot on even a very small interval right so you couldn't use the same interval size to say that the value of the function right is smaller and some epsilon. So ju just make that precise. If you take um a sequence xn equal to 1 / n and y = 1 / 2n then and you're looking at you're looking at the difference. So if you're looking at xn minus y right here you have we don't really need to calculate anything for the first thing here you have xn here you have y in so this means that the difference between these two is certainly balanced by this here so of course you always have you have actually something much better but this is actually smaller than one / And if you're now looking at the value of the function, this thing here is 1 / xn. So that's n and uh f of yn is one / 2n. So this is 2 n. So this means that f of xn minus f of yn here this here is equal to this difference here is equal to to 2 n and so you see that you couldn't you know it's not like it's not for any given epsilon it doesn't work that if these two points uh you know there doesn't exist a delta so that if these two points are delta close then the images is at most epsilon right >> I don't know if this is too broad of a generalization but is that essentially just the same thing as saying that the scope is >> yeah it's it's like that right I mean sort of like that I mean it's not I mean you know uh uniform continuity doesn't require uh I mean sort of like that but not exactly uh because uniformly uh you So slope is something about being differentiable, right? And and and you can have a uniformly continuous function that is not differentiable. Uh but it's it's definitely related. Yeah. Um okay. So, so anyway, so uniform again means that for a given delta for a given epsilon you can use the same delta u for you know at at all points right otherwise for continuity you were always fixing one of the points and then you were looking at other points close to that point. Okay. Okay. So now the the first thing that we want to prove is so we want to prove that so we want our goal here is to prove this theorem let's say that if you have a continuous function on a closed interval so closed bounded interval compact interval from a to b then the function is actually rem integraable okay but uh and and to prove prove that we need again this notion of uniformly continuous and so the first thing we want to prove is we want to upgrade continuity to uniform continuity. So what does that mean? So it means that if you take a function on a compact interval like this. So if so if you have a continuous function then uh f is uniformly continuous. Right? So if the interval actually is compact then the and then a continuous function is uniformly continuous. Let's just look at the two examples we had. We had two examples. In the first one f ofx was equal to x^2 but it was defined on all of it was continuous of course but the thing is it wasn't on a compact interval. It was on all of R. In the second this function here is also continuous but it's not a compact interval because zero is not included. Right? Yeah. >> Compact is >> compact. So remember that um that so compact in that compacts you can either think about it as as we talk about compact uh metric spaces or compact sets right but for a subsets of um of the real line right compact is the same as saying that it's bounded and closed Right? And so this in here when I writing it like this A and B are real numbers and they are both included. Right? And again like if it was like this here then one endpoint is included but the other one is not. So it's not actually compact. Right? Okay. And so so if the function here is continuous then it's uniformly continuous. So that's what we want to prove right. So, so want to again if the interval is compact then then actually uh you get the stronger continuity. So now let's try to prove that suppose not if this here was not the case then it meant that so we take the negation of the definition of uniform continuity. So this means that there exist a epsilon. So suppose not then there exist epsilon greater than zero such that such that no delta would work. Right? such that for all delta greater than zero there exist x comma y. Um so that the difference between these two is less than delta and the images is bigger or equal to epsilon. Right? That's just the negation of the statement. Right? But now we choose a sequence of delta. Right? And so we we do this. So this is for all delta. So really if we take advantage of that we look at at a sequence of of such delta. So so we look at a sequence of such delta and this is where so we use this for delta equal to 1 / n. Right? So n here is again a positive it's a natural number like that. So this means that we for each n you have x n and you have yn they're both in the interval from a to b and you have that xn minus yn is less than 1 / n and you have that the images f of xn minus f of yn is bigger equal to epsilon, right? Epsilon was positive should be positive. But this means so now we have xn so the these are in this interval. So this means that we can find a subsequence by compactness right we can find of the balsano vio theorem we have a subsequence that converts to some x right this is just a subsequence of these x ends right but now you can just look at so now if you're looking at the corresponding subsequence of the y ends so you have that y in k - x this thing here is less or equal to by the triangle inequality this is less than equal to y n k - x n k plus x n k - x right and we have that this thing here. This here was less than 1 / n and we have plus this here. But this thing here is actually over n k sorry n k right and you have but you have that this thing here this here this subsequence go to x. So this here goes to zero and this here goes to zero. So this means that these yn k actually also converts to x right. So you have but now you have so you have this and you have the y n k converts to x. So now this here together with that the function is continuous means that fxn k converge to f ofx and you have that f yn k converts to also f ofx. Right? This is just because uh since f is continuous but now you just look at now you just look at the right. So now you have that. So again fx n k converts to uh f ofx and this here converts to f ofx. But I claim that this here but we also have that fx n k minus f y n k we have that this thing here is bigger equal to epsilon right but then you can't have if this here you this here is clearly a contradiction right because if this here converts to that this converts to the same thing then these two things here much gets closer and closer together, right? But they're saying that there are some fixing apart, right? So that's clearly a contradiction. So this prove that if it is continuous, it's also uniformly continuous. Okay. So now let's use this to prove um to prove that if you take a function. So now we are ready to get back to the zero. That was like our main interest. But so you see also like in the two example I had it was no accident again that in the first one the interval was unbounded. In the second one the interval was bounded but it was not closed. Right? And so either case it failed to be compact. And that was why you could have a continuous function that wasn't uniformly continuous. And so now we get back to this theorem. And so the theorem again is theorem give you this nice criteria for when a function is remman integraable. So if uh f here is continuous then uh then f here is rem integraable and again this here should be it's understood that it's it's f f is defined on an interval like this interval. Okay. And so now the proof is like this. We showed earlier we showed earlier that we only we that we need need only show that's uh given epsilon greater zero. There exist a partition so that if the uh such that the upper sum minus the lower sum for this partition is less than epsilon. Right? That's all we need. We need to prove that for each epsilon there exist a partition so that the upper and the lower sum are within epson of each other. Okay. Now uh so now you use the so now using that so so so now so given given epsilon greater than zero since f is uniformly continuous right so actually proving that if it is continuous on this compact interval, it's also uniformly continuous. Since uh f is uniformly continuous, it means that there exist delta greater zero such that if uh x - y is less than delta then uh let's say delta is let's say less than true delta. Then uh then then the images then uh f ofx minus f of y is now uh smaller than uh and then instead of epsilon I using epsilon divided by the length of the interval sorry and this would be strictly less. Okay. So now we let let P here be a partition where each delta XI each little interval here uh is is equal to delta Right? You just have to be be say less or equal to delta but you can make it equal to delta. So now if this is the case, but then we have So now if we're looking at one of these smaller intervals here. So now if you're looking at one of these smaller interval here, here you have x i minus one and here you have x i. So if you're now looking at one of these small interval then you have that the function is continuous here. So the if you're looking at the soup of this interval. So the soup on this interval this is the soup of one of these intervals here of f the soup here. This is it's it's actually achieved by by the extreme value theorem. This is achieved at some point if say uh y uh y a y and maybe that's bad my uh so let's just say y right and likewise on this little interval the in here is also achieved and let's call at Y star. So the infreum is also achieved and that's achieved at some Y star. But now this interval here have length this here is at most at most delta right. So this means that the difference in the value of any such two points right so they are actually less strictly less than two. So it means that the value differ at most like this. So this means that so it means that f of y which is actually the soup. So this here so since it's a soup I don't even need this here is larger than that. So I don't need to even take absolute value sign on it. But it means that the difference here is now less than um epsilon over b minus a right and so this here again is is m of i minus m of i like that right and so now you see that so now let's look at the contribution so for the upper sum We have that this here is these capital mi and then delta xi. For the lower sum, we have that this is the sum of the small mi delta xi. Right? And so now let's look at the difference between these two. Right? That's the one we need to prove is strictly less than epsilon. So if you're looking at this u f of p minus l f p this here is now the sum here and then it's so you're summing this thing is the same so you can write the sum here the difference well let's maybe just write it first write it out like this but then now I can once I have written it out like this see that I can Write this in here as a sum of capital mi minus little mi time delta xi. Right? And this thing here I already figured I already have a bound that this is each of these is less than this. So I just write in that bound. So this here is less than uh and then the sum here epsilon over b minus a. and then uh like this. But now this is just a constant. So this just I can just take this out of the summation sign. And so I get this thing. So this is the sum of the small interval but the sum of the small interval is the whole interval. So this is epsilon b minus a * b minus a. And so this is epsilon. And so you have exactly it's a this difference here is strictly bounded by epsilon. Okay. So this proved that that if the function is continuous then it is on a compact interval then it is uh reman integral. And now let me at least state some of the basic formulas uh for uh reman integrals. Um, and so maybe we might prove some of these next time. So the first one is that if you take so have this theorem here. Uh the first one is supposed to take a function that is remman integraable on some integral like this and c here is constant is a real number then uh then the uh this constant times f is also man integraable and the integral of this function here is equal to C * the integral reman integral like that. Right? So that's the first one. Uh uh the next one is that if you take two functions f and g suppose you take two functions uh f and g that are reman integral uh and uh now let's look at the function that is the sum of these two. Right? So this is a new function and the claim is that this here is also remain integral and the integral of the sum is the sum of the integrals. Oops. Okay, that's the second one. Uh and the third one is that um so the third one is that if you take if you take a function two functions again they are both reman integraable uh and you have that f here is lesser equal to g then the reman integral of f is lesser equal to the reman integral of G like that. And the f fourth rule is that uh the fourth rule is a little bit different. So this is this is if you split the interval. So the fourth one is like this. Again I will prove some of them not all of them but I'll prove some of them uh next time but not all of them I won't prove the first one for sure. So the fourth is that if you take so imagine so you have this interval here from a to b but imagine that so here you have a here you have b imag imagine that c is somewhere in between uh a and b and suppose that you have a function that is remman integral on this interval then the claim is That's that then if you take the function and you restrict it to either of the either this interval or that interval, it's still remand integral and f here is also in uh from C to B and and the claim is that the reman on the original integral is the sum of the reman integral. Okay, like that. Okay. And so if you think about it in terms of kind of area below the graph, right? If you take a function like this, if you if this here was if this here was C, then the area below the graph here, I guess this here would be sign area below the graph. But if you just took the area below, if the function was actually positive and you think about the reman integral as the area below the graph, if this here is C, this here is A, this here is B, then this area here plus this area is the sum of these two is the sum underneath the the whole graph, right? So it makes sense. Okay, any questions? Okay, great. See you next time.