Today we are going to be talking about uh continue our discussion of health externalities. Now if you remember last time we started the example smoking to remind you we talked about smoking is a negative negative consumption externality something where the consumption of cigarettes by one person makes other people worse off. We talked about where the externalities arise. First of all we talked about the fact that smoking in standard economic models should only be regulated if it creates externalities on others. So smokers just sit in a rock in the middle of nowhere and kill themselves. That's their problem in economics. that the reason we regulate goods is the ocean will do to others. The question is where did the exonal arise of the smoking and we started and if you look at the we talked last time about some of the externalities for smoking and when they actually are externalities um and so the first one we talked about what help increase healthcare cost uh healthare cost and we said is that an externality we said well it's only an externality except the smoker themselves doesn't bear it okay if smokers pay for the increased healthcare costs through higher premiums and other things that's not an externality. They've internalized it. It's only an externality if smokers are say uninsured or paid for by the government. They don't bear it. We could talk about other other exiles in the same way. Let's think about another exile of smoking which is potential effects on workplace productivity. So smokers have been measured to be less productive on the workplace than non-smokers. They take smoke breaks etc. Is that an extra or not? Yeah, the defense if that that they get hourly and they pay some upgrades, it's not an external, >> right? So if it's basically it's reflected in their wages, it's internalized. It's not an externality. It's only they're not paying for it. The best estimates are they're not. So it is an externality. Moreover, there's a lot of good economic research that the productivity of one worker spills over to the productivity of other workers. And as a result, even if they're paying for it, if they're less productive, that can make their co-workers less productive. that would also be an extra note. So that's another example. A third example that's quite striking is fires. Turns out that smokers cause a lot of the fires in the world. In 2011, fires started by smokers in the US caused 540 deaths and $620 million of property damage. Now once again, if a smoker lives in a house by themselves in the middle of nowhere with no fire department, it burns their house down. That's their problem. But that doesn't happen. The exiles arise because a you can burn your neighbor's house down. That's an externality. B the fire department has to come raising everybody else's taxes. That's an externality. So once again, we want to think about what's internalized is what people pay for it. What's externalized is what others bear without them paying for it. Um if you uh now there's an interesting twist in all this, which is we focus on the negative, but smoking actually has a big positive externality. Turns out there's a big positive exile when smoking and it's because smokers have a convenient habit of dying at age 65. Why is that convenient? It's convenient because they've paid social security taxes their whole life and they don't collect the benefits. They even got a name for this. They call it the death benefit. The death benefit is a positive externality which is smokers essentially pay into pensions. A lot of what we do in our life is paying when we're young to get benefits. We're old. Well, if you die before you're old, you don't get those benefits. the backy pain goes to other people that the pot externality indeed it's so big that many have argued that our net smoking is good for society and indeed the best estimates are the extra the net exchange of smoking are pretty small maybe around 50 cents a pack 50 cents a pack is the net damage done soietite which is actually current cigarette tax at the federal state level are running between $2 and $5 a pack that seems like wow it's a lot smaller than the taxes but that misses two things. The first thing it misses one thing we haven't discussed which is secondhand smoke. The fact that when I smoke that can affect you. Now let's think about why that's an externality. It's an externality because well let me give you an example. What would not be an externality? Imagine the way secondhand smokers I smoked and THEN I JUST JAB MY CIGARETTE IN YOUR ARM. OKAY. That would not be an external. That's what caused secondhand smoke. Why would that not be an externality? >> Someone else because some other folks involved. Yeah. Yeah. Why not a venality? >> That's a very like concrete. You are damaging this person. >> Yeah. >> They can like >> But what does he have over his arm? What's important about his arm? >> Arm. >> He has property rights over his arm. >> So coast should work. >> Basically, if I jab the arm, he can sit me. He can punch me. He can make me bear the consequences of that damage. Why is secondhand smoke not like that? Because no one owns the air. So when I smoke and that smoke goes in the air and every other people get damaged, there's no property right and that's why there can be no eternal solution to that. And so that's one reason why there's secondhand smoke damage to secondhand smoke. The other but there's another label too which is most of the damage done from secondhand smoke is done to family members. Okay, I've been talking this example. My wife who has never smoked but her mom was a three-pack a day cigarette smoker and she now has COPD. Uh Paul is at least front arm off smoking in the house. Is that an externality? When when is it and when is it not an externality? >> Yeah. >> Well, yeah. Her mom paid for it, but her mom's dead. She's not paying her health insurance bills. Why else might it not be an externality? Why else might it not be an exal? Yeah. >> Because your decision to smoke takes into account the cost that you cost your family member. >> Exactly. If you have a family utility function where you're maximizing not your own utility but your family's utility, then that's not an externality. So in a family utility function, my wife's mother said, "Look, I know when I smoke, I'm creating this externality on my daughter." That doesn't mean she shouldn't smoke. It just means that she should really, really want to smoke before she does. So doesn't mean smoking's wrong. It just means she just like addiction doesn't mean smoking is necessarily wrong. It just means that that's something she she should account for. Some people have family utility functions that secondhand smoking is not an externality. Turns out people don't have family functions especially men. Okay. And we know this because there are dozens of studies in the developing world which which test the key prediction of a family utility model. What's the key prediction is that a dollar in the hands of any family member should be spent the same. Right? If we all have a family utility function, then if mom or dad gets the dollar, they should spend it the same because they're maximizing the same objective function. But in fact, that's not true. Okay? When women get the money to spend their kids, when dad get the money to spend it on beer. Okay? So basically, there's a strict rejection of family utility functions. And as a result, uh we don't think people are maximizing family utility functions. And so secondhand spoke would be an externality even if it's damaging family members as well. Okay, this is all kind of esoteric but it's just to raise the point that we think critically about when externalities arise and when they do not. Now once again measuring the external second smoke is very hard. The estimates are in the narrow range of one cent a pack to $2 a pack. Okay, we really have no idea how big these fats are. But even at the upper end, even if you add that to the other estimates, it's still not that big. It's maybe two bucks a pack. That's still not that big compared to taxes. So, are we overt taxing cigarettes? Well, as I mentioned, I worked in the Clinton administration. And in the Clinton administration, I was very when I worked in government, I was very proud to be an economist because we are so much smarter than lawyers. Okay? And when I was in the room, it was me and a bunch of lawyers. And I always would make points that they, you know, it's just the framework you get in 1401. before we get here helps us think critically about these problems the way lawyers don't get except for one time which allow you to stand up in front of a group of lawyers and explain the death benefit and say we should tax cigarettes less because they kill people and they were like that's kind of stupid and I was like you know what that's right that is kind of stupid and so I came back from Washington bar research agenda which was trying to understand what's wrong with that I realized what's wrong with that is that it's a fundamental flaw in the model we use to model smoking decisions which is we ignore two critical things. The first thing we ignore is that smoking decisions are made by young people. Now, even if you're the most rigid Chicago economist and think that at age 21, we're all perfectly formed economists, we almost agree at age zero or not, and therefore there's got to be some glide path along which we start making decisions the way we should. And that means that teenagers are probably down that glide, not fully glit, okay, if that's a word. Okay, that means that teenagers are not teenagers making smoking decisions to make the vast smoking decisions are maybe not acting in their own long run utility maximizing self-interest. My favorite fact of any research project I ever did was a fact that I discovered doing research on smoking, which is there's a survey in Michigan that asked high school students who smoke a pack a day, do you think you'll be smoking in five years? And they followed up five years later. What they found was among those who said yes I'll be smoking in 5 years 72% were smoking. Among those said no I will not be smoking in 5 years 74% were smoking. Okay? And this is the key thing about irrationality around smoking. It's not that people don't know smoking is bad for you. Indeed if you ask smokers how bad smoking is for you on average smokers think it's actually worse for you than it is. It's that smokers think they'll all escape the consequences by quitting. They don't understand the damage of smoking. They understate the addictiveness. Okay. So, if you ask smokers, here's a great fact. If you ask smokers how long the typical smoker will live, they get the answer right. You ask them how long they'll live, they say seven more years because they think they're going to sweep the consequences. Okay? So, that's the first problem with the standard model is that kind of irrationality. The second problem with that model is that even among adult smokers, they face what we call a self-control problem. A self-control problem. And this is really the core. I covered this a bit. You don't want to stick that with me. Sort of the core of the field of behavioral economics. You remember just a bit of a primer. Remember in behavioral economics the key trick is how do we minimally adapt our models to capture some of the realities in psychology that are ignored by standard economic models. And perhaps the most significant article in this literature was an article written by David Le in the 1990s at Harvard where he talked about a model of what we call hyperbolic discounting which is a model where basically people don't think rationally about the distant future growth in the near future that essentially we write down our standard overtime utility model. we typically write as utility equals so utility at a point time equals the sum of the discounted stream of future consumption. So it's basically your consumption today time because up to your t times the discount rate with delta less than one sum from t equals 0 to cap t from t equals 0 to cap t. Okay, that's how we write that's called an exponential discounting function. You assume that so if delta is say 0.9 then next year is worth 0.9 of today two years is worth 081 of today three years etc. Okay we assume every period would discount by 90%. However that's not the reality of how people behave so they ran the following experiment. They ask people, "Imagine I can give you $100 today or today at t equals 0 or $200 in one year at t equals 1." Would you take that deal? And most people said, "I'll take the $100 today." Then they said, "What if I offered you $100 at t= 5 or $200 at t= 6? Now you should see with this mathematical function that's an identical choice because all that matters is a delta between two consecutive periods and that delta is always 0.9. And yet in this case everybody chose 200. Why? Well because we are we don't discount exponentially. We discount hyperbolically which is essentially we have an ever decreasing discount rate the further we get in the future. We're more and more patient the further you get in the future. Now that's incredibly hard mathematically to model. So Leonson's insight was to write down what we call the quasi hyperbolic utility function which is that u equals today's consumption ct plus some factor beta times the sum the discounted consumption from t + 1 to the future from t = 1 to t. Okay, sorry just t c the t delta t but starting at t equals 1. So in other words, you have today's decision and then the entire future is discounted by an extra factor beta. So once you get to tomorrow, we're back to the standard model. But today versus tomorrow, today versus that whole future is an extra factor beta. And beta is less than one. And that explains the kind of trade-offs we just described in that $100, $2 example, $200 example. And what's cool about this model is this can this simple change literally pulling the C out and adding this extra beta function. Okay, extra beta factor can explain a ton of the decisions we see in reality in particular can handle what we call the self-control problem which is the notion that basically people are unable to take actions which have short-term costs and long-run benefits. And that's true for all of us. We all face things with self-control problems. For me, it's biting my nails. Okay, I know I should stop biting my nails. I know that that is a long-term detrimental effect. Okay, it looks ugly, whatever. Okay, I know I should stop, but if there's ever a close sports game or a tight deadline, I bite my nails. I've tried to stop. I've tried, for example, get that stuff you paint on your nails. I can't swear because my niece and nephew are in the back, so I'm going to try to stop swearing here. Uh uh that stuff you that stuff you paint on your nails. um which makes you know so you don't bite nails just makes the taste bad when I bite my nails. Okay, I have a self-control problem around buying my nails. We all have self-control problems around issues with a shortrun cost and a long run benefit. Okay, dieting, exercise. I always say before getting a plane, I'm not going to eat the crappy food they're serving on the plane. But they put it in front of you. What are you going to do? I eat the crappy food they serve on the plane. Okay, we all have these kind of self-control problems. Once you have a self-control problem, the economic model changes radically. And it changes radically because we allow for the fact that smokers might not be making decisions in their own long run best interest. Now, coast would say, well, that's ridiculous. If smokers face a self-control problem, they should just go ahead and implement processes to fight that self-control. And smokers do. If you look at the in fact the best evidence that folks suffer self-control problems is to look at all the recommended ways to quit smoking. >> They're all make your life miserable if you smoke, right? They're put your old cigarette butts in a jar of water. Give someone a dollar every time you smoke. Now, those are things where in a rational model you'd never do. Why would you ever make yourself worse off? Okay, but in this model you would because remember the profit is long-term benefits. you live longer. Again, short-term cost, it's really painful to quit. So, I bring the cost to the short term. You balance it out. Okay. When my kids were in elementary school, they got a um a bookmark, antisphobia bookmark. Did the bookmark say you'll die sooner? No. What did it say? You'll be worse at sports. Your teeth will look gross. You'll get acne. Whatever. All stuff, which is quite frankly pretty trivial related yogurt. But they knew the kids wouldn't care. So, they focused on bringing the cost to short run. Okay. And the fact that A we know have to we know we have to do that means that these problems are real. And B it dramatically changes things by introducing the concept of what I labeled internalities. In my work with Bon Kazidi, we set up a new literature mesh discussed around these things called internalities which are the damage you do to yourself that is not through behavior which is not captured by the standard model. So we ignored the whole use smoky thing. Put that aside. We just said focus on this aspect. The fact that people have self-control problems. Now, we said that if you take this standard, if you take this standard model, forget the second smoke, the externalities due to smoking are 50 cents a pack. Therefore, the optimal tax tow is 50 cents a pack. If you use this model and you take a beta of 6, which is what typically estimated in the laboratory, the optimal tax is $10 a pack. Why does it change so much? Because smoking is really, really bad for you. Okay, every cigarette shorts your life by seven minutes. If you take that estimate and you multiply by typical values of a life, once again, we'll cover that in chapter eight, you get that a pack of cigarettes damage your health by about $40. So if you're making a small mistake, that's a huge number relative to 50, right? So even if beta is 0.9, we estimate tax, we estimate nal tax at $5. Okay? Because the fact the damage of smoking, the internal damage is so large that if any internalities matter, cigarette actually much higher. Another way to put this is if you're going to argue with cigarette havoc should only reflect externalities. You're going to have to argue that smokers truly are making no mistakes of any kind, either irrational youth smoking decisions or self-control problems. Once you intermit that a little bit, you get a huge optimal tax. Okay. And this is sort of the inside of our work that basically um these uh these internalities are real. And once again, the other point is there's no co solution because there's no way to perfectly stop yourself. Okay? You could say, well, look, I'll put cigarette butts in the water. It doesn't help. You could say, for example, what if you had a bracelet that shocked you every time you went to buy cigarettes? Well, you cut the bracelet off. You put it on yourself. You could take it off. But what is a commitment device you can't avoid, at least without illegal behavior? cigarette taxes. So cigarette taxes are essentially a government imposed self-control device because smokers are price sensitive. The typical elasticity of demand for cigarettes is about minus.4 and for kids it's close to minus one. So basically the point is you can't impose your own self-control. the coast solution doesn't work, but the government can impose self-control until the for smuggling becomes a big enough deal and black market is a big enough deal that you can get around it. But until you get to that point, higher cigarette taxes serve as exactly the kind of public self-control tool [clears throat] that you need to actually fight this problem. Questions about that? >> Yeah, they look a question about cigarette. >> Great question. Okay, so we are we're only one discussing efficiency this part of the course, but you guys are all good folks. You care about equity too. And the concern is that cigarette taxes are regressive. We'll talk about this more into the tax chapter is the notion that people spend a higher percent of their income on something the poorer they are. Okay, it's not people spend more when they're poor, it's that they spend a higher percent of their income. And for cigarettes, that's absolutely true. Poor people spend a much higher percentage of their income on cigarettes than rich people. And that's for two reasons. The first reason I want to discuss last time that rich people smoking has all disappeared if only poor people smoke now. The second reason is the reason. The second reason is because as a fraction of income, it's much larger. A fixed cigarette tax, a $5 pack cigarette tax means nothing to me. It means something scary to a poor person. Okay. So, for that reason, we will say we shouldn't tax cigarettes because they're regressive. Yeah. >> What is the current cigarette tax? The currency for tax varies by state. Uh but it's like I said, it's between about about $2 and $5 depending on the state. So, however, my co-author and I, Bo Takaziki, we argue that's wrong. And it's wrong once you enter this model because once you're in this model and recognize that the poor people who spoke might be making mistakes, then the fact and you also recognize poor people are much more price elastic than rich people. For rich people, the price less is very low. For poor people, it's like minus one. So in fact, when you raise cigarette taxes on net, poor people spent less because so many of them quit that overall poor person spending on cigarettes falls. In our standard model, that wouldn't matter. But in our model, it does matter. If you actually people are are make are not smoking optimally. The fact that cigarettes actually cause poor people to quit is a benefit and it's much larger for poor people than rich people. So we actually argue cigarette tax are progressive, not regressive. Yeah. >> So they don't have the fire issue. They don't have the smoke issue. They don't have a lot of taxes on those. Yeah. >> This is a fascinating issue. Once again, it's amazing teaching this course for the 137 years I've taught it, which is that how things change during this not topic I discussed before. So, in fact, let's go back to Pat. If you'd said to me 15 years ago, there's going to be a new thing called vaping. It's going to live in the nicotine without the tar. Now, we know tar is fundamentally health damaging. We're not quite sure about nicotine. The evidence on the health image is clear. I would have said awesome. Basically, if you could take a smoker and convert them from a cigarette to a vape, that's a good thing. What I would have missed is the fact that for every smoker switching, there's 10 kids who are starting vaping. So, this is a fascinating question no one's asked, which is is vaping on that good or bad? And the answer is unclear because depends on two things. It depends. It's all about cost and benefits. The benefit of introducing vaping is it lowers the damage to smoking. The cost is it introduces damaged nicotine to 10 extra people. Now, what's we don't really know how bad nicotine addiction is. We don't really know how bad vaping is for your lungs. So, we don't really know how to make that trade-off. We're pretty sure that even with potential damage to lungs and nicotine, vaping is still better than smoking. So, we're pretty sure that if literally all we did is replace smokers with vapors, we'd be better off. What we don't know was to replace every smoker with 10 vapor if we're better off or not. And that's exactly the kind of fascinating thing that's why this literature continues to evolve and be interesting is exactly that kind of question. Same with Zans and all the other stuff where folks are using now we just we just don't know. >> Good question. Yeah. >> Because you guys are advocating what's in it. >> Great great question. I mean this is this will be an important question to go on the lecture talk about other health externalities which is that basically the barriers are really political. Um in fact someone made a great point which is um a hundred years ago tobacco leaf was grown all over the country. Uh today it's grown in a very small number of states and only once it was grown in a small number of states were willing to regulate tobacco. Uh that basically there was a large political constituency to not regulate smoking. Um we knew starting in the 1950s was bad for you but we didn't really start raising cigarette taxes till the 1990s. Um and basically it was just it's a fascinating issue of what finally led to the change. How did things really turn around? And this is actually you know there's so many things we can follow on this class we don't have time for. This actually raises a great question. We don't have a course at MIT in law and economics anymore but we should great question what's the ultimate role of the legal system what's the ultimate role of the legal system in terms of their other economic outcomes. So for years we could deal with the external sigos politically. Then what happened? This US states go with a clever strategy. The US states said, "Look, smoking is costing us a lot of money. We are going to sue the tobacco companies for an enormous amount of money to make them pay back what they're costing us." Tobacco companies suddenly faced a massive potential risk. And then they negotiated a deal where they would agree to a voluntary tax essentially in return for ending these lawsuits. Now, I'm not a fan of a lot of the legal system and some of the excessive lawsuits we have, but here's an example where the legal system got a political process unstuck. Once they started that, then states started saying, "Oh, wow. Now we can start raising our taxes." The federal government raised the taxes. So, it started dynamic effect. Whoop. It started this dynamic effect where basically uh it became okay politically to start going after cigarettes. Yes. by voluntary tax that just meant like their lobbyist took the foot off the gas a little bit or that like they just handing money over to the state. >> Great question. So, so if I said to you as students in this class, why should we raise the price? If I said to you, we're going to raise the price of cigarettes, you should say, well, according to what I taught you, great and you shouldn't really care how it happens. But there's two different ways to make it happen. One way to make it happen as a tax >> that has the advantage you raise revenues. It also the advantage that it potentially punishes the companies. The other is just say well companies we're going to have a coordinated price rise among the companies that has the same effect as the tax but only if anything increases their profits since smoking is inelastic is relatively inelastic. So the public health community was not necessly crazy about this because they wanted it to not just stop smoking but to punish tobacco companies. If you're just about public health we just care the price are higher. So I don't care how it happened. Yeah. >> Was there any question of like antitrust sort of talk surrounding that sort of >> I mean we you know we're not going to talk a lot about perfect markets and oples here but obviously it was it was it was effectively a coordinated price increase but not in actuality other questions comments [snorts] okay so that's how we think about um that's how we think about smoking okay now let's go on with that framework and talk about the other health externalities deal with our society Another big one is alcohol consumption or drinking. Okay. Um, alcohol consumption has massive negative external effects on society. Um, the numbers are really astonishing. These are out of date, but every day 30 people in the US die in a motor vehicle crash that involves an alcohol impaired driver. Um, this amounts to one death every 48 minutes. Uh, 10,000 people a year are killed in alcohol crashes. about one alcohol-related car crash about one-third of all car crashes in this country. Um the estimates are that the external costs of drinking just from driving alone are about $250 billion a year just from drug driving alone. And that's a massive underestimate because it turns out alcohol is also incredibly associated with criminal activities and abuse. estimates suggest that much of the uh m much much criminal activity is committed while people are inebriated and much and a lot of spousal abuse is and there's very clever studies showing that when alcohol is harder to get crime goes down and spousal abuse goes down these are also external I mean once again unless it's a family utility function I won't get into that that's dangerous but I think we can assume spousal abuse is bad okay we can certainly assume crime as negative externalities so as a result um they are uh They're basically um and in particular was this really interesting study in India which found that when they prohibited alcohol in one state there was a massive decline in violence against women >> in that state. There's another um uh and so basically uh this is uh the externalities are huge. So unlike smoking which has relative modest externalities, alcohol has huge externalities. Indeed if you pop out those externalities the alpha tax and alcohol should be roughly four times what it is today. I was say alcohol, guys. Alcohol is super cheap, okay? Like compared to like it's the same, you know, it's sort of nuts still like alcohol is is less than bottled water. Okay? Uh in buy a can of beer is less than a than a than a bottle of water. Okay? So basically we have uh alcohol should be taxed much higher. Now what about the internalities? So so and by the way that's something even Chicago economists couldn't argue with. They might argue the measurement but the bottom line is all economists agree that we should tax external producing activities. Okay, we all agree the externalities are large alcohol taxes should be higher. Okay, but what about the internalities? Well, here traditionally when I taught this course I said well this sort of the flip of smoking the internalities of alcohol aren't that bad. But in fact there's a lot of evidence suggest that the internals are huge too that there's huge negative unappreciated health effects on people of drinking. We've basically debunked the myth at this point that little drinking is good for you. We've now basically found that no drinking is good for you. It's like cigarettes. Basically, no amount of drinking is good for you. Now, I still every cigarette is bad for you. Probably modest drinking is not bad for you, but it's not good for you. And serious drinking causes enormous health consequence of later life. And by the same internalities model I talked about a few minutes ago, if people are not incorporating those, they are that's that's putting costs on them. And as a result, those in should be added as well. So I think about an optimal facts. But here's the trick with alcohol. Here's why it's harder. Smoking is the easiest case to start with because it's basically linear. Every cigar smoke shortens your life by 7 minutes in a rough and linear fashion. Alcohol is harder for because basically the damage is much more concentrated. Most drinking is done by people who don't create damage to themselves or society. Most the vast majority of alcohol consumption is done by people who won't be driving and won't commit crimes or abuse their spouses. They're just having a good time or whatever. Okay. So that raised an interesting difficulty which is well gee if I'm going to tax alcohol if I tax cigarettes every cigarette's bad. It's tax but alcohol should I really tax it when most people and most alcohol consumption is not actually damaging? Okay. And the answer here is in a perfect world we would use other tools. >> For example, a perfect world we would say we'd have ex we would have we would try to use tools other than taxes which could target the high vibe. So in a perfect world for example you'd only tax people who bought more than a certain amount of alcohol per per day. Okay, that's impossible to do because you can always send someone to buy for you. But in a perfect world we would actually target the tax to those doing damage. We can't. Okay, we also could use other tools like penalties on drunk driving. Indeed, penalties and drunk driving are pretty bad. You guys really should not drive drunk. Okay, by the time you get your second DUI, okay, busted for driving twice. I'm informed, not personal experience. I've informed that by someone who got their second DUI that by that time they lost the license for three years, they made $50,000 in legal bills. So, they're extreme, but it's apparently not extreme enough because having a lot of people dying driving accidents. So this is where we get into what an economist would call the theory of the second best. The theory of the second best is the notion that well the ideal would be let's just tax the guys causing the damage. If we can't do that, should we resort to no taxes or some tax on everyone? And the answer is some tax on everyone. And the reason is because the disutility to a modest drinker from a tax is small relative to the benefit of reducing excessive drinking. So, it's not as good as just acting excessive drinking, but the benefits for using excessive drinking exceed the dish utility because remember dead weight loss are small near the optimum. Think about a small alcohol tax. If you're drinking and not causing damage, that small tax will not cause much dead weight loss. If you're drinking causing a lot of damage, that small tax could reduce that damage and really reduce that dam log. So, by that logic, we always want some cigarette alcohol tax. The question how big can it be before the damage those who aren't doing who aren't doing who aren't causing society uh cause society think sees the benefits it hurts to reducing drug okay question about that all right um cigarettes are easy drinking is harder now let's talk about illicit drugs this is a real challenging case and why is this a challenging case it's a challenging case because here the extra alities largely arise from the illegality itself. Think about it. Why do drugs what do drugs cause XL? They cause crime because people are trying to pay for the expensive drugs and trying or is a criminal market. If drugs were legal, that wouldn't exist. They'd be cheap because they'd be able to flow freely in and out of the country and there wouldn't be criminal activity associated with them. So in fact if the biggest externalities of drugs would go away if they were legal and that's why for years economists have argued for legalizing drugs by and large they've said look the externality argument cannot justify illegal drugs. In fact it's pretty hard to justify legal anything under externalities. The economist say if it's really an externality problem we should basically make them legal and tax them. But the question is, are the internalities especially large here >> because of the addictiveness combined with the extreme consequence of mistakes? If I make a mistake and stop smoking and start smoking and I'm unable to quit, I will live seven years less on average. But I make a mistake and get hooked on heroin or fentanyl, I could die 60 years less. Okay? I could die tomorrow. Okay? So since the consequences are more extreme, people are more worried about considering internalities. This comes up with the only political issue my wife and ever, my wife and I have ever had a fundamental disagreement, which is the legalization of marijuana. She felt marijuana shouldn't be legalized because it's bad for people. I said basically, no, the exiles of marijuana are due to illegality. There's no evidence it's that bad for people. We should legalize it. Now, it has been legalized in a number of states as we know. The evidence so far is that certainly marijuana related crime is way down. Okay? It's not legal anymore. Um, overall traffic deaths are not worse, although there's a cool study by one of my students showing that traffic deaths go up a lot around dispensaries. Uh, and so, uh, overall traffic is not worse. They go up a lot around dispensaries. Um, there is much much more marijuana consumption. Uh but it looks like most of that is among adults, not kids. So so far I would say the evidence of legalization is fairly positive, but the jury is still out. This is the kind of thing in a perfect world. Once again, a lot of the policies we talk about where the where we need evidence, we putting temporarily. It's going to be hard to put this genie back in the bottle. If we decide marijuana legalization is bad, it's going to be hard to deal with that. We're never, you know, we're never uh you know, uh banning alcohol or cigarettes. Okay. So the question is um you know how do we feel about that and then in particular if marijuana should be legal what else shouldn't be and how do we think about these trade-offs and basically it's about really comes down to a lot of the fact that people are really worried about these uh internal damages people do for the more serious drugs. Now of course the biggest drug problem in our country today um is opioids and particular the carninal crisis. Here's a fascinating case where public policy backfired. What happened? What happened was in this country before the 20 before the 21st century, we used to systematically undertreat pain. If someone came in and was in pain invasive cervical order, there was a realization we're doing that was bad for people. At the same time as this miraculous new drug called Oxycontton was Oxycontton. Doctors knew for 150 years that opioids were were addictive and bad for you. doctors didn't treat pain with opioids, so people will be addicted. Oxycontton came along and said, "We have a new formulation that's slow release, so you won't get addicted." And there's even New England Journal article, the pro New England Journal of Medicine article to prove it. Well, it turns out the New England Journal on Medicine article much like our case with our autism article was some letter written by some guy who treated 10 guys at a hospital in Boston and said they didn't get addicted to Oxycon's okay. But that was enough for Purdue Pharma to go to the doctors. And the doctors said, "Look, well, geez, I'd love to go pain go away. If you're telling me it's not addictive, I got pain go away. Let's do it." And Oxycontton exploded. The problem is Oxycontton was overused and prone to abuse, which is you could crack the pills in half and store it and it gave you real high and became abused. So once we started realizing more people were dying from drug overdoses in um and we see this you can actually see this if you look at uh figure 66 this shows deaths of car crash deaths or overdoses I remember the first time I saw this graph in the old 2010s I couldn't believe it starting in about you see that deaths from overdoses starts to exceed deaths of car crashes that was exceptional to think that there were more overdose death in and it continues to go Okay. So that basically you had a situation where there was um where there was excessive deaths from this. So the government realized that we have to end this abuse. We have to use this to create an abuse deterrent formulation of Oxycontton. We couldn't crack it in half. That was the well-intentioned public policy. What was the problem? The problem is you got hundreds of thousands of millions of people addicted to opioids. >> They said fine we can't get Oxycontton. We go to the next thing which is heroin >> to meet our fix. The problem is heroin really kills you. And then from there they went to fentanyl which really really kills you. So the problem is we created this addiction and it's trying to fight one aspect. We shift to people on more dangerous substance and you see the incredible peak in the number of people who died from overdose deaths. They reaching more than 100,000 people a year and more than 100,000 people a year. Basically all caused in many ways because of this initial prescription drug. uh and that raises we talked in the first lecture about the role of the FDA regulated drugs. This is the kind of challenge we face uh in our society. Once again this is why we have to constantly I talk about a well-meaning well functioning government's class but that's why I have to constantly be vigilant about the consequence of the government's actions. Okay. Yeah. >> I'm not particularly familiar You don't have to take that. >> Yeah. I mean, there was a lot of, you know, I was involved with some legal cases with opioids. There's a lot of It's unclear who the bad guy. There's a lot of bad guys here. >> Purdue Farmer is feeling bad. They push it too much. The doctors, some doctors were trying to do right by their patients, saying, "You're pain. I'm going to help you." Some were not. Some were like, "Great. You know, I prescribed this to make a lot of money. I'm just going to prescribe it and you don't have to take it." Um, some doctors work and literally were making up prescriptions and what they call pill mills. Um, but there's a lot there's a lot of blame to go around here. Other questions? Yeah. >> What about policy that would stop like health insurance companies from paying for opioids? >> Well, I mean once again delivered appropriately. We wouldn't want that. I mean opioids are miraculous, you know, postsurgery. It it's a civil policy which is they shouldn't say you own with when you get the surgery now. They're saying you own with 10 pills. these sen with 30 in a refill for six months. So, it's not that hard to change. It's just it was in no one's financial interest to change it. So, that's why these lawsuits are targeting everyone around the chain because everyone was so bad at the like the distributors. They're the people who buy who distribute the drugs to stores. They should have noticed that story. There were areas of Florida where stores were wearing 10,000 pills a day in little communities in Florida. They should know, wait a second, there's no way people need 10,000 oxyons a day in Odon, Florida. But they did. they let it go is they were making money etc. Okay, now that is all child's play compared to the hardest one of these at all and the number one public policy issue probably in the public health issue probably in the world today which is obesity. Obesity is a really hard problem because obesity is incredibly difficult. Obesity is typically defined as having a body max index which is ratio of weight to height above a certain level ratio of uh of hate to white a function of that above a certain level the share of Americans are obese has rose from 13% in 1960 to 45% today 45% of Americans are obese now you might hear that number and say that sounds strange to me and indeed it should I have not taught an obese student in at least 15 years I teach a lot of students Okay, obesity much like smoking has been concentrated in certain segments of the population. Okay, the the achievement focused segment of the population. You guys, how many guys drink either Diet Coke or Coke or any soda product? Don't be shy. I do all the time. Okay, this is amazing. I remember the first time I asked that question. I had my Coke Zero in class and I thought I'd take a survey of Coke Zero versus Diet Coke. I said, "How many don't drink Coke Zero?" And 10% raise their hand. How many drink diet Coke? 10% raised their hand. Like what about the rest of you? Like we don't drink soda. Like what the [\h__\h] You don't drink soda? What do you mean? And it's like it's just a health conscious. They just more you're more health conscious. They drink a lot of soda in America. Sub industry is doing fine. Just not you guys. Okay. Obesity is a major major problem uh in this nation. Um and not just in this nation. Um there are about on the order of almost 1 billion adults worldwide who are obese. Okay. And fundamentally the problem in the world is moving from hunger to obesity. Fundamentally we've conquered hunger and the new problem uh is obesity. Now why is that happening? Well really it's two things. The first and less important part is the decline in physical activity. As someone said once, I love this. We used to get paid to work out. Now we have to pay to work out. Right? We don't we're not we're finally not active anymore and therefore we're not getting physical activity. But that's less important than the second factor, which is the availability of cheap and easy to prepare but bad for you foods. Preparing a dinner used to be a major time-consuming undertaking that involved healthy ingredients. Now it's Doritos, okay, which are cheap, okay, and quickly available, >> delicious. >> It is astonishing how much more expensive fruits and vegetables are than things that are bad for you, okay? And as a result, there's relative price incentives deed badly. And that's what that's what's causing also cause the cause the ability. Okay, this has caused obesity. This has an enormous external consequence which is the rise in diabetes. So as my daughter used to tell me, I say diabetes, right? From that meme from many years ago. um uh it's from diabetes which is a progressive chronic disease that's incurable that is now um affecting about uh 10.5% of the US population is diabetic about onethird of the US population is pre-diabetic which means they're at risk of diabetes that's incredible basically every child born today one out of three will develop diabetes okay that's an astonishing rate and that is enormous consequence both external and internal okay The US spends about $350 billion dollars a year in obesity related costs. And obesity shortens. If someone's obese, it shortens their lifespan by an average of about four years. So we're talking about 40% of Americans are short the lifespan average of four years. Okay, that is astonishing. This is an enormous enormous problem that we're facing worldwide. The problem is this is really hard to deal with because remember I talked about smoking is easy. Every cigarette is bad for you. Alcohol is harder because for a while it's not bad and then and then it's bad for you. Eating is really good for you until it isn't. So you don't want to stop people from eating. We'd be great if you could stop people from smoking. Actually, not terribly stop people from drinking, but it really bad if you stop people from eating. So it's a way harder problem to deal with because once again, nonlinear taxes are really hard. It's hard to tax like heavy eating and not non-heavy eating. [snorts] So what do we do about that? Well, there's a number of public policy tools that have introduced to try to deal with the obesity problem. The first is to try to change the nature of the food supply. And here's the term you often hear is food deserts. These areas where there's bad food available but not good food. The evidence on that is kind of mixed. One, there's some evidence that if you live closer to fast food, you're in worse health. That basically the easy available of fast food puts you in worse health. But there's unfortunately no evidence that living closer to good food makes you healthier. product is just too damn expensive. Okay, so when you solve these food deserts, it doesn't make people healthier. That solution by itself isn't really working. Another appro approach is to tax unhealthy foods. In particular, there's a lot of interest now in soda taxes. A major source of obesity in the US is sugar and sodas. Okay, it's a major source of obesity. Um and basically the idea is um and soft drink consumption increased by 300% from 1998 to 2008. Okay, I don't know what's happened to recently. I should update that. Now um there is a number of cities in the US Philly, Berkeley, other cities that put in sugary soda taxes have put in tax on sodas to try to reduce uh to try to reduce soda consumption and they are working to some extent. They're not a huge effect. There's no feel-good evidence yet that they're significantly affecting body weight. They do seem to deterring soda consumption to some extent but not really lowering uh not really lowering body weight. Now other countries more aggressive. Mexico is t taxing sugar all sugar. Mexico I've worked on diabetes in Mexico. Mexico is the world's worst diabetes problem. Mexico spends something like um it's it's something like one and a half% of of their entire GDP just dealing with the complications of diabetes. Okay. And it's partly biological the way the makeup of the citizens, it's also their diets. So Mexico putting a sugar attacks on all sugars um not just on on sodas but on other things. Um, so that's one approach, but the problem with that is it's doesn't get all the cause of obesity and very people can substitute. Fat's really bad for you too. You tax sugar, people switch to fat. Tax that, they switch sugar. You tax both, they switch to something else. So with a really hard problem, people just buy taxes. Probably the least amal the taxes amid these problems. A third approach is more information. Explain to people how bad certain things are for you. Indeed, I knew someone who was a farter of Dunkin Donuts. And he told me when they put calorie information on Dunkin Donuts, donut consumption not changed at all, but muffin consumption fell even [laughter] cuz everybody thought muffins were okay. Turns out they're worse than donuts. Who knew? So, basically, information can help. Um, and there's studies of what happens. The Affordable Care Act actually included a requirement that large restaurants include calorie information on their menus. And studies of that have shown that it has impacted eating habits modestly. But the information can help. Just once again, the effect is modest. Now, finally, what may be most effective in battling obesity is thinking about self-control strategies. Can we actually engage with the self-control problems people face? Okay. And here there is an enormous amount of literature which suggests that small behavioral interventions can actually massively change how people eat. So, for example, my favorite study in this area is they took people who were going to a movie who'd all eaten lunch at the same time and they gave them buckets of stale popcorn of different sizes, small, medium, large. Basically, the bigger bucket of stale popcorn, the more they eat. Okay? Even though they were equally full and the popcorn was stale, if you put more in front, they eat more. Okay? Another fun study uh someone did up in Dartmouth. So when you go to buffet, okay, you walk to the buffet, pick what you like, and it turns out in a typical buffet about 15% of food is wasted because by time you like, like, oh, I didn't know this is going to be here. I already over, you know, I'm going to pile on the edge of my plate. You don't eat it. So someone switched the buffet so the plates were at the end rather than the beginning. And consumption from the buffet went down 15%. Because people walk by like, oh, that's going to be there. I don't shouldn't take so much at the beginning. These sorts of behavioral interventions can be very effective. And so that's another tool we can use. Okay. Finally, we have perhaps what's the ultimate tool which say look what really is the damage that's done here? The damage that's done here is really done by body weight by excessive body weight. So why don't we just tax fat or have a skinny subsidy? We can subsidize people to be skinny. Now, obviously, I'm not running for office, but I mean that would be clearly a dramatic challenge, but it's also not obviously a great pol not obviously the right policy. And why is that? If the if the problem is self-control, then basically, how are you going to deal with it by something tax people are going to pay in 15 months? So, if it's January and I'm worried and next April, I'm going to pay a higher tax because I got fat. I'm not going to focus on that. I'm focused on what's in front of me. So it's also not obvious the right policy in terms of the problem self-control. The bottom [clears throat] line is obesity is the single hardest of all these problems to deal with. The answer is probably a broad combination of all these policies need to be put in place to deal with it. But it's really the fundamental public health challenge of our time. Okay. Questions about that? >> Yeah. >> Well, I mean So, so the trick with exercise is it's way less effective than lowering eating. So, basically, roughly speaking, walking for an hour is kind of like a muffin in a donut. So, that's a lot of exercise and it's not that much food that you're offsetting. Uh, so, so basically, um, exercise is harder. There are there's a lot of policies. So, one thing the Affordable Care Act just did is it allowed companies to actually borrow your health insurance premium by your participation in things like exercise programs. So are not financial incentives to exercise and get people to commit and that's clearly going to help. Basically there's no magic bullet here. We're going to have to keep trying all these different approaches. >> Like the weight loss drugs are like >> ah great excellent point. I actually have an editorial on this New York Times that I published a few weeks ago about this about this drug. Um so these are we're going to talk about the incredibly new miraculous drugs we're developing in this country. This is one of them. We'll talk about other we talk about healthcare. This is an incredible drug. Now, we don't quite know how it works, but but basically, if you talk to people, it essentially makes you feel satiated. In the past, we try we've tried to fight obesity with chemical interventions. We've done so in a way that makes you unhappy. This does so feels like, man, I just don't want it anymore. That's great. Okay, it's basically works on the margin. We talked about the margin we need and want. Basically, it used to be that basically other drugs would create affect both need and want. This one affects want but not meat. So basically it's incredible. It also looks like there's early evidence it may affect other and you know socially undesirable behaviors like excessive drinking and gambling and things like that. So it seems like something that's really miraculous drug. It's also $15,000. You have to be on it forever. So my co-authors and I estimated that if every obese person in the US was made eligible for Ozic and the government paid for it, it would cost the government $800 billion every single year, which is the size of the Medicare program later. That said, OSMIC is now in these GLB1s are now underused quite frankly because they're because they're so expensive only prescribed for certain very welltargeted cases. For example, here's a great example. You can get oepic if you're diabetic. Well, if you're diabetic, it's sort of already too late. I It's great to control your weight, but the truth is the guys who aren't yet diabetic who we really want on these drugs and they can't get them. So, a substance these drugs are already used. On the other hand, they're really expensive. This is something we'll talk a lot about healthcare, which is drug price rang. >> Yeah. >> I'm just curious. So, in with your co-authors, how much would the government save if you subsidize for every US? >> If you subsidize, >> you're obviously >> No, no. This is the thing that includes the cost. This was said in an article which is that everybody's like so the CEO of nowhere Nordisk said this is a great deal of 15,000 because it saves money down the road. He's wrong. Okay. >> Basically our 800 it if we gave everyone as obese this drug struggle would it cost us a trillion and we save 200 billion or for a net of 800 billion. >> So if the drug was cheap enough it could pay for itself but nowhere near the current price. choices before. >> You know, it's a great question, which is this is in some sense one of the most fascinating things we had to deal with in healthcare reform was the line between self-control and lack of control. So, when we passed the Affordable Care Act, part of what we did is we um made health insurance, you know, communal. we got everybody health insurance and every email every email didn't contain a swear that I got was about why should I pay more for my fat neighbor why should I pay more and the answer is well because maybe your fat neighbor's fat for reasons they couldn't control but if that neighbor's fat because they just ate a lot maybe we do want to think about how much we want to subsidize that so that's a really interesting question of how you address sin behaviors is how do you think about biological propensities versus bad behaviors is a really hard it's a hard question >> yeah Michelle It's like I don't know crusade against like lunches. I know it's like >> I don't think she's getting lunch. >> Oh yeah. >> I know that was like a talking point like a decade. I don't know. Um do we have any evidence that like that was effective or not effective or >> No, we don't know. I mean I'd be so public like good interest campaigns really move the needle. Uh I think you know she had a campaign against against poor eating against poor nutrition. I think move the needle until they move it massively. That was stick with smoking which is we had these things going going all of a sudden boom it became okay to be against smoking and things changed overnight. So it sort of in maybe building a movement that invention that hasn't moved the deal so far. >> Yeah. I was wondering so would it be more effective if health insurance companies would pay for I guess groceries and like exercise versus >> Great question. This is actually a big movement in health care is what's called the social terms of health movement which is actually having health insurance plans pay for your food, your housing, all these things which ultimately affect your health by frankly probably more than health insurance. I hate to say it's a healthy economist, but look, the truth is where you live and what you eat and whether you get shot probably matters a hell of a lot more for your health than what health insurance you have. Um, the problem is for a health insurance perspective, it only makes sense to pay for it if it's actually going to save the money. So, it's very important to distinguish two things and we'll come back to this cost-saving versus cost effective. If I took every one of you today and sent you to the doctor, that would probably be cost-effective in the sense that the doctor's visit, we'd probably find one or two of you something wrong they wouldn't have found otherwise. Nope, don't worry. [laughter] Wouldn't have found otherwise. And that would be that and that would be good to find it, but you probably on net would still spend more on all the doctors than finding the one or two things are wrong. So, it wouldn't be cost-saving, but it might be cost-effective. might be a good thing you do in terms of the value of your health, but it would be cost savings. And the question of social determinance, I think they're pretty clearly not cost savings. The question of the cost effective, the insurance companies aren't going to do them. The government would have to subsidize. >> All right. Yeah. >> How is this different from alcohol? Like >> it's different alcohol in a number of senses. One sense is remember alcohol is never good for you. Now people enjoy it, but it's never good for eating is good for you. Okay? So you've got this non-monotinicity that you don't have with alcohol. That's point one. Point two is um with alcohol I think the externalities are enormous and obvious. The internalities are a little tougher are less obvious. Here there's obvious externals and internalities. And the third thing is with alcohol we pretty much know how to fix it which is a high fix it. Know how to address it. A higher tax would address it. Whereas here high tax is not solved problem. >> Yeah. pushing people. >> You know, it's really interesting question. We'll come back and talk about snacks. That's what we used to call food stamps, which are subsidies for what you're talking about, right? Which you which are basically we'll talk in chapter 17 about how we distribute just sometimes in cash, sometimes in goods. And one form of goods is to give people essentially debit cards they could use to buy food cheaply at the supermarket. And the question is, well, gee, should those debit cards, for example, only be usable for healthy food? >> That comes the fundamental question of paternalism that we'll talk about chapter 17, which is to what extent is the government going to be paternalistic about what you what you use your money for? And that's a hard question. >> Yeah. drink a little benefits. >> Well, the question is though is that is that internal or external? I'm saying the externalities are not non-monotonic. The now you're right there could be some nonmonotic internalities if basically we have social anxiety and alcohol is the way we fight our social anxiety. But then there's a question of why would al why would we want wouldn't we want a better tools for fighting social anxiety than getting drunk? I've been I'm often fascinated uh uh you know I play with kids like little niece and nephew and it's super fun and why are little kids fun because they're social anxiety they're just having fun then somehow we hit puberty we all become like shy and like money unless we're drunk and then we're kids again. So aren't there better ways that we could get people to fight their social anxiety getting drunk. [snorts] All right. Okay. That's all I want to say about chapter six. We're going to turn now and start chapter seven on public goods. Remember that um with this section of the class, we're talking about externals and public goods. Okay. Now, what is what's tricky about public goods is they're sort of related but somewhat subtly different than uh than externalities. Okay. And to think about that, let's think about two aspects along which goods can differ. You should have a chapter 7 handout as well. Uh the same handout as chapter 79. You look at table 71. Let's think about two aspects of goods we want to focus on. The first is rivalry and the second is excl excludability. Rivalry is whether my consumption of the good interferes with your consumption of the good. So if I have the good, does that deter your enjoyment of the good? Excludability is can I stop you from having the good? A pure private good is one which is both rival and excludable like ice cream. If I have ice cream, you enjoy it less because there's less there for you and I can just not sell you ice cream. It's rival in the sense that every bite I take is one less bite for you. And it's excludable in the sense that I can just not sell it to you. That is a pure private good. A pure public good is a good which is neither rival nor excludable. The ultimate example being national defense. If a missile is protecting me, it doesn't deter the missile from protecting you. There's no sense in which having a missile protecting an area is rival unless somebody's protected. And it's not excludable. You can't say the missile can protect your house but not your house. Okay? National defense is sort of an example of a pure of a pure uh public good. But we also have what we call impure public goods. So for example, things which are rival but not excludable like say a crowded city sidewalk. A crowded city like it's rival and that when I'm on the sidewalk I'm entering with your enjoyment of the sidewalk because I'm getting in the way but you can't not let me on the sidewalk. Okay, that is rival excludable. We have goods that are excludable and not rival. The best being TV streaming which is to first approximation if my neighbor and I both stream it does not rival. Okay, at some point the load gets high enough it's rival, but it's generally not rival. But the cable company is not delivered to my neighbor's house. It's delivered to my house. So that's another kind of pure public good. Okay, so we basically have these different kinds of public and private goods. And it turns out that um the go that there's a very different implication for optimality when we talk about purely public and purely private goods. So to do this, let's go back. satellite would fall under >> a satellite >> satellite television where it's like just like around >> I mean I mean I guess in some sense >> nothing right I mean I'm basically I I guess like u uh what's it called ham radio ham radio whatever yeah >> yeah anything like that would be pure public good >> that's right um okay so to do this what I want to do is I want to back and review a little bit our theory of pure private goods. And then what I'm going to do is go on and talk about pure public goods. So to review this, let's talk about um let's look at figure seven. Let's look at figure um look at figure 71. >> Okay. And let's imagine um two goods, Ben and Jerry. Two people, Ben and Jerry. and Ben and Jerry are decided to eat two private goods. Ice cream and ice cream cones. Oh, no. I shouldn't say. Oh, yeah. No, I'm sorry. Ice cream con I ice cream cones and cookies. Okay. I'm looking at the wrong one second. Sorry about that. >> Uh, right. Ice cream cones and cookies. Okay. And basically, they're deciding between consuming these two pure private goods. They have a certain budget and they can spend that on ice cream cones or on cookies. And for simplicity, we're going to assume that the price of cookies is $1. Remember talking about this modeling trick called the new era. We'll assume the price of cookies is $1. So in this world, given their budget, as we derived in chapter 2 and derived in 1401, you can derive a demand curve for ice cream. Given a budget, given a utility function, you can write a demand curve for ice cream. That demand curve for ice cream is shown for Ben in figure A in panel A and for Jerry in panel B. Okay. So Ben's demand for ice cream is such that at a price of $2, he wants two ice cream cones. Okay. Jerry likes ice cream less. At a price of $2, he only wants one ice cream cone. And they have well- definfined demand curves for ice cream. Okay. Now, what is the market demand for ice cream? Well, the market demand curve for ice cream, okay, is just the uh is just the sum of Ben and Jerry's demand. The market demand is the sum of Ben and Jerry's demand. That's at panel C. In aggregate, if you charge a price of $2, there's three ice cream cones demanded. And assuming no externalities, that is the social marginal benefit of ice cream in this two person society. Assume there's some social marginal cost of producing ice cream. Where they intersect is the optimal quantity of ice cream. That's the so that's the first S. The social welfare maximizing optimum assuming no externalities would be to produce three ice cream cones at a price of $2. That would be the first test. Okay. Now, um let's actually write this down mathematically. Okay. If we recall from chapter 2, the optimality condition for private good would be that the marginal utility of Ben for ice cream over the margin utility of Ben for cookies is going to be equal to the margin rate of substitution for bed. Okay. The margin of substitution should be ice cream and cookies. Okay. Substitution ice cream and cookies. Ice that ice cream and cookies. Okay. It's the ratio of those margins. Now in equilibrium >> since everyone in equilibrium that is then equal at the optimality to the price ratio of ice cream to cookies. That's the optimality to goden 1401. Moreover, since there's one at equilibrium, [clears throat] we also know that is equal to Jerry's margin rate of substitution being CIS agreement companies because if Ben and Jerry and their margin of substitution, they should shift their consumption to the margin of substitution or equal the price ratio. So the rate so the margin substitution for Jerry must equal margin of substitution for Ben and equilibrium and they're both equal to that market price ratio. Okay, and that is that's the social welfare optimal. Okay, we also know that on the production side, firms will produce until the marginal cost of producing ice cream relative to the marginal cost of producing cookies is equal to the price of ice cream over the price of cookies. Okay, that's the supply side condition. That's the that's how firm that's where firms are going to optimize. Okay, so basically um if we are going to assume that the price of cookies is a dollar, okay, let's assume the marginal cost cookies also a dollar, we can safely say the marginal cost of ice cream is equal to the price of ice cream. Okay, we're just turning ratios into levels by using air goods. Okay, so basically the marginal cost of ice cream the price of ice cream since this is a dollar that means the marginal cost of ice cream is equal to the marginal rate of substitution between ice cream and cookies and that's the equilibrium. We know the price ratio is equal marginal rate of substitution since we assume the price of use is a dollar that means the price level is equal to margin rate substitution. Okay, so the price ratio is equal to the marginal rate of substitution and that is the equilibrium condition in a private question about that. Once again, I'm going fast, but I'm assuming you guys all know this from chapter 2. Okay, [snorts] questions about that. Now imagine we change the problem in a small way, which is we're now choosing between missiles and cookies. Okay, no more ice cream or cookies. Ben and Jerry have gotten militaristic. They're now choosing between missiles and cookies. Okay, so the difference between missiles and ice cream cones is that missiles are public goods. They're non-rival and non-excludable. So now, how does that change the problem? Okay, let's look at figure 72. The difference is now when we choose a quantity of missiles, we do not choose them individually. We're not choose each person's number of missiles like we choose each person's number. we choose a number of missiles, a socially optimal number of missiles. Okay? And so what we now have here is that the we have each individual's demand for missiles, which is essentially the remember what's the demand curve? It's a willingness to pay curve. So we can graph each individual's willingness to pay for missiles. So take Ben. Ben is willing to pay is willing to pay $2 for one missile and $1 for five missiles. Okay, his downward sloping demand curve. So for the first missile is going to pay $2, but then demand's diminishing because one missile can protect them pretty well. For a second miss, if you want to like then his demand is downwards is diminishing. Okay, Jerry on the other hand is the real militaristic guy. Jerry's willing to pay $4 for the first missile. Even by the fifth missile, he's still willing to pay $2. So that is their underlying willingness to pay, which is a virtual demand curve, right? Will demand or some some measure. What does that mean? That means that society's willingness to pay is the vertical sum, not the horizontal sum as in the previous case, but the vertical sum of the individual's willingness to pay. Okay? So soc society, remember [clears throat] Ben was willing to pay $2 for the first missile. Jerry's willing to pay $4 for the first missile. So society is willing to pay $6 for the first missile. Why? Because the missile benefits them both equally. Unlike the ice cream cone, ice cream cone, Ben gets it, Jerry doesn't get it. Now Ben gets the missile, Jerry gets the missile. It's a public good. So Ben's willing to pay $2 to get protected and Jared's willing to pay $4 to get protected. Society's willing to pay $6. Remember science is just the sum of these two guys. Okay? So that vertical sum shows the social marginal benefit for missiles. Okay? Is the vertical sum of these lines. Then if there's some social marginal cost curve of producing missiles, you get an equilibrium in this case which is five missiles. We produce a price of $3. question about that. Let's look at this mathematically. Okay, mathematically the difference is now what is the marginal what is the slope of what is the marginal rate of substitution for society? What's the social marginal benefit? Well, it's the sum of Ben and Jerry's marginal rates of substitution. So now the social marginal benefit of missiles is equal to the margin of substitution of Ben plus the margin of substitution of Jerry. That's the social margin of benefit of missiles. But the social marginal cost is just the same as it was in a private market. It's the marginal cost of producing a missile. Remember we're assume the marginal cost of cookies is one. So that is equal to the marginal cost of producing a missile. So look at what the difference is here. Okay, look what the diff um is equal to the marginal cost of producing a missile. It's the margin rate of substitution of missiles for cookies and this marginal of Jerry missiles for cookies. Note the key difference. Okay, here we said each individual's MRS gets set equal to the marginal cost here. It's the sum of our MRS's which is equal to marginal cost. Subtle, but part of why Paul Samson won the Nobel Prize for proving this in 1953. Okay, that basically the difference with a public good is since consumption is non-rival. Since multiply will benefit for the same good, we want to produce more of it. So as a result, we want to account for the fact that since everyone benefits, we're going to sum up everybody's marginal benefit to get the social benefit and set that equal to marginal cost. Okay, that's the difference with a with ice cream. I only want to do it till my benefit is equal to cost because only I benefit from the ice cream. You don't get any. I hate it. With a missile, we both benefit. So, I want to wait until the sum of both our benefits equal to marginal cost. And that's the key difference between public and private goods because the private good you produce until an individual's benefit equals society's cost. And every individual is the same. Here you produce the sum of society's benefits equal society's costs. Okay. question about that a little mind-blowing. Let's take your time on that one. >> Yeah. Um are there any like assumptions that we're making in this or is this like just like >> uh this is a pretty general proof like this is a general case where if you have a good that's benefiting many people, you're going to want to account for all those people's benefits and deciding how much of it to produce. That's really the inside. >> Yeah. Then other question >> in what way does the saying like okay X and then Y of those is all the ice cream that's produced. Why is that sort of quantity different from the quantity you get when you're just like they both want a lot of ice cream [snorts] >> if they both but but the difference is if they both that's absolutely right their total demand will depend on how much they want ice cream. The difference is that if you um if you raise the cost of ice cream, okay, that's going to affect each of them by a certain amount and you only care about how much it affects each of them. [clears throat] Here it's going to matter how it affects their total their total value with the missiles. It's a little bit subtle. Well, we'll actually come to this more next time. It might make become clear clearer when we talk about optimality. But other questions about that. Okay. Why don't I stop there rather than giving the next section? So we'll come back next time and talk about can the private sector provide public goods efficiently and if not what can the public sector and I think you know the answer to no constituent