Uh so today we're going to be continuing our probability unit. So I just want to remind you where we were. So you know when I was last lecturing I introduced the basics of probability. I told you what a sample space was and then it led to things like events where we talked about what was the probability of different events. We talked about independence. We talked about random variables that are functions from our sample space to real values. And once we had random variables, that allowed us to do a lot of exciting things like we could talk about the expectation and the variance of the random variables. It allowed us to do things like talk about conditioning like when we condition on some event in the sample space occurring. You know, how does that change the probability of other events? How does that change the expectation of random variables? And then we talked about this powerful tool of you know inclusion exclusion. And then after that Peter gave you a bunch of lectures on counting methods on generating functions. And the truth is for the introductory lectures in this class there are a lot of tight connections between probability and counting. So we really need both perspectives and we're going to go back and forth between them. But today we're going to cover uh one of the other important topics in probability. something that we're going to spend a bunch of time on which are called tailbounds. So the idea for a tailbound is to get a handle on how much how likely it is for random variables to be far away from their expectation. So remember that we take a random variable and we look at its expectation and that tells us you know on average what we expect the random variable to be. But of course, some random variables might have large averages just because they have some very tiny probability of having a gigantic value. So then we talked about notions like variation and variance that told us, you know, how well a random variable concentrates around its expectation. So today we're going to make that precise. We're actually going to get bounds on what's the probability that a random variable is very far away from its expectation. So let me tell you you know one simple tailbound in action and really the theme of today and uh Thursday's lecture will be we're going to use more and more information about random variables to get tighter and tighter control. So let's start off with a very basic example of you know what theorem needs very little information about my random variable but gives me a rudimentary baseline of you know what's the probability it's far away from its expectation. So this is a very simple to state and prove bound. It's called Marov's inequality. And here we're going to assume that X is not just a random variable but it's a non-gative random variable. Then what I claim is that the probability that X is larger than some constant C is bounded by the expectation of X all divided by C. So this makes intuitive sense because um you know if I have this non-gative random variable as C gets larger and larger I'm going way out into the tails of my random variable the probability that the random variable is actually that large should be getting smaller and smaller. Right now the important thing is that you know the expectation shows up on the right hand side because that gives us some baseline of like how large we expect X to be on average. So the larger its expectation is, the weaker my bound on this tail probability is. But as C increases, I also get some win. So we're going to prove this bound and then we'll state another correlary, an equivalent way to rephrase Marov's bound. And you can go back and forth between them depending on what's more convenient. But one thing I want to emphasize is that, you know, here I'm crucially going to need the fact that X is non- negative. So, just as a spoiler, I'm going to ask you where in this proof I'm really appealing to non- negativity. And after I give you the proof, I'm going to expect you guys to to tell me where this fact was used. So, let's prove this. And the proof for this is really just breaking up the expectation into different pieces. So, let's start off with our random variable X. We know its expectation E of X. And I'm gonna break this up using conditional expectation. So I'm going to break it up into two terms. I look at the conditional expectation that of X given that X is at least some value C times the probability that X is at least C. And then I'm going to add the other contribution which is the conditional expectation of X if that event does not happen if X is strictly less than C times the probability that X is less than C. So this should look familiar. This is basically a random variable version of something we covered way back when which is we talked about the law of total probability. We had things like the probability of some event B and we talked about it as the probability that B happens conditioned on event A happening times the probability that event A happens plus the probability that B happens conditioned on A not happening times the probability A does not happen. So when we talked about conditional probability, this was, you know, one of our first applications once we had Baze rule was we used it to reason using the law of total probability. And this is just the same thing, but expectations of random variables. Sometimes you'll hear this referred to as the law of total expectation, but it's just breaking up my space into two different things. Either this event A happens, that X is at least C, or it does not happen. And then I average the conditional expectation in those two different uh possibilities. Right? And so now what I claim is that uh you know I can look at you know each of these pieces. I claim that you know the first piece right here is at least C and then I'm going to pick up this probability of X at least C. And then I claim that this second piece right here is non- negative. So uh that I'm just going to drop and I'll get a lower bound. Right? So I've really just used uh the fact that you know the expectation of X given that X is at least C had better be a value at least C because X always takes on a value that's at least C. And then I'm still going to pick up the probability that that event happens. And for this term I'm just going to drop it because this term is non- negative. Right? And so now what I can do is I can just rearrange to finish the proof. That's it. So that's our first tailbound. Our tail bounds will get a bit more sophisticated from this. But this already gives us some rudimentary understanding of the probability that X is very very large. So now let me ask you the question that I promised I was going to ask you. Where in this proof did I use the fact that X is non- negative? >> Yeah. >> Uh when you were counting expectation X given X less than C. So we know it's negative. >> That's right. That's exactly right. Because if X were not a you know non-gative random variable, I couldn't say that this term is non- negative. Right. This term is definitely non- negative. But otherwise, if X took on negative values, this could be negative. and dropping it I wouldn't get an inequality like this. Perfect. Okay, so we definitely have to use this and that's crucial for you know marov's bound at least the intuition behind it. I mean this is the algebraic proof but the intuition is just that x if x had a very large probability of being at least c then its expectation could not be what I promised it was because the expectation would actually be too large. Okay, any questions? Make sense? All right. Okay. So, let me restate this in another form. Uh I'll state it as a corollary. This is just a restatement of you know marov's bound. But sometimes you'll find it convenient to you invoke it in one form versus the other. So I claim under the same conditions if X is non- negative then the probability that X is at least C times its expectation of X is at most 1 over C. Okay. So let me make sure we're all on the same page. So why is this a corollary? How do I get from here the thing I proved to here? In fact, let me make it a bit easier. Let me just call this a different constant C prime. Why is this a correlary? They seem related. Yeah, >> just substitute C prime C * C over anything else. >> Yeah. So let me do it the other way. let me substitute for C is equal to C prime * E ex right then I get exactly this bound right here and then on the right hand side I cancel out the E of X and I get 1 over C prime so this is very intuitive because if I have a non-gative random variable the probability that it's twice as large as its expectation is at most a half because otherwise if that probability larger than a half the expectation would be wrong. Okay. So, any questions about this? All right. So, um just to illustrate my point that, you know, in tail bounds, we're going to be, you know, asking for tighter and tighter bounds that use more and more information about our random variable. Let me do a running example, which we'll use as a way to check how much progress we're making. Okay. So let's do the following running example and we'll come back to it with our next tailbound. So in the US uh the average male height is about 69 in. Okay. So we can use this fact, right, to reason about the probability that someone is super duper tall, right? Because X being the height of a random, you know, male in the US is a random variable. So we know its expectation and we can use Marov's bound and just see what Marov's bound tells us. It tells us the probability that X, which remember is our random variable. This would be the height of a randomly chosen US male. The probability that it's at least two times its expectation, which is equal to 138 in or 11t6 in. That probability is at most a half. So, we've proven this amazing fact, right? You're walking down the street in Boston. The probability you see someone who's above 11'6 is at most a half. Okay, so pretty good or maybe not. So see the problem is that Markov's bound you can actually check really is tight, right? It's just that real random variables, you know, a lot of times there's more information we know about it. Things like the variation of the random variable. The more information you tell me about the random variable, the tighter my tailbound will be. And this markov is just the get me over first warm-up for a tailbound. So we'll come back to this example. Um I want to, you know, make sure we still have the right intuition for this proof. So let me ask you, uh, you know, a diagnostic question just to make sure we're on the same page. I think probably you can guess the answer to this but what I really care about is to find an example. So does Marov's bound hold without non- negativity. Okay. So in the statement of the theorem I definitely assumed that the random variable was non- negative. In the proof I gave you, I definitely use the fact that X was non- negative. We talked about where we used that. But could I hope for some bound that looks like this? Even when X is not non- negative, maybe there's some other proof out there that doesn't use non- negativity that still bounds the probability that X is twice its expectation by a half or something like this. So I claim that this is spectacularly false, but this is good intuition. So how would I come up with some random variable that you know is has negative values and completely breaks any kind of statement like this that the expectation gives you a handle on the tails? Anyone have any intuition? >> Yeah, maybe you could come up with a random variable which has zero. >> Perfect. I love it. So this is definitely not true. It's spectacularly false. So let's just consider some X where the right hand side doesn't make any sense because the expectation is zero. So what if X is one with probability 1/2 and it's minus one otherwise. The trouble is that the expectation of X is equal to zero. But the probability that say X is at least three times its expectation which is still zero is definitely not less than a third. Okay. So non-activity really is essential and sometimes these examples are very useful for both building intuition and conveying a proof to your reader. So these kinds of things when you start thinking about your term paper even if I didn't literally need to show this to you this is the good kind of thing to keep in mind as a pedagogical device. All right so let's uh prove our next tailbound. Uh this one will be fairly simple as well but it's much more powerful and we're going to get some awesome applications of it. And this is called Chbashev's bound. Actually I'm not even sure about the history because I think Chbashev's bound was proofed uh before marov's bound even though it's going to use the proof of marov's bound. So I don't know maybe Marov just looked at his proof and and uh you know called the thing inside it his own bound. So in any case now uh we're going to start off with any random variable X. So this is already very different than Markoff's bound because I'm not going to assume non- negativity. I don't even need it for this proof. So for any random variable X, what I claim is that the probability that the absolute value of X minus the expectation of X is larger than C. So it deviates not by a multiplicative factor of C but by some additive factor of C from its expectation is bounded by the variance of X all over C ^2. So this will be my you know standard form of chebishev's bound and the same way for marov's bound I stated it you know in one form and then I stated a corollary I'll do the same after we prove this bound but this is you know what I promised because now we're going to use extra information see marov's bound did not have the variance showing up so you have to actually be able to compute the variance in order to appeal to the chebbes bound but as we'll see it's going to give us much tighter bounds and some really cool qualitative corlaries. So let's prove uh Chbashev's bound and then I'll state the other corollary. The proof will also be short and sweet but it's going to have a really cool trick to it which is you know a hint about the tricks to come later when we do much fancier tail bounds. So the first thing I'm going to do, I can rewrite the quantity I care about. The probability that the absolute value of X minus E of X is at least C I claim is equal to the probability that X minus E of X quantity squared is at least C^ squ. Okay, so this is trick number one for Chev's bound. It's not a hard trick to explain, but this is a trick. You know, why are these two probabilities equal? Why am I allowed to say that these two probabilities are equal? It's because they're the same event, right? So, at the end of the day, what's happening in here is I have an event. You know, once you fix the random variable, I know its expectation and you fix C. I have this event whether or not X is far from its expectation. And I claim that these two probabilities, what's going on in here are two different events, but these events coincide. The only way that one event triggers is if the other one does too, just because, you know, we're taking the absolute value. Make sense? Okay, so that's trick number one for Chbashev. And now here's the really cool trick. Uh what we're going to do is we're going to define a new random variable. So I'm going to call this random variable y and it's going to be equal to just the thing that shows up in here on the right hand side. X minus the expectation of x quantity squared. See I told you in chebesev we're going to appeal to marov's bound you know in order to prove it. But if you remember for Marov's bound, we needed that the random variable we are looking at is non- negative. For chevbishev, I'm not assuming that x is non- negative to begin with. So what I have to do is I have to manufacture my own non-gative random variable. And that's this new random variable y that I just constructed right here. This is definitely non- negative because I'm taking the square of a value. And now I can appeal to Markov's bound. So using markoff on y we know that um you know this quantity right here which I'll call star is equal to the probability that y is at least c^2 that's literally just using the definition of what my random variable y was and now appealing to marov's bound which is allowed because y is non- negative This is at most the expectation of y all over c^2. Notice that my threshold here is c^² not c as in the original statement of marov's bound. And now what I can do is I can just remember what y is right. So y is just the expectation the y itself is x minus the expectation of x quantity squared. I still have my c ^2 and when I take the expectation of y this is literally the definition I gave you earlier for the variance of x. So that's my proof right? Any questions? Good. All right. So, as before, I'm going to state another equivalent way uh to think about chbashev which is sometimes a bit more convenient. So, feel free to use whichever is you know easier in a proof. So again for any random variable X the probability that the absolute value of X minus its expectation is larger than C * sigma of X. I'll define what sigma of X is at most 1 over C ^2 and sigma of X is called the standard deviation. and it's just defined to be the square root of the variance of x. Okay, so the same way I had the simple version of marov that allowed me to remember it, the probability that a non-gative random variable is twice its expectation is at most a half. The probability that a random variable is, you know, two times away from its expectation in terms of its standard deviation is at most a quarter. Okay. All right. So, let's go back to our running example and let's see, you know, why chbachev is a lot more useful for us. So, in particular, I need to tell you more information about this random variable. about the height of a random male, US male. And what I claim is that the standard deviation uh you know of male height is 2.7 in. So now we're in good shape because instead of using marov, we can instead use chbachev. We have the probability that x, where x is our same random variable as before. The probability that you're two standard deviations above average, which is the same thing as uh 6 foot 2.4 4 is at most a quarter. So this is still not a great bound, but it's at least not a nonsensical bound like our 11t 6 in version before. And so you can, you know, do the same types of exercise. Um, you know, when you tell me not just the variance of X, but you know, more information about the moments of X, you would get tighter and tighter bounds until you would actually get something pretty reasonable. All right. Um, so now I want to tell you now that we have chbashev, it may not be obvious, but it turns out to be very qualitatively powerful, not just numerically in these examples like height. So let me tell you about one really cool corollary. Uh, I'll state it as a theorem and then we'll talk about some applications to gambling. Um so chebbesev allows you to prove you know one of the most important results in tail bounds uh which is called the weak law of large numbers. Now the weak law of large numbers we're going to strengthen it at various times and get better quantitative bounds but already we can see some of the power of you know tail bounds. So let me state what this weak law of large numbers is. And then we're going to prove it just using the tailbound technology we've developed so far. Now for the weak law of large numbers there's um you know you have to be very careful with the quantifiers. So let me write it down and then we'll talk about it. So first I'm going to fix some positive epsilon. That'll be some measure of how close I want a random variable to be to its expectation. And I'm going to let you know x1 all the way up to xn be independent copies of some fixed random variable x. And moreover, let's assume that the expectation of X is equal to some value C. And I'm also going to assume, and this is critical for the weak law of large numbers, that its variance is not infinity. Okay, so just some basic bounds that my random variable is somewhat well behaved. Well, what I'm going to do is I'm going to look at averages of these random variables as a way to try and approximate this expectation C. So, I'm going to define a new random variable SN. That's just going to be the average. It'll be 1 over little N, sum from I= 1 to N of X I. So, you know, just to make sure that we're on the same page, let's keep some mental model of this in mind, right? So, one of the most important applications of the weak law of large numbers is to something like polling. So, maybe you have some random variable, which is the probability that a random person uh selected from the electorate votes for one candidate, candidate A over candidate B. Now you want to know what's the expectation of X because you want to know who's going to win the election. So you want to do this forecasting before election day. The natural thing you could try is you can try and get independent samples from X just by calling random people and asking them who they're going to vote for. Now there are a lot of issues with that. That won't really give you independent random variables. But if we pretend for the moment that it did, you know, each of these x eyes is a realization of these random variables, what would my polling scheme do? I would just choose some large denominator n for the number of people I'm going to pull. I'm going to average up all of their votes, right? Which way they're voting. Are they voting for candidate A or candidate B? And what I'm hoping is that the empirical average of their votes of these random variables converges very well to my true expectation so that I can forecast who's going to win the election, right? And so that's exactly what the weak law of large numbers tells us. You just have to be careful with all the quantifiers. Then what I claim is that the probability that Sn is epsilon away from the true value C that this quantity as you take the limit as the number of people you're sampling in your poll goes to infinity is going to go to zero. So there are a ton of quantifiers here, right? So let's say that I fix epsilon at the very outset. I want to figure out the probability people are voting for candidate A within some additive tolerance 0.01. Right? And so once I've fixed my epsilon, this is my success criteria is that my empirical average of the people I pull that that exp that empirical average should be within an additive 0.01 of the truth. And the claim is whatever you fix for epsilon, there's an n that's large enough so that the probability that you're far away by more than this 0.01 is going to go to zero. So the weak law of large numbers is deliberately non-quantitative and we will get quantitative versions out of it even just from the proof and from strengthenings of our tail bounds. But it just tells you some basic conditions that if you're given enough samples, you really can approximate the expectation to any desired accuracy. And in the proof, we'll see how large little n needs to be. So this is quite a mouthful of a statement. Are there any questions about the weak law of large numbers? Give me a thumbs up if this makes sense at least as a statement. Okay, good. All right, so the order of quantifiers is super important for this. Now, let's prove the weak law of large numbers. Uh, the good thing is that the proof will be pretty straightforward now that we have Chebesev's bound. So you know first I claim that the expectation of SN remember that's a random variable itself because each of the X size is a random variable and I could first care about is its expectation correct right so now I can use linearity of expectation to write it out as the sum of the expectations of each of the individual XI's that form it. Now because each of these XI are assumed to be you know independent copies of this fixed random variable X whose expectation is C. I know that each of their expectations is C. So that means when I average their expectations I get the same thing back again. I get C. Right? So this is just you know a basic sanity check. If I'm trying to approximate the expectation of my random variable X with another random variable SN, I better have that the expectation of SN is equal to X, otherwise I'm going to have trouble. So this makes sense. This just means that I have an unbiased estimator of the thing that I really care about. Now the crucial thing is computing the variance. We're not going to be able to get by by using Marov's bound. We're really going to have to use CHBS. And that's where independence is going to save us. So remember for chbachev's bound, I need to know what the variance of my random variable is in order to quantify how close a random variable will be to its expectation because that's the thing that shows up in my statement of chbashev. The main action for the weak law of large numbers is just computing what this variance of sn is. So I can do the same thing as before. I can replace Sn with you know what it is defined as in terms of the x i. And now what happens when I scale a random variable by some scalar c you know in this case 1 / n. Well the variance is going to scale by a c squared right because I'm taking the expectation of some quantity squared in there. So this is the same thing as 1 / n^2 times the variance of the sum of the x i from i= 1 to n. And now the main trick is that I claim that this is now equal to I'll carry through my 1 / n^2. I claim that this is equal to n times the variance of each of these random variables x. So this is the key step in the weak law of large numbers. This is the part that I want to dwell on. So why is this step okay? So how did I go from here to here? We have to remember way back when with what I told you when we did the probability unit. Yes. >> Because they're independent. >> Because they're independent. That's right. So remember we had things like the linearity of expectation. We add two random variables. Their expectation of their sum is the sum of their expectations. that assumed nothing about the random variables, it was always true. But when I talked about the variance of two random variables, the variance of the sum of two random variables is equal to the sum of their variances, but only if I have independence. So the crucial assumption that these are independent draws, you know, I need in order to get this step and that's where we're going to be winning because you can see that I pulled out a 1 overn^ squ and it's only canceling out one of these. It it'll cancel out this n, but I'll still have a 1 overn left over. So that's why as I take more and more samples, you know, I'm going to get better and better concentration. Just to completely drive home the point, right? We needed independence in order to get this last step. Right? If I didn't have independence here, you know, what would my polling methodology be? I'm trying to get a hint about who's going to win the election. And I call the same guy over and over again and ask him his opinion. That would be a pretty ridiculous way to get an idea about who's going to win the election. So, you crucially need independence. But now we can write this out. This is the variance of x over n. And now we can just appeal to chbachev right and chbbeev is going to get us our weak law of large numbers. So by chebbev we know that the probability that sn is off from its expectation by an additive epsilon is at most the variance of sn over epsilon squared which our right hand side is the same thing as the variance of x over n * epsilon^ 2. So this tells me immediately that you know as I want some better and better target accuracy for how accurate my poll is maybe I don't want like 0.05 error I want 0.01 1 right what's going to happen is that my epsilon is getting five times as small so what do I need I need my n to be 25 times as big in order to get the same bound on the tail probability so actually in the course of proving the weak law of large numbers we even got quantitative bounds that tell us you know exactly how large our n needs to be instead of hiding it all within this limit okay so this is one of applications. Any questions? Good. All right. So, let's talk about an application to gambling. Uh I hope none of you all are big gamblers. Uh actually it turned out so when we bought our house in Belmont um we kept getting all these weird packages and fruits in the mail like very fancy things. You know around Christmas time people would spend us send us these very expensive wreaths and it took us a while to figure out that that was because the person who owned our place before was the CTO of DraftKings. Um so now we get a lot of uh you know free fruits in the mail because of gambling. So that's good. But um let's talk about an application of the weak law of large numbers to gambling or maybe a caution about why it's not a great idea to gamble too much especially in Vegas. So there's an important example which is called gamblers ruin. Uh so the way that it's colloially fl phrased is that playing a game with negative expected value. You'll eventually go broke. Okay, so this makes sense. You know, when you play uh when you gamble in Vegas, definitely all the games aside from maybe blackjack, if you're counting cards, have this property that they have negative expected value. And intuitively, it makes sense that if you have negative expected value, on average, you're giving up some money every time you play. But maybe you get really lucky. Maybe there's some probability that you just keep on winning, right? Well, Gamblers's ruin is going to tell us that that's not the case. That the probability that you don't that you go broke is going to converge to one as soon as the expected value is negative. So, let's do this for example with a a concrete thing. So, if you ignore, you know, multiplayer, um, you know, betting games like, uh, you know, Blackjack, if you just stick to the standard ones, all of the games in Vegas have negative expected value, but the one that has the least negative expected value is craps. Has anyone played craps before? No. Okay, I'm talking to the wrong audience. That's good. So, uh, craps is one where you, you know, roll dice and then, uh, depending on whether it lands on like black or red, you know, you make different kinds of wagers. And there's basically a bet you can make that's very close to 50/50. So, you have to get to that point in the game first. But, you know, the house edge, if you play that strategy in in craps, is just, you know, 0.0141. So, we can think about, you know, a simplified version of making that bet in crops that with um, you know, some probability you're going to win a dollar. And what is that probability going to be? Well, it'll be 0.4929, right? because you want that the probability that you know you win uh the probability you lose minus the probability you win is equal to this you know house edge here okay and then otherwise you're going to lose a dollar and so what I claim is now that you know by weak law of large numbers well you can look at SN which is just your cumulative winnings right so you can add up in each game whether you win a dollar or you lose a dollar. Now the point is that that average is negative, right? So the probability that you're epsilon away from your average is actually going to zero as you play more and more games. So on average you really will be losing some amount of money per step and you will not get that lucky with probability converging to zero. So by the weak law of large numbers except with vanishing probability something that gets swallowed up by the limit. I claim the winning per round will go negative which of course since it's a average over your rounds if you play infinitely long you will go broke. So this is called gamblers's ruin. Um and I want to give one more motivating example before we take a step back and I tell you about another probabilistic tool. So you know for us uh so far we've been talking about tail bounds as a way to get a handle on uh how likely or unlikely it is for a random variable to be far away from their expectation. Now, it turns out that really the reason we care about these tailbounds isn't just for their own sake, but it really comes up in all kinds of applications and discrete math. So, we'll see probability, you know, throughout some of the later units in class, but I want to give you a little bit of a hint about, you know, why we care about tail bounds, especially when it comes to algorithm design. Okay, so let's talk about an algorithmic application and this is a real application, something that gets used all the time. So let's say that um we have we're given a randomized algorithm and let's call it a Q. So A is the algorithm, Q is the input. And let's say this algorithm, this randomized algorithm has the property that when we run A on Q, well, its answer isn't deterministic. It's a randomized algorithm. And let's assume that, you know, it gets the answer right more often than it gets it wrong. So let's say it outputs the correct answer with some probability. Let's just say 2/3. And otherwise it's going to output the incorrect answer otherwise. And the basic question we can ask is how many times we have to repeat this algorithm in order to get a good to boost its success probability. So one way to think about it you know our next unit after we do tail bounds is I'll be teaching you about modular arithmetic and you know the basic thing we want to do there is imagine I'm given some giant number. A lot of properties of the factorization of this number are going to affect you know how it works when we when we do modular arithmetic. And you know later on much later in the class we're going to talk about applications of modular arithmetic to things like cryptography. So communicating securely with a public encryption scheme. These are things that get used all the time in e-commerce. But when I'm creating a scheme for communicating securely, I have to start off with some, you know, number that's the product of just two primes. So what I can do is I can try and generate a random integer and hope that it's prime. And that turns out to work pretty well. You're reasonably likely to get a prime. But the trouble is that, you know, our best algorithms for determining whether or not a given integer is prime, they're randomized. So, you know, maybe I'm running my cryptographic scheme and I have some integer Q and I want to figure out if it's prime so that I can safely use it in the context of my secure communication. So, you have an algorithm that you know with twothirds probability tells you the right answer and otherwise tells you the wrong answer. But if you were wrong, there's a huge penalty to pay, right? If you're wrong and the thing, you know, wasn't prime and you thought it was, then maybe you've just leaked all of this sensitive information like your bank account, your social security number. So maybe this failure probability of a third is just not good enough, right? What kind of failure probability would you be okay with your social security number leaking? Just give me a number. 10us 30. Okay. I was going to say 10 the minus 10, but that's that's even better. Uh, you're even more paranoid than I am, which is a good thing. So, you know, let's say I want to get a really tiny failure probability like 10us 10. So, how many times should I repeat this algorithm to make its failure probability less than 10 the minus 10. Okay, or maybe even 10 the minus30. So if you think about it, right, this is really the setting of the weak law of large numbers. It's the same kind of thing. You know, each of my runs of this random variable is an is a random variable XI that tells me whether or not Q is prime. And what I'm guaranteed is that uh you know that as I take the limit as the number of repetitions goes to infinity the average of the number of outputs right uh that you know say that it's prime is going to converge to 2/3 if it really is prime and the number that are going to say it's not prime is going to converge to 2/3 if if it isn't. Right? So this is the setting of the weak law of large numbers. I'm just voting with runs of my algorithm. And we've already seen some quantitative balance from the weak law of large numbers about how large n needs to be in order to get some valid, you know, epsilon, right? And if we think about it, you know, if we just think about applying the weak law of large numbers, we're actually going to get very pessimistic bounds even here. So let's think about what uh the weak law of large numbers and chbishev would tell us. So the weak law of large numbers slash our chbachev proof that gave us a quantitative bound. Well, it's going to tell us that the right hand side, the probability of failure is bounded by the variance of X n over epsilon squared. Okay. And in our case, you know, we can take X to be just whether or not uh the output of our random of our randomized algorithm is correct or not. And you can compute that the variance of X is going to be 2/3 minus 4 9ths. So you know it's some constant that's a reasonable constant. And what we can do is we can set epsilon to be something like 1 nth. So you know X is um supposed to tell us whether or not the thing is prime or not. We only have to set our tolerance really to sort of split the difference between 2/3 and 1/3, right? That's not where any of the action is happening. These are all just constants. But you know what's going on is that the probability that you know our average is you know off from the truth, right? We can bound it by something like you know 18 over n. Now none of the other computations really matter too much. You can compute the variance. You can compute what epsilon makes sense. But the crucial thing is really the fact that the n shows up in the denominator. So if I want my failure probability, you know, to be absolutely tiny, what kind of n would I have to take? I'd have to take it to be like 10 the 10 or 10 the 30. That would be ridiculous, right? So I want to make sure that I have vanishing probability of using something that violates security in my crypto scheme. And I just have to repeat this so many times that I can't really do a transaction online because it would just clog up the computer. Right? So this takes me to the last main topic. This is something which I want to introduce now. You're going to start to cover it in recitation. But you know this tailbound is not at all you know obvious how to prove it and it'll be basically the full lecture on Thursday. But this was really just the motivation for it, right? So you see that um like I told you the theme for today's lecture was the more information you tell me about the random variables uh the better I get for my tail balance. So let's you know take a minute to think about the proof of this weak law of large numbers. So the setting for this was that I assume that the XI's are independent draws from X, right? But I claim my proof didn't really use full independence. I claim all it used was that they're pair-wise independent. That if you look at any pair of them, they're independent. But I didn't use the fact that any triple or any quadruple of them are independent. So this requires a little bit of thinking. Right? So where in my proof of the week of lo uh law of large numbers did I actually use independence? It was only in this step right here. And I didn't actually need that all of these random variables are mutually independent. I just needed that pair-wise independent. That's exactly what got me the quantitative bound. But that's the weakness in applying chbushev is that I'm not using as much information as I could hope to. Does that make sense? So that's what leads me to the next bound which is called the churnoff bound which is not just going to use pairwise independence but it's going to use you know mutual independence. So let's state the uh the churnoff bound. This was actually proven at MIT presumably in this building even which is cool. So this was proven by our former colleague Herman Chernoff. And let's assume that X1 up to XN let them be mutually independent. So this is a much stronger notion of independence because I need all subsets of them to be independent from all other subsets. So let's say they're mutually independent random variables and let's just say that XI is equal to 1 or zero with probability PI and otherwise it's equal to zero. Now I'm going to do the same type of thing I did before. I'm going to look at some kind of average or sum of these random variables. So let me look at capital X which is the sum from i= 1 to little n of x i and let me look at the expectation of x. Let me call that quantity mu. But remember that's the same thing as just the sum from i = 1 to n of the pis. So this is all just setup. I have mutually independent random variables the x subis. In fact, they're Bernoli random variables because they just take on the value one or zero. And I'm telling you that the probability that they're one is pi. So this is already a bit of a departure from the weak law of large numbers because in the weak law of large numbers, I assumed that all of these XI's were identical. They were all draws of this random variable X. Here I'm actually allowing these to be different random variables. So that's even one extra layer of power. But the real power just comes from you know the the right hand side. So let me write down one form of the churnoff bound. So the probability that X is very far away from its average mu by some delta is at most 2 * eus mu delta squared over 3. I think I need the average here. Okay. Uh no. Okay. All right. So this is the conclusion for the churnoff bound. So the important thing is really that uh you know what I had on the right hand side when I had Marov's bound was a kind of weak bound. It looked like one over C. So as you increase C, you just improve the right hand side by the same factor. When I had chebashev, I had a one over c^ squared on the other side. So the probability that I'm c away, you know, was degrading still at an inverse poly rate. The crucial thing is that here I have an exponential rate. And this is what mutual independence buys me is that the probability that you're far away from the average is just plummeting to zero once you have this extra information about independence. So the churnoff bound you know there are many different forms for it. Um we're going to prove this next time but you know it turns out that if we were to use churnoff in our numerical example about uh testing out primes. Well, we would only have to take n our number of repetitions to behave like some constant times the natural log of you know whatever we want to be in our failure probability over here on the right hand side. So if we had 10 the 10 really the number of repetitions would be much tamer. It would just be the natural log of 10 the 10. So even if I put a 10 or a 30 in the exponent, it's not such a giant overhead, you know, to actually drive the failure probability basically to zero. So that's what we'll do uh next time we'll do the churnoff bound. But I want to cover one last topic in probability before we get to the turnoff bound on Thursday. This will be something that's going to you know help you a lot for uh this week's assignment which is a writing problem uh that involves using the probabistic method. So it's something we've talked a little bit about on some of the pets but I just want to be explicit and show you some neat examples. So that'll be our last topic for today is the probabilistic method. So you should think of this as like one more important application of probability tools. So so far we talked about you know probability for its own sake like looking at the deviation of random variables. We talked about probability for the sake of analyzing the failure probability of randomized algorithms. And you know we'll also be interested in using probability in the context of combinotaurics. It turns out that in many applications there are exotic types of cominatorial objects that the only way we know how to reason about why they exist is by using randomness. So this leads to a very important paradigm in uh discrete math which is called the probabilistic method. You can take entire classes on, you know, using sophisticated tools to do things like this. But let me um give you the highlevel, you know, bumper sticker version first before we talk about some concrete applications. So what we'll be interested in is we'll be interested in constructing certain kinds of random objects or structures which are exotic and have some pretty wild properties. And we're going to show that these things exist not by building them with our own hands, but by arguing that a random object succeeds. So that's the highle idea and you know there are many instantiations of this probabistic method. It depends on what kinds of structures I want to prove exist. We'll talk about some concrete applications and we'll see how the probabilistic method helps. But we're going to apply this to you know another important branch of applied mathematics which is called uh Ramssey theory. So I'll introduce both of these topics right now. So what's Ramsey theory? Well, let me give you a famous example of it. So in every party with at least six people. I claim that either we have the situation that there are three people all of whom are friends with each other. All pairs of these uh three people are friends with each other or there are all of which are strangers none of which knows the other person. So Ramsey theory was actually you know uh first invented or realized in in Hungary where there was a Hungarian sociologist who realized that you know he was studying social groups of uh kids and he realized that in every group of I think uh 20 kids there were always four a group of four people he could find who all knew each other or who all didn't know each other. And you might think that this is a sociological phenomenon. Maybe it has to do with the way kids play with each other that they form some sort of interconnected groups and they don't know other groups. But he consulted with his mathematician friends including Erdos and others and he realized that it wasn't a sociological phenomenon. It was just the property of graphs. Right? So what this is really saying like the same way that we can think about representing um you know friendship relations with a graph what we're really saying is that on any graph with six nodes no matter how I draw on the edges and the edges represent who's friends with who there must either be a triangle where all the edges are present or there's an anti- triangle where there's a set of three and none of the edges are present. So this is the basic of basics of Ramssey theory is that we want to show that in large enough objects certain kinds of ordered substructures must appear because they always have to happen. There's no way of avoiding it. So in fact there's a pretty famous and interesting example from like pop culture. Um this happened like when I was younger but in the you know mid 90s there was a lot of um interest in something called the Bible codes. Has anyone heard of the Bible codes? >> No. Okay. Yeah. You want to explain it? >> Uh I think it's like if you like skip letters in the Bible you like make sentences or something. >> That's right. So basically what happens if you take the Hebrew translation, if you take the Hebrew version of the Torah, what you can do is you look at uh you know evenly spaced uh characters in them and if you choose the step size in the right way, you can find all these instances in the Torah of examples of like you know uh words that cross with other words which have historical significance. There would be examples of like famous rabbis names with the dates in which they were later assassinated like after the Torah was written. So this was you know quite amazing because you know people let their imaginations run wild. Um you know they thought that maybe the Torah was predicting the future right in arithmetic progressions in in Hebrew like uh you know you could certainly write some bad movies about it. uh but it turned out that it was really just um you know Ramsay theory in disguise and the the things that people found weren't statistically significant that in fact uh you could find the same types of things in the Hebrew translation of war and peace. So that was an interesting rejoinder to it but that's the kind of thing we're going to do with it today. Let me tell you about one example of structure that has to do with arithmetic progressions and we're going to use the probabilistic method to prove type you know types of lower bounds on these quantities or at least very strong lower bounds. So let me tell you the last topic for today is uh something called Vander Warden's theorem. So let me first give you a definition. So a k term arithmetic progression is just a very particular type of structured subset. So it's a set of integers of the following form. And I'll call it Q subAB because I'm going to use it later. But it's just the set of integers that looks like a a + b a + 2 b all the way up to a + k -1 b. So this is an arithmetic progression. You start off with some base number a and then your steps are of size b and then you go for k steps. So that's an arithmetic progression. This was the kind of thing that they were using in the Bible codes because you would look at arithmetic progressions and concatenate the symbols you get at those positions together. And so now I can tell you this Vander Warden's theorem. We're not going to prove it. The proof is in the notes. Uh but we're going to prove lower bounds for it. So here's a really cool statement. So for every k you give me what I claim is that there is an n such that any two coloring of the integers one two up to n. So before I get to the theorem statement, right? What's going on is I want to find a kerm arithmetic progression. Uh and what I'm going to do is you know you're going to fix some n and then once you look at the integers from 1 2 all the way up to n you're going to color these integers with either red or blue. And what I'm looking for is what's called a monochromatic arithmetic progression. So I want some arithmetic progression of this form like QAB but with the property that I look at the colors of the integers along the sequence that they all should be the same color. So this necessarily contains a monochromatic K term AP arithmetic progression. So this is the statement right again there are a lot of quantifiers in this so let's make sure we understand it I want to find some k term arithmetic progression one that's monochromatic for whatever k I choose there's some large enough n so that no matter how you two color the integers from one two up to n there's no way to avoid it somewhere in that set is sitting some kind of entirely red or entirely blue arithmetic progression. So this is a bit of a mouthful, but this is one example of, you know, a much more interesting version of Ramsey theory is that any large enough object, which in this case is a twocoloring of the integers from 1 2 up to n must necessarily contain this ordered substructure, which in our case is this monochromatic kerm arithmetic progression. So this has a lot of quantifiers. Are there any questions about this? Make sense? Okay, so uh you know that's Vander Warden's theorem. The proof of it is not too hard, but it's just doesn't involve any probability. So we might cover it later. But um it turns out that probability, especially using the probabilistic method, is a great way to prove lower bounds for this kind of theorem. So let's ask for quantitative things. Let's let W of K be the smallest N such that the property holds. Now you have to be careful and unpack this, right? W of K is the smallest N. So that which property holds the property that every two coloring of the integers from one up to n necessarily has a k term arithmetic progression. So this property has an extra quantifier because I'm not telling you what the two coloring is. Right? Now um one of the things you can show that you can reason about small values of these types of quantities. So one of the concrete things you can do is you can ask what's the smallest n so that every two coloring has a three-term arithmetic progression. And it turns out to not be super easy to show this but one side is easy. So the easy part is just to show a lower bound. So we're going to prove that W of three is at least nine. And the way that you do this is you just construct a valid twocoloring that avoids having a three-term arithmetic progression. So for example, maybe all of these things I circle are red and everything I don't circle is blue. So you can check that this is a coloring of the integers from 1, two, all the way up to eight. And you can just check by trying out different choices of a and b that there is no three-term arithmetic progression. The fact that, you know, everything that's larger than this, right, is a lot harder to prove because I would have to argue that when I add another number to this list, not just this coloring has a three-term arithmetic progression, but any other twocoloring has a three-term arithmetic progression. So, it involves like a huge amount of brute force computer search to do these kinds of things. But what we're going to do instead is we're going to prove the following theorem, which is a beautiful theorem in its own right, which is we're going to show nice lower bounds on W K that are going to kick in for large K. So they won't be tight for small values, but they'll give us a good handle on, you know, how large the N needs to be in this Vander Warden's theorem. So here's the theorem we're going to prove and what remains. Um what I claim is that for any k w of k the smallest n such that this property holds is at least of k -1 * 2 to the k minus one / 2. So that's the thing we're going to prove. And the crucial thing about this which I really want to explain is that is the strategy. What we're going to show is that a random coloring you know for the choice of n equal to this has positive probability probability greater than zero of having no k term a. So now this is making good on some of the promises I made here. Right? See the whole point of the probabilistic method is that we want to show that certain things exist even if it's hard to construct them by hand. Right? So you know in order to prove this theorem really I have to choose some n that's equal to the right hand side that's equal to the roo of k minus one* 2 k -1 / 2. If I choose this as my n then the thing I have to construct and build is what is the valid two color. That's very difficult, right? I could try some things. They might or might not work. Uh, and then I might get stuck. But it turns out that the way we're going to show that there is a coloring that avoids kter term arithmetic progressions is just by showing that a random one works with positive probability. So that's what the probabilistic method is. And uh, you know, let's execute the strategy. So just to make sure we're on the same page, what I'm going to do is I'm going to consider a random variable X that's going to be equal to the number of monochromatic K term APS. I'm just going to count. So you give me a random coloring. The dumbest thing we could do is we randomly decide independently for each integer whether it's red or blue. And we're going to show that that works. And we're going to be interested in this random variable X. That's the number of monochromatic K term APS in my random coloring. Now the basis for you know making the strategy make sense is really this very simple lema that's going to remind you of things we did earlier in lecture. Right? what I claim and this is just a general statement but it'll make it'll explain why the strategy makes sense in the first place. Suppose X is a non-gative random variable and let's say it's integer valued and let's say that the expectation of X is less than one then what I claim is that the probability that X equals Z is strictly positive. So this is the basis for our strategy because the way we're going to show that a good two-coloring exists is we're going to look at this random variable X that's non- negative. It counts the number of monochromatic kerm APS it's integer valued and as soon as we can show its expectation is less than one that means that the probability that it's actually equal to zero and there's no k term APS is strictly positive. So this is the basis for our strategy. So let's prove this lema. This lema is super simple. But then let's execute using the strategy in the case of Vander Warden's theorem. So we can just write out the expectation, right? So the expectation of X because it's integer valued is the sum from I= 0 to infinity of the probability that X equals I * I. But this is less than or this is um lower bounded by the sum from i equals 1 to infinity. So I've dropped the first term and then I'm going to drop the i because each of these i's is at least one. Right? And this quantity right here on the right hand side is just one minus the probability that x equals zero by definition. So now if I rearrange this I'm going to get that the probability of X uh you know being equal to zero is lower bounded by one minus the expectation of X and the expectation of X is less than one. So that simple proof is the basis for our strategy because all we have to do now is we just have to compute what the expectation of X is. I told you what X represents, what random variable it is. I told you the fact that we're doing a random coloring. And I told you what the strategy is of how to reason about the probability that X is zero. So all that's left is really just to compute this expectation of X and hope that it's less than one. So let's just compute expectation of X. So I'm going to let I AB denote the relevant indicator variables. It'll be one if QAB is monochromatic and otherwise it'll be zero because these are just the events that are going to help me get a handle on what my random variable X is. X is just summing up all of these indicator variables. So in particular then X the thing I want to keep track of is the sum over all AB pairs such that QAB is a subset of 1 2 up to N. Those are the only arithmetic progressions I'll consider of this quantity I AB. And now we're good, right? Because what I claim is that the expectation of IAB, the probability that you know this event happens that this arithmetic progression QAB is monochromatic. I claim that this is very simple to compute. It's equal to 1 / 2 the K minus one. So just to make sure we're on the same page, right? So IB is the indicator event for QAB being monochromatic. Remember Q is a K term arithmetic progression. So why is this probability true? What's the you know oneline proof of this? I'm fixing a particular arithmetic progression. Why is the chance that it's monochromatic going down exponentially with the length of the arithmetic progression? Who can help me out? >> Yeah. >> Choose the color of each term independently with probability half and then multiply by two because you have two different >> Perfect. That's exactly right. So the proof of this is exactly what he said which is that once we pick the color the first color I'm just rephrasing the proof slightly. So, we just pick the first color, namely the color of A, the first term that shows up in our arithmetic progression. The only choice, you know, let's say A was red. Then A plus B had better be red. A plus 2 B it better be red. A plus 3 B and so on. Then all the other colors must match. All the other colors in QAB must match. And that's the proof because they're k minus one other things. So now we're in good shape. We just have one very last ingredient and then we'll get our bound to follow which is I have to tell you how many qabs there are. Right. Lastly, I claim the number of valid AB pairs which induce an arithmetic progression which you know stays in the integers from 1 to n is at most n * n / k minus one. So the way to think about it, remember our arithmetic progression starts at a and then it goes a plus b and a + 2 b all the way up to a plus k minus 1 * b. So in order for this arithmetic progression to stay in the integers from 1 to n, I better choose my a to be at most n otherwise it's not going to be in the set. And then my b, it better be at most n over k minus one because I'm going to add b k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k minus one times. So if it were larger than this, I would fall outside the set. So putting this all together, we know that the expectation of X is at most n^2 over K minus one. That's the number of valid things times the expectation of each of these IABs, which is 1 / 2 KUS1. And now you can check that that implies that if n is less than this quantity I told you k minus one time 2 k -1 / 2 then it implies that the expectation of x is less than one. So that's our proof. So this is a very beautiful but subtle proof right because of the way we're using probability. I want to show that w of k is large because I want to construct a valid two coloring that avoids all arithmetic progressions. What I'm going to do is I'm going to reason about the random variable that counts the number of k term aps as a way to argue that there is a good two coloring to begin with and the rest of it is a computation using linearity of expectation. But that allows us to prove that these exotic objects which are hard to actually build and construct must exist even if we can't find them. So that's one of the cool things about the probabilistic method. Sometimes you can show you know very exotic things exist even though we don't know how to build them from scratch and we'll do some more applications of this uh later too and next time and we'll also cover the churnoff bound. So we'll stop there and I'll see you guys on Thursday.