Right. So last time we were looking at a function from say R. or could be some interval in R. And then we say that and then we have a point X in R and we say that that f is differentiable uh at x0 if when we form this different quotient. So this was this quotion here. If this thing here has a limit as uh if if this here if this here has a limit as uh x go to x0 right and so again this means that there is some number so that if x is sufficiently close is delta close to x0 then this quotient here is close to to that number, right? And it's always assumed that x is not equal to, right? So that the denominator makes sense. So that that is what it means for a function to be differentiable. And then the like one of the first things we saw was that we had a lema uh that if uh if uh f is differentiable at x0 then it implies that it's also continuous at x0. here, right? And then we had uh four just very briefly we had four uh rules that if you had two functions f and g and they're both differentiable and you're looking at where you add the the two functions then the sum here of the two functions is also differentiable and the derivative is sum of the derivative. Another thing we had was that if you take a constant times a function and this function is differentiable then this new function is also differentiable and the derivative is that constant times the derivative of the original function. And then the third thing was the lightness rule and that was if you take if you have these two functions they're differentiable and you take the product and you take the derivative that exists n is equal to the derivative of the first times the second plus the first time the derivative of the And then the fourth of these was the quotient rule. And the quotient rule was that you have again these two functions. You assume that g here is not equal to zero uh at any point. And then you're looking at the quotient here and the quotient is also differentiable and the derivative is given by this formula. Um this this is the formula for the derivative where this is the function multiplied by itself. Right? And then there was a last rule uh that was the chain rule. So the chain rule uh and that was that if you take a function say from some interval into some uh set uh let's call it uh let's say that it's say that the interval that the function is defined is some interval from a to b and this function takes value in another interval from C to D. And then you have a function G that is defined on C to D into R. Then you can look at the composition, right? You take some X and you first apply F to it and then afterwards you apply G. And this is typically written as this. And and the chain rule was that if f and g are differentiable then this uh the composition here is also differentiable and the derivative of the composition is the derivative of the second function evaluated at this point here times the derivative of the first in So this was the chain rule. Okay, that was just a quick recap. And now uh the first thing we'll be interested in is if we have a so suppose that f here is a function let's say defined on some interval from a to b into r and f is differentiable. It doesn't need to be differentiable for this here to make sense. But uh but we say that x0 and x0 is now in the open interval here. We say that uh so we say we say that x0 um is so we say that f has a local maximum at x0. If if there exist exist delta greater than zero such that if you restrict f and you just think about f on this little interval around x0. So you're forgetting about how f looks like everywhere else. Then if you're looking at the maximum of this function. So this means that so this is the same as just the maximum of f on uh on this little interval then the maximum is achieved at x0. Right? If this is the case, so you have the picture here. You have a function. We talked about this a little bit last time. You have a function. Maybe the function looks like this. And this here point here is x0. And so this here is the value at x0. And you see that there's some little interval. Say this interval here. If you're looking at the function in this little interval, then it's clear that the maximum is is at x0, right? But of course, it's just a local maximum. If you were allowed to move further away over here, you see that the value of the function is much larger. Right? So this is a local maximal. And for this to make sense, you don't need the function to be differentiable. But we will when we apply it we will assume that it is differentiable. So this is a local maximum right and this is sort of the picture right that is it's it's just maximum near uh if you're looking at at values near x0 but it's not a global maximum. Of course it could be a global maximum. And then similarly for a a local minimum and I'll just draw a picture, you know, because the definition is kind of obvious. It's the same, right? That um that you take a function here and and you're looking at and so the function maybe could look like this. Right? And you see that if this here was X0, then in some little neighborhood around this the value here would indeed be the minimum, right? But if you're moving much further away, then there might be other points that are even small where the value is even smaller, right? So this is like a local minimum. And so the the first observation you have about this is the following lema. If f here is a function say on an interval like this is differentiable uh and has a local maximum or minimum local minimum at x0. And now here if I'm thinking about a function defined on a closed interval like this, it's important that where the local max or min is in an interior point. It's not allowed to be one of the boundary points. So if it has a local if it is differentiable and it has a local maximum or minimum at such an interior point then then the claim is that then the derivative at x0 is is equal to zero. Okay. And so now let's try to prove that. So we have here right. So the picture is let's just assume so uh prove assume that if has a local uh maximum at x0 if it's a local minimum the argument is is the same with obvious modifications. Okay. So you have some picture like this again here you have x0 and now this here is like the function that oops maybe this so this is like the function and we see that at the value here at x0 it's maximum and then who cares you know we don't care about what happened when you are further away here right and so you divide into two cases you're looking at where x here is bigger than x0 If x is bigger than x0 and now you're looking at so then you have that f ofx minus f of x0 right this the value here is maximum. So this thing this value here is by it. So if this is the case and x is sufficiently closed close to to x0 right if it's very close here then it has a maximum at this point. So this means that this difference here is non-positive, right? This didn't really use that it was strictly bigger than, right? It just used that it was close to x0, right? But but now this is where we're using that it's bigger than because you also have we also have that x - x0 and again this is where this assumption is used. This in here is positive. Right? So this means that if you take something non-positive and you divide it by something positive then the then what you get is something that is nonpositive right so this means that so this implies that for the difference quotient f ofx x - x0 right again this here is non positive this here is positive which means that the whole thing is non positive. Right? So as you are approaching as you're going towards x0 from the right the difference quotient here is non positive. Right? If you if you now go to x0 from the left if you go if you go in this direction. So this means that now you have x here is less than x0 here right and sufficiently close. So if you have that then uh well you you again have this was just because it was a local maximum. You still have that this thing here is not positive. But now you have that now now we have that x minus x0 right this thing here now is be right because of this this means that this thing here strictly lessens right. So you take something that is non-positive and you divide it by something negative then you get something non- negative right. So therefore this implies that for the difference quotient f ofx minus f of x0 for the difference quotient here you get that this thing here this is nonpositive this is negative this means that this here is non negative right so as you're coming in so you see that that as you're approaching in this this direction to x0 then the difference quotient is non positive. When you're coming in here, it's non- negative, but it has a limit. And so the limit from this side would have to be right. This is the limit from this side would have to be non-positive. And the limit from this one non- negative. So therefore the limit must be zero. Right? So we conclude that the limit here So we conclude that the limit hence uh the limit here as x goes to x0 of f ofx of the different function must be zero. And so this is the derivative at that point. And similarly if it was a local minimum. Okay. now and and a point where and a point where the derivative um so maybe I'll just say that um so so if if um fprime at x0 is equal to zero then we often say that then x0 is set to be a critical point for for for f. Okay. And let me just give you an example. So I mean let me give you three two examples. So suppose you take f ofx = to x2. Right? This here is a polomial. We know how to compute the derivative of any polomial. This is just using the lightness rule. And I mean using these rules in this case you would only need the lightness rule together with we know what the derivative of of the function f ofx = to x is. So in this case the derivative of this here is 2x. And so this means that x = z is a critical point. It's actually the only critical point and so you see in this case this is how the function look like right this is sort of how the function look like here you have zero right another example is that if you take the another polomium uh where it's instead of x to the^ 2 it's x ^ three, then the derivative of of of this function is 3x^2, right? And so you see again that x = 0 is a critical point. The derivative here if you plug in zero gets zero. So this is a critical point. But in this case, in this case the the the graph of the function for this example here the graph looks like it looks like something like this becomes very flat here like this. Okay. And so you see that so zero is a critical point but it's not like it has a local maximum minimum. Okay. And and it's this Yeah. Okay. So the next thing I want to do is I want to now apply it uh I want to apply this symbol observation uh and uh uh I want to apply it in to get a consequence simple consequence and then I want to apply that simple consequence to get a lot of other consequences. So the first thing I want to do is what's called roles lema theorem. So, so we have uh so this is the following that I have a function f from uh a to b uh into uh R and I'm assuming that F is differentiable and I'm also assuming that the value initially and the value at the end that those two values are the same. Sometimes one set those value equal to zero but it's just they just need to be the same. Um and then the claim is that then there exist uh x0 where x0 is strictly between a and b and the derivative at this x0 is equal to zero. Okay. And so the idea is just very simple that you have you have uh you have a function and the function initially this is at a here you have b the function initially and at the end end up at the same value. So this here is right. So this is this here is f a and that's the same as f of b and then who knows what happened in between maybe like this and the claim is that then there's always some point where the derivative is zero. In this case it looks like that those two would be the point right where the derivative was zero. And the proof is just this. So prove that there's three cases to consider to consider one is I mean you don't really have to divide it up by list but let me divide it up into these three cases. One is that the function here is constant. It's everywhere equal to the same. Right? Well, if the function is constant, then the derivative is zero. Right? We have already proven that. Case two there exist uh somewhere there exist x such that the value at this x is strictly bigger than the value at the end points. And then case three, uh, there exists an x such that the value at this x is strictly less than the values at the input. Right? It's clear that one of these three cases happen, right? I mean, of course, it could be that case two and three could have both happen, right? But at least one of the three cases would happen, right? In case one, we already know that the derivative is zero everywhere. So let's just look at case two. Case three is similar, right? So if there exists some x where the value so in this picture here, this here is maybe x the value here is larger than at the two end points, right? Well, by the extreme value theorem right that we proved earlier just because if a function is differentiable it's also continuous by the extreme value theorem there exists somewhere where actually the maximum is achieved right and since somewhere in between in in this case here the maximum is the maximum is not achieved at the two end points right so the maximum must be achieved at at an interior point, right? But now it's it's not just a local maximum. It actually is a a maximum. But already if it was a local maximum, the derivative would be zero at that point. Right? So this proved case two and case three is is similar. Right? So this is ro theorem. Okay? Now Bless theorem have then a bunch of applications and the first one is to uh what's called the mean value theorem and there are two versions of the mean value theorem. one is is the active mean value theorem and the other is like a fancy version of it which where you have two functions in play at the same time and that's called the cushib value the so so consequence for first consequence of the uh and this is the mean value the okay and so the first one is the the actual mean value theorem and then actually Meanwhile, theorem say that if we take a function uh f from a to b on some interval like this that and the function is differentiable. Then uh then there exist a x X strictly there exist X where X is strictly between A and B and so that the derivative at X is equal to the difference quotion where you do the difference quotient at the at the two end points. So this here is this this side of it that's what you often call the mean and the mean is equal to the derivative at some intermediate points. This is what they say. Okay. And so now right so this seems a lot better than the uh but it's an easy consequence of the because if you look at so So if you look at suppose you take the function. So pro suppose you take the function uh h of x equal to f ofx minus uh f of b minus f of a. divided by uh x uh sorry divided by b minus a * x - a suppose you're looking at this function here h right then observe first that so this one this function is differentiable this is just a constant right this is just a linear function right this is a is a constant also So this is differentiable. This is a constant. This is differentiable. And we're subtracting it from a differentiable function. So h is differentiable. Uh h of a is f of a, right? And then this thing here minus f of b minus f of a b minus a. And then this here is a minus a. So this is zero. So this is f of a h of b is f of b minus and then f of b minus f of a b minus a. And here you plug in b. So b minus a. And so you see that this here these here cancel out and you are right. So you are subtracting this but this is a minus minus so you're adding so this is f of a right so you see that for this function it's the value at a and b are the same right so so now we apply Water is still. So now we have bibles. by them applied to to to h, right? Then we have that um that h is equal to zero. The derivative of h is equal to zero for some x where X is strictly between A and B. Right? This is R theorem. This because this function H has the same value at A as at B. Right? Now, what is the derivative of H? Uh h H. Yeah. So the derivative of H is the derivative of F. And this is just again this is just a constant. So we have to keep that minus f of b minus f of a b b minus a and then u the derivative. So this just a constant and then derivative of this is just one. So this here is what the derivative is. And so you see that so we have this x where this the derivative is zero. So this here is zero. But if this here is zero, it means that this thing here is equal to that. Right? And so that was the mean value theorem. So let's prove the mean value theorem. Okay? There's a second mean theorem and the second one is the Kushim and so this is a little more fancy. Uh so the cushiming I assume. So this is the following that you have two functions uh f and g. So we have f g on some interval from a to b into r and they are both differentiable. um they're both differentiable and then the claim is that there exist there exist uh there exist uh x let's call it x0 uh maybe I should have called it x0 up there just two just one exist x0 with x0 strictly between a and E and and um okay and so that it's something about that the derivative of the both functions kind of behave like the mean value theorem at the same time. Okay. So it is that the derivative I I will explain this in in a second that the derivative at this point times uh g of b minus g of a is equal to the derivative of of g at x0 f of b minus f of a okay so this is the this is the kushi uh mean theorem okay so say that for this And let's let's just look at that expression here before we prove it. in your thumb. So if you had if if now so as a consequence so observe that if uh g of b is not equal for to uh g of a and g prime at x0 is not equal to zero. If you have that then you could divide you could have this expression let's say that um then you would by just dividing this here on both sides and this here on both sides you would get that fprime of x0 divided by g prime at x0 is equal to f of b minus f of a uh G of B minus G of A. Okay, you would have that. Right? Now, I could think about this thing here as f of B minus F of A divided by uh B minus A. So, I could think about it like this. and then times b minus a g of b minus g of a. Okay. And so you see that this here it's something about right the actual mean value theorem say that this thing here that there would be some point x0 in between that was equal to this right that would be the mean value theorem applied to f right and the meani term applied to g would be that there exist some x0 so that one over this is equal to this thing here Right? And the Kushi Min theorem say that you can kind of arrange so that both of these things happen at the same time. Okay. So, so this seems actually pretty good, right? I mean, you can do it at the same time. It's a little bit surprising in a way, but but the proof is is quite trivial. Uh so, but it's it's useful. So the proof is the following that you just look right. So this is what we want to prove right. So you just define so you just and the x0 is unknown. So if I if I take this expression that I want to prove if I move this thing here over on the other side right then I would get then I would get so I would define in this case I would define f of h of x to be f of x g b minus g a minus uh g of x um fb minus fa. So I would define it like this. And you see that when you now take the derivative of h, you just get this here, right? This is because everything else is constant. So this is what you get right and you want to find a x0 where you want to find so want to find x0 where this thing here is zero right to find such a x0 is the same as saying that you have find an x0 over here right now so now let's see what What is the value of h at a? If you plug in a here, then you get uh f of a g of b minus g of a minus g of a f of b minus f of a. Okay. And so now you see that the here I have f uh sorry I have uh this one here this one here I have f of a times g of a that comes with a minus sign I have the same term over here but that comes with a plus so those two cancel out so I'm just get f of a g of B minus G of A F of B. So that's what I get there. And now I look at H of B. So if I plug in B up here for X, then I'm getting then I get uh F of B minus G of B F of B minus F of A. Okay. And now you see that this when you multiply this by this that term f of b g of b you have this over here also but it comes with a minus sign. So those cancel out and so you're getting a term this the only term that lives is this one times that so minus g of a f of b and then you get this term minus min - or plus g of b f of a and right that's right and now you see that this is the same as that and the these two here uh are the same. Right? So you see that so we conclude here from this we conclude that h of a is equal to h of b right so again it's satisfying the requirements of roller theorem and so there is this intermediate point where the derivative was zero but we've but if the derivative of h is zero that's exactly the kind the point we wanted to find right where you have this Okay. And so so again, you know, the kushi mim is sort of a stronger statement, but it's just it's a it's a stronger statement because it's like it allow you to have two functions and then you uh know this point where sort of the to some extent the mean value for both functions are satisfied. Right? That's the idea. uh and but it's an example of where actually the proof it in fact worked more generally than than than what you used it for initially to and the initially you just use it for a single function right to prove the mean math theorem. Now uh so now we want to prove so now we have a number of consequences of this um and um and the first one um let me that let me start with um with another consequence of polytherm and then I come back to the kushid meth so tail taylor expansion So the idea here is that you have a function uh f um and you have a function um let's say let's say that it's a function on r doesn't need to be defined on all of r into r and uh f uh I'm assuming so Let me do a special case of this. So a special case first. So I assume I have a function like this and uh that is differentiable and then I'm assuming that the derivative so the derivative is our function from R into R and I'm assuming that the derivative is also differentiable. And the idea is now that I'm looking at the function and the idea is so the idea is like this again in a minute I'll prove a more general statement but I just prove this one first to make the idea clear. So the idea is that you want to say that f locally can be approximated by a polinomial. So that's the idea of the tail expansion. Okay, that that if you if you take a function that's if you take a function like this some function and you take a point then in a neighborhood let's say that this is some point here x0 then in a neighborhood of this point instead of looking at the function you get you could get a very good idea about how the function behave in this small neighborhood if you look at a certain polomial. Okay? And the higher degree the polomial, the better the approximation is to the function. And so we'll just do a simple version of this first where you're looking at the so in this case I would look at the so so I have um so I so we have f here and I'm interested in in in uh in f so we will be interested in f near x0 and then you're looking at what's called the tailor polom at x0. Okay. And the tail polom it depends on how many times you're willing to take the derivative. And so in this case I just look at the first tail polinomial. So this here is and now it is the tail polomial at x0. So this thing here is by definition the value of f at x0 plus uh and then the derivative of f at x0 x - x0. So this here is the first order tailor expansion. So it's this here would be is often often called the first order tail expansions expansion addiction. Okay. Now the what you're interested in is you're interested in showing that this one this polomium here. So, so the again the idea is that uh that f ofx should be almost equal to p1 of x if x0 here sorry if x is almost equal to x0 right so near x0 the function is very well approximated by in this case this linear function. Okay. And so now but you want to so now the key here is is what is uh how do you estimate how well it approximates? Okay. And so the thing is that that um so so the statement is then that so you have here x0 you have here x and the claim is now that there exist there exist some c between uh x0 and x strictly between So between which means that it's strictly between let me just write that X could also lie on the other sides right then I you know it's sort of obvious what I mean strictly between also so there exists some X some C in between these two so that uh f of x is equal to this tailor polinomial plus and then um uh the second derivative. So this is the derivative of the derivative. This is so so f2 here is the derivative and then you take the derivative like that and that is evaluated at c and then divided by two and then it's x uh minus x0 square okay and in a minute I would just do the general case of Okay. So this is this is the um right and so now how do you prove this? So what you do is so let's try to prove this. So So I define a M. We define a M. m is just some real number and it's defined so that um f of x uh I wonder if I should in my notes here in my notes I call it just because I thought it was clear and maybe I will do this here also I call this point here A and this here B and then C here is somewhere in between. Right? So this means that this thing here is B and this here is B and this here is is then B and this here is A. Okay, it's just to be clear that somehow you know you're kind of fixing X, right? Okay. Now, so to prove it, so I we look at this thing here and you uh you look at this thing here and you define uh and we subtract P1 of B and then we uh define M. So that you have that this thing here uh is b minus a squared right. So, so define M by this thing here, right? This here just gives you some number. A and B are difference. So, this is non zero. So, this here so M is just given by that is this difference here divided by this here times two. Right? So, that's how we defined M. And but now we want to show need to show right so like M is like in if you do it like this it's like M is okay it's just by definition the you have so so now we have by so so so we have by definition we have we have that uh f of b again is equal to p1 1 of B uh + M 2 B minus A square. But we need to prove we need to show that M here is the second derivative of the original function at some intermediate point. Right? That's what we need to prove. Right. And so you're looking at at um you're looking at. So now we're looking at the function h ofx equal to f ofx minus p1 of x - m / 2 x - a 2. Right? So if we're looking at this function, well if we're looking at h of let let me do b first. So if I do B then this here is F of B minus P1 of B minus M / 2 B - A^ 2 but M was defined so that this thing here is equal to that. So by definition this is by by definition of M I have that this thing here. So, right. If I'm now looking at h of of a well this thing here, here you get f of a. Here you get minus p1 of a. If you plug in a here then this is zero. So you get so this is what you get right. But remember how P1 was given P1 was here right and we now do it at A. So this here is really A. Okay. So you see that when you plug in X here this thing here is zero. So you just get f of a here. So this thing here is is f of a minus f of a. So that's zero. Right? So you see that if you're looking at this function here then at a it's zero at b it's zero. So, pyrolysis pyosium. Uh they exist they exist uh C1 with between A and B such that H prime of C is is equal to zero. Okay. Now, that's not the that's not the sorry, this is the C1, right? It's not the C we want we're looking for, right? The C we're looking for is something where the second derivative is something, right? But now you see that now you have this function H and here you have a, here you have C1 and then you have B is further away like this. And you have that the derivative in this case the derivative is zero at at a and the derivative uh sorry not the derivative not at at a but the derivative at this point here h prime is equals to zero. Let's calculate what the derivative of h is at a. Right? I want to apply the RERS theorem a second time. But in order to apply Roers theorem a second time, I really need the derivative of h at a to be zero. But let's see what it's equal to. And so again, we have h up there at the top. And so this means that h prime is equal to fprime minus and then the tailor polomium here was a tailor polomium. This is just when you take derivative this is just a constant you're getting frime a right this is all it gives you when you take the derivative of this here. Um and then uh you're getting minus and you're getting m x - a. That's when you take the derivative of the last term. Okay. So this is what you get and this here is at x. But so now h prime at a this is frime at a minus frime at a this thing here is actually zero. So you see that this whole thing is zero right? So we have what we have is that we have that h prime at c1 is zero and this is also equal to the derivative of a right. So we can apply what is them a second time right? So by applying water sim a second time uh we have a C2 and now this C2 that's really going to be our C in this case. Uh so we have a second uh C where the derivative of the derivative so the second derivative of H at that point is equal to zero. Okay. And this one here, remember this here is when you apply roer theorem, you started with A, you had here B, then you got C1 that was between these two, that was C1. But now you're looking at H prime in this interval. And so the second one is lying here, right? So it's it's certainly between A and B, but it's actually even between A and C1. Right? Now what does this here means? Right? So we hope that this is the one the point we're looking for. And so to calculate the second derivative you to calculate the second derivative. So this here uh this here was the derivative of h. So we just need to take another derivative of h. So if we do this then uh we get that so hp prime of x at some x is equal to f double prime at x and then you see this thing here this is just a constant this is a linear functions the derivative of this one here is one so you're getting this minus m right and now we know that hp prime at this intermediate point C2 which we also call C that's equal to zero. So this means that FP prime at the C minus M is equal to zero. So this means that M really was the second derivative of F at this point, right? Okay. So she's proves sort of clever that you you know it's you know it's but if you the proof seems very clever but if you think about it um I mean it's so it's applying royers theorem twice but it's sort of in a way the only thing it could be but anyway okay so that was uh so that was Taylor this was just a special case of tail expansion. Let me state the general case. So the general case is so so right. So in in for to proving the special case we applied roy theorem twice but you can actually apply roy theorem like k times and so if you apply it k times then you're getting the kt tail expansion. So, so this here is the the general case of the tail expansion. So, general case of tail expansion. So the general case is that you take a function on R into R. You assume assume that f is differentiable but also that f prime is differentiable and all the way up to say f the k the k uh by you you assume that that that it's differentiable and all the way up to the k minus one derivative is also differentiable. So this here exist right? So all of these exist all these derivative exist. And then the claim is that so now the tailor polomium the k taylor polinomial or some or or if you or sometimes called the uh tailum uh of the uh uh uh k minus one is that you're looking at so this sorry this here should be the k minus one tail for so this is where you write so you take again You have here A and you have B. Let me write it with A and B instead of with X, you know, because I think it's a little clearer. So, so the thing is that the polomium is where you say you expand around um a and so the polomium this is the k minus one polomium there that for that we write it in terms of x and this is the polomium where the constant term is the value of f at a the um The derivative, the coefficient to the first order term is frime at a and then x - a. The coefficient to the second is the second derivative at a and now it's divided by 2 x - a squared. And then it's this next one is f triple prime. And now it's really 3 * 2 * 1 * x - a to the^ 3. And then you continue like this up to the k minus one derivative. And then it's k -1 factorial x - a k minus one. So this is this is the k minus one ton. Okay. And so you observe that you can just write it. So it's typically written like this that f the k d the i derivative in a divided by i factorial x - a to the power i. and I is now summing from uh from zero to to uh k minus one. This is by definition equal to that. Okay. So that's a tailor polinomial the the k minus one tailor polomium. And now the tailor the general case of the tailor expansion is then so the general case of the tailor expansion is then that that's um so so this is like the third cell expansion. So you have again this function on R into R and you have that all of the up to and including the K derivative they all exist and then you have that uh F of B is equal to the K minus one tailor polomial at B plus and then the this is this term is usually called the remainder term and the rema and the key point here is that it's easy to estimate to estimate the remainder term because there's an expression for it this is the k derivative of f in this point that is an intermediate point divided by k factorial uh C minus uh sorry uh B minus uh A to the power K, right? And and where where where C here is lying between A and B. Okay. Right. And and again the idea is that you take you have a function any function it needs to be differentiable k times but then actually it's very close to a a polomium of degree k minus one and you can estimate it how close it is in terms of this term here and so the proof of this right so the proof It's really just what we did. But let's just go over it again. You know, we only did the first uh where we did it in a case where K was equal to two. And now let me try to do this in general. So you're looking at f of b minus right we have this tail polomial k minus one tail polomium um um and you're looking at you define so define m by the equation that this here is m / k factorial * uh b minus a to the power k. So this here is how right u m is defined right b is not equal to m. So this is just some positive some whatever some yeah it's actually a positive constant right and so you can just uh right so you can just so so m here is given as the difference of those two and then divided by this and multiply by k factorial right so this defines m and so and now uh what you do is you then define h as before or similarly to before. H is then going to be f of x - p k -1 of x - m over k factorial x - a to the^ k right that's how you define uh h right and by definition of m by definition of m you have that h of b is equal to zero. Right? This is how this is another way of of saying how we defined m. Right? Now if you look at so now h of a well h of a here is um well h of a is just f of a minus p k minus one of a minus m over k factorial x - a to the power k and this is you know a so this one here is clearly zero A minus A is zero, right? So that's clearly zero. And this thing here, that's this polomial Ivered up here, right? So if you plug in here, A, you see this term here and all the other terms drops out. It's only this one that lives, right? So this thing here is this is the same as f of a. And so you have that the whole thing is actually zero. Right? So because we chose M this way, we see that now RM can get started. Right? And so RM can get started and uh this means that there exist a C1 between A and B where the derivative of H is zero. Right? Now you check that the if you're looking at this function again that and take the derivative at a the derivative at a is also zero. Right? In fact, the the whole idea is that all these derivative up to the k minus one derivative of you know if you're looking at the k minus one all the way up to the k minus one derivative of h they are all zero at a. Okay. So you can repeat the romium. So this first here, this thing here together with this allows you to find this C1 strictly between A and B where the is is zero. Then you observe that the derivative of h at a is zero. This then allows you to find a point between a and a second point c1 which was less than b where the derivative second is zero. Now you use that the second derivative at of h at a is also zero. So this give you you apply v theorem one more time. Each time you apply radium the se is moving to the left right towards a right and so you apply it uh you apply the k times and it and once you do this you get eventually that this m here is the derivative of of the original function at this point. Okay. So I I wrote this out. I now I did the special case and I try to explain this here. I wrote it out in the notes. It's written out in the general case only. But it on the other hand is written out completely there. Any questions? There's two things we didn't get to. There's these two rules about how to evaluate fractions that uses the Kushi mean value theorem and I'll start with those those they're in the notes but I will start with that next time. Yeah. then you get the the that's when you get the C that you're actually looking for, right? And so in the special case I looked at K was equal to two and the tailor expansion was a linear so it was a right it was a polomial of degree one. So k minus one was one right and so so in in the special case we applied them twice um and in this case we do it k