So here the way to think about modular arithmetic is that it's about relationships between numbers. So some of these you've already seen before and are pretty familiar. So for example, if I take an even number and add an odd number to it, then I definitely get an odd number. And if I take an even number and add an even number, I get an even number. So even though these things are familiar even from elementary school, you know, we're going to talk about generalizations and go a lot further with these ideas. Really, the way to think about this simple example is it's what's called arithmetic modulo 2. So by that I mean you're doing arithmetic, but you're only keeping track of the remainders when you divide by two. So, you know, for today's lecture, we're going to have the following key definition that's going to take this idea much further, which is we're going to say that two integers A and B, well, we're going to write the following expression A congruent to B mod N. So, this is pronounced as A congruent to B mod N. And we'll write this expression if and only if A and B differ by a multiple event. So that's it. That's our key definition that we're going to explore today. But we're going to see that there's a lot of meat to this in terms of you know understanding how to work with modular arithmetic. So another way that you'll sometimes hear module arithmetic described is as clock math. So I'll explain what that metaphor means in a minute. But let me tell you the you know key result that we're going to use to reason about uh you know modular arithmetic. And this will also be something that's you know familiar from long ago. But we're going to state this a little bit precisely. This is really a corollary of you know what you learned in elementary school namely long form division. So what I claim is that you know for any integers a and n where n is strictly positive because it's our divisor. What I claim is that there is a unique pair of again integers Q and R and these are suggestively chosen because Q is the quotient and R is the remainder with the following property. We can write a as q * n plus r. And the crucial thing is that this remainder r is between zero and n and cannot be as large as n. So it's really between 0 and n minus one. So this is really the correlary of what we learned in you know elementary school about long form division. I can take any integer a and some divisor n and I can write a as q multiples of n and then whatever I have left over and the crucial thing is what I have left over is an integer between zero and n minus one. Though these are just the basic facts that'll help us make sense of modular arithmetic. And you know let's go over some you know basic facts about you know digesting what this expression means. you know what are all the equivalent ways to think about what this expression is saying that a is congruent to b. So what we're going to do is we're gonna you know learn the language of modular arithmetic. It's a little bit like you know relearning arithmetic from scratch but trying to remember what rules you're still allowed to do and what rules change. So you know let's be careful with this. Uh let's prove our first key fact and this will be an extremely powerful fact. So what I claim is that this expression a is congruent to b mod n. Well, we know what this expression means. A and b differ by multiple of n. I claim that this is true if and only if the remainder of a divided by n equals the remainder of b when I divide by n. So this is a very intuitive fact right this is what was going on right here is that um you know we think about evens as being a set of numbers that are congruent mod 2 and that's if and only if the remainder when I divide by two is zero and something is odd if and only if its remainder is one when I divide by two but this is true for modular arithmetic even more generally than this so this gives us you know a powerful way that we'll use this fact later uh to great effect for talking about the uklitian algorithm but for right now let's just make sure that uh we're on uh the same page and that we can understand why this fact is true. So we can prove both directions of this implication. So let's prove the backwards direction. So let's suppose that you know a is equal to qn plus r and that b is equal to q prime n + r. So r is their remainder. So I'm just assuming that the remainder of a / n is the same as the remainder of b / n because they both have the same extra term for the remainder. And now you know what we can do is we can just remember what this expression means right we can look at a minus b the difference between a and b and we can write this as q - q prime * n and the rs cancel. So this gives us what we're looking for, right? The statement that a and b are congruent mod n is equivalent to the statement right here that their difference is an integer multiple of n and q minus q prime is an integer. So we're good. We proved one direction. Uh so this proves you know the first implication that if the remainders are the same then they're congruent mod n and we can prove the converse direction too. So conversely let's suppose that a is equal to qn plus r and b is equal to q prime n + rp prime. Now you know since a a is congruent to b mod n we know that a minus b is supposed to be equal to an integer multiple of n. And then we can remember what a and b are by assumption. And we can write this out as q - q prime * n plus r - r prime. Right? And so now we can just focus on this expression. We know that a minus b is a multiple of n. And we can write the expression alternatively this way. But the key point is what's happening right here. That this term right here r - rp prime is an integer that's strictly larger than minus n and strictly smaller than n. So if k you know if uh a minus b can be divided through by n, we get you know some integer multiple. The only choice, you know, n divides evenly here and we get an integer. The only way that a number that's between minus n and n and is strict, these inequalities are strict and it divides through and gets an integer is if r - r prime equals zero, in which case the two remainders are the same. So that's our you know key fact right here is just that we can use the division algorithm to connect very nicely with modular arithmetic. The statement that you know two numbers are congruent mod n is really a statement about you know what happens when we run the division algorithm on a versus b. We might get different quotients but they better have the same remainder. So are there any questions? Does this make sense? Yeah. Okay. All right. So now, you know, let's think about how we can uh, you know, visualize what's going on. So the visual to keep in your head is of a clock. So we can think about something like 12, which is congruent to five mod 7. And what's really going on is that we take the integers 0 to six and we put them evenly spread out along our clock. And now what's going on is when we take an integer like five, we start off at zero and we go around the clock until we hit five. And if we take an integer like 12, we go around the clock, but we're going to loop one full time around and we'll end up at the same exact place. So that's sometimes why you'll hear it referred to as clock math is because, you know, unlike ordinary integers here, we're not actually distinguishing between 12 and five. These are in the same equivalence class because they land on the same position when we go around the clock. So this is you know the basics of modular arithmetic but so far we've only talked about addition. So the other piece we should talk about is you know multiplication and then we can get to some action. So when we think about modular arithmetic, we already know how to uh you know add and we can also ask how we multiply modulo n. So it turns out that you can kind of just do it. So if I have something like 10 is congruent to three again modulo 7 I can multiply this by 12 which is congruent to five modulo 7. And one thing you can check is that you can just you know do multiplication as usual right you can multiply 12 by 10 and I get 120 and on my right hand side I get 15 right but really 15 is congruent to one modulo 7 because I can take away two multiples of seven and get back down to one. So basically when you're doing addition and multiplication you can always just you know multiply and add the way that you're familiar with just at the end after you're done you take out as many integer multiples of you know the modulus as you need to to get back to an integer that's between zero and n minus one. So a lot of things work out you know very nicely. But you know the way to think about this really is you know um if you were to try and unwrap what's behind this notation the statement that uh you know 10 * 12 modulo 7 is congruent to one right is really the statement that a number with remainder three all happening modul 7 times a number with remainder five modulo7 gives a number with remainder one all modulo So it's good to not get confused by what's happening in terms of this expression, right? What this expression really means when I take any number like some number like 10 whose remainder is three modulo 7 and I take any number say 12 whose remainder is five mod 7 and I take the product of those two numbers I get this number on my left hand side 120 and that number should have remainder one when I take it with the modulus 7. So that's really what's going on is it's the same, you know, generalization of what I wrote down right here is that you can forget what the actual even number was. All that matters is what its modulus is, mod 2. I can forget what my odd number is. All that matters is that it has remainder one modulo 2. And I can still tell you something about the remainder when I add up those two numbers even though I've forgotten the rest of the action of like how many times around the clock I've gone. So that's the key way to think about it. So you know if you've seen it before this is very easy. Uh if you haven't seen it this is, you know, takes a little bit of wrapping your head around. So are there any questions about modular arithmetic or does this make sense? Good. Okay. So, you know, I'm trying to give you a lot of different ways to think about it. Uh, I'll also mention that you can think about these things abstractly too, right? So, we'll talk more about this in the next lecture, but when I'm working modulo 7, then I can really think about it as uh something called a group that we'll talk a lot more about. And really, I can just think about the elements of that as being all of the possible remainders. And I have this table of how exactly to add up two numbers that belong to this set. Because when I add up remainders of zero, I get back to zero. When I add up two with two, I get back to a remainder of four. But see, I have interesting things happening here. When I take four and I add four, I go back to the element one because that's the new remainder I would get when I take it modulo 7. And the same type of thing happens here. This is our multiplication table. You know, when I take something like 3 * 3, that'll give me 9. And when I subtract off the multiples of seven, I'm going to get back to two. So, really, what's going on is that uh we're just redoing our addition and multiplication tables just in the context of only keeping track of what the remainders are. Make sense? All right. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to tell you some more basic facts about modular arithmetic and then we're going to do a demo um just to give you a bit of a hint about why modular arithmetic is important. So you know as I promised many of the things that you're used to with ordinary arithmetic go through just the same and I'll point out the things that don't. So one of the properties that we know and love is associivity. If I have some number you know modulo 7, I can add two numbers blast and cruise modulo7 and then I can add to their result A all happening mod 7 and I claim that that's the same thing as parenthesizing the expression in the other way. It's the same thing as you know a plus b and then I add c all happening mod 7. Um a lot of the other basic facts we're used to go through as well like commutativity. So in particular a + b modulo 7 is equal to b + a. You know, that's the same thing as like even plus odd. It doesn't matter what order I add them up, I still get the same thing, which is an odd number. And, you know, last but not least, we still have the distributive property, which tells us, you know, how multiplication and addition interact. So if I'm multiplying over Z7, a * the result of B + C, that's the same thing as A * B plus A * C. So almost everything works exactly the way that you're used to, right? All right. So, you know, before we go too far into modular arithmetic, because we're going to be doing a lot of it today, I wanted to give you a little bit of a teaser for later about why we care about modular arithmetic. So, it's not totally obvious, but you know, modular arithmetic is a great way to accomplish a lot of things, especially in computer science. So, we talked a bit about, you know, areas like cryptography in a previous lecture. Um, you know, cryptography is based on modular arithmetic. So this will be a very important application for us later in the class. There are also some other really fun applications that uh also are from other areas of cryptography which have to do with things which are actually invented here at MIT about zero knowledge proofs. So uh I'm going to need some help from the audience for this one. But you know let's imagine that uh you're home on a weekend and you want to watch an embarrassing movie with your friend. Now you have some favorite movies you might want to see, but you don't want to admit to, you know, liking that movie unless your friend likes it too. I mean, this is a common problem, right? You know, maybe if you both like the same embarrassing movie, you would then watch it and that's fine. But otherwise, you know, if you don't both want to watch the movie, you want some kind of plausible deniability, right? I don't like that movie, right? So, what are some examples of embarrassing movies that uh you guys actually like that you might be a little embarrassed to admit? Don't be shy. You guys don't like any embarrassing movies. What? [laughter] We can't move on with the lecture until you guys give me something here. >> I don't have any. >> Okay. What are embarrassing movies? Your friends like your friends might like >> Shrek. >> Shrek is good. >> Shrek's okay. All right. >> Barbie maybe. >> Barbie. Okay. >> Barbie movie is great. [laughter] >> All right. We're going to have a fight breakout. >> Like this is just the correct answer. I think >> Morbby. I have no idea what that is. >> It's like constant. [cough] >> Okay. >> Because it's so bad. >> Okay. MorbiiUs. >> Oh, wait. The room. >> The room. Okay. The room. Uh, I was gonna go with what's this? Uh, okay. I don't know. [laughter] Um, all right. Let's go with Morbius. So, uh, can I have two volunteers from the audience and then I'll explain the game? Who's going to come up here? Don't be shy. Yeah. All right. One more. Let's do it. All right. So, let's explain how, you know, modular arithmetic and clock math is going to help us, you know, answer this question. Uh, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take five cards. Three are red, two are black. Let's pretend that I don't keep track of like, you know, the fact that it's a two, and I just know the color of it. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to give each of you uh one black and one red card. Okay? And then what's going to happen is I put down this one red card in the middle. Now, what they're going to do is they're going to decide whether they like the embarrassing movie or not, which they want to see on the weekends, which I guess is MorbiiUs, which I should look up after class. And if they like it, what they're going to do is they're going to put their red card closest to the red card in the middle and their black card on the outside. And if they don't like it, they're going to put their black card next to the red card and their red card on the outside. Okay? And so what I'm going to do then is I'm going to stack up the cards on top of each other. And then I'm going to have them both cut the deck randomly. So that way it's a random cyclic shift when they put it together. And then what I claim is that, you know, if they both like the movie MorbiiUs and they want to see it, what's going to happen is we're going to have two red cards in a row cyclally. And if either of them doesn't like it, right? Then we will not have three red cards in a row. We will have two red cards in a row. But even the person who claim who liked it and the other person didn't, they'll have plausible deniability because all of those, you know, after the cyclic shifts, it'll all look the same. So, let's try it out. Do you guys want to see MorbiiUs over spring break? So, I won't look. Put down your cards and then we'll see if uh we've got a match. All right. And just for security purposes, I'm going to ask each of you just to cut the deck. So, just take up, you know, some number of cards and put them on the bottom. Perfect. And then cut the deck randomly. We'll pretend we didn't see how they cut them. And what I'll do is I'll put them out in order. And unfortunately, we don't have a match. So, uh, can you tell me what you guys answered? >> Oh, I answered no. >> Uhhuh. >> Yes. >> You put yes. It's okay. So even though he put yes, he can save face and say I I never like that movie anyways. So this is what's called the zero knowledge proof. Thanks for your help. Um and you know it uses just clock math types of things. So it turns out that you know once we have the basics of modular arithmetic there'll be some amazing things we can do with it like being able to privately compute functions, be able to execute cryptographic schemes. But for this lecture, what we're going to be doing is we're just going to be building up the basic mechanics before we can apply it in action in some of the later lectures in class. Okay, so now um let's roll up our sleeves. You know, all of this stuff was pretty natural. Um you know, it it works kind of the way you would expect it to. But now we're going to get into, you know, one piece of the puzzle that, you know, makes it really interesting and different than ordinary integer arithmetic. So, let me tell you the key question which we're going to spend a few minutes answering. Um, you know, what I claim is if I look at that, uh, you know, table, I'm going to have some examples of, you know, elements that have multiplicative inverses. I'll tell you what I mean by that. But my key question is going to be when I'm working say mod 7, does every element have a multiplicative inverse? So let me be concrete. So let's say we're working mod 7 for you know the time being. We can take two and four and we can multiply them. And as usual, the way we do modular arithmetic with multiplication is we just kind of do it and then subtract off the multiples of seven later. So when I take the element two and I multiply it by the element four, what I get is I get the element one. Right? So that's an example of a multiplicative inverse. Because what's going on is if I have a number multiplied by four, I can get rid of it by multiplying the whole thing by two, the two and the four will cancel because they multiply to one and then I get back the thing I started with. So this is the key to a lot of what we're going to be doing later cryptographically is because you know multiplying by a number in modular arithmetic serves of jumbling up the numbers you started with. So I might have some secret message and then I want to jumble it and I could try multiplying by some other number like four. But then I have to have some way of unjumbling and in this case that's a multiplicative inverse. Now that scheme is not literally going to work but that's the intuition behind what's going on. So in this case you know I got lucky or maybe I didn't that you know when I multiplied by four there was a multiplicative inverse which is two. Does two have a multiplicative inverse? What is it? >> Four. That's right. Because of commutivity, it doesn't matter what order I multiply them in. So two and four are each other's multiplicative inverses. You know, I could look at my table and write down the full table of all of the elements, right? And I could check that, you know, every number has some kind of multiplicative inverse, right? like five has a multiplicative inverse of three and if this table continued three would be the multiplicative inverse of five but when I get to larger and larger moduli it's not always possible to write down this gigantic table and verify that in each row there is some column where it's got a one right and so what I can ask is you know whether every element and by this I mean just to be clear I mean every nonzero element zero won't have a multiplicative inverse. But does every nonzero element have a multiplicative inverse? So this will be a key question which occupies us for um a little bit of the rest of the lectures answering this question because we're going to build up some mathematical theory of not only why does every element have a multiplicative inverse when we work modulo a prime but how exactly I would find it without actually writing down the entire table. So that's our plan of action and uh you know let's go back to uh we're going to use this fact I mentioned the fact that a is congruent to b mod n if and only if the remainders are equal. We're going to use this to great effect. So let's just uh start with some very natural definitions and um it'll lead us to the answer to this key question. So first of all I'm going to define another key quantity which is called the GCD the greatest common divisor. So if you give me two integers a and b well the greatest common divisor is what you think it is. It's the largest integer that divides both. Okay, so it could be one for example if there's no integer larger than one that divides both. But we'll take this as you know our definition the GCD. And you know really it's not so obvious right now but um you know the following question is going to help us answer this problem about multiplicative inverses. So you know I can ask the question how can we compute the GCD? So there's a terrible way to do this which is I could just take the smaller of the two integers. Let's say it's a and I could try all the integers between one and a and check. You know that might work for small numbers but that's you're going to have a very hard time once you start working with gigantic numbers things that are like 32 digits because I'll just have to try too many things. What I claim is that there's a very fast algorithm for computing the GCD. In fact, it's one of the first algorithms that was ever discovered. So, it goes back to the ancient Greeks. And we're going to build up to, you know, this algorithm with a few key structural lemmas about how the GCD works. So, let's start with the first lema. So, let's assume that B is at least as large as A without loss generality otherwise we just switch them. What I claim is that the GCD, the greatest common divisor between A and B is actually the same as the GCD between A and B minus A. So this is our first notion of progress. We start off with two huge integers A and B. We want to compute their GCD. And I claim that their GCD is the same as, you know, two not quite as huge integers because now, you know, potentially I've made one of the integers smaller. Uh once we have this lema, we'll be able to make a ton of progress. But let's start by proving this lema and then we'll prove a souped-up version of this lema. So the proof for this is very simple. Um let's suppose that K divides A. This is the expression for K divides A evenly into an integer. So A is a multiple of K. And let's assume that K also divides B. Then um you know what I claim is that K must also divide B minus A. Why is that true? Well, what does this mean? When I take A / K, I get an integer. When I take B / K, I get an integer. And so then if I take K, if I take B minus A and divide it by K, I get an integer minus an integer. So I definitely still get an integer, right? But let's think about what this means. What this means for us is that the GCD of A and B is a lower bound for the GCD of A and B minus A. So this part is easy. I know that K divides B minus A. How did I get to this statement right here? How does you know interpreting the statement tell me that the GC whatever the gcd is for a and b the gcd of a and b minus a is at least as large? Can anyone help me out? So you're up to here. How did I get this statement? How did it follow from this? Any ideas? Let me give you a hint. So mechanically, you know, I'm not telling you I know what the GCD of A and B is. I'm telling you whatever the GCD is, let's suppose it's some integer K. That the GCD between B and and uh between A and B minus A must be at least as large. How can I guarantee that fact or ask a question? So either give me an idea or ask me a clarifying question. But this is important. >> Prove that anything. >> Yes. Perfect. So one way to think about this is what am I saying here? Whatever this GCD is, let's imagine that it's K, right? Well, then I know that K, you know, from the statement, you know, if K divides both A and B, then K must also divide A and B minus A. That's literally what I just proved. So that means that K also, you know, is a candidate for a divisor for A and B minus A. So whatever the greatest common divisor is, it must be at least as large. it must be you know maybe there's something even bigger than K but I know it's at least K so are there any questions about that does that make sense now right so this is really yes >> K is the GCD of everyone has this >> uh you know I said that this is so this is you know even though this is just three lines it's a bit subtle right so here what I said was that if you give me any integer k that divides both a and b it also divides B minus A. So in particular now when I set K to actually be whatever the GCD is then I know that that same K had also divi better divide B minus A. So it's a candidate for the GCD of A and B minus A. So even though this is just a couple lines the logic is a bit subtle. Okay. All right. So this proves one direction but really we want to prove that these two things are equal. So let's prove the converse. So conversely let's suppose that K divides A and K divides B minus A. Well then what I claim is that K divides B. And that's the same proof as before what happened here, right? So if k divides a that means I take a divided k get an integer. b minus a divided k I get an integer and b is just b minus a plus a. So that is the sum of two integers when I divide by k. So the statement is true. And now this allows me to prove the inclusion the other direction. Right? So what this implies is that the gcd of uh a and b minus a is a lower bound for the gcd of a and b. Why? Because whatever this integer k is the largest integer that divides both a and b minus a. I just proved for you that that same integer had better divide both a and b. So it's the same logic as above, right? All right. So this is one of the key proofs for today. So again I will ask are there any questions about this proof? Good. Speak now or hold your peace until the next office hours or something. Okay. All right. So let's do a souped up version of lema one because once we have lema one and we understand this logic uh we're off to the races. So [clears throat] now we'll be able to get a lot of cool things immediately. So you know lema one didn't make that much progress at the in the grand scheme of things because I started off with you know two integers a and b and I made b a little bit smaller because I turned b into b minus a. That's not a huge amount of progress, but you know, let's take a leap instead of a step, right? What I claim, same assumption. So B is at least A. Then what I claim is that the GCD of A and B is equal to the GCD of A and the remainder of taking B and dividing it by A. Okay, so now I made a huge leap. I'm not just subtracting off, you know, one uh multiple of a. I'm actually making, you know, b way smaller potentially because I'm dividing by a and just taking keeping track of whatever the remainder is. Does anyone have any intuition for why this kind of statement should be true? And my hint is the division algorithm that's very conveniently right above it. Let me give you a hint. So let's say that we write uh B as equal to Q * A + R because that's what we get when we do the division algorithm. And so what I'm saying is that I can replace B with R. Right? So what I'm doing really is I'm not subtracting off one copy of A, but I'm doing something a bit more aggressive. So does anyone have any hints about how this proof ought to go? How should I do it? Yes. >> Repeatedly used. >> Perfect. That's exactly right. So it's just a repeated application of lema one. Perfect. So by the division algorithm which is conveniently right above. Well, what I can do is that the GCD of A and B is equal to the GCD of A and B minus A, which is equal to the GCD of A and B minus 2 A all the way down to it's equal to the GCD of A and B minus Q A which is of course the same thing as R the remainder. So it's just a repeated application. So why do I keep subtracting off one multiple of a per time? Instead I can just jump to the end and do division, right? And now I make a huge amount of progress, right? Because you know we won't prove the progress bound, but it's very easy to prove. Um, you know, the point is that if A and B are like really close to each other as integers, then I'm going to make, you know, a huge amount of progress in one of my two steps. If A and B are very far from each other, all of a sudden, the larger of the integers goes down to being as small as a. So either way, what ends up happening is you get this gigantic speed up in the algorithm. But you know let's think about uh just a numerical example to see what this algorithm looks like. And this numerical example you know is really just the uklidian algorithm in in action. So you know so the ukitian algorithm works as follows. Um all you do is the GCD of AB is equal to the GCD of uh A and B1 where you know B1 is equal to the remainder of B and A and then this is equal to the GCD of A1 B1 1 where a1 is equal to the remainder of taking a and dividing by b1. So we just alternate back and forth. We divide one of the things by the other. Take the remainder and now we take the smaller of the two which now in this case you know is b1 and we take a divided by b1. And that gives us our new a1. So we just keep alternating back and forth until the end. Okay, so let's actually see a numerical example of this just to make sure that we're on the same page. So, you know, in action, let's do it for some large uh integers. So, we could look at something like the GCD of 46 and 360. kind of hard to do in your head, but um you know if I were to do out the division algorithm, well the first step is to take 360 and divide it by 46, right? And what I'll get the remainder is going to be 38. So I replace B with its remainder when it's divided by A. And now I just divide things the other direction. So if I take 36 of 46 / 38, I'm going to have 8 left over. So I'll get that this is equal to the GCD of 8 and 38. And then I'll divide things the other direction. I'll get the GCD of 8 and six because I'll have six left over when I take 38 and divide it by eight. And then I'll take the GCD again and I'll get two and six. And now I get uh no remainder. The GCD between two and zero. So my uklidian algorithm stopped. But what's my answer? Two. That's exactly right. Because the key point is that what lema one lema 2 tells us is that in each step we're not changing the gcd. And what is the greatest common divisor between two and zero? It's just two. because zero gets divided by everything perfectly fine. Okay, so that's the ukitian algorithm which we now understand. And what I claim is that it's actually going to help us answer that key question. It's not totally obvious why it does and what it has to do with it. The key is really taking this algorithm and doing more bookkeeping and that's called the extended uklidian algorithm. So, you know, the key point behind this algorithm is we're going to keep track of how we got here. So, for example, when I start off with the state 46 360, right? Because I want to compute the GCD between these two things. Instead of just replacing 360 with its remainder, I'm actually going to keep track of, you know, what integer multiple of 46 I subtracted off to get the remainder. So that's the key point is that my next state in this transition, 46 stays the same, but instead of just having 38, I'm going to keep track of it as 360 minus 7 * 46. Okay. Why am I doing that? We'll get into that in a second. Uh but now same thing happens here, right? So when I had, you know, this number which is 38 and I knew that I had to subtract off one copy of it from 46 to get my remainder 8, right? So I'm just going to subtract it off wholesale, subtract off, you know, this entire expression. And what this will give me is it'll give me 46 minus Right? And then on the other side I still have 360us 7 * 46. So this seems kind of strange because I just took a beautiful algorithm that's very simple to understand and analyze and I just made it a lot uglier by keeping track of all of these things. Right? But the key point is if you look in these steps the intermediates that I have are all integer linear combinations of the two things I started off with. Originally I have 46 and 360 and all of the numbers that I get in between are some kind of integer times one of the numbers 46 plus an integer times the other number 360. So, at the end of the day, when I get the answer of two, what I've really done is when I keep track of these integers along the way, I found some integers s and t so that 46 * s plus 360 * t is equal to two. And my extended uklidian algorithm window will not just compute that the gcd is two but it'll find the integers s and t that make that be true right and so what's really cool about this expression if you think about it right let's say you didn't trust me you know maybe I'm certainly prone to making algebra mistakes like everyone else maybe I made some algebra mistake along the way here and I just tell you the answer that I got two. One thing you can do is you can check that two actually is a divisor of the two things I started with. Right? So if I have, you know, two as my uh candidate answer, I can check that it really does divide both 46 and 360. But how do I guarantee you that there's not a bigger divisor of both of them? Right? And so the key point is right here. Imagine there were a larger integer that divided both of them. You know, four, six, something like that, right? Imagine I had some integer k that was larger than two that divided both 46 and 360. I claim this expression proves for me that it cannot be a divisor of both. Because if K really did divide both of these things, 46 and 360, when I take the left hand side and divide it by K, I'd get an integer time an integer plus an integer time an integer. That's an integer. But my right hand side is not an integer. So this is actually a certificate that your answer cannot be any smaller. So you don't even have to trust my work because at the end of the day the S and the T I find are the proof that I found the largest possible GCD. Does everyone understand that? Okay. So now let's connect it back to our key question. Right? And I'll just state this as a lema first. This is really the thing which came out of our proof is that you know given any integers a and b what I claim is there exist integers s and t with the property that sa plus tb is equal to the gcd of a and b. And that's just the abstract version of what we just did in this specific example. But now we're in good shape to answer this question, right? So, you know, let's return to this, right? And let's ask, you know, why does four have a multiplicative inverse mod 7? Okay. Well, let's think about it in the context of the uklidian algorithm. So the GCD between four and seven is what? One, right? Because seven is prime. Now I can use this lema. You know if the GCD between four and seven is one, what it means by lema 3 is that there are integers s and t so that 4 s + 7t is equal to 1. Okay. And what I claim is that this implies that four has a multiplicative inverse. You know we know the answer is two. But from this expression, what I claim is that my multiplicative inverse of 4 is s. When I take 4 * s, I'm going to get 1 - 7t. So it's actually 4 * s is congruent to 1 modulo 7 because all of those integer multiples of seven go away. So that's actually the proof of why not just four has a multiplicative inverse mod 7. Why does every number that's non zero have a multiplicative inverse mod 7 is just because for any other number B here I know the GCD between B and 7 is 1 because 7 is prime and I know that means there's an expression 4 B uh sorry B S plus 7T = 1 and in that case S would be my multiplicative inverse right so even more generally the GCD between B and 7 is one This is true for any nonzero B. And this would then imply by lema 3 that b * s + 7t = 1. And that means that uh you know this expression right here s is b inverse. So this actually answers all of our questions, right? So we had this question. Does every element have a multiplicative inverse? That's true as long as the modulus is prime. Right? I had this question. How could I compute the multiplicative inverse? So if I gave you some large prime P and I gave you some nonzero element A, how would I compute the inverse of A mod P? Does anyone have any ideas? The answer is on the board. some place. >> Yeah, >> you can use the >> perfect that's right. So I would use the extended uklidian algorithm. I would apply it with not 46 and 360 but a and p and I already you know my point of doing this isn't to compute the gcd. I know the gcd is one. My point is to find this expression the S and the T and then that S that I find will be the multiplicative inverse. That's exactly right. So this answers you know basically all the questions we could uh want right um in fact there's even a more subtle question which we can answer too. um you know if I have a uh modulus that's not prime like you know six it turns out that five has a multiplicative inverse mod 6 because the gcd of five and six is one so you'll actually have a multiplicative inverse you know when you don't have a prime modulus just for the things that don't share a common factor Okay, so this was the main part of lecture. But uh now what we're going to do is we're going to do one last cool application of modular arithmetic in the last you know few minutes of class. And this is another really important topic. uh tons and tons of applications. So I'll tell you you know the math riddle and then I'll tell you some applications of this uh you know once we solve it. So let's just start off with a riddle about modular arithmetic. So, let's say we've got a treasure chest and it's got gold coins. And let's imagine I promise you that if this treasure is divided into groups of five, I'm going to have four coins left over. And let's imagine same thing if it's divided up into groups of seven. What I'll have is I'll have one coin left over. So there are many possible answers to how many gold coins there could be, but what I'll be interested in is what's the smallest number. So what is the smallest number of possible coins? So that's our key riddle for the rest of lecture. Of course, this riddle is going to lead to, you know, a very interesting statement in its own right that's powerful. Um, and what I claim, you know, what's really going on here is that we have a system of equations. But the key point which is different than like the system of equations you've seen you know before is that these system of equations are really in modular arithmetic right so you know translating this so whatever we we want to solve for n which is the smallest number of coins that could be the answer. So we know that n is congruent to four mod 5. That's literally just using the definition, right? Because you know what that means is just that four is the remainder when we divide n by five. And the second statement is that uh you know n is congruent to one mod 7. So it turns out that we can guess the answer here. But I'll tell you more formulaically how to find it. So if you take for example 29 then this works. You know it solves the system of two equations in different moduli. Um but actually there's a much more general result. I guess today is the day we're doing ancient results. So this similarly like the uklidian algorithm is you know one of the oldest algorithms. Um this is a fairly old uh statement too. It's uh due to a Chinese mathematician son Zushwan in the 4th century and what I claim and we'll prove this. So suppose a and b are relatively prime. By that I mean you know they don't both have to be prime but they share no common factors besides one. Their gcd is one between them. So imagine that a and b are relatively prime. You know a and b will play the role of five and seven here. >> [clears throat] >> So just to be clear, this means gcd of a and b equals 1 and we have some unknown n that's between zero and ab minus one. Then what I claim is that if we think about the system of equations, n is congruent to r mod and n is congruent to s mod b. Then what I claim is that there is exactly one solution. So this is somehow exactly what you could hope for, right? You know, I'm only telling you one out of a possibilities here, right? I'm only telling you one out of b possibilities So at most I can uniquely determine integers between zero and ab minus one. But I'm claiming that every such integer is, you know, uniquely determined by its pair of residues modulo a and b. So really this is a bjection between all of these AB possibilities of the integers here and the possible pairs R and S of what this modulus moduli are. So are there any questions about the statements? All right. So let's prove this. Uh the proof of this is clever. Um usually this is called the Chinese remainder theorem. uh [clears throat] and let's prove this fact. This will use a lot of the properties about the uklitian algorithm and modular arithmetic that we've been developing for today's lecture. And then if we have time left over, I'll tell you a cool application uh just to get you know some intuition for why this Chinese remainder theorem is so powerful. Actually, I guess I could have kept that. All right. So, let's prove this. So you know as I told you already there are AB choices for N and similarly AB choices for the pairs ST. Right? So you know what we want to show is the following that for I'm going to call this statement star. I want to show that for any uh choices of x and y that are between zero and ab. So any possible answers xy. Well, what I want is that their pair of remainders are not both the same. I take the remainder of x / a. I look at the remainder of x / b. That pair of remainders had better not both be equal to the pair of remainders I get when I take y and divide it by a. And similarly I take y and divide it by b. Okay. So maybe I have pairs xy that are different. I'll assume you know x not equal to y. Maybe I have pairs xy that are different that have one of their remainders match. But I cannot get different x's and y's which have both of their remainders match. So that's the key property. Okay. So let's show this. Um so we're going to show star by assuming it's not true and creating a contradiction. So this proof will be short but the logic is pretty clever for this. So you know let's assume that we have a pair XY that are different that are between zero and AB which have both of their pairs of remainders exactly identical and let's produce a contradiction. So you know if we have such a pair XY then what I claim is that uh you know X minus Y uh wait which way do I want to say this? Oh sorry other way around a divides X - Y. Uh why is that true? So we're assuming that this statement is false. Why is it true that uh a divides x minus y? What does it mean for these two things to be equal? Definitely their first components have to be equal. So if remainder of x / a is equal to the remainder of y / a then that means that they differ by an integer multiple of a. So a divides their difference. Right? This is the same type of thing we did before. And similarly we know that b divides x minus y as well. Right? And now here's the key, you know, idea. We somehow have to use the fact that A and B are relatively prime. We know by assumption that the GCD of A and B is equal to one. And what this tells us it means that AB the pair of them divides x - y. So this is the key thing. This isn't always true. You know if I had two things I had like um I don't know uh six and nine. If I knew that six divided my integer and nine divided my integer, it would not imply that 54 divides my integer because maybe I only have two powers of three sitting in there. But the key point is that because both a and b are relatively prime, the only way that they both divide xus y is if their product divides xus y as well. So you can think about this in the case where like a and b are not just relatively prime but they're prime. Like our in our example with five and seven. If five divides your integer and seven divides your integer, there's no choice. 35 has to divide your integer too. That's basically what the statement is saying, right? And this is the key step because now we're in good shape, right? And so you know if AB divides X - Y I claim this is a contradiction. So someone make me happy tell me what the statement contradicts. See the the you know the statements I've made are not very complicated but the logic is subtle. Right? I wanted to prove that star was true. So I assumed it's not true. I assumed that there was a different pair xy where uh there were both between zero and a minus and ab um where a divides their difference and b divides their difference. And I concluded that ab must divide their difference. But now I claim I'm done and I've actually contradicted something. Um, if X and Y are different, then they will then they have to be off by at least AB. >> That's exactly right. That's right. If X and Y are different and are between zero and AB, they cannot differ by a multiple of AB. That's impossible. It's the same type of logic we used earlier. So this contradicts what we started off with. And what this means is that you know hence the Chinese remainder theorem is true. So very very clever proof. Okay, make sense. And if you have any questions about these things, you should sit down and make sure that you can reconstruct the logic yourself. You know, this proof and the proof of lema one are not hard, but really, you know, one of the things of doing proofbased math is it's one thing to be able to verify line by line the steps as someone is giving them to you, but to really understand, you know, it in, you know, uh, deeply, you have to check whether or not you can reconstruct these things yourself. You know, these types of things often happen on tests where you think that you understood something, but when you're forced to come up with it yourself, it's much harder. So that's just a piece of advice. Yeah. >> Okay. So the solution exists at all. Um so the point is that uh you know every pair that's a good question, right? So we know that uh you know there are n there are ab choices for n and there are ab choices for st. Now if every choice of n gets mapped to some choice of st right and what we just proved is that they don't collide ever. So what this really means is that we can draw this bipartite graph right here where these are all of the values of n. These are all the different possible pairs st and every n gets mapped to some value st just by taking the remainder modulo a and modulo b. And so what this proof just showed is that there are no x and y that map to the same thing. If there are no X and Y that map to the same thing and they're the same size, there's no choice, but everything maps to exactly one thing and that means everything has a solution and we can go back and forth. Good. Very good question. There's also another way to answer your question which is the way that I will do next. So, thanks for the segue. Uh that'll be our last math topic for today before I tell you an application. Um, see the same way like you know it was one thing to ask this question about whether or not every integer has a multiplicative inverse modulo prime and then we asked for more because we not only wanted that the answer was yes. We wanted to actually find what that multiplicative inverse is. Right? And you know the even stronger thing we could ask for is okay the Chinese remainder theorem is true. Hooray. But maybe we can also ask whether we can find the solution. So how can we actually find n? In our case, n was you know 29. So how can we find n, right? And so here's you know the stepbystep procedure for how we would do it. So first thing is that we write n is equal to k b + t right so this is just the statement that if I take n and divide it by b the leftover will be t and I don't know what k is so this just captures you know one of my modular equations the second one right and we know that A is going to be between zero and A just because we know that our answer, you know, is supposed to be at most AB, right? And so what we can do is we can take this expression which is just an integer expression. There's no modulus here. And we can take the we can take mods on both sides. We know that um this implies that uh k b + t is congruent to s mod a. This was our first equation and now this was our second equation and these modular constraints right because this unknown integer n we know it should be equal to t mod b and same thing it should be equal to s mod a right and so what this implies now if we just rearrange things is that kb is equal to s minus t mod a. So, you know, just to emphasize, we know S and we know T because those are the constraints in our system of modular equations. And what we're looking for is what K is, right? So, now does anyone have any ideas how we might uh solve this equation to figure out what K is? So, what's the key idea? How can we solve this equation? Perfect. That's right. We can just multiply by the multiplicative inverse of B which why does it exist? Because the GCD of B and A is one by assumption. So we know from the extended uklidian algorithm that the multiplicative inverse exists and we can find it. So in particular we can solve this equation and we get that K is congruent to B inverse S minus T and this all happens mod A right we know B inverse exists and because K is between zero and A well K is actually equal to its remainder so this just is the answer right here right so we can actually compute K using this assumption that uh you know k is between zero and a. So in the last four minutes I'm going to tell you a really cool application. Um this is somehow like a baby version I made up of like a more real application. Um but let me tell you about it. So, last time for my demo, I asked you guys, "What are embarrassing movies you like?" And I got, you know, much less exciting answers than I usually get. So, you guys got to work on that. But, uh, how many people here stream stuff online? There are people who didn't put their hands up. [laughter] How many people stream stuff online? How many people stream stuff illegally Oh, I saw you. Okay. [laughter] Okay. So, let me tell you about a cool application which has to do with streaming, which is something related to fountain codes. Surely fountain codes are a whole topic in their own right. And this is a hugely simplified version, but imagine I've got some giant file n and I have not just uh you know I'm I'm representing the contents of the file as some gigantic integer. So this is a truly huge integer, right? Not one I'd want to compute its factorization for by hand or anything. But now I have not just one person but many people streaming, right? Maybe it just came out like a new season of Stranger Things or something and everyone's trying to stream the same same thing. And you know, one of the ways that you can reconstruct the file is imagine, you know, I'm just going to sit out there broadcasting a bunch of snippets of the message. So what my snippets are going to look like is it's going to look like some modulus um you know A1 and then I'll take the remainder of N divided by A1 and I'll do this for a whole different choice of these AI. So I'll choose a whole bunch of primes AI. I'll tell you what the prime is and then I'll tell you the modulus. you know what the file contents look like as a huge integer modulo uh a1. Okay, so you know how can you reconstruct the file? So once you have you've received some set of the uh messages these are what you've received as long as the product of the ais is larger than n. That's really the generalization of the Chinese remainder theorem where I just had two factors a and b. But as soon as I have the product of these ais is larger than n, then the same type of thing works and I can use the Chinese remainder theorem to reconstruct what n is. But now the really cool thing about it which explains like fountain codes is you have all these people streaming and you know maybe it's like a one gig file but they're all not streaming at the same time. So what you can do is you can just broadcast these messages perpetually. It's like a water fountain that's, you know, um, always spraying water and everyone comes there and as soon as they fill up their one gig of data, they can reconstruct the file, it doesn't actually matter which one gig of data they get. So these kinds of things are very effective ways of sending one thing to many parties. when those same parties, you know, are listening in and getting different uh snippets of the code, they'll still be able to recover it because they've all filled up their ngene bottle with the one gig. So, this is a very simplified version of what fountain codes are because really you care about things like errors in the messages, but you can already see why things like the Chinese remainder theorem and modular arithmetic are extremely powerful. So next time on Thursday, we're going to be starting uh group theory and we'll talk a little bit more about, you know, modular arithmetic, especially the parts we need for crypto. But uh see you all then. All right.