The following content is provided under a Creative Commons license. Your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT OpenCourseWare at ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: So welcome back. Today, we're going to look at the modular synthesizer. And our area of focus right now is still looking at musical interfaces. A lot of people present the modular synthesizer in the context of basic synthesis techniques and the development of musical instruments. I think it's very useful for us to think of the modular synthesizer as a type of musical interface, and particularly the interface available through the creative patching and combination of modules. So what we're going to do is we're going to look at a little bit of the history of the development of modular synthesizers, starting with the giant RCA synth, and then moving on to the Moog. We're going to spend a little time with the basic Moog design and look at some of the basic synthesis techniques. We're going to do that by looking at the emulation of virtual Moog that we have available through Arturia's very nice virtual Moog instrument plug-in, which is going to give us a way to hear some of the sounds and see some of the approaches to patching this instrument. And then next time we meet in workshop mode next Tuesday, we're going to build some similar designs in PD using the Martingale Library and explore some of these approaches, as well. We're going to listen to some music and then if we get to it, talk about some semi-modular synths. And see the design go from fully modular synthesizers to semi-modular and non-modular synthesizers, which is a valuable trajectory to see. So coming up on the horizon, we have a brief quiz on Thursday. Keep that in mind. Your music technology case studies-- the draft is due on Tuesday. If you have any questions about this as you approach this, feel free to drop me an email or the like. And that's it for now. Any questions? OK. So now with the modular synthesizer, we see numerous things start to come together. We saw in the early studios used by Varese, by Stockhausen, and others, this cobbling together of various components and interconnecting them into sound-producing devices. We see with the modular synthesizer these components start to solidify into a single common collection of entities. With these semi-modular designs, we see this solidification happen even more. And the designs solidify into a single common thing. There wasn't anything shockingly new about the technologies used in the modular synthesizer. Again, they were technologies that had been around for 10 or 20 years. But really, the interface, and the design, and the integration of these components, in my view, was the really important thing. Voltage control-- the ability to interconnect and control these devices with voltages-- was really the key technology that made this synthesizer more flexible, more powerful, and more creative for the operator. Now we start with the RCA synthesizer, which isn't really a modular synthesizer. To my knowledge, this device had a fairly fixed signal path. So it wasn't really modular. It had components. But you couldn't interconnect the components with patch cords. You couldn't radically change the type of sounds that it made. Now this synthesizer came in two different forms. There was the first one, which later became known as the Mark I and then the Mark II, the later version of this. This synthesizer was the result of quite a bit of research by Olson and Belar, who were working at RCA for a number of years. The Holmes text nicely describes their early research with music synthesis technologies. Does anybody recall what they were trying to do in the beginning-- Olson and Belar. Their first attempt at synthesis was directed towards this certain activity. Anybody recall? They were trying to synthesize Steven Walter pop tunes-- pop melodies-- basic melodies, using essentially Markov chains. And they were trying to create a machine that could compose simple melodies by analyzing basic tunes and then re-synthesizing them. In that process, they developed some technologies for creating oscillators and filters. And that led to their first RCA synthesizer. So this device used essentially tuning-fork-based oscillators. So their basic oscillator was a tuning fork that was set in motion and picked up electromagnetically. And that signal was then divided to shift into different octaves and transformed into a square wave to create a rich tone. And then they filtered that tone to create the variety of timbres that the instrument could make. The device featured a number of filters, as well-- high- and low-pass filters and this really kind of bizarre resonator chain, which is an interesting selective filter. This image here is from their first publication on the synthesizer from 1955. And it's also reproduced in the Holmes book. We can see the basic way that the synthesizer worked. Information was encoded on something kind of like a piano roll, but just storing control information in a binary representation. Here, rather than using a vacuum, brushes are used to pick up when an opening in the hole was to trigger a circuit. The frequency source here is those oscillators controlled by tuning forks. And that signal is then split by the octiver. And then it has the frequency glider, which allows the transition between pitches, the growth, and decay, which is a fancy name for an envelope generator. Or not fancy, I guess-- historic-- various high-pass, low-pass filters, volume control, low-frequency modulator, probably for adding vibrato or other slow changes to the sound. Resonator change-- that's that unique filter I was talking about-- timbre control, probably additional filters. Or I'm not exactly sure what that last component did. But that's something to look at. And then finally, all going to a nice record cutter, which allowed you to record the sound. So there were two nearly identical voices that could be used and controlled by this paper roll. So partly out of Olson and Belar's earlier research in synthesizing pop tunes, they approached a synthesizer as a device that needed to be controlled, not by a keyboard, not by some other type of interface, but by a type of notation. And their notation was this punched-hole paper record, which again, is kind of like a piano roll but different. Because rather than a one-to-one relationship with parameters and their values, these are essentially three- and four-bit codes that determine frequency, octave, timbre, the envelope growth and decay, and volume. So frequency is determined by these four on-and-off switches, which give us 16 possible values. But they only used 12. Octave could be selected. Similarly here, timbre, the envelope, volume, et cetera. This roll right there shows us the necessary information to encode these six pitches. So you can imagine working with this device would be a little tedious. But it offered explicit, complete control. This nice diagram, also from that original article, shows us a massive simplification of the device, going from reading the roll, to the two synthesizer channels, mixer, amplifier, and then a direct-to-disk cutting lathe. Some notable thing about this-- it was really the first attempt to parameterize musical information in a very rigorous and complete way. We saw with the player piano an earlier attempt at parameterization. But here, we're starting to parameterize timbre, amplitude envelopes, and volume and level controls at a greater degree than we had with the player piano. Also important about this instrument is it was not designed for performance. It was really designed as a machine where you composed in advance and played back what you had notated. That was the Mark I. The Mark II was housed at Princeton University. And that started a relationship with Columbia and Princeton University, which led to Columbia and Princeton getting a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to buy the second version of this synth-- the RCA Mark II. This synth was very similar to the Mark I, except for it added a white-noise generator, which was useful for creating a variety of noisier percussive sounds. It had four voices instead of two. It had a microphone input. And it had some variable frequency oscillators. Similar to the RCA Mark I, it was a room-sized giant beast of a synthesizer. In this picture, we can see the disk cutters here. We can see, also, some tape. Eventually, they did add tape machines. And we can see the paper readers there. Notice that we don't see, really, a patch bay or patch cords. This was a modular synthesizer in that had modules. But it wasn't freely interconnectable in the way that we later find with our Moog and Buchla synthesizers. Now I sent you guys the link to this demo recording, which has this great narrator helping us along the way. This demo record was made in 1955. I believe it was a recording of the Mark II. The reason why is because in this demonstration, they use a filtered white noise. And I think this is a very nice example where they tried to synthesize the sound of a complete dance band. So they had four voices. So they used some of the voices for bass, percussion, and melody. Let's listen to a little of this. [HIGH-PITCHED SYNTHESIZER BEEPS] PROFESSOR: That's the high-hat sound. [LOW-PITCHED SYNTHESIZER BEEPS] PROFESSOR: And that's the bass. [SYNTHESIZER] PROFESSOR: And here's everything altogether. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] -We can also synthesize a part where each tone has a rapid growth and slow decay, like this. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: Let's go back to that dance band. [LOW-PITCHED SYNTHESIZER BEEPS] PROFESSOR: Come on. [SYNTHESIZED MUSIC] PROFESSOR: There we go. Notice the white noise being used for the snare-like sound there. So as this demo record shows, and as the history of Olson and Belar's work shows, they were very interested in using the synthesizer to generate pop music, which is interesting. Because what it became used for was not popular music, but music of composers like Milton Babbitt, Mario Davidovsky, and other composers working at the Columbia-Princeton studios. One of our listenings for today was "Philomel," Babbitt's 1964 composition that used the RCA synthesizer. Let's listen to a little bit of this to remind you guys what this sounds like. [MUSIC -- MILTON BABBITT, "PHILOMEL"] PROFESSOR: So there's three sources of sound in this composition. What are they-- three sources of sound? AUDIENCE: There's the voice. PROFESSOR: Right, the live voice. AUDIENCE: There's the synthesizer. Not sure what the third was. PROFESSOR: Anybody notice or recall? There's also pre-recorded voice. So there's some tape-recorded and processed voice sounds in here, which are used to create some very nice distance echo and some depth to the voice. And actually in my view, one of the most interesting things about this piece is how the tape part blends with the synthesis and acts as an intermediary. Thoughts about this piece? AUDIENCE: It's very sporadic. PROFESSOR: Sporadic-- what do you mean, sporadic? AUDIENCE: Very jagged. I don't know. It's not really-- they follow a certain pattern. But there's not a ton of tune. PROFESSOR: Yeah, there's this jagged, jerky, gestural shape to a lot of the musical parts. And that's clear in the voice and also in the synthesizer parts. AUDIENCE: As the piece goes on, the voice smooths out a little bit, though, if I remember correctly. And then the synthesizer's still doing the jagged [INAUDIBLE]. So it has the background interjections, I guess. It seems like longer stretches. AUDIENCE: Yeah. PROFESSOR: Yeah, let's jump to the end in here. [MUSIC -- MILTON BABBITT, "PHILOMEL"] PROFESSOR: Now Babbitt was using a method of organization that we have talked about previously. What was that method of organization? AUDIENCE: Serialism. PROFESSOR: Serialism, or the 12-tone technique. Did the RCA synthesizer provide facilities for 12-tone composers? Was it well suited for that? I mean, Olson and Belar wanted to use it to do popular music. AUDIENCE: You had absolute control over everything, right? So it was perfect. PROFESSOR: Right. All your parameters were fixed on the roll. So you could compose very carefully crafted lines in a very organized way. And that's very much what we hear here. It's kind of, I think, ironic in that Olson and Belar imagined this instrument originally to create an endless variety of pop tunes to sell in the commercial market. And of course, it ended up being used to create some very esoteric, non-commercial music in the end. And that's one of our many examples of unintended consequences of certain technologies. Other comments or reflections on this piece? AUDIENCE: I thought it was really cool to use the operatic voice with it, as opposed to other singing styles. Because in conjunction with the synthesizer, the strange timbre of operatic singing became this thing that was more like a thing to listen to than typically what operatic singing is about. PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's interesting. For me, the really striking thing is the vibrato. Because the vibrato is really, really wide-- contrast between that wide vibrato and the more flat tones we're getting out of the synthesizer. Are you hearing something else, as well? AUDIENCE: No, that's the sort of thing. But then also in the tape-modulated parts. Because he speeds her up and slows her down. And so this thing happens with the vibrato right where they like. It was very tight, or even looser and lower. And there's this really, I think, great interplay between that and the synthesized sounds. PROFESSOR: Yeah, I agree. Yep. AUDIENCE: Yeah, the sound I heard reminded me a lot of science fiction. PROFESSOR: Uh-huh. [LAUGHS] AUDIENCE: There seems to be a common thread about that recording. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Well, a lot of the early sounds of early synthesizers were used in science fiction and film, since Forbidden Planet, and even before that with the theremin. The connection has been there for some time. We don't hear a lot of variety of timbres and colors with the synthesizer. A lot of it is sinusoidal or filtered waveforms. So there's not a huge variety of sounds out of the synth. But it didn't provide a tremendous amount of control, as we can tell by looking at the control information available on the tape. AUDIENCE: Do you know anything about how it was serialed, whether he used all of his parameters in the serial way? I was trying to parse it out, and I had no idea. PROFESSOR: Yeah. I mean, it's worth looking at further. I suspect, given Babbitt's inclinations, that both pitch and the other parameters were serialized. So it's very likely he had the opportunity to serialize envelopes and serialize the timbre controls of the synth. So I think it's very likely that he probably did, which is similar to an approach taken by Stockhausen, who was rigorously exploring some of these things. But with the RCA synthesizer, this became very notatable in a way that wasn't possible before. Do you have another comment? OK. So two innovators followed the RCA synthesizer with devices that were more flexible than the RCA synthesizer. They were more flexible in that they allowed the operator to reconnect the modules in various ways. Rather than that fixed sequence of oscillator, filter, et cetera, these devices allowed the operator to interconnect them in a variety of different ways and also allowed the operator to control them in a variety of different ways, not with punched paper but with various types of input devices. Buchla generally gets credit for coming a little bit before Moog. His devices were very diverse and often custom-designed for particular people, particular studios. His interest as a composer himself was in creating diverse and unique instruments, not really in creating a commercial market for the synthesizer. So he not only explored a wide variety of different modules that use noise and randomness in different ways, but also various types of input devices other than the keyboard. And our readings for today emphasize the point about how Buchla initially didn't want a keyboard control for his instrument, and Moog embraced that, which is an issue we'll talk about when we talk about the [? Pinchen-Trocho ?] reading. In 1965, he releases the Buchla Box without a keyboard-- a very popular instrument. 1970, he has this 200 series Electric Music Box, which you can see there. Also doesn't have a keyboard, but has a variety of sliders, knobs, and other interface components. In the '70s, he released some portable devices. This one, although apparently I think Holmes says that only 200 of these were made-- wouldn't you like one of these? He did use a keyboard at times. But notice that this is a touch-sensitive keyboard and probably does some things we wouldn't expect. A small, portable modular synthesizer-- if you can find one of these, get it. [LAUGHS] Buchla is still making synthesizers. They're very expensive. But they really offer some unique designs. Looking at his designs-- you can go to his website-- are really fascinating, creative approaches to the synthesizer. Buchla is a separate thread from that of Moog. Because Moog's instruments were dedicated to meeting the needs-- the demands-- of musicians. Our readings make that very clear. He worked with musicians in a variety of ways. He invited musicians to come to his factory and explore his instruments. He adapted his instruments to the demands of musicians in order to meet their needs, and really, through that, made a very successful commercial instrument. Now we've already talked about how Moog got started with the theremin as a kid, creating theremin kits in his garage. In 1954, he published this article in Radio and Television News about his design for a tube-based theremin. This article's great. You can check it out online. It also has the whole schematic diagram for the circuit. At this time in the '40s and '50s, there was this whole kit-bit building culture, and a lot of interest in building theremin. So his design became very popular and attracted a lot of attention. He published another article in 1961 using a transistor-based theremin that was actually featured on the cover of this magazine and also got him a He, by then, had a business. He and his dad were selling theremins out of their garage-- theremin kits. By the '60s, he meets a composer by the name of Deutsch, who knew Moog because of the theremin-- his theremin kits-- and wanted to know about, well, if he can do some other types of synthesizing devices-- some other types of devices that allowed you to take basic oscillators, interconnect them, and put them under flexible control. Moog develops his first synthesizer, the 900 Series, in 1965. This device wasn't distributed broadly. It was used mostly by composers and some studios. In 1966, he patents his low-pass filter, which becomes a very important part of his synthesizer. Because it allowed to take a rich, wide bandwidth sound and control its timbre and give it a very crisp tone. We'll hear some of that sound very shortly. People say that this was the only thing that Moog patented. But there are some other patents associated with the Moog name. It was definitely the first device that he patented. And the low-pass filter was novel in that it had a particularly steep roll-off curve. So it was able to really focus the sound underneath the cutoff frequency. And it had an adjustable resonance, which provided a nice peak at that cutoff frequency. Now it's in 1967 that he releases his first real commercial product, the series Systems 1, 2, and 3. This is an earlier device. We can see with this one, the keyboard. We can see some of the basic modules. And we can see, also, a ribbon controller, another type of input device that he explored. This got later refined into devices of this sort, which is very often what we see when we imagine the Moog synthesizer. Here we have a number of oscillators, filters, up here. And this over here is a sequencer, which we're actually going to talk about sequencing next time we meet-- also, the keyboard and the ribbon controller, as well. So with the Systems 1, 2, and 3 in 1967, there was some standard packages you could buy. But you could still buy individual modules for your own synthesizer. And this nice price list shows us some of the prices of these devices. We could get a voltage-controlled amplifier for $150-- fair price. That voltage-controlled low-pass, high-pass filter, $475 for one filter in 1968. That's pretty expensive. These synthesizers were extremely expensive. But they started to be sold and commercialized. And people started to buy them. But one thing in particular led to the explosion of the Moog industry, and that was Wendy Carlos's Switched-on Bach recording, recorded in 1968, released in '69, and garnered a huge amount of attention to the Moog synthesizer. We'll talk about Wendy Carlos and her recording in a little bit. But let's review some of the concepts of the modular synthesizer. So we have two basic components. We have things that generate sound, like our oscillators and other devices. And we have components that modify those sounds. So we have these two different types of modules that can be interconnected and modified. The input four module is either the knobs on the front panel or another voltage. And some devices allow you to switch between using the knob or a voltage as an input, or using both-- using the knob to set a basic level and then the input voltage to adjust it further. The output of these modules is another voltage, which can be interconnected to modules further down the line. Within the modular synthesizer, we have two types of signals. We have control signals and audio signals. Both of these, depending on the design, can be interconnected in various ways. Audio signals are the things that we're used to-- sounds represented as a bipolar voltage. Voltage ranges would generally between negative 3 and 3 volts. Sometimes higher or wider ranges were possible. Control signals were also voltages but generally unipolar voltages between maybe 0 and plus 5 volts. These were often more slowly moving signals that could be used to control the parameters of another module. Control signals were used, obviously, to shape envelopes. And these envelopes could be applied to parameters other than the amplitude of the sound, such as a cutoff frequency or the like. Now a key concept of the modular synthesizer was the ability to reuse the modules. We could use an oscillator to produce a tone and hear that tone of the oscillator. We could also use an oscillator to shape the amplitude of a sound and produce a tremolo, or to modulate the frequency of another oscillator and produce a vibrato, or use the output of an oscillator to modulate the cutoff frequency to create a variable timbre to a sound. I'm going to demonstrate all of those in a second. This ability to reuse these modules-- to mix audio signals and control signals and transform one to the other-- was really the key feature of the modular synthesizer, combined with voltage control, and gave it a great degree of flexibility. Now in this golden age of the modular synthesizer, when you sat down to this instrument, you got nothing for free. You sat down. It didn't make any sound. In order to make a sound, you had to design an instrument. So the interface, in order to make a sound, became patching. You had to patch to make a sound. No sounds were given to you. And this promoted a huge degree of freedom and creativity in the design of sounds. We see, over the history of synthesizers, this start to decrease. And so in the late '60s is when we have the most freedom. And as the '70s move on, we see synthesizers that reduce the ability of patching and make it easier to get a sound more automatically. And then by the early '80s, we have synthesizers that are programmable but have very little in terms of a customizable interface. Some of the basic components of the synthesizer-- these are screenshots of virtual synths, which is kind of amusing. But they allow us to see more clearly some of the designs of these synthesizers. So our basic oscillators, or voltage-control oscillators, generally provided a control for frequency. Often, the range of the frequency knob would be variable in steps. So we have a dedicated low-frequency switch for low-frequency oscillators. And then we have various higher ranges, which use the terminology derived from organs-- 32 foot, 16 foot, 8 foot, and the like. We had the ability to get different waveforms from the same oscillator, which is a nice convenience of such devices. We have various noise sources, and we'll hear example of those as well. And we have a sample on hold generators, which allow us to take an input signal and sample it periodically to create a stepped shape. I'll demonstrate that in a little bit, as well. Now our modular synthesizers usually had some sort of mixing control-- some ability to combine signals. And this sometimes was under control of another voltage. So we have voltage-control amplifiers, or VCAs. Sometimes we have mixers that use various toggles or on-off switches. This is from the design of the Minimoog, where the various oscillators had a level control and then a toggle switch. And some devices had various types of matrix-mixing and patching controls, which are very, very cool. This EMS synthesizer-- the Synthi, Synth-I-- allowed you to control the routing of signals, rather than through patch cords through a matrix. This was a template used to help you remember your patch with this synth. These synths are very cool. If you can find one, grab it. Notice the convenient handle. You can take it with you. All of our synthesizers have various types of filters. A VCF, or voltage-control filter, allows you to adjust the parameters with a voltage, the low-pass filter and high-pass filter being the most common, a band-pass filter and other varieties also found. In our modular synthesizer, we have various types of envelope generators. The envelope is a unipolar signal that we can apply to the amplitude of a sound. But we can also apply the envelope to other musical parameters. The key thing about an envelope is its control signal that's designed to be triggered. It's a control signal that's designed to start at a certain time and end, as opposed to something like a low-frequency oscillator that is continuous and ongoing. The ADSR is probably the most common type of envelope control on these early modular synthesizers, although there were other varieties, as well. There was AR filters and attack-decay-sustain filters-- various simplifications of the ADSR model. The key approach to using the modular synthesizer at this time is often called subtractive synthesis. The idea of subtractive synthesis is we start with a rich, complex tone, and we use our filters to take away from that tone and get the sound that we're looking at. This is part of the reason why Moog's low-pass filter was so important. Because we could start with a complex tone and then use the low-pass filter to shape out the frequencies that we did not want. So our basic approach of working in subtractive synthesis would be to start with a rich complex tone, to cut out some of those frequencies, apply amplitude envelopes to vary the amplitude shape of that sound, and then use modulation to vary the parameters. And this starts to become really interesting when we modulate the modulators. And we'll listen to what that sounds like in a second. Questions, comments, ideas? OK. So let's hear what this sounds like. Now probably the most basic approach on one of the most common approaches to creating a complex sound would be combining multiple oscillators. And this design is embodied in some of the early Moog synthesizers, where we have three oscillators-- like these three oscillators right here-- all under one driver to control the three oscillators. The idea embodied in the interface here is that we're going to create a rich tone by combining oscillators. We can tune each of these oscillators to different octaves and slight tuning differences. But they're all going to be under a single control. Let's listen to what this sounds like. So our first example-- if we start off with just a single oscillator-- [LOW-PITCH SYNTHESIZER TONES] So here, we're hearing a sawtooth waveform. And I'm taking it from this oscillator here and just dropping it over into my big ADSR envelope there. If we want to hear a sign tone, we can just replace that. [SYNTHESIZER] That's it. A strong sign tone. And we have our triangle waveform here. [SYNTHESIZER BEATS] Our triangle waveform sounds dead at that range. [SYNTHESIZER BEATS AND TONE] That's unexpected. Let's go back to this. I wonder if I-- There's our saw. And then we have our square wave, which also-- [FAINT SYNTHESIZER TONES] --is not performing well, strangely. OK. So that's our basic oscillators. Now we can combine these to create a rich tone. So here, what I've done is combine the sound of three oscillators. And let me tune them all the same first. So we're actually hearing three oscillators. And if you think about what you think of a Moog sounding like, this thick sound is very much what we think about. We're hearing sawtooth and square waves here at different octaves. Let me vary the octaves of this a little bit. [SYNTHESIZER] Hear that square wave at the higher octave there? Or if I move up one of the sawtooth waves-- Or if I set them all to low registers. [LOW-PITCHED SYNTHESIZER TONES] Now we can tune each of these oscillators separately. And a very common practice would be to make the oscillators slightly out of tune to create an even thicker sound. So if I tune each of these oscillators out a little bit from the center-- Let me go even further. [DISCORDANT SYNTHESIZER TONES] Now right there, it sounds like out-of-tune oscillators. But if I bring this closer together-- [WAVERING SYNTHESIZER TONES] --we get a thick sound, rather than an out-of-tune sound. Let me shift this one up an octave or two. And let me set this to be a little bit more out of tune. You don't hear it as out-of-tune oscillators. You hear it as a single complex tone. Now we can see already that most of these early modular designs were designed to be monophonic, so produce one sound at a time. Early on, it was figured out that it'd be pretty nice to be able to control the transition between these monophonic voices. And so we have the use of a portamento control. This was available in the RCA synthesizer, as well. And this would often set the amount of glide between adjacent pitches. So-- [SYNTHESIZER] Right here, we're hearing one note at a time. If I set the glide-- [GLIDING SYNTHESIZER TONES] That's a little long there. Let me make it a little shorter. [CHOPPY SYNTHESIZER TONES] A little longer-- --which was used very prominently by musicians-- --to create transitions between notes, and is really one of the most common sounds from these early monophonic synthesizers. Questions? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] the glide of it? Because it seems like a weird parameter to become such a central thing, or even to decide that you need it right there next to the keyboard. It's the thing that you need. So was there a reason? Obviously there was a reason for that. But was it prominent in music in a way that [INAUDIBLE]? PROFESSOR: Well, I mean, if a normal musician can control this-- for instance, on a guitar or other string instrument, even a lot of wind instruments, as well. And I think the idea was some musical passages you would want to be staccato, and short, and broken. And other cases, depending on the context, you would want to have that glide control. If you want to make it sound like a theremin, you can set it all the way up, and then get continuous pitch variations. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Yeah, exactly. AUDIENCE: [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: OK. So our first step in subtractive synthesis is creating a complex tone. And we've done that by combining and de-tuning oscillators. We can use a variety of different wave shapes with those oscillators. And we can de-tune them. And we can add three or-- I don't know, should we go crazy? [SYNTHESIZER] If we want to add some more, let's-- I don't know. What does six sound like? Let's see. Let's throw in a sign tone. That's kind of nice. And let's throw in another sawtooth. [LAUGHS] OK. You get the idea. So we've produced our complex tone. The next basic step of is to apply a filter. And this is where Moog's patented low-pass filter comes into play and why his steep roll-off curve was so valuable. We take our complex tone generated by three or more oscillators. And we filter it. And let's start off with just the filtered-- [SYNTHESIZER] OK. We're a little bit ahead of where we want to be. Let's start first with our complex tone. There's our complex tone. And our filter provides cutoff frequency to shape the timbre of that sound and a resonance control to set the amount of amplitude on the peak of the cutoff frequency. [HIGH-PITCHED SYNTHESIZER TONES] One of the design features of Moog's low-pass filter was that it could self-resonate. So if the resonance was set loud enough-- --we could actually produce a very clear sinusoidal sound at the cutoff frequency. Yeah, you get the idea. So there's our low-pass filter-- taking our thick tone, put it through a low-pass filter. One of the most common things we want to do and one of the easy advantages of using a modular synthesizer is we can take a sign tone, or some other wave shape, and use it to modulate the cutoff frequency. [STATICKY SYNTHESIZER TONES] There it's a little fast. Let me slow it down. [PULSING SYNTHESIZER TONES] So now we're modulating the cutoff frequency by a sign tone, whose frequency I can control-- [SLOW WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] --and whose depth I can control here. We would have to scale it. This is much harder to do with a real synth. But this makes it nice and easy. [SYNTHESIZER] So a very common sound, using a low-frequency oscillator to control the cutoff frequency. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Is there a noticeable difference if we modulate the cutoff of the square or a sawtooth? PROFESSOR: Yeah, let's hear it. So yeah, you can definitely notice it. Because here, we're hearing the smooth transition. So let's try a square wave. Right, so we hear the step pattern. If we speed this up, this is actually pretty cool. [SYNTHESIZER TONES WITH BEEPS] We get a nice switching. And then if we do the-- let's try a triangle waveform. It's not as smooth as a sign. We'll get a-- [WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] There we go. So we get a different sound. Yeah? AUDIENCE: Oh, I just wanted to clarify that all the audio outputs are also used as control outputs, right? There's no separation between-- PROFESSOR: Different synths had different designs in terms of that. AUDIENCE: With the Moog, though. PROFESSOR: With the Moog, well, I believe except for the voltage ranges, sometimes you would need to scale an audio input. Some devices, you would need to transform your voltage before you could use it. But you could take an audio oscillator and use it as a control voltage if it could perform at a slow enough rate as a low-frequency oscillator. Some designs, you would need a dedicated low-frequency oscillator. Because it couldn't perform slowly in a reliable way. That would be an issue why sometimes there would be a dedicated But with computers, doing low-frequency oscillation is easy. So it's more interoperable. AUDIENCE: Is there some responsiveness issue with that, where it seems like you [? couldn't ?] do really cool things if you took audio signal that was not synthesized but recorded, and amplified, and made to control things, like a [INAUDIBLE], kind of. PROFESSOR: Absolutely. AUDIENCE: Is there a responsiveness issue? Because what you were saying before about control-voltage versus audio signals is that the control tends to be at a slow-- like obviously, audio is at a higher rate, not [INAUDIBLE] not digital. PROFESSOR: Right. AUDIENCE: With that kind of thing, is that a problem if you want to modulate, say, the filter with your voice? PROFESSOR: Exactly. Yeah, I mentioned in passing that the RCA synthesizer had a microphone input. And Moog's synthesizers had-- this one doesn't show us a good example of that-- but had microphone inputs. We could take an analog signal, use a low-pass filter to smooth out the edges, and use that to drive some other parameters. So it was possible to take other inputs, use them to control your musical parameters. That general technique is something we call envelope following. And sometimes there would be dedicated envelope followers in these early synths to make that even easier. AUDIENCE: So like optimize it for that, kind of? PROFESSOR: Yeah. OK. So what we just did was have our dense combination of oscillators. And we use an LFO to shape the sound in a periodic way. A very common-- probably the most common approach to subtractive synthesis-- so common that it was embodied in the design of the Minimoog a few years later from the time of this synthesizer-- was using an envelope to control the cutoff frequency. Why would you use an envelope to control the cutoff frequency? So with the LFO, we get that continuous change in the timbre, no matter when we trigger the note. Why would we want to use an envelope, which we generally use to control the amplitude, to control the cutoff frequency of a filter? Any ideas? AUDIENCE: More like a real instrument then, if it's linked to when you play, as opposed to continuous. PROFESSOR: That's right. Many real instruments have different timbres over the course of their envelope. Many instruments are often brighter at the initial onset-- the articulation-- and then darken as the tone sustains. So a very common approach is to use a-- pull it up-- envelope. And here, I'm using an ADSR set to trigger when I press a note to control the cutoff frequency of the filter. And I'll start off with the modulation of this being small. [SYNTHESIZER] Here on the onset-- the initial little bump in the frequency-- let me make this broader. And even broader. And I'll start off with the lower start point. [SYNTHESIZER TONE BURSTS] So that's an extreme setting. We're using the ADSR to control the cutoff frequency. And I can adjust the attack. So if the attack is quick, we'll get a bright sound at the very beginning and then it'll get dark. Ever hear a synthesizer sound like that before, maybe? Probably the most common approach-- subtractive synthesis. Use an envelope to control the cutoff frequency of a rich tone. If I set the attack to be longer-- [SYNTHESIZER] --even longer still-- [LONG SYNTHESIZER TONE] --we get a very slow increase in the cutoff frequency. And then that was so long, it didn't even come back down. There we go. Good. Questions? So again, that approach was so common, it was embodied in nearly almost every synthesizer that came after the Moog, this idea of applying a filter to the cutoff frequencies. Some designs, like the Minimoog, even had a dedicated envelope just to control the cutoff frequency. So what else could we do with the modular synthesizer? Well, we could do amplitude modulation and ring modulation, where we modulate the amplitude of the sound, either with a sinusoidal shape or some other shape. And we can use this to create tremolo effects when we use a low-frequency oscillator or amplitude-modulation or ring-modulation effects as we speed up the modulation. So in the first example here, we're taking the output of our three oscillators here, and we're putting them into what is essentially a voltage-controlled amplifier. And we're modulating the voltage of the amplifier by another oscillator. So-- [SHORT SYNTHESIZER TONE] That was intentional. [SYNTHESIZER TONES] So this is an oscillator controlling the amplitude of our rich tone. As we speed this up-- [SYNTHESIZER PULSE TONES] --we get a sort of tremolo sound. And as we take this oscillator into the audio range-- this is a great example of being able to use our modules for both audio and control-rate signals-- we start to get some amplitude-modulated [SYNTHESIZER] --sounds. And if I increase the modulation-- [DISTORTED SYNTHESIZER TONES] --and again, low frequency. [RAPID PULSING SYNTHESIZER TONES] And as before, we can change the wave shape of the amplitude modulation between our other wave shapes. So here, I'm using a sinusoid. We could use squares, or triangles, or other shapes, as well. Now of course, the next thing to do is modulate the modulators. So if I vary the modulation of the modulator-- [LAUGHS] so here, I'm using one oscillator to control the frequency of another oscillator that's being used to control the amplitude of our rich tone, controlled by three oscillators-- [PULSING SYNTHESIZER TONES] --we get a gradual shift from tremolo to amplitude modulation as I speed this up. [SYNTHESIZER] Let's see. And let's try something even faster and see what that sounds like. [PULSING SYNTHESIZER TONES] Yeah, we're not hearing the transition there. And let's try one more thing and see. So there, we're doing variable-rate amplitude modulation, where the variance and the rate-- --is determined by this other oscillator. Let's try one more at this super high speed. [RAPID SYNTHESIZER PULSE TONES] All right. You get the idea. Questions? So that's amplitude modulation. Ring modulation-- closely related to amplitude modulation. Sometimes there would be dedicated devices for doing ring modulation. On the Moog, there was a dedicated ring modulator that used a special circuit that was quite popular later. Let's just hear a little bit about how that ring motivation sounds like. [WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] Now here, I'm using an envelope to modulate the frequency of ring modulation so that we get a dynamic contour over the length of the event-- --which is kind of fun. Good. We can use our oscillators to control frequency and the-- oh yeah, sure. AUDIENCE: When you use an envelope to control the cutoff frequency of your low-pass filter, is that still the same envelope of the output? PROFESSOR: I'm using a different envelope generator. So it's like I'm using AI'm triggering them at the same time. But I'm using a different ADSR to control that cutoff frequency. AUDIENCE: OK. PROFESSOR: So I'm using one ADSR to control the output envelope and another ADSR to control the cutoff frequency. PROFESSOR: Yeah? AUDIENCE: Do key presses on the keyboard trigger all of the whole thing? PROFESSOR: It depends on the design of the synthesizer and what's going on. For this emulation, there's an easy way for us to set the trigger for envelopes. And you see this little red light right there allows me to set-- that envelope is triggered when a key press is set. There's other ways to trigger envelopes, as well. So vibrato-- our very basic approach to vibrato is done by simply using one of our oscillators. This, of course, is why we need so many oscillators. Because we can use them for so many things. We're using one of our oscillators to modulate the frequency of our complex tone. [WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] OK. Well maybe that doesn't sound much like a normal vibrato. So if we reduce the degree of modulation-- [SLOWING WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] Let's make it a little slower. [SLOWING SYNTHESIZER TONES] Well, why don't we just make it really wide? [SYNTHESIZER TONES] So we can go from something like a normal vibrato to very wide frequency sweeps. We still don't have something that sounds like a more human vibrato. Does anybody know why we don't have something that sounds like a human vibrato? Anybody want to speculate? It's constant, right? The vibrato is constant the whole time. And often, musicians maybe start off with a straight tone, and then lean into the vibrato, and then stop the vibrato. AUDIENCE: And in that case, you could just modulate that modulator to create that human [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: That's right. So we can-- AUDIENCE: Envelope on the-- AUDIENCE: Right. AUDIENCE: Yeah. We use an envelope to scale the amplitude of the low-frequency oscillator that's driving the frequency modulation. Again, what we do is we take an ADSR envelope that's being triggered when the note starts. And we're putting that into one of our voltage-controlled amplifiers. We're taking the output of one of our oscillators, and scaling the output by that ADSR, and taking the output of that now modified control signal to modulate the frequency of our rich tone produced by three oscillators, which gives us-- [SYNTHESIZER] --a vibrato that nicely fades in and then fades out. What determines the fade-in time? Well, it's the attack of this envelope. So if we want it to come in right away-- --if we want it to take a long time-- --the depth is set by our voltage-control amplifier. [SYNTHESIZER KNOCKING TONES] PROFESSOR: OK, maybe I went a little too far there. [WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] [LAUGHS] OK. [LONG SYNTHESIZER TONES AND TRILLS] You get the idea. So that's a great example of using our modules for a lot of different things. We're using an oscillator to create variation in frequency. We're using one of our envelopes to scale that variation before applying it to other oscillators. Now as we started to hear there, we can push this frequency modulation even further and start to create new harmonics. Frequency modulation, or FM modulation, is when we modulate the frequency at, or near, or beyond the audio rate, producing even more frequencies and then even more complex timbre. Frequency modulation is often done with assigned tones. But we already have a rich tone. So what if we just modulate the frequency of our rich tone at the audio rate? I'll start with a slow-- [SYNTHESIZER] You can hear it's already-- here's low frequency. Let me speed it up. And as I increase the amount of modulation-- [VARYING SYNTHESIZER TONES] --we get all sorts of new spectral components due to the frequency modulation. And of course, we could scale that frequency modulation. We could modulate the modulator. So we could control the parameters of the modulation with another oscillator or another envelope. And the process goes on and on. Now a very common technique available as early as the RCA synthesizer-- we heard a little taste of this-- was the use of filtered noise. We can use our noise sources through either a low-pass or band-pass filter to create some novel timbres. This was used in that example we listened to before to create a drum sound. And it can be used for a lot of interesting sounds. Oh, sorry. [SYNTHESIZER] That was modulating the modulator of FM. Here's our filtered-noise example. [STATICKY SYNTHESIZER TONES] So here I'm using a white-noise source into a band-pass filter. And I'm controlling the cutoff frequency of that band-pass filter by the keyboard. So we can create something somewhat in between a pitched and unpitched sound. [STATICKY AND WARPED SYNTHESIZER TONES] If we try with a low-pass filter-- [SYNTHESIZER TAPS] Let's see what this sounds like. [VARYING SYNTHESIZER TAPS AND BEEPS] So that's simply noise through a low-pass filter where the cutoff frequency is controlled by the keyboard, which gives us the ability to create-- [SYNTHESIZER BEEPS] --some novel sounds. Yeah. AUDIENCE: What happens when you modulate the modulator with the audio output? [INAUDIBLE] Can you even do that on the Moog? PROFESSOR: Yeah. On the Moog? I'm not sure I can do it on this. But with a computer, we need to insert a little bit of delay in there. We'll do that with PD. When we work this with PD, we'll feed that back and see what happens. You could use feedback on the Moog, particularly with delay, which is something that sometimes people would use. Because we still had the old tape technique. So some people would integrate tape delay with the synthesizer, send a signal out, put it through tape delay, bring it back in, which allowed you to do some pretty interesting things. I believe we heard that in the Oliveros tune, "Alien Bog." She used a lot of tape delay. The last example I have for you guys is one of the most common sounds from the modular synthesizer, or one of the many common sounds. And this is using the sample and hold generator applied to noise. So here, what I'm doing is taking white noise, bringing it into the sample-and-hold generator. The sample and hold takes that noise and samples values from it in a periodic fashion. Here, I'm using the internal trigger to sample the noise. And I'm applying the output of that to an oscillator to do frequency modulation of the oscillator. So in short-- [SYNTHESIZER BEEPS] --we get this. Sound familiar? So what we're doing, again, we're taking noise and using it as a source of randomness. But the noise is coming out at the audio rate. So basically, what we need to do is slow it down. And the sample and hold gives us a way to slow down a signal and make it into a stepped pattern. [SYNTHESIZER] Here, it's really slow. I can speed it up. [FASTER SYNTHESIZER TONES] And even faster. [RAPID SYNTHESIZER TONES] And this sample and hold has a nice glide parameter here, which will smooth out the transition between each step. We spend all our time gliding, and we don't even get to the points. Sample and holds are a lot of fun. Taking noise, putting it through a sample and hold-- a very powerful way to get random parameters. Here, we're hearing those random parameters scaled in a very wide frequency range. We can use it in a much more narrow range-- --to create more subtle effects. Let's see if we can hear a random vibrato. Oh, I need to scale this even more. Sort of a random vibrato-- a very unhuman approach and one very idiomatic to the synthesizer. Questions? AUDIENCE: The [INAUDIBLE] is very digital, right? PROFESSOR: Well, in a way. I mean, the way that analog-to-digital conversion works is essentially through a process of sampling and holding the value. But sample and hold processors were available for a long time. AUDIENCE: Yeah. But it seems like an in-between step, between this idea of sampling these individual values out and then putting them out. It's very digital, kind of. PROFESSOR: Yeah, absolutely. But then with this glide control, we get right back into the smooth analog domain. So that's-- AUDIENCE: It's just like a A-B-C, B-A-C built together. PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's true. So-- AUDIENCE: I have a question. PROFESSOR: Yeah. AUDIENCE: So you showed us the matrix, like the plug-in one. Do they have virtual versions of the matrix? Or is it just a bad interface? PROFESSOR: Oh, I think it's a great interface. But I don't know of a virtualized version of those EMS synths yet. EMS really explore that. And there is another synthesizer-- look at this, ARP 2500-- that use matrices for the entire patching system. I would love to see a virtualization of that. But I don't know of one yet. AUDIENCE: It's sort of like [INAUDIBLE] matrix-based controls [INAUDIBLE]. Does it do-- PROFESSOR: Max has a matrix GUI control. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So you can [INAUDIBLE] things and [INAUDIBLE] similar, but not-- PROFESSOR: Of course, with this design, depending on how it's implemented, you can do one-to-one connections, like with a patch bay. But you can also do one-to-many connections, as long as that doesn't weaken your signal too much. Right. So we listened to a number of different pieces using the modular synthesizer-- various sorts. Probably some of the most important in terms of the history of music technology were those that were released on the Switched-on Bach album. This was released in 1968 by Wendy Carlos and featured this very unhappy looking guy, well, I guess he-- I don't know. It's supposed to be Bach. He's got headphones. And he's sitting in front of the Moog synthesizer. This really solidifies some of the issues in music and technology that we've seen again and again. In order for new instruments to be successful, they often need to be tied to historical practice. And if you want to legitimize an instrument, well, play Bach on it. And if you can play Bach on it, then it's got to be legitimate. Quotes of Moog and others talk about the importance of this album in showing people what this thing was-- what the synthesizer was, that it could be used as a musical instrument and really, inspired a whole generation or generations of musicians to become interested in the Moog. They say that sales of the Moog exploded after the release of this album, at least for a couple of years, even though the Moog was so expensive. So I had you guys listen to two-- refresh our memory of these. First, "Cantata 147." [MUSIC -- JS BACH, "CANTATA 147"] Notice there. This is one of my favorite timbres in this whole album. That's a filtered noise sound you can hear there. But it's got a little bit of modulation on the frequency. So it's kind of like there's a little vibrato on it. So there's that, and then "Well-Tempered Clavier, Book 1, Prelude and Fugue in C Minor." [MUSIC -- JS BACH, "THE WELL-TEMPERED CLAVIER, BOOK 1, PRELUDE AND FUGUE IN C MINOR"] Nice, huh? What do you guys think? AUDIENCE: I said this earlier, but that was my favorite part of all the listenings. PROFESSOR: Yeah. AUDIENCE: They were very pleasant. PROFESSOR: They I mean, at the time, I imagine for some people they were probably pretty jarring. Some of the timbres in that are pretty strident timbres. But it's still Bach. And it relates to organ sounds that you might associate some of these sounds with. Other observations about this? AUDIENCE: There was some volume modulation. Was that done independently? PROFESSOR: In that right there? AUDIENCE: The last one, yeah. PROFESSOR: Yeah, you here it as stepped dynamics. And that's because dynamics was a weak point of the Moog. You had a volume control, but the keyboards weren't velocity sensitive. So adjusting volume was difficult. So this album was recorded through multi-track recording. So they could do it in the mixing process of recording different layers or adjusting-- AUDIENCE: Yeah, it seemed a little-- PROFESSOR: --the knobs. It seems a little artificial, yeah. You hear the step dynamics there. AUDIENCE: So did that [INAUDIBLE] portable synthesizers, the red one with the keyboard that we looked at earlier, have touch-sensitive keys so the performer could actually express dynamics without having to-- PROFESSOR: I'm not sure if they were just on-off switches or if they had some sort of the more contact the louder, or something of the sort. That would be something to look at. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] ribbon-style controller up and down, like they're higher on key or lower on key. I'd notice that. But I don't know if it knows how loud. PROFESSOR: Right. Yeah. We have many devices-- even Moog explored in ribbons-- that would use a lateral movement for pitch. But I'm not sure when we got a really flexible amplitude control into our synths. AUDIENCE: Was any of that sequenced? PROFESSOR: It wasn't sequenced. It was all performed live. But it's a mistake to think of this as just a demonstration of the Moog synth. This composition was a demonstration of the Moog synth and some very excellent multi-track recording and audio production. Because this was all composed and performed one part at a time, recorded to tape, and layered one part at a time. Remember, the Moog synth is essentially a monophonic instrument at this time. And so she had to play one part at a time, and layer, and re-record, and every time, adjusting the timbre. In many ways, this album-- I really recommend you guys listen to the whole album, because it's fantastic. It's a catalog of sounds you can make with the Moog synthesizer and served as a catalog for many others afterwards, going, what was that sound? What was that sound? Trying to get the sounds from that album-- really a resource for many other musicians, I think. Other comments about this? AUDIENCE: There was a bit in the reading that says that Carlos commissioned Moog to build touch-sensitive keyboards that had velocity control. PROFESSOR: Oh, that's great. Was it before or after this? AUDIENCE: It must've been after. PROFESSOR: OK. AUDIENCE: I can't imagine why you'd want to [INAUDIBLE] the volume control. PROFESSOR: That's interesting, yeah. She worked with Moog quite a bit. She worked with Moog to create that Moog demo LP, which I sent you guys the link to. She worked with Moog, I think, to improve the sequencer design. And that's an interesting issue about the touch-sensitive, volume-sensitive keyboard. It'd be interesting to see when that came in and how that was applied. So that was a key point in our history of music and technology, the legitimization of the instrument through Bach. Now something totally different comes to us from the Netherlands. And this is a composition by Gottfried Michael Koenig, a German composer who had been living and working in the Netherlands. And he was the artistic director of a place called the Institute of Sonology, first in Utrecht and now in the Hague, where they had over a period of a number of years, developed their own modular synthesizer from scratch. So while Moog led to the first commercial packaged synthesizer, many people were developing custom-built synthesizers that looked something like this, where you have numerous individual components often custom designed, scattered around the room, and a giant patch bay to connect them all together. This synthesizer is still in existence. In fact, I took this photo five years ago. This isn't historical. It looks like that still. And it sounds fantastic. It's an amazing-sounding synthesizer. His composition that we listened to-- "Gray Function," is how it translates-- is part of a series of function pieces that explored automating some of the parameters of the modular synthesizer using a single control voltage as a pattern that was applied to numerous different parameters of a synthesis system. We can hear a little bit of this piece to remind you. [MUSIC -- GOTTFRIED MICHAEL KOENIG, "GRAY FUNCTION"] Now this piece was composed for four channels. And the four channels were composed independently. So you can hear that in this two-channel mix. You can hear the four sources independently moving. Thoughts about this piece? Is it still going? [LAUGHS] That was interesting. [LAUGHS] What do you think? AUDIENCE: I like the Carlos better. But it's interesting. PROFESSOR: It's a little more melodic. AUDIENCE: It's interesting in terms of the technical aspect of how it was created. PROFESSOR: Yeah, I think of this piece providing a landscape of noise textures that we can make. Often, we hear these oscillators combined and used for pitch sounds. This composition really gives us a sampling of the variety of noise timbres that could be produced. The Institute of Sonology synthesizer also features a number of modules not found on the Moog-- for instance, voltage-controlled envelope generators, so where the attack, decay, sustain, release parameters could be controlled by voltages, which is pretty interesting. So if you think about that, you could set the attack and the release of a series of sounds to be controlled by a low-frequency oscillator or something else, which allows you to create series of dynamic envelopes. So moving on-- Subotnick, "Silver Apples of the Moon." This piece was composed with a Buchla synthesizer. It's not exactly clear how much multi-track layering was going on in the production of this. It's not clear if this was one set up, or if it was multiple takes of layer. That's something to look at in the production of this. This composition was noted for being one of the first recordings made for commercial distribution with a synthesizer. It actually predates Switched-on Bach by a few years but didn't have quite the commercial success of Switched-on Bach. Let's listen to a little bit of this. [MUSIC -- MORTON SUBOTNICK, "SILVER APPLES OF THE MOON"] Notice the filtered noise timbres coming out of the speaker right there. Notice, also, the-- say you had a Buchla and you wanted to create that flute-like sound, how might you do that? Any ideas? It sounds to me like an oscillator with a glide time, with its pitch being controlled by a sample and hold. Although we're only getting a few couple pitches, that might be a way that some of the frequencies are chosen in this composition, using a sample and hold adjusted and shifted to control the frequencies. What sort of musical roles are we hearing? Are we hearing musical roles or parts that sound like acoustic instruments, or musical roles or parts that sound like something totally different? I think that's a useful way for us to approach some of these pieces. With the Carlos, we hear synthesizer being used to emulate parts that were done by acoustic instruments. In the Koenig composition, we heard sounds that sound nothing like acoustic instruments. With this, we have a nice mixture of sounds that are somewhat acoustic-sounding in their roles and somewhat electronic. Let's listen to a little bit and think about which is which. [MUSIC -- MORTON SUBOTNICK, "SILVER APPLES OF THE MOON"] Well, that was a good point to do that. Because our initial flute-like sound transformed into a something that a flute player couldn't normally do. Now in Part B of this, we get a very surprising change. We get this rhythmic section building up at the end here. Now Buchla's early synthesizers were often notable for the use of both randomness and sequencers. So we had various types of random controllers that were pretty novel. Your book mentions that one of them was called a Source of Uncertainty, which is a very evocative name for a random generator, and also had dedicated sequencers. We're going to talk about sequencers next time we meet. But we hear there some use of the sequencer to create patterns of voltages that are applied to pitch or other musical parameters. Reflections on this piece? Did you like it? AUDIENCE: It is long. PROFESSOR: It is long. AUDIENCE: The first part, in Part A, the noise, I guess, sort of sounds like the [INAUDIBLE]. I think it had like the [INAUDIBLE] in there. PROFESSOR: Right. Did you hear accelerating and de-accelerating articulations? AUDIENCE: Sort of. Like for real. Just the timbre really matched the usual [INAUDIBLE]. [INAUDIBLE] start out with that one [INAUDIBLE], but that timbre's faster. PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's interesting. Although that was-- you sampled here, these are all synthesized. But yeah, that's a good connection. Anything else? I think the depth of this composition is pretty remarkable. There's just so much going on in terms of background and foreground that makes it such a thick composition. There had to be multi-track layering going on in this composition, I think. Either that, or they hooked up numerous synths all together in some massive piece. All right. We had the Oliveros as well, which is probably the one of the most novel compositions in that it doesn't sound at all like Western instruments but really takes advantage of the synthesizer in some unique ways. Next time we meet, we're going to talk about the sequencer and continue our trajectory up to drum machines. I'll see you then. See you guys.