Okay. Um, so today we're going to talk about the the large civ. So la last week we introduced the large civ and we explained how it's kind of analogous to um the projections theorems that we proved in finite fields and the projection theorems that we proved in uklidian space. Um and today I wanted to explain to you some of the applications of the large civ in in number theory. Um so the original application of the large civ uh was was by Lynn and he was interested in how quadratic residues are distributed and um I wrote that one up on the homework. So the homework problem is to re retrace Linux steps proving about how quadratic residues are distributed. Um and then a second um uh important influential application has to do with how prime numbers are distributed modulo q. Um so that so that's what I'm going to tell you all about today. Um okay so first we'll do some background of uh I'll talk about uh first we'll talk about um what is known about how prime numbers are distributed modulo q All right. So let's say pi of n is the number of primes up to n. Okay. And then we can look at the modulo Q for some choice Q and see how many of those primes are in each moduli class. So pi n q a is the number of p prime p less than or equal to n and p= a mod q. Okay. Now um some of these moduli classes will be quite some of these will be quite small. um like if a and q have a common factor then there will be only finitely many primes in this moduli class. So the the main focus is on the ones where the gcd of a and q is one. So focus on my case. Um uh so I'm going to write it that A is in ZQ star. ZQ star is the set of A and Z mod Q where A is relatively prime to Q. Okay. Um so numerically and theoretically it looks like the primes are pretty evenly distributed among all of these residue classes and it um is relevant to say how many there are. So that's called fe of q the cardality of zqst star the number of different a that are relatively prime to q. Um okay so if the primes were really well evenly distributed among the moduli classes then you would expect uh so I'll write this way so we see even distribution and that means that the actual number of primes in the moduli class is close to the total number of primes divided by the number of moduli classes. Okay. So how would we measure this precisely? We define delta Q of N the sort of defect of equidistribution to be the maximum over all the residue classes of the difference between the actual number of primes and this naive estimate. Okay. All right. So when we ask um you know how how evenly are primes distributed modulo Q quantitatively that means how big is this thing? Okay. So this question was first addressed by Dirishlay who showed that in a certain sense uh that this is close to this. Here's what he proved. um he proved that for any Q if you take the limit as n goes to infinity of um delta q of n it's sort of asmintoically smaller than n / q. So this limit is zero. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So actually let me say we talk about these being equidistributed we're going to mean that this is small relative to what? Um well um you know this is a good approximation of this if this error term is small compared to the main term. So uh so equidistribution would mean that uh delta q of n is much smaller than the main term which is on the order of n / q or n over maybe n over log n. Um so durishlay's arguments you can make them quantitative. um instead of having a limit you could say if n is sufficiently big um and they were made quantitative by Zagel and Walfish which involves some additional ideas and so this line of thinking led to the following theorem. Um so uh so for any q delta q of n is bounded by okay so let me say it this way so so for any a there's a constant c sub a and delta q of n is bounded by c sub a n log of n to the minus a. Okay. Now, when is this useful? When does this tell us that delta q of n is is much smaller than n over q? Well, q cannot be too big. So, uh so delta qn is much smaller than n / q if q is smaller than a power of log n. Okay. So I'm not going to talk about the proofs of these theorems in in the class. Uh dear so Durishlay invented L functions. You may have heard of Dirishlay L functions in in order to prove this theorem. And all of this work is based on L functions. Um okay. Okay. Um so that those are those are nice theorems but they only work when Q is pretty small compared to N. Um what happens if if Q is bigger? Well um experimentally what seems to happen is the following. This is conjectured by Montgomery. Um so for every epsilon bigger than zero delta q of n is bounded by cepsilon n to the epsilon it's like a fudge factor and then there's n / q to the 12. So this is a pseudo random behavior. So, so a good reference point you know sometimes people ask like sort of do are primes distributed do they does it look random the way primes are distributed. So a good reference point is um there are about n over log n primes up to n. So instead pick n over log n random numbers reduce the mod q and see what happens. So this is what you would see if you had random numbers. So this is sort of a pseudo random conjecture. Okay. So this is much stronger than we could prove. Um and it implies incidentally that delta q of n is much smaller than n / q. So we have some pretty good expert distribution as long as q is smaller than n^ the 1 minus epsilon. So there is a a huge gap between this and this. All right. Um so this result I think was proven in the 1930s and it is still today the best result of its kind. So we cannot increase this to say n to the n to the Um uh if we are willing to assume the remon hypothesis or something that the generalized remon hypothesis then we get much stronger information although still not this conjecture. So it says for every epsilon bigger than zero delta q of n is bounded by cepsilon n to the epsilon* n^ the 12 looks sort of like this but with no q in the denominator and that's good enough to imply that we get some some amount of equistribution if q is smaller than n half minus epsilon Okay, so it gives some idea of how difficult this conjecture is that even with the remon hypothesis, we're sort of only halfway there. Okay. Um, so this is everything that is known if you want to have a theorem that definitely works for a particular Q and having run into a barrier there that's has been difficult to overcome. Uh people started to think about well maybe we won't prove a theorem for every single Q but we could prove a theorem for most of them. So that's the the main topic of the class today. So theorems for most Q. All right. So this theorem uh I'm going I want to credit Reni and Bombi Venogra. I I read about the history yesterday. So this is usually called the Bombi Venogradov theorem. Um the first person to prove a theorem of this flavor seems to be Reni and then various people improved the parameters in the theorem building up to Bombi and Vograov. All right. So it says the following thing for every epsilon bigger than zero. Um and okay so if I take the sum on Q up to N to the 12 minus epsilon of delta Q of N. Check the exact phrasing. Um A then this is bounded by constant depending on epsilon and a n log of n^ the minus a. Okay, so let's digest this a little bit. So the job of epsilon is that we can almost go up to n to the 1/2 but not quite. And then um the job of a is that um uh so so okay so this so this tells us that for most not all but most uh of the q up to n to the half minus epsilon delta q of n is bounded by well I divide both sides by the number of terms um and so it would be I could put here um n / Q log of N to the minus A. So which is indeed much smaller than N Q. So informally for most Q we get good equidistribution of the primes modulo Q. Okay. And um and it so happens that the height of the the size of the cues we can get up to here matches the size of the cues you can get up to if you knew the remon hypothesis. Um and so this is sometimes summarized as being like it's definitely not as good as the remon hypothesis, but it's sort of for most for most version of what you would learn from the Remont hypothesis. Okay, good. Okay. Um, so my goal today is to tell you the ideas of the proof of this theorem. There are certain things that are a bit messy and I won't do all of the messy things, so we won't do a complete proof. Um, but I'd like to address a couple questions like what does this have to do with civs and projection theory? And um, another question, what does it have to do with primes or how will we use that they're they're primes? Okay. Um, right. Okay. So, it um, since we're only trying to prove things for most Q, we're sort of looking at all of the different Q's. So we have one set of primes and we're projecting at modulo Q for lots of different Q's. So that's the setting of projection theory where we can bring in things like the large civ. Um so I wanted to recall that the so the large civ um allows us to prove the following kind of thing. So we have the set x contained in the integers up to n and I look at pi p of 1 x and I'll take the high part of that and then this thing is small for most uh p and pm. So this PM put it. Okay. Yeah. So PM is the set of P prime P around M. Okay. So this looks on the surface like a similar sort of thing. We have a set X. We project it modulo P for many different primes P and we throw out the constant part and just look at the variation from being constant. And this is saying that this projection is pretty evenly distributed for most of the primes. So it sounds similar to this and indeed this will be crucially relevant. Um now this is a statement about every set X in particular. You could put the primes here. So you got a theorem about primes. Um but it's true for for every set. Um this theorem is definitely not true for every set. So I make a remark that the the theorem is not true if you replace um the primes by just some set x of numbers up to n with maybe roughly the same size as the primes. Um okay so there's a simple example but I think it's instructive to see. So the example is like this. I'm going to try to build a set where I can reduce it modulo every prime and whichever prime I reduce it by I will see one moduli class which is extremely over represented. So here's how we build such a set. So for every p in primes of size around m is just a free parameter here. Um I choose some a and z mod p and then I'll make my set x is going to be the union over all the primes and then I take um the set of n up to n so that n is equal to a mod p. So for each prime I pick a moduli class. I take all the integers in that moduli class and I take a union over all the primes in my set of primes. Okay. So if I were to take pi p 1x of a well uh x contains all the integers in this moduli class up to n. So this is basically n over p which is around n / m. Um and that's much bigger than average. If I if I if I the average would be the size of yes actually let's figure out the size of x. So the size of x is at most um there will be about n over m um numbers in this moduli class. Um and then there are about m over log m primes. So something like this. So this is you know a smalish fraction. It's much less than all of them. Um so this is way smaller than the size of x over p. So this guy is seriously over represented and it happens for every P. Okay. Great. So so this theorem is we'll see the large civ is absolutely crucial thing in the proof. It's the main idea. But this is not a theorem about arbitrary sets. It's a theorem about prime numbers. And so the proof needs to use something about prime numbers. Okay, cool. Um, okay. So, um, so the main character is a concept called multiplicative convolution. And I think this is a nice concept to know about. It's a cousin of regular additive convolution. And I'll try to uh we we'll see that it interacts with all the things in our story. So multiplicative convolution interacts really nicely with prime numbers describing what are prime numbers. It sort of comes up naturally u and it also interacts nicely with taking projections and so it interacts nicely with the large civ and fitting all those things together is the is how we prove this thing. Okay. Okay. So what is multiplicative convolution? All right. Um, so suppose f and g are functions on the natural numbers. If I take the multiplicative convolution of them, it means I add up over all the pairs n1 and n2 whose product is n and then I take f of n1 g of n2. So let's compare that with regular convolution. So regular convolution say on the integers would be the same thing but I would have the sum over all the pairs n1 n2 who add up to n and the multiplicative version is we replace the sum here by a product. Okay so that's multiplicative convolution. Okay. So, so we have to see um how multiplicative convolution connects with primes and we have to see how multiplicative convolution interacts with projections. We'll put that together and that's how we prove the the thing. Okay, so let's start with primes. Okay. So, um you know the the large civ inequality um we use this word civ and uh I will explain to you now what what does where does the word civ come from and it comes out naturally when you think about primes. Um, okay. So, um, so how would how do you find the prime numbers? Suppose I wanted to make a list of prime numbers up to n. What what would I do? I would start with all the natural numbers. Then I cross off the multiples of two. Then I cross off the multiples of three and so on. And then what's left are the prime numbers. Um, so that process is called siving. I think siving physically is where you take like a a thing full of sand and somewhere in there has a little gold or diamond or something and you shake this thing and the sand falls out until eventually you're just left with the diamonds. So the image is you have a thing full of sand which are all the natural numbers and you shake it and you take out the multiples of two and the multiples of three or whatever and then eventually you just have the prime numbers left. as the image. All right. Um Okay. So to find the primes, we start with the natural numbers. Then we cross out multiples of two. Then we cross out multiples of three and dot dot. All right. Okay. So, we can all imagine that. Now, let's try to describe this process using formulas. And we'll see that the formulas that naturally appear are formulas involving multiplicative convolution. Okay. So, I'm going to write one of n to be the characteristic function of all the natural numbers. And then the next character I'm going to put is a function called difference subp. So it's one if n= 1 and it's -1 if n is p and it's zero otherwise. Okay. Now let's think what would happen if I took all the natural numbers and I did a multiplicative convolution with d2. So this would give me so d2 has sort of a delta positive delta function at one and a negative delta function at two. So when I do this I'm going to get characteristic function of all the natural numbers coming from this one minus the characteristic function of two times the natural numbers coming from that one. Pause there. Does that does that make sense? Does that fit with the you know plugging in the definition of multiplicative convolution? Let's do it slowly to be sure. So what's the definition? One convolved with d2 of n is the sum n1 n2 = n of 1 of n1 times d2 of n2. All right. Now d2 is only non- vanishing in two cases. So we actually only have to consider that n2 is 1 or n2 is 2. So um the one is always there. So that is 1 of n * d2 of 1. And then uh if d is even so so this is what happens if if n is odd. Um and then if n is even then n2 could be two. So we get one of n one of n / two sorry we get we get the um so this is with cases one of n d2 of 1 minus one of plus one of n / 2 d2 of 2. So this is just one and this is 1 minus one which is zero. So we're left with the characteristic function of the odd numbers. Okay, let's go one further. If I take the characteristic function of the naturals, I do a multiplicative convolution with D2. Then I do a multiplicative convolution with D3. What happens? Well, this one gives me numbers and then I'm convolving with D3. Now what happens? I get the characteristic function of the odd numbers minus the characteristic function of three times the odd numbers when I do this. So I have the odd numbers but now I'm going to cross out the ones that are multiples of three. And so this is the characteristic function of um n is relatively prime to two and three. Okay. So this shows by example that this process starting with the natural numbers crossing out multiples of two crossing out multiples of three it corresponds to convolving by these d's over and over. Okay, cool. Okay, so now let me make a little notation. All right. So, we're going to do civ for primes general version. All right. So suppose that s is a set of primes and then rp subs of n that stands for relatively prime to s. This is one if um P and N are relatively prime for all the primes in my set. So it's one if if my number n doesn't have is relatively prime to everybody else and it's zero otherwise. So it's zero if there exists a prime in my set that divides out. Okay. All right. So let's make a remark. Um so if s is the primes that go up to the square root of n and little n is um let's say bigger than the square root of n but at most n then either n has a prime factor from this list or it is prime. So in that case our r our r relatively prime s of n is just p of n whether n is prime. So this thing uh if I'm interested in the primes in a certain range say from n /2 to n I can detect them using this function. And this function we've just seen is a big convolution. So lama um so if if if my set of primes is p1 up to p r then um relatively prime subs of n is one convolved with dp1 convolved with dpr. These are all multiplicative convolutions. I think there 1 x of a is n / t like why why we need to count like contributions from like are the kids. >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is coming back to this example. We built a set whose projections uh projection onto every prime has one place that's really big. Um so um in X is made as a union of arithmetic progressions. Um now this X is a set. It's not a function. So you know these these arithmetic progressions might overlap but if they do the point where they overlap in this formulation only counts once although that is it's not super important but um so if you look at um pi p of 1x of a that's how many elements of x are congruent to a mod p and so so all of them are already >> and some of the other p might also contain some of these elements but it doesn't count anymore. Oh, okay. >> Though, if it did count anymore, it would just make this phenomenon even more extreme than it already is. Okay, cool. Any other questions or comments? All right. All right. So the um so the characteristic function of the primes is a special function probably in lots of ways and the way that's relevant for us today is that the characteristic function of the primes is basically this function which is a big convolution a big multiplicative convolution and so the bombier venograph theorem is mostly a theorem about functions that have the structure that they're they're convolutions. Okay, cool. Okay, so that is how multiplicative convolution is related to primes. Next, let's think about how multiplicative convolution is related to projections. All right. Okay. Um, so here there are a bunch of a bunch of different fairly simple lemas. Okay. And and all these lemas have the flavor that doing multiplicative convolution and doing projections fits together as well as you could hope. And I I think basically the reason for that is that the projection operation is a ring homorphism from the ring Z to the ring Z mod Q. And we'll be talking about multiplication. So being a ring homorphism, it means that the projection uh respects the product operation. And so the multiplicative convolution is defined in terms of the product con operation. So it all fits together. Okay. So lema one says that if f and g natural numbers go to c um then if I take the projection of f convolved with g I get the projection of f convolved with the projection of g. Okay, I guess this one requires a definition. um if I had been savvy in general I might have defined multiplicative convolution in the first place for any multiplicative I don't monoate or something um but anyway let's just say what it is for Z mod Q is it is what we think um okay so um so if I have maybe capital F and capital G functions on Z mod Q Then multiplicative convolution of a class A is the sum over all pairs A1 A2 that multiply to A of capital F of A capital G capital F of A1 capital G of A2. So this is the first lema and the proof idea is you just start on either side and write down the definition and unwind everything and you use the fact that that um reduction mod q is a ring homorphism and it all fits together. Okay. So I think that my saying that is clearer than if I were to write it out. Yeah. Do you not get like big issues from double counting them like the left side because you're supposed to make the kernelism? >> Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, this is a homorphism but with a kernel. Um, let's write it out and make sure that this is this actually is okay. Um, I'm going to put the proofs on this board so that eventually we'll just have this list of lemas that will be handy. Okay. Um, okay. So, here's how I like to think about the proof. I'm going to think of f as a sum over n1 of a delta function at n1 weighted by f of n1. And I can do the same with G sum over n2 delta function of n2 g of 2. What happens when I take their convolution? Uh the multiplicative convolution is the sum over n1 and n2. I have a delta function at n1 n2 weighted by f of n1 g of n2. Okay, let's check that this is the same definition as before. So if I want to evaluate this at a point n, um, well, when I evaluate this at n, it only appears if n1 * n2 is n. So I'm summing over pairs n1 * n2 that multiply to n. I'm summing up f of n1, g of n2. Does this look okay to people? Let me let me maybe let me add you know when I write um delta n1 that's a function of n and it means it's one if n is equal to n1 and it's zero otherwise. So this this delta function to this delta is a delta function. So f is this and g is this and f g is this. Okay. Um okay so now what is pi qf of a? It's the sum over n1 of a delta function at n1 mod q of a f of a1. So I actually so I like the image of f and g as some kind of density. So we think of f as like a description of some stuff and there's f of n1 stuff located at n1 and same for g. So what does the projection do? It just takes the stuff at n1 and it moves it to n1 modulo q. And stuff is coming to n1 modulo q from several different places and it just adds up. And what does convolution do? It takes every bit of stuff here and every bit of stuff here. It takes a bit that's at n1 here and a bit that's n2 there. Takes those uh two bits and it makes a new bit at n1* n2. And the weight of the new bit is the product and there may be several new bits arriving at the same place and we add them up. Okay, so that's what the projection does. Um okay so now if I take the projection of f convolved with the projection of g at a it's the sum over n1 and n2 the delta function uh uh n1 * n2 mod q of a f of n1 g of n2 and then that's the same as um um that's this that so then that's the same as pi q of fval yeah so all it boils down to is I have these these this bit of f and this bit of g and I could first reduce them each mod q and then multiply them together or I could first multiply them together and then reduce mod q and those are the same as each other because reduction mod q is a homorph okay so that's the first step Okay, second lema says so eventually we would like some L infinity bounds. Um but so far in projection theory we've mostly seen L2 bounds and they're related to each other by basically Koshy Schwarz. Um so it says that if I have f and g on zq then a multiplicative convolution of them if I take the l infinity norm on zq star that is bounded by l2 g2 okay so in lema 2 I think it's important to put this star here that um multiplication um you know so we leave out zero and and we leave out things the common factor with Q if you included zero there are a lot of ways to have a product that makes zero and I felt a little worried about how that would go um so that's why we have this star here let's prove lambda 2 proof of lambda 2 um so if a is in zq star Then f convolved g of a is going to be the sum b in zq star. f of b g of a b inverse. Why? Well, we're adding up over pairs that multiply to a. And since a is in zqst star, a is invertible. Each of these has to be invertible. So b had better also be in zqst star. And so we get this sum. Okay. And then we use Koshy Schwarz and we found that by FL2GL2. Okay. Um there's a small technical issue uh about ZQ or ZQ star. So we're going to like break something up into a constant part and the other part. Constant part and the high frequency part. And it's slightly different whether you do this on ZQ or ZQ star. This just a minor technical nuisance. Q is even usually going to be prime. So I'm just going to be leaving out zero. But let me just write a lema that says that this isn't such a big deal. Um so okay, so a little notation. So suppose I have a function f on ZQ. I might be interested in f just on ZQ star. So I'm going to call that f star. It's just the just the restriction of f to star. Okay. Now I could split either one of these up into a constant part plus a leftover, but the constants would be slightly different. So f is f plus f high and f star is f star plus f high star. So fnot and f star are constant and the other pieces have mean zero but in slightly different sense. So if I add up fh of a over z mod q I get zero. But if I add up f* h over zqst star. Okay, I guess. Okay, so I felt like I had to say this to be kind of honest at some point, but it's not really a big deal. And lema 3 says that the L2 norm of the star part is the uh the high star part is at at most the L2 norm of the regular high part. So this one lives on CQ star and this one lives on CQ. Okay. And then the last lema um says that the high part commutes well with multiplicative convolution. So if fstar and g star are on zqst star um then there's going to be a lot of stars in this formula. The high part of the convolution is the convolution of the high parts. Okay, we could prove all these things if we feel like it. They're they're not difficult. Um I think I want to leave it for now because I've put an excessive number of details on the board and then and try to uh step back and have a bigger picture and then pause and check it. Okay, so all of these lemas imply the following proposition. Okay, so maybe I have some convolution, some multiplicative convolution f and I would like to reduce it mod q for different q's. So I look at it projected mod q and then um I'm only going to be interested in the star part. So I'm I'm going to look at the I'm going to restrict it to zq star and I want to know whether that's almost constant. So I'll look at the high part of that and I want to know that that's small everywhere. This is the kind of estimate that we are asking about in the bombier theorem right because our set our set of primes is morally multiplicative convolution and I'm taking the set of primes and reducing it mod q and looking at the different classes that I have in zq star and I think that that's going to be almost constant. So I'm going to subtract off the constant part and now I want to know that what's left is very small everywhere. So that's an L infinity norm. So the bombierograph theorem is about estimating this kind of thing and the proposition says that that is smaller than um pi q of f high l2 piq of g high pi oops piq of g high and l2. Okay. And it's just it's assembling a bunch of those lemas. So um so the projection of the convolution high part is the so proof uh of proposition have the projection of the convolution restrict it take the high part this is the projection star high convolved with the projection of G star high. So that's lambda 4 high parts and that's no sorry. So this is sorry this is piq of f convolved with piq of g restricted to star high. So that that's lema one convolution plays well with projections. And then lamma 4 says that that's that. And so now the l infinity norm is bounded by piq of f* high l2 piq of g star high l2. That's lema 3. And then that's bounded by or that's lamma sorry that's lamma 2 and then that's bounded by just pi q of fi l2 pi q of g pi and that's lema Okay. So, let let me summarize a little bit and then pause to check in. Um so issue that we're dealing with is like L2 norms versus L infinity norms. So we're trying to prove something that's true for every uh moduli class. So it's an L infinity norm. But our techniques that come from for analysis and so on usually tells us about L2 norms. So if you have a bound like this, it tells you that pi q of f is pretty evenly distributed at most a and you're trying to prove a bound like this that says that the projection of this thing is pretty evenly distributed at every a. Okay. And the point of this proposition, it says that if piq of f and piq of g are pretty evenly distributed just at most a, then the projection of their convolution is pretty evenly distributed at every. And so that's why being a convolution is helpful. Okay, cool. So, a little pause for questions and comments. Okay, cool. So, now let's go on. And these two things are controlled by the large civ. The large div tells us that if f is some function, then this L2 norm is small for most Q. And so we're going to write down that bound and see how small it is. And then we're going to plug it into this proposition. We'll get a bound for this. Okay. So large sip remember that P M is the set of P prime P around M. Okay. And so we proved in class. So and so we'll always have a function which is defined on the integers up to n and it goes to c and we proved in class that if you take the sum p and pm of um so that so in class we thought about what happens if m is smaller than the square root of n then we got the sum pi q of f high l2 and that is bounded by n / m * just half l. Okay. Um m could be bigger than n to the half and that will be relevant in in this story. It's often relevant and the proof idea is the same but the then it works out a little bit differently. So if m is bigger than n to the half then this same sum is bounded by m * f2. So this one was in class and this one is on the homework. So I' I've posted the homework for for next week. And the first problem is to do this mostly as a way of thinking through how the large civ worked. And then the second bit is about the Linux thing about quadratic residues. Okay. Cool. Okay. So now we are going to um plug these things into here. Um so we get al together I guess I'll call it a theorem. Um let's say like this. So suppose f is a function on n1 up to c and g is a function on numbers up to n2. And so if I take their multiplicative convolution that will be a function on the integers up to n where n is n1 * n2. Okay. And then um I can take the sum p and pm of um f convolved with g. I project it mod Q. I maybe take the high take the star part. That doesn't matter if you do it or not, but in our application, we'll do it. And then subtract off the constant. Right? So the idea is that this thing should be pretty close to constant much of the time. So we look at the non-constant part. Okay? And then that is bounded by there's an expression that's slightly messy. And then we have FL2 and GL2. Okay. And the thing that goes in here when you work it out is um I have to check Yeah. When you're defining uh f the convolution of f and g as a function like integers up to n like how is that defined for the the product pair one times like n f and g are individually only two right >> yes yes so you should that's right so you should imagine f and g being extended as zero beyond that >> yeah So, so the question was how to define in the definition of this we'll have all the pairs little n1* little n2 that multiply to n and it could happen that little n1 or little n2 are too big to lie in this in this region and and then we just set set f to be zero there. Okay. Um, oh, and sorry. And this is L infinity. It's not L2. Okay. Um, so, so one thing that I find a little a little difficult about the proof for teaching the proof is that it is the formulas are a little bit complicated. Um but the idea of this is to just combine the large civ and this proposition right. So if you start with the left hand side and you just apply this proposition um then we get yeah I guess we don't don't need that. Um we get a sum p and pm of pi q of f high l2 pi q of g high in l2. So the proposition just said that this l infinity norm is bounded by this product. I copied down the sum. Um and then this looks a lot like the input of the large civ. So if I koshy schwarz it I get the sum pi q of fi l2^2 to the 12 uh and then the sum pi q of g pi l2 to the 12 and then I apply the large civ. So the largest civ gives a bound for each of these things and I plug it in. And then what makes it a little bit messy is that because there are two cases the bound for this is a sum of two terms and the bound for this is a sum of two terms. So then I multiply that together I get the sum of two terms times that sum of now in the setting of of our main theorem about primes, the theorem of Reni and Bombi and Venograov. Um, the size of f and the size of g would be around one where they're defined. And so the L2 norms of f and g would be around uh around n1 and n2 and squared would be around n2. Um so if you plug that all in then we get our sum l infinity would be bounded by um n / m + the square of n1 n plus the square of n2n plus m root n. Um and um uh and then our our goal would be that this sum is much smaller than n. So it's it's good as long as m is less than n^ the 1/2 minus epsilon. That's where that condition comes from, the range of Q. And as long as N1 and N2 are much smaller than N. Okay. Um, so in this part, you know, I I did I I I redid the computation at home and it's a little bit messy. I did spend some time trying to think if there's a way of saying it without computing to see when when it works well and when it doesn't work well. Um I have a couple comments about that. I don't I don't feel like I know how to see everything that way yet. Um so one comment is that it doesn't work very well if n1 or n2 is almost n and there's a conceptual reason for that. So suppose n_sub_2 was n that means n1 would be one. So my f is supported just on one and my g is supported all the way on up to n. And when I convolve them together f I I I just get g times the value of f at one. So so in that situation there's no special structure of this function. It's a it's a totally arbitrary function. Um and since our this kind of theorem is not true for arbitrary functions, it can't work in when n1 and n2 are really close to n. Okay. Um so as long as n1 and n2 are kind of even, there's there's a meaningful convolution going on. As long as neither of them is close to one, neither of them is close to n, there's a meaningful convolution structure going on. And in that setting, these terms are okay. Um, this term here is okay as long as M is big. We need M to be M is reasonably big. We need M to be reasonably big so that we're actually looking at many different projections because we're just looking at one projection. We can never say anything about it just using projection theory. Okay. And here we need M to be not too much bigger than the square root of N. And the reason for that is um so one important case here is when n1 and n2 are equal. So they would both be the square root of n. And if m is bigger than the square root of n m would be bigger than both n1 and n2. And when that happens um the theorem might still be true but the proof doesn't work very well. You see if m is bigger than n1 and n2 you know I have this function f that's defined on the numbers up to n1 and then I tried projecting at mod q where q is around m. So q is actually bigger than n1. So this projection operation is extremely uninteresting right I just the the first n1 elements I copy down and the rest I put zero. So since that projection operation is trivial, no theorem from projection theory is going to say anything useful here. Um the um the gain that we're getting is that if as long as so you know I need either n1 or n2 to be bigger than m in order to get off the ground. Once n1 or n2 is bigger than m say let's say n2 is bigger than m then when I look at these projections most of them are almost constant that's where the mileage is coming from so these guys are almost constant these guys might or might not be almost constant it's okay either way and then when I convolve it together the convolution is almost constant and in a strong sense it's everywhere almost constant instead of just most places almost constant Actually another kind of visual thing is so so say this guy is almost constant but not everywhere. So in most places it's almost constant but a couple of places it has a big bump. When I take the this convolution then at any gi to evaluate the convolution at any given point I have to look at the contribution of this at every point and so those couple of places only contribute a little and mostly I see the contribution of the of the of the places where this is small. Okay, so that's what's going on. And then you do have to do some algebra uh to see just how much we learned from that. Okay, so now let's go back to our theorem. All right. And this last part, I'm not going to do every detail, which even gets a little bit messier, but I'll just say the the skeleton, and then we'll pause. Okay. So, let's say that s is the primes uh up to n to the 1/2. And then remember that um that if say n / two is less than p is less than n or actually just n^ the 1/2 is less than n is less than n then rs r relatively prime to s of n is prime. So we can basically study this function by studying that function. And then we also know that relatively prime s of n is one convolved with dp1 convolved with dpr and these are all multiplicative convolutions. So if I want to make this this whole thing is is like a ton of multiplicative convolutions. But if I just want to see two of them then I could say it's this guy convolved with that guy. Okay. Now this function as written it goes on forever and this function goes on forever but I only want to evaluate this up to capital n. So um you know this guy at n1 and this guy at n2 will only after they they come together in the convolution they'll only be relevant if n1 * n2 is less than capital n. So what I'll do is I'll write this as a sum on i1 of f times the characteristic function of i1. So I'll just divide up the numbers into some intervals and I'm going to convolve that with a sum over i2 of g characteristic function of i2 and I can open up the parenthesis. It's the sum i1 and i2 of f i1 f i1 convolved with g i2. Okay. Um and now if I only want to capture this up to capital N. So let me say that N1 is the maximum of I1 and N2 is the maximum of I2. so for little n less than or equal to capital n rps of n will be the sum over i1 i2 of uh f characteristic function of i1 convolved with g characteristic function of i2 and here I can assume that n1 * n2 is less than around n uh because otherwise the the product of these two maybe I should make this the minimum. Yeah, because otherwise the product of these two intervals will be bigger than capital n. So it won't have any influence here. Okay. Um and um so then for each of these we apply the theorem theorem a that theorem there and it tells me that when I reduce these things mod q for most q's the non-constant part is small in l infinity okay so this works for most of the terms that works as long as n1 and n2 are much bigger than one and much less than n. But it could happen a part a piece of this would be this guy with i2 very close to one or even just the point one convolved with that guy that's in there too. How do you deal with that? Well, this function f is itself a big convolution. So um so then I can take f and I split it up and I keep going. All right. So if n1 is almost n and n2 is almost one use f is f_sub_1 convolved with f_sub_2. So this part gets a little bit messy. Um and um uh to be honest, I'm not positive whether this exact thing works. This is a possible project. Um the what what you what so what I read in analytic number theory books is a slightly fancier way of taking this function characteristic function of prime numbers and uh writing it as in terms of some multiplicative convolutions. And for the slightly fancier way, there end up being less terms here and it it it works out more cleanly, but it also at least I had a little bit more trouble motivating it and seeing how people thought of it. Um anyway, so I I'm not positive. I think that this may work in all details or or or maybe not quite. Maybe it requires more fidgeting. Um but nevertheless I think it shows the main ideas that go into proving the bombier vineigra theorem. >> Sorry I'm still a little confused. So what are those intervals I1 and I2? >> Yeah what are the intervals I1 and I2? Um so at f you might first try diatic intervals. And um um and so mod modular technical details that's good. Um but actually there's a little problem with taking diatic intervals that wherever you stop you'll get um this function will be exactly the function that we want up to capital n. And then it'll go a little bit beyond capital n and there'll be some stuff that's uh not exactly this function anymore. and then it'll die off. And we'd like to prove that you just take this function and sharply cut it off at capital n. We'd like that to be evenly distributed. But we have this extra sort of junk at the end. And um okay, so that's a problem. And the solution to that problem is we could we can greatly reduce the amount of junk by replacing diatic intervals by intervals that are somewhat narrower. Um, if we make i1 and i2 kind of narrow, then whenever i1 times i2 crosses over n, it will only cross over a little bit. So, we'll have only a little bit of junk. So, that's who I are. >> Yeah. >> Can we recap what properties of RPS we we used? >> Yeah. The question was can we recap what what properties of RPS we used. Okay. So the first property is that RPS detects primes and that property is written here. So S is the primes that are less than N to the half and on this big region RPS of N is the same as just characteristic function of primes tells us whose prime. Okay. Um but this function is nicer than this function on the face of it because it has a second good property which is that it is a multiplicative convolution of a whole bunch of things together. Um and so we in particular can split it up like this and we see it has this multiplicative convolution structure. I guess another thing that I used without saying it as clearly as I should have is that we use that pointwise f and g are bounded by around one and that comes about for the following reason. Pointwise all of these functions are bounded by by one uh from the definitions. Um and then if you look at f at a point n well there are different ways of factoring n and so they contribute different amounts. Um, and there aren't very many ways to factor a number. And so, and so f of is pretty small. Um, and I think that's it. I think that's all that we used about RPS and about primes. Proving things about primes is a funny business because we don't know that much about primes. And so, you know, you you theorem, you know, some something about the primes, you could ask, well, what what input about the primes did we put into this theorem? And there's not that many different things that we know how to use as input. Um, anyway, and so for today, it was this thing. >> Yeah. in the coaching shores on water. Do you always know something or situations? >> Ah, good. Good. Okay, there's a great question and I'll there was a specific question but the the big picture question was at what steps in this argument did we lose something? Right? So, we proved a theorem uh here. It's a nice theorem but it's not the whole truth. We put at the beginning the conjectures of what we believe are true which are way stronger than this in several respects. Therefore, we must have lost some things in this theorem. Where did we lose them? Let's think through the proof. Okay, so this is an equality. The primes really are this thing. And this thing really is a convolution. So we haven't lost anything yet. We can now break the convolution up into pieces like this. I don't think we lost too much here. There there is this very annoying business about the I1 I2 going over the edge and having to make I1 and I2 small. So there there is some loss associated to that annoying business. So that's one one one piece of loss. Okay. Then let's just focus on one of one of these pieces. Um that piece got fed into theorem A. So let's switch to ports. Okay. So now we fed our piece into this theorem. Okay, this theorem is not usually sharp. So f and g are two particular functions and for those two functions um probably something much stronger is true. Um let's think about where we lost something. All right, so we wrote down the left hand side. So far so good. Then we applied the proposition at basically we said this is a convolution and you can bound the L infinity norm of the convolution by the product of the L2 norms by Koshy Schwarz. This step here is a big loser. This is I didn't bring my I didn't bring my red chalk but I would put a big red star here. Uh this is a big lossy step. Um right so so remember that this this guy is a high part so it has average zero and this guy has average zero when we convolve them together there are a lot of positive and negative signs that appear usually there will be cancellation there but our we don't didn't take advantage of any of that cancellation we just used the triangle inequality and so we got this upper bound that's that's probably very lossy. So for our particular functions f and g that step was probably very lossy. Now this this more general theorem holds for any functions f and g which is nice. If you could choose any f and g then for one particular q that may well have been correct. You could rig f and g so that for one particular q this uh koshi schwarz uh was sharp. But I don't know how to rig f and g so that for most of these ps or q's um something like that happens. It sounds even unlikely to me that that is true. Um so it's plausible that without any more input about prime numbers it's plausible that there's a much stronger version of this theorem. but I have no idea how to prove it. Okay. So that was our big lossy step. Then we went on to the next step. We did this koshi schwarz. I don't think this one is so bad. Um for for this Koshy Schwarz to be sharp, we just means that um it would it would be sharp if for the different PS all these L2 norms were about the same as each other. I think that usually happens and then we applied the large civ um and the large civ itself is is usually not lossy in the key in the key ranges. So this is the really important loss here and require a big new idea to do better. Cool. Nice questions everybody. Um let's let's break there but I'll also hang out for office hours if there are more things that people want to talk about.