Okay. So, so right. So just to remind you, so so last time, so last time we looked at we had this sort of motivating example that we had a graph, we had a function f defined on some interval from a to b and it was going inside the real numbers and it started off negative here. This here is f of a. This is negative and it ended up positive f of b and we wanted to say and this was a continuous function uh and we wanted to say that there was some c. So we wanted to to um show that there's a C between A and B so that the value at C is equal to zero. So this was the intermediate values then and so this was sort of the motivation for the motivation this here was a motivating example for trying to understand what property of R do we need. So so the so what property of R. Do we need uh to make this to make this rigorous? So that was the that was sort of the motivating example, right? And so in order to make this rigorous well then we we need the concept of we need need to concept of that r we need to understand um uh the following statement that r is a complete uh ordered uh field and a field here. So field here just briefly field here right was a set with uh two operations uh plus and uh and what we call multiplication each of these. So each of these two operations have uh five property and then there's an 11th property uh plus then there's an 11th property that chain them together and the last one is usually referred to as a distributive law. So, so that was one of the two important concept that we talked about last time. The other concept that we talked about was what's called an ordered set. So uh so so that's a set uh with an ordering and the ordering has to have the property that so this here the ordering has the property. So it has actually two properties. Uh the first one is that whenever you take an element x and an element y in the set then either you should be able to relate these two by the ordering. So either x is equal to y or x is smaller than y uh or uh or uh y is smaller than x. And the second property is what's called transitive that if X and Y and C are element in the set and X is less than Y and Y is less than C then X should be less than C. So this is the 22 property. So the first property again is that you can compare any two elements and the second one is this transitive law. Okay. And then so that was the two concepts we we talked about last time and then we talked about uh what it meant to be an ordered field. So so then we also talked about ordered fields and an ordered field is right. You have a field that is also an ordered set and then those two uh then the then the relationship so this will that one being less than the other one have to interact. So this is these two things that if you take x is less than y and you're adding any elements on both sides then uh it still preserve the order. So this is one thing and the second is that if you take x that's bigger than zero and y that's bigger than zero then the product of x and y should be bigger than zero and so this is how the the right so an ordered field again is a field that as a set is also has an ordering and then the ordering ing together with the operation of the field should be chained together by these two laws. Okay. Now, so we are we are we're getting close to understanding this, right? So, so this question is so in order for all of this to make sense, we need to understand what it means that the real numbers is a complete ordered field, right? And so we have now this part of it that it's an ordered field. We understand that this here is uh we need to understand what this means. Okay. So now before I get into that let's just talk about so what is the difference the difference between uh the real numbers and the rational numbers, right? Remember the rational numbers are numbers of this form here where this is an integer and this is a natural number. So what is the difference between these two? But one difference is so one difference is that that square root of two um is is a real number but but not a rational number. Okay. Now let me try to explain why first why it's not a rational number. So let's try to see uh so what is square root of two? The square root of two. You can think about it as a number x and it has to have the property that if you multiply it by itself, so x * x or if you will x 2, this should be equal to two, right? It also should be positive, right? Now suppose so I claim that square of two is not a rational number. So by that I mean that so so I want to claim the following. that does not exist. A rational number um x = to m / n. Well, again this here is a integer. This is a natural number. So that x² is equal to 2. So I claim that that's that that you don't have a rational number that is square root of two. Okay. Now let's try to prove that. So suppose suppose there was such a number. So so we want to prove it. So we prove by contradiction. So assume that there exist x that is a rational number. So it can be written in this form here where m is an integer and n is a natural number. So assume that there exist a x that is that is a rational number and so that the square is equal to two right. Well if that's the case then m over n so this here squared is supposed to be equal to two right. So this means that so this implies that m2 over n^2 is equal to 2 and this just multiplying over implies that m2 is equal to 2 n^2. Now when we write x as a rational number, of course we know that there are many ways of writing it as rational number because you can just if you have one then you can just multiply the denominator and denominator by an inte by a natural number sorry and then you get another representation right but we can assume so we may assume so when we have written so uh we may assume Assume that's m and n and n does not have a common factor, right? Because otherwise we could just reduce it. So we could reduce it until we they don't have a common factor. Right. Okay. So, so we we will assume that m and n do not have a common factor. We have now that m squ is equal to this. But this means that m here must be even. Right? So we have that since since m 2 is equal to 2 n squar. So it means that two is a is a factor in m squ. So it must actually be a factor in m. So it means that two here is a factor in m. In other words, m is even. But so you can write m here as two times another integer here. Right? But this means that m 2 is equal to 2 m1 squared which is equal to 4 m1 2 right and we already know that that is equal to 2 n^2 right so this means dividing by two on both sides it means that 2 m1^ 2 is equal to n but this means that sorry is equal to n^2 so this means that two here must be a factor in n right so this means here that two is also a factor in n but now you see that this is a contradiction so this is a contradiction because now what we have is that two two is a factor in m and two is a factor in n. So they have a common factor but we assume they didn't have a common factor. Right? So this prove so so we argued by contradiction. We assume there was a rational number so that the square of it was equal to two and we get a contradiction. So that could not be a rational number um uh that has a property that the square is equal to two. So so square root of two is definitely not a rational number. Okay. Now so now how do we think about uh how do we think about square root of two? So how do we fit square of two into the number system? Well, square root of two is if you think about it as a decimal uh number, then it is uh it starts with 1.4 uh uh 136 and then it 136 and then it continue like this. So one way of thinking about uh square root of two is that it is and we will come back to this at some later lecture. So we think about so so one way of thinking about square is true. is as a limit of a sequence of number. And that that that brings us to a another really important concept uh that we will talk uh much more about later is this with sequences and limits. And so if we want to think about it as a limit of a sequence, we think about maybe the number one first and then we think about 1.4 and then we think 1.4.1 and then 1.4 uh two etc. Right? And so you see that this here is a sequence of numbers. And so this is an increasing sequence of numbers of numbers. and and square root of two is the limit of the sequence. So again we will talk much more about uh sequences and limits uh later but this is just something to keep in mind as a kind of also motivating why we need to understand sequences and and limits and their limits. Okay. Okay. So this was so so we we now know maybe not super surprisingly but but we we know and you know see there was a very simple proof why uh the real numbers is larger than the rational numbers contain in particular square root of two uh that the rational numbers does not contain. we still need to and this is related to the completeness of R and why the rational numbers is not complete. Okay, but this is again what we're now working uh towards. So we're working towards what it means to for a field to be complete. So let me just write that and and and I'll explain it more but just this here is what we aiming towards completeness which is and I'll explain that at the least upper bound property. Okay. So suppose you take a ordered set. So suppose uh S is an ordered set. So and the ordering we as usual with ordering we do by by this. So suppose S is an order set and suppose that A here is a subset of S. Then we say that we say that um m is an upper bound an upper bound for the subset for a if for all elements in a um m here is bigger or equal to a. So an upper bound is something that h of for a subset is something that has to be bigger than all the elements in the subset bigger equal to it could be equal to to one of the elements. So that's a upper bound. And so of course if you look at So a couple of examples here. So, so if you're looking at if the set here uh is is um if if the set here is let's say that the set is um so s is the natural numbers here and uh the subset here is one two three then the element so then the element four here is an upper bound for uh a um so four is an upper bound for a whereas right whereas um whereas two is not right obviously three is bigger than two so uh two is not an upper bound Another example is um another example is if you take uh if you take say if s is the the let's say s is the rational numbers and uh and a here is the natural numbers then a Then uh a here does not have an upper bound. Okay. And I I'll I'll return to this uh this second example uh in just a minute. >> Okay. So, so that is what it means to be an upper bound. So, now there's another concept and that is a least upper bound. So there's another concept of the least up above. So again we have S is an ordered set. we have a here is a subset of s. Uh then we say that it's a subset of s maybe let me just point out that that is bounded Um so A is a subset of S that is bounded. Then we say that then we say that capital M is an upper bound is a a sorry is a least upper bound. least upper bound for a if m is an upper bound. So it has to be an upper bound and any other upper bound and for any other B other upper bound we have to have that for any other upper bound say M1 we have that m1 m1 has to be bigger equal to m. So it has a least upper bound if a boundary set has a least upper bound if there is an element that is the smallest to so to speak of the upper bound. Okay. And so now so now we are ready to to state what it means to be a complete order field. So a complete order field um is an ordered field. It's an order field so that uh so that uh any bounded subset subset has a least up. Okay, so that's a complete orders field and and so we have the foreign theorem that we're not going to prove because that really takes us off field. Uh but but um so we just take it for granted. But there exist. So theorem exist the smallest uh so there exist a smallest complete uh ordered field that contains the rational numbers. uh numbers. Okay, so this is a theorem. Again, we won't prove it uh because it's really kind of outside in the scope of this class. It's not really what we want to focus on here. Uh but um but it but you can prove this. And so um so that field field is uh what we call r is it's a it's a real numbers. Okay. Um okay. So now I want to see uh why I want to see that if we work with that field instead of the rational numbers then actually we have in particular that uh the square root of two is in that So, so we will now see. So, we want to show that uh square root of two is in the real. Okay. So now I'm going to look at the set A. So I'm going to look at the set A which is the element um which is the element in R such that X here is bigger than zero. and uh x2 is uh is less than two. Okay. So I'm going to look at this set. Now of course this set here so a here is bounded. It's not empty. Let's say first it's not empty. Right? It's not empty since since one here is in a right one is positive and 1 squared here is of course one which is less than two so it's not empty and a here is also a is bible right because uh any element so for all X. So for all X in A uh you have that X squar is is it's X is positive and is less than two. So this means that X here must be itself less than two, right? Because two of course when you square it you're getting four, right? So it's a bounded. So a here is a bounded subset of the reals. Now so now the real has the least upper bound property. So this means that I can now define so define square root of two to be the least up about define it to be the least up Okay, but a was a bounded it was a non- empty bounded subset. So because it we are in the reals if you grant this theorem then there is a least upper bound. Okay. So now let's denote. So it let me denote let me use denote this number by x. I'm going to denote it by x instead of square root two because if I if I denote it by square root two then it's going to be confusing right and it's like you know you will sort of automatically use what you think square root two should satisfy so let's not let's call it uh let's call it uh uh x so I want to prove so it's clear that since X here is at least up about for a and in particular one is in A then it means that one here has to be less or equal to X right and one of course is positive. So it means that X here is definitely false. Right? Now we need to show that we need to show that the square. So we need to show that uh that x² is equal to two. Right? That's what we need to prove in order to prove that x is really the square root of two. Right? So I'm going to divide it up. So we divide the proof the proof into two steps. The first one is the first one is that we uh we want to so the first step. So step one we're going to show that x² is lesser equal to two. So this is what we will show in the first step. Right? And then the second step will be the reverse inequality. And of course together this would be the proof. Right? So again just like we argue uh before uh we're going to in this case we will also argue by contradiction. It's not a you may get the feeling that we're always going to argue by contradiction in this class and we won't and it's generally thought of that is better style to prove things directly but sometimes it's a much more logically logical and kind of easier in a way at least easier at the first time to prove it by contradiction and there's nothing wrong with proving it by contradiction. So we will show this by contradiction. Okay. And so so right. So we're going to show that So we show this by contradiction and so we assume first. So assume assume not. So assume assume that x² is not less or equal to two. So we assume not. So assume that x² is strictly bigger than two. Now I will look at x minus some small number and I'm I'm going to eventually prove that if I'm looking at at x minus some small number I'm going to prove now that if this hair was strictly bigger than two then I can find some small number so that this here would also be an upper bound. So x h would be positive. This here would be a number strictly less than x. And I would show that this here is also of a bound. That's what I want to do. Okay. So I take x minus h and I square it. If I do that then I get that uh this is x2 minus 2 xh + h 2 right the square is is not negative. So this here is definitely bigger equal to x^2 - 2 xh and so you see that right and so now so now uh if you take so now you have that x² is uh by we have that x2 is bigger than 2. So this means that x^2 minus uh 2 is positive. I am just subtracting two from both sides. So this here is we're assuming that this here is positive. Right? And so now if I just make sure that um so if I now make sure that what I am so if I so now I'm going to choose so I want to choose so I want to prove that x minus so so want to show so I want to get the contradiction by finding a finding a h bigger than zero. So that x - h is also an upper bound for a right because this here is clearly smaller than x right and this would then contradict that x was the smallest upper part right so that's what I want to do and and so now how do I do that so using this little calculation here. So what I want to do is so I want to find so I want to find h positive so that when I square when I subtract h from x and I square it then I still get something bigger than two right so I want to find h positive so that This thing here is bigger than two, right? And all I need to do is from I need to show that I can find H. So that this in here. So enough to show to show that I can find find h such that x^2 - 2 xh that this thing here is bigger than two. Right? And so you see I now I just move over on the other side to say that this here is bigger than two. It's the same as saying I can just move this two over on that side and I can move this here over on the other side. So I just need to find h with this property. Right? But that of course is equivalent to saying that h has to be less than x^2 - 2 over 2x is positive. This thing here is strictly positive. So I can certainly find a positive number. This is something strictly positive. So I can certainly find some small h so that is less than this strictly positive number. Right? Okay, so this proves this is step one. This is just showing that x2 was less or equal to two. Right? Now I want to argue similarly um similarly to prove the other direction. Okay. I mean in this case there's not really any difference, right? I mean the you see in a minute that one inequality is not uh any easier than the other. Uh I have one I have a colleague here. He's retired now, but he and he collaborated with some other guy and they made a lot of famous work and the other guy maybe become even more famous and he used to say that when you do mathematics so it doesn't really apply here because the two inequality is just as easy but he used to say that when you do two when you do mathematics there's three things you do you locate a problem you prove one of the two inequality whichever one is easier and you ask Ragu. Rau was his collaborator to prove the other inequalities. Okay. So we so step two is um so step two is that uh x² is uh is bigger equal to two. Right? And we will again prove this. So again show this by contradiction. Okay. So I assume not so I assume that uh x² here is strictly smaller than two. Now what we want to prove is so then we want to we want to get the contradiction. We want to get the contradiction by showing X is not is not an upper bound. An upper bound for A. Right? X was supposed to be the least upper bound in particular and upper bound. So how do we do that? Well, we we're going to add just a little bit to X. So this is sort of similar to how we argued before. So, so, so I'm going to add, so h again is being positive. So, h is positive. And I'm going to add just a little bit to x. And I'm going to see that if I choose h small then then um I can find something in the set so that uh if I choose it so that x so I can so I want to prove that if h is small enough then x + h is an a okay contradicting that x was an upper bound. Okay. And so h is going to be chos small. So in particular, it's going to be between zero and one. Okay. And I'm looking at x + h and I'm squaring it. So this thing here is x2 + h 2 + 2 h x. Now uh h here is less than one. So this means that 8 squar since since 8 is less is positive and is less than one then you have that h squar here sorry then you have that h squ is less than uh than actually h right and so this thing here is less than uh x2 + h + 2 uh h X. Okay. And I want to show So I want to show that I can So I want to show that this X + H this is still in A. So I want to show that I can find that we can find such a such a h so that this here this here squared is still less than two. Right? But so all I need to do is because of this inequality I just need to find an h so that this thing here is less than two. Right? So I want to to find H such that this thing here is listen to right now. Now um right so now again we're just moving over on the other side we're moving this in this case we're moving this x squ over here so we have h + 2 h x is less than this is what we want to find right what to find and h such that this thing here is less than 2 - x^2 right this thing here is now because x^2 is strictly less than two this is positive right here you can just factor out an h so you want to find so if you factor out an h then you have this thing here is less than 2 minus x^2 and this is just saying that you want to find an h so that this thing here is uh is strictly less than 2 - x^2 / 1 + 2x is positive. So this thing here is positive. So this and this here is also positive. So this here is a positive number. So you can definitely find some x with this property, right? And then you see that so this means that this x + h would also be in the set a contradicting that x was an upper bound. Okay. Now um okay so now a corner we immediately get of this is that the that the rationals is not complete right so so we get the following corner the rational number is not complete Right? And this is just because so the proof of that is that we have already so um if we're looking at the the this this at a field that is complete and contains a rational then we know that square root of two is in that field. Right? So we just proven that if f is a complete field containing the rationals then square root of two is in that field. Right? But we know that square root of we have also proven we've also shown we have also shown also shown that square root of two is not a rational number. Right? So, so the rational, so if you're looking, so the rational in itself is not complete. Um, okay. Now, the next thing I want to do is prove what's called the Archimedian properties. The Archimedian property. And so, this is actually something that was sort of used here. Um, sort of used it I know it already, but let me just prove it because so the Arimedian property. So this is the following that um that for all for all real numbers every time you take a real number then there exist uh an integer even a natural number in such that uh n here is bigger equal is bigger than uh than than x. Okay, this seems like a kind of trivial fact, right? But let me try to actually prove it uh in a rigorous way. So this is what's called the Archimedian property. And so again we prove this by contradiction. So suppose not so if there existed an X. So that you did not have this. Well then so suppose not then there. So the negation of that statement is that then there exist an x such that natural numbers for all you have that n here is lesser equal to x right it's actually yeah it's lesser equal to x right because this is the negation of that. But this means that this means that uh x here is an upper bound. Okay. And so now you could so now so so then you could take so assume So you could replace by this by the least upper bound property. So this means so it's upper bound. So in particular the natural number is a bounded set. Bounded subset bounded subset of of the reals. Right? And then you could take so then we let then let's let's say y be the least upper bound uh of the natural numbers. If it really was if the natural numbers was really bounded because it's a subset of the real we could now take the least upper bound. Okay. So now what we have is that we have that for any natural number. So for all we have that n here is lesser equal to y. But whenever you take a natural number then add one to that nual number. So we also have we would also have that right. So so y is not just a upper bound for n but it actually because n plus one is also not actual number right. So y here would have to be big or equal to n plus one also right but this and this now hold for all n. So this means that just moving the one over on the other side. So hence n here is less than y minus one. Right? So this but this here say that so mean this means this mean that y - 1 is also an upper bound and that that and that this is a contradiction right so this contradict that uh that why was the least up about okay and that's the property okay now uh I want to give uh one application of this uh and so this is the following What the hell? So, so we now uh I now want to prove the following corner of the Archimedian P. And the corner is that uh whenever you have two real numbers x and y. So these are are real numbers and x here is less than y. Then the claim is that then there exist a rational number m over uh n with uh with a property that is between these two. so that that x is less than m / n and less than one. Okay, that's what I want to prove using the archimedian property. And so so to prove that so to prove that um so to prove that I look at at better saying better is y - x and I'm looking at uh so y - x because y is bigger than x this is positive And I can now look at one over beta. So one over beta is some positive real number. And now the Archimedian property say that. So by the archimedian property the Archimedian property there exist there exist um n a natural number such that n is bigger than one over b, right? That's the armedian property. It gives us this n. But now, of course, if that's the case, this implies you just take one over on both sides and that reverses the inequality. This implies that 1 / n is smaller than better. When we get that and so now we are just looking at so now we look at so now that's this sort of defined as step size to some extent. So we're looking at so we have here X and we have here Y and beta bet better is really this distance here this here is better distance between the two and uh n here is uh we now have seen that there's a n so that when you're looking at 1 / n then then uh so one / n here is smaller then better something positive and smaller and better. So now you're looking at the at the m So now you're looking at So now look at the at the integers so that uh m minus one so that m minus one uh is uh uh is less than x * So suppose you're looking at the right this thing here right if you take x * n this is an integer so there's definely some m with this property and you can find the biggest so look at m with this property and let's and let's denote n and choose the largest such m. So if you choose the largest such m then you see that right so this inequality here this will just tell you that m -1 uh over uh over uh n that this is smaller than x right but you would also have that because it was the largest such m Okay. Since Since M was the largest such such m then you would have that if you had m itself in the denominator then it wouldn't be smaller than than x. would actually be larger equal to x, right? And I just want to now prove that this so this here is bigger than x. That's part of what I needed to prove. I also wanted to show that it's smaller than y, And um and so but if you now add, right? So now but now the step size. So when you have here here you have x here you have y 1 / n 1 / n was smaller than this distance. So if you are at some point here this is where you are when you are at m minus one / n then you can't go further to the right. you you go one over n uh to the right, but that can't take you all the way past one, right? So that's why if you're looking at at this number here, this here must be smaller than y. Okay? And if I had just chosen m so that this here was smaller equal to that, then I would get this point. Okay? So that's how that's a corary of the Archimedian property. I think there would be something like something along these lines on the homework. And again, I will uh I'm just waiting for the the office hour. I know that the office hour there will at least be four office hours next week. Monday uh on Mondays and Wednesday the office hours would be there will be office hours from 5 to 6 on Monday and Wednesday. uh um and and the other days it would be 1:15 to uh 2:15. But you can check the the the the time is actually already uh posted. Uh the room number I hope to have that today. Once I have that then I will also assign the homework probably today or maybe more likely tomorrow the homework but it won't be due next week just the following week. Any questions? And of course, I very much encourage you to go to to the office hours. Um, and um yeah. >> Yeah. >> Sorry. >> Right. So remember that the minus1 was this element that you had when you had uh remember that a field had the true operation plus and multiplication right and and for each of these that had five property they were sort of they were sort of almost the same property there was one exception about that zero didn't have a inverse right for multiplication but minus one is is the right so you one but one is the neutral element for multiplication right that was how one was defined right and we prove that that there was a unique zero right that same argument would prove that there's a unique one okay so there's just one one so it's a well- definfined notion and then you can look at the inverse element of that with respect to addition that's minus one right Yeah. >> Yeah. And that's a good question and I will come back to that next time. And and it it would seem more logical to define both upper and lower bound. But you can look at the complement, right? And so if you take a set and you're looking at the complement, then the upper bound for that is the same as the lower bound. So that's a kind of sneaky way. That's the reason why we did it. I, you know, I I might have done it the other way around, but then it was kind of a little bit overkill, but I agree. It seemed more logical to define both things, but it actually is contained in this. Any other questions? >> Yeah. I mean so we had so so again u we we saw that square root of two is not a rational number right and if We're looking at all rational numbers. All rational numbers so that the square is less or equal to two. Right? That set does not have a it has an upper bound in a rational number, but it doesn't have a least upper bound. Right? Right. And that's because we we first prove that there wasn't a rational number so that it it multiplied itself was equal to two. Right? We proved that. Yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. So, a field by it's right. A field is complete means that whenever you take a subset of that field that is bounded then that subset has to have a least upper bound and but any bounds including the least of bounds that always have to be in the fields. smaller than one because we can do the >> so this is in so so when we when we um so you're saying so so I just want to make sure I understand so in the step two we added something and we wanted to prove that you could add something and this is still less than two And and so I was looking for h between zero and one. And so then I I got some equation somewhere that is probably a raised now, but it just require that h was I mean h have to be positive but it was less than something and that was >> right. So, so you you Okay. So, I got I don't remember what I got here. So, I think I uh Yeah, you're right. Two. I can I guess I can reconstruct it. >> Yeah. So, now I So, so I think so what you are saying is that so so this thing here actually so this thing here is positive, right? And so you want to choose h so that is smaller than this but also this here. So you don't but if this is positive then I mean if this is 500 well uh I mean I'm not going to choose 500 because it was supposed to be less than one but I just choose it so that it's less than one and also less than this positive number.