So last time we defined canonical forms of a linear program and they're maximize cranspose X where these are vectors. with such that are sorry subject to ax is less than or equal to b and x is greater than equal to zero. And the duel for the canonical form duel we showed was minimum B transpose Y. So we've taken the right hand sides of the equation and turned them into the objective function. A transpose Y is greater than equal to C. So we've taken the objective function of the primal and turned it into the right hand side of the equations of the duel and y greater than or equal to zero. And last time we showed weak duality for any feasible X in the primal and any feasible Y in the dual solution. Now feasible just means they satisfy the constraints. Um cranspose x is less than or equal to branspose y. so this is true for when the optimal value is um finite. So a linear program can have finite optimum It can be infeasible. What's an infeasible program? Um, x1 greater than equal to 5 and x1 less than equal to three. So this is a basically trivial example of a infeasible program. there are no solutions and most infeasible programs it's much harder to you know you cannot tell that it's in feasible just by looking at it and it can be unbounded and let's give you an example of that maximize x x greater than 3 okay you can see that you know you can find a visible x such that has any value for the objective function and um so these are actually it's pretty clear that these are the only three possibilities. Okay. Now I'm going to tell you well something that follows immediately from weak duality. If the primal is unbounded, the duel is in feasible. And that's because if there were some feasible solution to the duel, then you could find a solution to the primal which is larger than that. And this is a contradiction of weak duality. And similarly, if dual is unbounded, the primal isn't feasible. And there's one more possibility. Possible dual primal are both invisible. So, this doesn't happen very often, but it can happen and you probably should be aware of it. We're not going to discuss it any further. Sometimes we give a homework problem asking you to find an example where these are where this is the case. And it's not that hard a homework problem. So if you want to figure out how this can happen, you can go home and you know figure it out or you can probably look it up on the Wikipedia and find it that way. So okay. So what first thing I want to do today is talk about um what the primal and dual look like for things that are not in canonical form. And I'll first give you the treatment in the lecture notes and then I will give you my own treatment which is slightly well it's not really different but it's slightly different and I think it makes it easier but so let's look at a proof of duality. Um, maybe I should do this by example because I like doing things by example because it's easier than [snorts] sometimes it's easier than doing them abstractly. So let's say max 3x1 + 5 x2 - 2 x3. Um, x1 + x2 less than or equal to 8. X1 - X3 is greater than or equal to 1 and X2 plus Okay, I did this wrong. I want to leave a gap here so you can line up the variables. Greateral 1 and x2 + x3 = 4. Recall proof of duality. The duel has a variable for each constraint in the primal and a constraint for each variable in the primal. Dual each time the variable. Oh, I'm sorry. I left out the um non- negativity conditions. X1 and X3 are greater than equal to zero and X2 is unconstrained. So there's a um dual variable for each primal constraint. Good. And now what we did was we um took this equa the inequalities multiplied them by the new variables in the duel and added them up. So we have y1 * x1 + x2 is less than equal to 8. y 2 * x1 - x3 is greater than equal to 1. Y3 times x2 + x3 = 4. Okay. And when we add them up, we want these variables to or we want these inequalities to all point the same way because if we add, you know, x1 + x2 less or equal to 8 and x1 - x3 greater than equal to 1, it doesn't tell us anything. So that means that here we have to have y1 greater equal to zero. Here we want to flip the sign of this inequality. So we need y2 less than or equal to zero. And here well it doesn't matter whether y3 is bigger than or less than equal to zero because when we multiply it there'll be an equality and when we add them all up it'll still be the right inequality. So here we have y3 unconstrained. So going from a less than or equal to sign and the primal if the primal is a maximum maximization gives you a positive variable. A greater than equal to sign if the primal is maximization gives you a negative variable and an equal sign gives you an unconstrained variable. So now the um and the we remember we wanted to maximize 3x1 + 5 x2 - 2x3. So the first column gives you y1 + y2. um is greater than or equal to three. The second column gives you y1 + y3 is greater than or equal to um five. Is that right? And the third column - y 2 + y3 is - y 2 + y3 is greater than 2 um minus 2. So these are the constraints of the duel. And similarly when you're going from the dual to the primal everything works the same way except less than or equal to sign greater than equal to signs turn into positive variables. Less than equal to signs turn into negative variables. And again equal signs turn into unconstrained variables. So, I don't like doing it this way. Yeah. You have a question? >> Oh, should yal? >> Yes. Yes, it should. y1 + y3 equals 5. Thank you. Okay. So, what what was I going to say? I was going to say the reason I don't like this is it gives you negative variables and negative variables are hard to think about and um when you're thinking about them you're liable to make mistakes. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to um yeah, another way to take the tool. First make all equations the correct less than equal to or greater than equal to the correct sign. So here what we want to do is we want to take the second equation and turn it into a less than equal to sign because if we have a maximization and canonical form you want less than equal signs. So that turns into 3x1 + 5 x2 - 2 x3 subject to x1 + x2 less than or equal to 8 - x1 + x3 is less than or equal to minus1. X1 and X2 + X3 = 4. And I forgot to write down X1 X2 greater than or equal to zero. X3 no. X1 X3 greater than or equal to zero. X2 unconstrained. So now we can just you know write this off. We take the transpose of the A matrix which is Y1 - Y 2 Y1 + Y3 and Y2 + Y3 um X X2 was unconstrained. So this is an equality and x2 and x x3 and x1 both had greater than equal to signs. So these are less than or equal to signs. the minimum because the original the primal was maximization, the dual is minimization. And we just read off the right hand sides of the equations inequalities and we get 8 y1 - y 2 + 4 y3. we called this w. Not that it really matters subject to these things. And we take the um original objective functions and use it for the right hand side. So 3 5 and minus two. And finally the third equation was an inequality. So y1 y 2 gal to zero. and y3 unconstrained and we don't have this um hard to think about variable y2 less than equal to zero. So this is the way I like to take duals. Okay. So the next thing I want to do is talk about complimentary slackness. Any questions about the material so far? Okay. And um complimentary slackness. We are going to well why don't I write the theorem down and then we'll prove it. So again, we're going to have two linear programs and we're only going to prove it for the we're going to prove it when the linear programs are in canonical form. But in general, you know, it's true for any linear program. Um, suppose X is a feasible solution in the primal and Y is a feasible solution in the dual. Then X is optimal in primal and Y is optimal in dual. If for all I either y i = z or a subx i = b sub i. So this is either saying the i variable in the duel is zero or the i equation in the primal is satisfied with equality. And for all J either X subj= Z or A transpose Y J = B subJ. So this is saying either the J variable is zero or the J equation in the dual. Okay, this is not B, this is C. Either the J equation and the J variable is zero or the J equation in the dual is Okay. So we'll prove it and we'll only prove it for or rather we will prove it for um linear programs in the canonical form. But because it's true for linear programs in the canonical form, it's automatically true for all linear programs. There's no reason you have to prove it for an arbitrary linear program and it's just extra notation. Okay, so we should write down the programs in the canonical form and um maximum Z = C transpose X A X less than equal to B X greater than equal to zero. This is the primal and the dual is the minimum w= bpose y. A transpose y = c is less than equal to c and y greater than equal to zero. Okay. [clears throat] So, what we have is done. Well, we have a transpose y is less than true c. So let's start with cranspose x. And now let's plug this equation into here. Cranspose x is less than or equal to well cranspose is yrpose a. So this is yranspose a x. Now yrpose ax is equal to yrpose ax because the matrix multiplication is associative and we have ax less than equal to b. So this says is less than equal to y transpose b. So this is just weak duality. Suppose both of these both lesser equal to signs hold with equality. Well, then we know that for this to be optimal, they these signs need to be hold with equality. And if this holds with equality, well then um let's rewrite this equation. yrpose A minus C X = 0. Oh, this should be cranspose. And let's rewrite this equation. That's just ypose ax minus b equals z. Okay. So if we have two dotproducts of vectors are zero and each of these vectors contains only positive entries then and every every piece of the dotproduct one of these two equals zero. So y transpose i = z or um a x sub i equals b sub i. And here it's just the same thing. Either x j equals z or Y transpose A J transpose A subj equals C transpose J. So this is one way of the ine equality of the inequality. Now suppose the other way holds that means either XJ equals Z or YRPOSE a J= CJ. Well that means that this product is zero which means that um this is an equality. And similarly on this side if either this equals Z or this equals Z then this dotproduct is zero. And that means that this is an equality. So cranspose x equals yrpose b which means that the that you know cranspose x and yrpose b are optimal solutions. Okay. Now I want to go back here and tell you something neat you can do with complimentary slack. So x1 = 4 x3 = 4 is a feasible solution, right? Because 4 + 4 less than or equal to 8 - 4 + 4 is what? Um, x1 + this is an x2, not an x3. 4 + 4 is less than 8. -4, I forgot. x3 = 0 -4 + 0 is less than equal to -1. And 4 + 0 = 4. So this is a feasible solution. And in fact, it's the optimum solution. And if you know it's the optimum solution to the primal, you can use complimentary slackness to find the optimum solution to the duel. So here we have two variables which are not equal to zero which means we have two equations which are satisfied with equality. So that means that we must have um so the two variables which are not equal to zero are the first and the second which means the first and the second equation are satisfied with equality. So y1 = y2 okay I hope I'm doing this right. No, I'm not doing it right because I this equation is y1 - y2 is less equals = 3. So y1 - y2 = 3 and y1 + y3 = 5. Now there's up here there's an equation which is not satisfied with the equality and the um and the optimal solution. That's the second equation which means y2 equals z. And now you've written down these three equations and there are three unknowns so you can solve it. And so y1 = 3 and y2 = 5. And now you can plug this in and see whether this equation for the primal and this or this feasible solution for the primal and this solution for the dual give you the same objective function. So let's do that. we have x1 + x2 is 3 * 4 + 5 * 4 that's 32. So objective function and down here we have 24. Okay, y1 = 3. I obviously did my equations wrong. Y1 = 3 and Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 = 0. So Y1= 3. And we have 3 + Y3 = 5. So Y3 = 2. Apologies for my arithmetic. So that means that we have 24 + 8 is 32. Objective function equals 32. So these so this is an optimal solution for the primal and this is an optimal solution for the dual. Okay. So the last thing I want to do is give AI don't know if I'm going to call it a proof or not because maybe I give a justification for strong duality. If you look online, there are roughly two kinds of proofs or three kinds of proofs of strong duality. The first you define the simplex algorithm which is a way of getting the optimal solution for linear problems and then when the simplex algorithm finishes it gives you what's called tableau from which you can read out the solution to the primal you can read off the optimal solution to the dual and then you can stare at it and use the um Well, you can stick, you know, no it tells you that the optimal solution to the primal is equal to the optimal solution to the dual. So that's one way of proving um strong duality and it's you know absolutely rigorous. Another way of improving strong duality is borrowing this lema from analysis called Farcash's lema and applying it. The problem with this is that Faros's lema is basically strong duality in different notation. So you haven't really I mean I guess it's a proof if you believe Farcash's lema but it doesn't seem to give you any more real insight than my just telling you that strong duality holds because that's what it's doing. And the third uses mechanics in n dimensions and we need a few basic theorems for mechanics and then we can prove strong duality. So I mean we have to accept these theorems from mechanics. I don't know if there's any way of going through mathematics and proving that these mechan theorems from mechanics really hold. But if I mean if you accept the theorems from mechanics then you absolutely have a proof of strong duality and showing I mean I find this really pretty amazing showing that mechanics is consistent in high dimensions is the same thing in some sense as proving strong duality of linear programming which is a connection I never would have accepted expected. So we're going to pro give you the justification from mechanics and let's see. Um So a linear program set of hyperlinks. THE CONSTRAINTS the constraints say you're on one side of the hyper plane. and the objective function. We want to find feasible point furthest in direction of objective function. So what do we do? Well, we pretend each of these hydroplanes is a solid surface. And okay, this is a bad drawing. And what we're going to do is we're going to drop a ball and gravity is going to take it in the direction of the increasing or decreasing objective function and it's going to hit this um hyper plane. And now it's going to roll in this direction and it's going to hit this point. And now we're going to assume well actually maybe we should make another plane here. It's going to roll down to here. And this is the lowest point on the proper side of all the hyperplanes. So it's just going to sit there. And mechanics tells us that the force of gravity on it is balanced by the force being pushed on this point perpendicular to each hyper plane. So the sum of the forces exerted on this ball by the hyperplanes is equal to the force of gravity. And this is a theorem for mechanics indeed. Okay. So now let's write down the um linear program that solves this problem. minimize cranspose x subject to ax is greater than equal to E. And this is just saying the point is on the correct side of every every hyper plane. And this is just the force of gravity. You want to make the point as low as possible. And um well x is a arbitrary point so x is unconstrained. Okay. So now we can ask what's the duel of this problem. So this is the primal. the duel well it's going to be max banspose y and now all of these x's are So that means all of these equations must be in must be equalities. So we have a transpose y equals c. And here we have a whole bunch of inequalities which means we get y greater than zero. Okay. So this is the linear program and its dual that we will show have the property of strong duality. So, a hyper plane, the equation was um I left out some letters there. The equation was um a I1 X1 + A I2 X2 + dot dot dot + AI N X subn is greater than or equal to B subi. So what is the upward force on this hyper plane? Well, if you have a hyper plane and you have a ball resting on the hyper plane, the force on the ball is perpendicular to the hyper plane. So, it's in direction. Um I want to say a i1 a i2 through a sub i n and [clears throat] you know if the it has to be positive so it's some constant c. So the force is c a i1 through a sub i n with c greater than zero. Okay, C is a bad number for this bad variable for this. Let's see. Let's call it F. And I should probably call this F subi. Okay. So we have we have there must be some forces and I'm going to call them y subi instead of f subi just because y subi is the right name for the variable because it's a dual variable. such that summation. Oh, wait. if v subi is equal to this direction a i1 a i2 through a sub i n then summation v sub i no if yeah that's right then summation y sub i v subi is equal to See actually maybe we should make this cranspose. And because these forces all act away from the hyper plane need y subi z. Okay. If The ball touches the E hyper plane. Then a subi if the ball touches the e piper plane I'm going to say ax ax the i term of ax is equal to b subi because if the ball touches the E hyper plane then the constraint is satisfied with equality and this is true. does not touch the hyper plane then what's going on? The ball does not touch the hyper plane then the hyper plane does not exert any force on the ball. then y sub i equals z. And these two things are enough to give you complimentary not are enough to I mean these two things well first look a lot like complimentary sness but they're enough to give you strong duality. [snorts] Okay, let Okay, we have y subi no y transpose ax [applause] minus b is equal to y i guess summation y sub i ax minus B and I want to claim either Yi equals Z or AX subi equals B subi. So this equals zero. Now this goes ypose ax - b equals z. And let's look back at the linear program. And we have ypose y equals c. Right? So ypose a is cranspose. So this says oh this should be yranspose b. So I when I took this I forgot to move the yranspose into the parenthesis. So this is cranspose x and so we have cranspose x minus yanspose b = zero and cranspose x = ypose bison. Okay, so that actually is the end of the linear programming duality lecture notes and I suspected I might have a little time left. So I am going to tell you about Kunig's theorem which is an application of linear programming duality. And I did not prepare this as well. So hopefully I won't make any mistakes there. Suppose you have a bipartite graph. Okay. So, let's draw an example. U matching is a set of edges that do not I want to say that do not meet at any vertices. So this is one edge of a matching. This might be another edge of the matching. This might be another edge. And here's another edge. So that's four edges in this matching. Okay. Now I want to claim now I want to define a vertex cover. Vertex cover is a set of vertices that intersect all the EDGES that meet all the edges. So let's see what would a vertex cover in this graph look like. Well, you might use this vertex. You might use this vertex. You might use this vertex. And you might use this vertex. Does this cover all the edges? No, actually it doesn't. So let's not use that vertex. You could use this vertex. And that actually does cover all the edges because Yeah. Okay. The size of the maximum matching is equal to the size of the minimum vertex cover. Okay. So what we have here is we have yeah we have four in each of them. So this is an example where equality holds and the Kix theorem says equality holds in all graphs and there's one which one direction is easy of Any vertex cover has to be bigger than equal to the size of any matching. And why is this? Well, I mean a vertex cover has to cover each of the edges in the matching, which means it has to be one of the end points of the each of the edges of the has to contain one of the end points in each of the edges of the matching which means that it's has to be the size of the maximum matching at least and Kig's theorem says that they're equal. So, how do we prove equality? Well, one way to do it is write down a linear program for the maximum matching. write down a linear program for vertex covers. Show that they're duals and then show that there is an integer solution to each of them. So I do not have time to do all of that, but we can at least write down the um the theorem for the maximum matching the So how are we going to write down uh how are we going to write down a linear program for the maximum matching? What should the variables be? Edges maybe. Okay. Um, so we want to maximize the sum of x sub. And now we want to say that at most one of these edges, if we have a vertex here, we want to say at most one of these edges is present in the matching. And we're not going to be able to do that because these are not integer variables. They're real numbers. But let's um write down zero less than x less than one and summation e okay v is contained in e. So for every vertex the um the edg the verticy the edges containing that vertex x sub is less than equal to one. So this is something like there's at most one edge containing every vertex which means that we do not have two vertices two edges intersecting in a vertex and are matching assuming the matching is assuming that all the variables are zero or one and that's exactly the um criterion for the match maximum matching. Um let's find the duel. Well, the duel I mean we have an equation for every vertex and some extra equations and a maximization. So the duo is going to be a minimization. It's going to have an equation, a variable for every edge and it's going to have some extra variables dual. Um, okay. So one constraint per edge and here we have one per vertex. Here we have extra per strength per edge. And I guess we can also have non- negativeity constraints. So let's see the duo is going to have um I should write down what these equations what these variables are dual let's call this y sub d and z sub e the equations Um, so now dual equation for each or inequality I should say for each um edge. And what are these inequalities going to be? Well, y subv appears in the equation for x subb and z sub appears in the equation for x subb. So that means that y subb plus z subb well let's see minimum summation y subd y sub plus Z subb is less than or equal to um what this is greater than uncle I'm Sorry. And um YV and Z sub. So what does this really mean? Well, what you want is you want uh a vertex cover, which means you want a set of vertices that are adjacent to every edge. Um okay, so actually we I I did that wrong. Minimize y subb plus z sub because the right hand sides are one for y subb and one for z subb. okay. Okay, I seem to be I seem to have gotten myself lost here, but um I can go back and talk more about [clears throat] the program for um the primal program. Um and why the primal program is um yeah so that's the primal program up here. So the primal program a solution is a weight on each edge. So sum of the weights we e d and e um is less than or equal to one. So suppose we have um fractional solutions that means that there's some edge where you might have two some vertices where you might have two edges which have 0.5 going out of it. Now um we might have another edge going out of 0.5 out of this one because this plus this is lesser equal to one and we want to maximize it. So we would have another one going up. So um and this might be 0.25 and um let's put one up here. Um maybe another 0.5 and another.5. Okay. [cough] [clears throat] In a fractional solution, you can always find find a cycle of fractional edges, right? Because well I mean if you do cannot find a fra if you find a cycle of fractional edges what you can do is you can increase the even ones and decrease the odd ones and set one of them equal to zero and always get a better solution. Ah, hey. And first all of these cycles are even because this is a bipartite graph. So that means we can increase the odd ones and decrease the even ones and we get one zero one zero one zero and it has the same objective function and zero fractional EDGES and doing this we can always get rid of the fractional edges. Now there's another possibility which is you know you have 0.5 and what you can do is you can now increase this one to one decrease this to zero increase this one to one decrease this to zero and um And because if you can find a path, that would mean that this vertex does not have any fractional edges next to it aside from this one. And this vertex does not have any fractional edges next to it besides this one. And that means that you can increase the odd edges and decrease the even edges. And either you um end up with the same objective function or you increase the objective function. But we were assuming this was optimal. So you always end up with the same objective function. So you can always decrease the number of fractional edges and keep the same objective function which means that eventually you find a solution where there are no fractional edges and that is your maximum matching that you wanted to find. And if you take the duel of this and stare at the duel, you will see that it gives you, and I screwed that up when I was trying to do it, but it will tell you, you will see that it gives you a vertex cover. And again, you can have a fractional vertex cover, but a very similar argument will tell you that you have you can find a optimal vertex cover, which is an integer solution to the linear program. And that shows Kunig's theorem. And we will be doing things that are more like this, you know, taking linear programs for um interesting problems. And we will do this with zero sum gains and maximum flow. And show first that the fractional solutions can always be um massaged to give you inter solutions for maximum for maximum flow. And this will tell us give us a duality theorem that the maximum flow equals the minimum cut. And for zero sum games, you know, a game is a two player um thing. And we will show that the linear the primal linear program gives you the optimal strategy for the first player and the dual linear program gives you the optimal strategy for the second player. And because they are duels, they have the same objective function. And that tells us that they if the first player plays his optimum of strategy, he can always guarantee a win of say W on each turn on average. And if the second player plays his optimal strategy, he can always um achieve a loss of at most W on each turn. So the first player and the second player, you know, first player can guarantee he wins plus W and the second player can guarantee he loses no more than minus W. And so this is the value of the game.