The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> Okay, cool. Uh so so we we've uh been grading the the assignments and uh we realized that there were a couple of things about how to write rules that we hadn't necessarily gone through uh and uh and one thing that we would like to see in the next assignment uh are a couple of uh are a couple of things that that I'm going to read out now, but we'll uh we'll probably send out an email as well so you can have it for reference. Um, so, uh, having a paragraph or a overview that broadly explains what the game is about is actually really, really useful. Uh, you know, just jump jumping straight straight into the, you know, this is this is how you set up the board and this is how you, you know, uh, you take a turn. Um, you know, that's the meat of the assignment, but just to sort of help people get a grasp, especially if you thought about your theme really really hard in this next coming assignment, your theme is right there. Explaining what are you you know, who are you in this game? What are you trying to do? Uh, you know, what's your uh what's what's your overall goal in broad terms, not necessarily, you know, very specific game terms. Just having one paragraph is a really really good idea. Um, and really like short, concise paragraph. And that's that's that's one thing. Okay. Uh, two, a list of components, you know, uh, in the card game will be like, you know, we have this many of this many red cards, this many blue cards, that that sort of thing, just so that we know that we've got everything. Uh, it also helps sometimes to be able to establish the vocabulary of the game really really early. So, if all your red cards are attack cards and all your blue cards are defense cards and you want to say, you know, your your deck should have 25 red attack cards and 25 blue defense cards. Now, we know if you use the word attack card and defense card later, we now know what it means. Um, sometimes it's obvious from just looking at the cards, but frankly, you know, when when we are opening up these cards, usually there's one person looking at the cards and somebody else looking at the rules. Uh, and just having that information redundant is uh kind of nice. Um, let me see. um the the number of players uh uh in this particular in this particular assignment I'm trying to remember what the requirements for it was like two to four >> two two to four >> yeah two uh two to four number of your of your previous uh projects actually allowed more more players less less players we want an explicit line that says this is how many players your game supports just just one line make it like an ability bullet points and by but by by the way bullet points being concise um you know making things really easy to read uh is a is is is um highly valued. Um one one thing that you absolutely should do is make sure that you're testing your written rules as well as your game. You know um don't just test the rules of your game and then you write it down and you're never actually testing the written version of your rules on some one line. Uh you need to be able to test the written rules as well. There was some there was some games that clearly did that and some games I clearly did. Um and it and it showed um by the way no one really did badly last assignment. I just this is this is I I'm nitpicking because because this is this is what bumps you from B to A. Um let's see. Expected playing time. Um especially in this next assignment uh you know if your game tends to take 30 minutes uh or your game tends uh tends to take 10 uh just state it uh if there if in some games it takes a really long time to set up and a really fast time to play then you just state you know expected setup time blah expected playing time blur. Um there was a lot of assumption in the rules and in the design of the game that your players are male. Uh this is a very male uh uh proportion class right right now. But uh don't assume that your players are all male. It's actually really kind of off-putting to read a set of rules that just assumes that if you're playing this game, you are a guy. Um, so there are a couple of things that people have done in academia to sort of like address that issue. I've seen ver I've seen papers where they sort of use uh non-specific uh third person pronouns and just swapping he, she, he, she all the time unless they're talking about a specific person. Uh but it but in your case when you're thinking about your themes and like don't assume that your players are male. You can cast them in the role of a male but you don't say don't don't assume that a player itself is male. Yeah. >> So I'm just going to say put put this out there in the English language is actually very masculine oriented. So the proper way to say in a third person if you're not saying one says this it's actually appropriate to say he. That's actually proper in English language. And I'm saying that it's off-putting from a marketing standpoint to make assume that your players. >> I'm saying. >> Yeah. Uh it it goes more to than than just non-gender than gender specific pronouns. It it goes way more than that. There was a lot of assumptions on like uh there were specific rules that assumed that you were a straight male in a couple of games. Uh so let's let's be clear about that. Okay. Uh, >> I was just going to mention that it from what I've seen in a lot of rule books, it seems like a lot of people solve this problem by just replacing the assumption that the player is male with the assumption that the player is female. Like even uh yeah, I've noticed this even every single pronoun in every like post second edition Dungeons and Dragons book is female. >> Interesting. >> And that's actually kind of an interesting way to deal with it, right? It's just like you hand the lamp lamb shader and said we got to use a pronoun but we don't want to use language that's going to turn people off the game. So we're just going to swap all the pronouns around and all of a sudden you actually have a more marketable game. You have a game where someone going to read the rules and you know and if they're not a straight male reading the rules and it's like okay you know uh clearly this was a gender pronoun swap but but I can read these these rules that can make make sense. Whereas, you know, someone who's not a straight male reading rules and and going, "Oh, this game's not for me, so I'm not going to play the game." You know, that that that kind of reaction does happen. Uh, you know, board games are supposed to be inclusive. Board games and card games are supposed to sort of like be these huge socially enabling games uh and and performance. So, keep that in mind. You want people to feel welcome when you read your um if I can just interject. So something that I've seen um happens a lot like bridge literature is they make your partner so one person specifically is female and the others are male and that way you kind of have this inclusivity but then it helps clarify who you're talking about. So if you are writing up examples or you know sample terms or that kind of thing, you can think about doing it that way as well because it it does the whole inclusivity but then again kind of clarifies who you're talking about in the in the >> and you know we're at university we're trying to be like progressive about this. >> I find it's generally people's aversion to writing using um pronouns which are gender neutral. So there um specifically people worry that there's an ambiguity between singular and plural and that's why you shouldn't use that kind of pronoun. But for the most part it's always I it's almost always obvious when you're talking about one person or multiple people. So >> I don't even see really why this is still an issue really. >> Yeah. It's one of those things where it's not technically correct to say like if I'm referring to a single person to say they or their but like but then if you if you're reading other things they'll say do that. Um a lot of people just are using he or she now. I mean it's certainly awkward. It's kind of an awkward but you can also use second uh if you use second person language you know you you know when it's your turn you blah blah blah. And uh also um I'm trying to think the word player is a great substitute for a lot. It's like player one, player two. You can just revert to those terms. Um and it's tough. It's tough to write stuff like this, but you know, sometimes I find under constraints writing gets better. Uh because you know, you're more focused on how your your your writing is going to be received. And we're trying to encourage everything in your games to be better. Um, I guess this was something that I I hit on earlier. Um, try to go for short sentences like not paragraphs of pros. Those are actually difficult to read when you're trying to like also process what the moves are going to be. Uh, go for active voice rather than passive voice. uh you know it's I personally automatically write passive voice when I'm writing any report and I have to I have to like physically cheat myself and you know and tell Microsoft word to highlight every single instance of passive voice so that I can actually correct that um Microsoft Word doesn't do a great job in highlighting every single instance but uh you do this often enough you start picking it up yourself it's actually easier to read it it's it's uncomfortable that you're moving from the from the appeal of writing technical papers into writing into writing for general public but active voice is easier for some of you in check. Um this one I might need more more help and detail um lists of steps and actions. So, like if you are when you're going through the instructions, it's really helpful to have numbered sequences. Like instead of having a a chunk of pros that saying first do this, then you do this, just bullet point it or make it a numbered list. And it's a lot easier for people to follow. Um, generally speaking, bullets versus numbers, like you should use a numbered list if a sequence really matters, whereas a bulleted list is more like these are the things that are important. just not necessarily a temporal relationship between them. >> Yeah. >> So, you know, just just some tips. In the end, every single game that we played, we could play. Uh, you know, it didn't take us long to figure out what what was necessary. Um, the games were good. Uh, the games were entertaining and uh for the four player uh games, we brought in extra people to come in and play and we all had had a blast. The two-player games was just two of us. And uh yeah um I'm actually really really impressed because this is the it's a market improvement over previous version previous. So polite golf y um all right so so that was uh the stuff on the assignment and now on to intellectual property. This is this is actually um actually how many people figured out what the that we had given you the wrong chapter to read. Okay. All right. For those of people who ended up reading rereading chapter 3, I'm sorry. Uh it's not a huge chapter, but um I kind of want to talk about two different things. Uh which um both of which are related to intellectual property. And one is the version of intellectual property that presented to you in the book. Um, you know, in that sense, that's kind of the game designer uh um concept of what intellectual property is. Often it means a franchise. Often it means somebody else's story world or characters. Um maybe it's real people and their images, you know, like their faces and and their bodies. If you're doing sports games, you have to deal with that a lot. Um, if you there was a conference this last weekend and uh there was and one of the the old gardens of of the Boston game development team uh who now runs iRacing was talking about the amount of effort it takes to actually license a NASCAR car because it's not just the car but every single logo that's on that car. um and uh and and the person who's inside it and the uniform that they're wearing, every single logo on their uniform and and their face, you know, and that's that that's a lot that goes into licensing uh for that. It uh it helps that the person who now owns iRacing is also the same person who owns the Red Sox. So, they've got the bankroll to be able to like do all this. Um but, you know, uh but that's that's kind of the the idea of what uh IP is from an industry point of view. And um that there's a couple of things that you can do uh that that you can do and to to consider that not just all right how do we design this game so that we can minimize how much IP we need to license because licensing IP generally means licensing money that needs to be exchanged. Um either that means you're splitting up your royalties or you're just putting up money up front. Of course this goes for things like licensed music for instance. EA has entire music department. Sega has an entire music department whose job is either to create their own music or more likely license popular music. Um and uh of course with with harmonics you know that's half the business right right there probably more at this point. Um and then the other thing that you can do is that assuming that you are working with a license and the reason why you're working with license say Lego Star Wars which came up last in in the last class how do we do justice to it? How do we sort of make sure that the fans of those particular intellectual property franchises are going to look at this game that we're creating and say, "Yeah, that's that's faithful. That makes sense." Um, we'll be actually playing a lot more of those games, I think, later on, uh, for things like like Battle Star Galactica. Um, but let's take Lego Star Wars as one example. You know, the the idea of if you're a fan of Lego, then you're probably a fan of building things up with little plastic blocks. you you like making stuff combined and um and you kind of like the whole blockiness that that look of it. So the folks who make Lego Star Wars Tra I think they're called Traveler's Tales um and Lego Indiana Jones and and those adventure games kind of had to play that up. They made a lot of obstacles in the game, things that were uh that you had to put together with parts. Um, sure it's just it's just just holding down one button to assemble it from a bunch of disconnected parts. But creating all that animation and sort of making this is the main this is one of the main game mechanics of the entire game was a decision they had to make and and they're very consciously making that because it's Lego where we're going to assume people are going to make things and then you find parts in the entire game that you um can later go back to a trophy room and you can see your trophies sort of statues and objects from the game world that you're trying to do um sort of build up. So the more parts you find, they're like the hidden collectibles that you find in Grand Theft Auto and they're kind of hidden away in secret locations and you find more of them, you know, you go back to your toky room and oh wow, you have X-wing, you know, or you have part of an X-wing. You haven't found half of it, so all you've got like are the wings and none of the guns or something like that. Um, and that sort of, you know, they they've managed to figure out a way how that weaves back into basic game mechanics, but it's still appealing to uh to to Lego fans. you know, if you get chopped in half by a lightsaber, you fall into pieces. You don't actually bleed, you know, um when the people when the characters walk, they kind of walk like that, you know. Um they're a little bit more flexible than actual Lego pieces, you know. They don't just move legs at right angles. Uh but but they try they try really really hard to make everything look plasticky. Um and uh and it pays off. The same thing goes for Star Wars, right? You know what are the things that people expect from Star Wars? >> Lightsabers. >> Lightsabers. Okay. Anything else? >> The Force. >> The Force. Okay. >> Darth Vader. >> Darth Vader. You got to have Darth Vader. Well, if they're doing it on the episodes four, five, and six. Actually, I believe Darth Vader is still an unlockable in episode 1, 2, and three because people expect there to be a Darth Vader. Uh more generally just the the main characters from the films. >> Yeah, the main characters from >> from films. >> Uh dark fights. >> Dark fights. I mean like like like ah that's actually interesting because I believe they actually didn't do that. They didn't get to uh they didn't manage to put that in and but in a lot of other Lucas games they they they focus mostly on space flight. >> Catch phrases. >> Catchphrases. Uh, I think they weave the catchphrases into the names of the levels because they can't because that that's not actually actual dialogue in the entire >> Nobody's Nobody ever says, "I've got a bad feeling about this." >> I think I think the title I think that's the title of the levels and I've got a bad feeling about this because there's no dialogue. No one says anything. The only the only thing that says anything is R2-D2. License to voice. Um, >> actually I have a a really good example of catchphrases in um I think Rose Squadron 64. There's this line in one of the Star Wars movies where Luke is like, "Our two of my that stabilizer's broken loose. See if you can't lock it down." Every like second time you get shot, they play that recording. And then there's even like a cut scene where this other pilot is like, "Luke, my stabilizer's broken, Lewis." And he's like, "See if you can't have your R2 unit lock it down. So yeah, I mean a good example like the far end the worst end was that game. >> You can overdo it. You can overdo it. >> Um I'm trying to remember how the force works. I think you can assemble Lego blocks from a distance in uh in in Star Wars if you're playing Obi-Wan. Uh you can like it's kind of and then like things just all Yoda. Um yeah. Uh obviously Darth Vader's in there. users in the first cut scene. >> You know that bear that >> Yeah. Yeah. You got to have again all all all all the big characters have got to be there, right? You got to have your nuke, you got to have your Z3. And the interesting thing about that for Lego game, again, this is this this is a nice mix between Lego and Star Wars is that you can play any level with any character. So, um after you beaten it once, I think you unlock the ability to swap characters in, which is more of a Lego kind of thing, right? I'm just going to take the characters from this from the Harry Potter set and put them into the Lego skip and see what happens. Um, but you know, uh, that's that's one thing that you get you get to unlock all these characters. So, you can play the whole game with being like the >> um I think I like >> you want to have the locals like touch. Oh yeah, the locations of on and kind of like some at least some acknowledgement that there is some sequence of when people go to each hotel. >> Yeah. The Yeah. The game Lego games in particular basically like follow the events of the movie specifically. So it's like each separate event in the movie is kind of its own level. >> Yep. Yep. Yeah. Mostly cantina is one chunk of is one level and you beat that and you want two. What happens after the cantina escape from Tatooine? >> Yeah, tattoo after they get off Tatooine. >> Uh, >> probably some Death Star. >> Death Star. >> Yeah. Yeah. Oh, right right. Right. >> I was going to say someone should invent a game where, you know, all the Lego all the Lego games and you can use any of the characters interchangeably between them. >> Well, there's one company who already has technology for for for that. You know, I would love to see Lego Star Wars slashing the endurance. you know, and and even better if you can change the console to Indiana Jones, which is a budget, >> like takes off a hat. >> Yeah. Like blaster whip. Um, one thing which uh the game these particular games have done a really good job with as of bringing music over. Um, actually, every single Star Wars game has been very very careful about making sure that it sounds like Star Wars, the sound effects and the music as well. Um, plus a lot of it is actually developed with the Lucas Arts license. Um, which is obviously under the Lucas umbrella. So they they make it makes it a little bit easier. Lucas is actually the the the company um of the whole Lucas family, Lucas Arts, Lucas Film and everything. Um, it's actually really really tightly centrally controlled by George Lucas uh himself. Partly for quality control, partly for control freak issues. Uh but you know in in the end what it does make it really really easy as for say how many folks played the force unleashed. >> Um the live action trails are awesome >> the second one. >> Oh I haven't seen live action trailer. >> They they do really good. They blend the in game footage live action. They go back and forth and it's really hard to tell where >> you have like really cool lights. >> I actually wonder whether the character is actually based on the case of a real >> It must be because it's the exact same case. >> Okay. Um yeah. uh a lot of techn a lot of the assets that they use in the movies uh were brought over into the game obviously with some with some tweaks to make it run better in the game. Um a lot of stuff in the uh in the force unleash like when you use your force powers and you smash things uh which is actually most of the game as I recall. Um a lot of that that same technology is actually technology that they use in the films to simulate things being smashed. Uh, that being said, that particular example is probably not a good instance of something that any player is going to notice. It's like, why do I care that things that are breaking in the game break exactly the same way in the movie, but you know, um, but they do more more more usefully. You see art assets, you see the same concept art, you know, moving between the between the games really smoothly. Travis Tales is actually um and the Lego Star Wars games are uh a little bit further out. Obviously, those are third party. Those are separate from the Lucasf family. They had to actually license both Lego and Star Wars. Um, but Lego already had a relationship with Star Wars obviously because they're making these toys. Um, so it's a little bit easier for them to to to negotiate that. And that's a game developer issue I believe uh with a post mode of how they actually manage that. Um, so you know, uh, but you know, uh, again, they're going to be very, very careful. Even Lucas, even though it's not Lucas's own company, they're going to be very, very careful that is at least matching up with Lucas's control of the product. Um, and if you're a developer working with a license, often it's just a long process of just earning trust back from the uh from the original license holders. Jason Dean is actually uh our art director in this lab and he used to work with um THQ which made a lot of uh DS and Wii titles specifically on uh Disney and Pixar products. Um so uh one one problem with the DS is that it's not it doesn't have a huge amount of uh 3D processing quality. Uh whereas you know obviously the six movies they've got all the power in the world to do awesome looking 3D. Um, so some of the tricks that they had to do to be able to get the characters, you know, to be faithful to the characters in the um in in a movie are kind of interesting. So, um, do if folks remember Pixar films, you know, there's a lot of them have these opening and closing sequences that are actually animated in completely different style. Like maybe it's handdrawn, maybe it's paper cutouts. Um, and uh, and those are still emblematic of pixel style even though they're not super 3D realistically rendered. And a lot of the DS games that that Jason be worked on will use those tricks. They they'll make a game instead of making it look like it's all 3D, they make it look like it's all cut out of cardboard. Uh, because that's that's that's part of the movies. Um, and the DS has a much easier time with that. Um, one thing that's kind of useful, uh, when you're thinking about what to take from a franchise or a license is to look at the verbs that, uh, that that that come out from that franchise. Uh, and I kind of I I think we have enough time. I'd like to do an exercise where like we pick up a franchise and um and you just try to come up with a bunch of verbs that sort of make that franchise unique or at least you expect to see in that franchise. Is there um but I like some some examples. Um I'm going to just start with movies and see if we can get at least one that everyone's fairly familiar with and uh and and if not then I'll try books or or other kinds of media properties. Anyone want to throw a movie that maybe everyone in here should be familiar with? >> Independence Day. >> Independence Day. Has anyone not seen Independence Day? >> Okay. >> All right. Actually, let's let's just throw out a few rins. So, does Independence Day Twilight? >> Okay. All right. I'm going I'm going to go this way. Any >> day >> Twilight. >> Lord of the Rings. >> Inception. >> Iron Man. >> The Matrix. >> The Matrix. Okay, we hit seven and I think that's all I can remember. So, uh, Inception, Iron Man, uh, The Matrix, >> Paris Day's Day, Twilight, >> never seen Twilight. >> Um, >> I'm going to pick Inception. How Who's not seen Inception? >> Haven't seen Inception. Which which have you seen? >> I've seen all not all the other ones. Yeah. >> The slight problem is a matrix that there's already a number of on it. So everyone seen >> it all. >> Montipython. >> Does anyone not know Montipython? >> Holy Grail. >> But I think Home Alone. Home Alone. >> Homeown. It might have been a Home Alone game, but I but I bet no one here played it. >> Home is impressive. >> They were for the original Game Boy. >> Oh, okay. >> It's actually one of the first Game Boy games my brother ever got. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Um >> I haven't tried Lord of the Rings, but maybe a specific Lord of the Rings. Uh, which is the king? >> I haven't seen what >> fashion. >> No, not really. >> No. >> Fashion. I've seen Fellowship. >> Wait, what about the Matrix? The Matrix. >> Oh, >> no. The Matrix. There too many games on it. >> Yeah. So, >> two towers. >> I'm going to Okay. All right. I'm really curious how Ferris Builders Day off as a game. Uh I'm going to if somebody would like to volunteer a quick summary of what Ferris Buer's Day Off is about which is Matthew. >> Uh well >> well okay so the basic idea is the main character Ferris is played by Matthew Broadick. Matthew. >> Uh, the idea is that like he's the infamously super popular clown, like class clown kid in school, and he decides to just play Hookie with essentially his girlfriend and his best friend. And the whole movie is them going around the city getting into wacky misadventures while the principal tries to catch him playing hookie because he hates >> and it's awesome. Yeah, >> it is incredible. >> Yeah. >> Um, so actually that whiteboard would be >> Has anyone heard the fight club theory of day off? >> Best friend. >> Yeah. Cameron. >> Um, I'm going to stand up this screen. Um, >> wait. Who hasn't seen Fight Club? >> Fight Club. >> Has anyone seen Fight Club? >> That's another one. today. >> Yeah, but I feel that way actually because I think I think that game would have benefited from the exercise that we're about to do. >> How could that even >> like both controllers control the same character? >> Metal Gear Solid stuff right there. >> Psycho. see. >> So, we're just going to bring up a notepad thing. And I kind of and I want people to start thinking about verbs. What are the verbs that are that either are make Paris Day kind of unique or really you that's what you think of when you think of Paris Day? When you think of Paris Day? >> Yeah. Verbs. What do they do? What do the characters do? >> Bad karaoke. >> Sing. >> They sing. >> Well, they deceive. >> What? >> They deceive. >> Let's let me make sure we >> live life. >> Lie. They lie. >> Okay. So, uh they they deceive or lie. Uh they run. >> They run or elude. >> They run. >> They they definitely do. >> Yeah. >> They drive. >> They do more than what? They trick. >> They trick. >> Yeah. Let's deceive you. >> They be spontaneous. Uh, they improvised. >> They get in trouble. >> They get in trouble. There's got to be a verb for >> and get out of trouble. >> They mischief. >> Mischief. >> Mischief. That's a word that should probably be in there. I mean, that might be actually a back of the box or or tagline. What else? >> Anything else they do there? >> Behide. >> They hide. I guess that's that if I run elude those kind of stuff >> exploit >> advantage >> they take advantage >> they they take they take take advantage okay you know uh exploit >> they may impress >> they impress >> relax >> uh at some point >> relaxing basically >> one guy is very relaxed >> they is they hack. >> Do they hack into the computer >> in the into the uh school computer? >> Yeah, I forgot all about that. I >> was going to say board games. >> There is only board games. Yeah, >> that that's too easy. That's a movie. >> That game was that saying the only right move is not to play. >> Yeah, that >> that's four games. >> Um well, they don't ruin it. Let's see what else. It's a classic line you hear that you haven't seen. >> Do they ever support each other or do they just like >> stress each other out? >> Stress each other out. >> Scheme is so much better than plan. >> I don't like these negative words. This this may not be what the main characters do, but uh they campaign uh they they they run a campaign to save Ferris. >> Um so Ferris, the idea is that Ferris is basically pretending that he's ill and deathly ill. And so so a bunch of the students in the school are running a campaign to raise funds for his medical. >> Well, everyone says in like the police station police station, she goes, "Oh, tell your brother to feel better." And also the water tower scripted on it. >> Yeah. So, so yeah. And and and you can think about what those those works associated with like you know putting signs up and painting. Um and you know if you look at this list and the list can probably get much longer than this but this is a fairly fairly unique collection. maybe not so unique if you compare it to other sort of high jinks movies, but it's not like we've had a lot of video games in particular that are in that vein. Um, and uh and and we pro probably should have because it sounds like it's going to be heck a lot of fun. Um I actually the one game that makes me that reminds me of this is actually Bully uh which was released by Rockstar where you sort of do these things but it's much more vengeful. It's it's much more I'm going to get I I I I'm going to show the other bullies in in the school how it's done. Um >> whereas this one is kind of more good nature. Um they they parade actually. >> Yeah. >> Mr. Parade is also part of the sing badly part. >> Because they go parade and then they sing. >> But singing madly wouldn't have the same impact if there wasn't a brass band behind it. Um, so you know, you can think about how any of these verbs, and we we've done this exercise of like taking verbs and turning them into game mechanics before. And you can think about how any of these verbs could actually be turned into a game mechanic. The goal, you know, kiss might be a goal or it might be a rule of mechanic to be able to accomplish some something. Uh, parade might be a setting, campaign might be, you know, a collection of mechanics uh that feed off each other. There could be a whole system that basically tells you how successful your save ferris campaign is going. You could make a game just all about saving ferris, you know, uh as opposed to playing ferris wheel itself. Um uh yeah, you know, and and and that's kind of one exercise that you can do when you're thinking about your real world systems in all the systems that you guys are dealing with as far as I can recall. Uh you don't have to worry about license of the IP, but you're basically working with a real life franchise. You know, it's like if you're doing something based on political diplomacy or something like that, you know, then there are real life source material things that you're trying to be faithful to. And going through this exercise of okay, so what's the ver what what are all the verbs in this idea that we're that we're working with in this system that we're working with? What do people actually do? Uh it's a good exercise to be able to try to be faithful to that system. Uh and then you don't have to do it all. because you know you just kind of cherry pick and maybe you want to prioritize a little bit and says okay what things can we get rid of and still very still clearly a ferris wheel game um you know running uh I think I think as long as you have some kind of evasion thing uh you know physical running may not be necessary you could do something like as long as they're not in one location where the principle is at any given time you're good but you don't have to physically move through a 3D space and all that >> um >> drive probably >> driving yeah it's such a minor part of the film. Well, it yeah, it it the actual driving is such a minor part of the film that that that that you know, you you can probably uh do without that. Um and and you and you might actually want to think about, you know, what if instead of this being Ferris Builder's day off into Ferris Builders multiple days off, you know, it's like you just play each day differently and you're just trying to stay out more and more days, maybe maybe it's a number of days that you don't go to school or something. Um so that's that's an idea. Um but that's that's kind of the approach that one approach that you can use in in in your your projects. >> Great. Um before we hit two, I want to touch on another point uh be uh before I transition any questions about dealing with it franchises. Um, there is a point that Brenda makes in her book and the Brenda and Ian make her book that if you go professionally into game industry, you will most likely at some point of time probably many times in your career work with a licensed product and it can be painful because you do not have creative control. Um, yet you're trying to be faithful to to to to what you're working with and uh if you and if you succeed, you make a lot of money uh and maybe you get enough money to start working on your own projects. But um it's it's it's a reality because franchises do sell and there are a lot lower risk than uh dealing with a completely new idea. Um by the way, if you haven't played the new Tomb Raider game, uh which is actually kind of uh interesting because it's like Tomb Raider meets Diablo. And uh for people who if people have never for who's who's played or seen someone play Tomb Raider before, >> okay, who knows about this latest game that I'm talking about? It's kind of like three three/arter isometric view. Yeah, it's um it is two raider meet meets the other with but it still keeps some of the puzzle solving. It's cooperative. It's a very very different game in terms of how you play it. But uh it would be an interesting exercise to sort of like play that play that that game may maybe uploaded up here sometime and you can take a look and see how does that really Tomb Raider franchise so that people who say who look at the game still say yeah that's Tomb Raider even though it's a very different game. Um, you can imagine like a Tomb Raider board game for instance and how would that be different and how could that still be? That's World of Warcraft games and Starcraft board games I believe, you know, like that's I can't even think conceive how that works, but I'd love to try it out. >> Um, let's see. So, the the other point I want to get to is kind of the legalistic definition of IP. And uh I don't want to spend an entire class on this because I know you will all fall asleep. Um, I just want to point out that there's quite a lot of different ways that intellectual property protected. You know, people who are creating stuff professionally, creatively, uh, want to make sure that they can finish their product, they can make sequels of their product. They can maybe even license their their ideas to someone else, you know, being IP for some other company without having their ideas copied out outright and, you know, not seeing any compensation for that. But there's like copyrights, there's trademarks, there's patents. I feel like I'm missing something. Well, I I I can speak on those three first. And and and and if anything, those are definitely the three big ones. Um for copyright, copyright basically protects an expression of an idea. The idea itself is not protected. Whatever you know if if your basic idea is you know in a world where uh aliens are attacked by space marines um you know the idea itself is not protected which is which is a relief because a lot of people have made games on those on that idea >> but the actual expression is so the actual um say say if you're an artist and you're creating concept art based on that thing that piece of concept art is a is copyrighted to to either you or if you if you're an employee of a company then you probably signed over your rights to the company that whatever you're creating on day or dying belongs to the company. Um, and that's defensible in court. It's actually an automatic protection, but it's one of those things where if um it helps to be able to document that you've actually created something. there's a copyright office that you can send things to, but for the most part, internal company documentation saying this piece of art was created on this so and so date by so and so person um is usually good enough to hold up uh to stand up in in in court if there's ever a dispute. Um so um same thing goes for writing, the same thing goes for audio and music. A lot of music is is pro is protected under copyright. Um, so if somebody creates a piece of music that sounds an awful lot like your piece of music, there are actually rules that there are specific rules that allow that for that to happen. But, um, I think if you completely reperform the piece, you are allowed to do that, but you may have to pay the original composers, the uh, royalties for music. This means that if person A composes a song, band B performs a performs a song um and releases it on an album, band C could actually reperform that song and the only royalties goes back to composer. Doesn't necessarily go back to to tok B. Um however, band u it depends on really how close they sound to each other. And of course, if that be happens to be also the composers, then they're going to get around anyway. But you you see the sort of idea that that copyright protects the expression of an idea. The composers at some point of time had to write down the music, the notes and the lyrics and uh and that that is what is protected and you can't just copy that without at least entering into some sort of contract saying that you can. Um we have systems like creative comments for instance uh that basically people who are creating new IP say under these conditions I'm letting people do whatever they want with with it and there are different kinds of creative comments licenses some of them let you do literally whatever you want with it they're like open source licenses and in some cases it's like well you can do whatever you want with it as long as for non-commercial use and you have to credit the origin creator that sort of thing. Um so that's that's why creative comments kind of evolve. So to enable people to freely do stuff without necessarily uh uh without necessarily having to pay and enter into separate contracts with everybody who's creating IP. Um so the problem is with code in many many if code and game mechanics actually for this class uh is something that I want to consider because code you can think of code in two ways. One, you can think of it as a chunk of text. You know, it's a chunk of asky symbols that you type into a into a development environment and you compile it and that's an expression of an idea. But the other thing the other way that you can think of it is it's a machine. It's a bunch of instructions that you feed into a machine for it to operate in some way. And those things machines inventions basically can be protected by patents. Um that that's pretty much what the patent system is designed for. patent systems a lot slower is you actually have to apply to the central US patent office to be able to get to secure those. Um assuming that you're looking for patent protection in the US. Every single country, every single region has its own patent office and its own process. It's really expensive. Um what it does is basically give you a temporary monopoly on that invention. Uh at least that's what it was originally originally originally designed for. You make a an an inventure then you got like 25 years or something. uh to be able to capitalize on it before you anyone can use your idea. And the whole reason why it's invented is that you have now an incentive to be able to come up with inventions. You might make some profit off it. And after the the the the your patent expires 25 years or something because you've released your information to the patent office now all of society can benefit can make derivatives of your invention. So in a sense it was invented to sort of eventually release break monopolies. I got this idea and I am going to state to be upfront and very clear about how I made this thing work. Say Amazon patents one click and I'm going to say for the next 25 years Amazon now has this lock on oneclick shipping uh and and purchasing which is really annoying but it's been quite annoying. Um and uh but after 25 years anybody can do one click uh uh shipping but that's the problem right 25 years is a heck of a long time and by then whatever is invented it's kind of obsolete and a lot of the ideas that tend to get approved by the patent office are pretty damn obvious. Um I'm not going to disparage the amount of work that Amazon's actually put into oneclick shipping. It's actually a really complex process. But I am going to disparage Sega's patent on the giant floating arrow that tells you where you are supposed to go next. They have a patent on this. Namco has a patent on mini games that you play while your game is loading. That's why only Namco games have mini games on their in those screens because they have a patent on that. When it comes to game ideas and game mechanics, I find this really annoying. It's a personal rant because uh uh because uh that's I I think that stifles creation instead of of opening it up. It's really it really really sucks. Um I don't really think game mechanics fit in the in the in the >> really Apple has is on all the touching >> on their gestures. So a lot of people can't >> a lot of people have the same uh the the same issue I have with game mechanics with software in general. You know, it's like software happens so quickly that this kind of temporary monopoly basically means a real monopoly over the idea. >> I thought that game rules were not patentable or covered by copyright. I seem to remember hearing that somewhere. So for instance, you can and this was an issue which came up when Scrabul and Scrabble were at loggerheads with one another. There's some weird technical detail that I don't fully know, but it kind of comes down to the actual rules of Scrabble are not or the the actual game rules themselves like >> are not copyrightable, but somehow like the look and feel of your game is do you know what the specific details are? I don't know the specific details, but how you outlined it is one very clear way on how a someone who's created a game can protect the game without necessarily being protective of the rules. That Scrabble can protect the layout of their board because that's because in order to come to design that layout, they had to express the idea of what the board was with graphic design. You know, it's like here's where triple words are here where our double words. That's an image. images can be copyrighted and thus protected under copyright law not >> well and I think I think at least with copyright and trademarks it comes down to like confusion right like if someone could if if Scrabulus was similar enough to Scrabble superficially that someone could confuse their products I think that is like a major criteria right it's about like and and again yeah that comes down to things like font you know what color is the title what color is the word it's even more specific when it comes to trademarks Yeah. If if if you're if it's like the name of your if if if if you can claim that the image of or or or or say if a a particular saying or something is closely associated with your company's core brand, you can defend that as a trademark if you register it with a trademark office. So Gam Gambit, the Singapore MIT Gambit Game Lab actually a registered trademark in in Singapore. Um, actually we had some trouble registering that because we're clearly not the first company to come along with the word Gambit. Uh, there's actually another MIT product called Gambit. It's u it's actually game theory bonding system. Um, so so we we actually had to negotiate some fine waters to be able to separate what we were doing was not going to be confused with what they were doing. >> Um, are copyrights and trademarks also for 25 years or are they >> different? Copyright. >> Yeah. And copyrights last as long as Walt Disney is dead. That is because the Disney Corp keeps lobbying um the various branches of United States to extend copyright so that they can lock down Mickey. Um that's that's that's that's the easiest way to tell exactly how long. In other words, right now you got something copyrighted, it's in perpetuity until Disney loses. >> Um, this is actually really annoying, which means there's a whole bunch of works of literature, for instance, that are, you know, that date back to the early um 20th century that still that by all means really should be public domain at this point in time. And again, they will pass into public use, but they aren't. Um, I know one thing for sure, HP Lovecraft is definitely uh in public domain. That's why everyone that there are so many games based on HD material um not that but not you know whatever's based on Disney material has to be made by Disney um or will run a file of corporate um one thing um about rules actually I think I think we kind of covered that but yeah you know images if if the scrabble board is um is identified as being key to the Scrabble brand. You kind you might be able to protect it under trademark. Um and uh tra trademark is one of those things where all you're saying is that this is how our company's identifying ourselves. And if that is confused with any with with somebody else's product, that product is now hurting our ability to make money. Uh so there are laws that allow you to to fight that. The problem with trademark is that you have to keep fighting that. Um so Xerox for instance constantly fights to keep Xerox as a trademark because people keep using the word Xerox to mean photocopy. Um you know which is a great problem for a company to have but it's actually a cash drain as well because you know everyone's assuming that you know associating your company's name with uh you're thinking of Google right >> I think I think by law actually too many people use it. Yes, >> it's a band-aid, I'm pretty sure. >> So, you have to fight it. >> As long as you keep fighting it, uh you stand a chance of of hanging on to it. So, um but if you you know like like Kleenex, if you blink, you know, you know, it might be taken away from from I remember hearing about this. I was looking to find it, but uh Richard Garfield who created Magic >> has a patent on methods of play for trading card games >> like >> and one of the elements of the patent is playing a card in a certain orientation and then turn changing its orientation in the game field to signify a different state of that of that character. >> Now that's stupid tapping cards. Yeah, the patent is among many other things that are basically so I suspect that he doesn't enforce this patent or that is not enforceable because if you try to enforce it, it gets rubbed out. It >> is possible that it's not >> I don't know the the actual manifestation of that is that um I don't know whether wizards contested people over it, but definitely they're anti- anyone else using the term tap. Mhm. >> So, which is why whenever you go to look at Legend of the Five Rings or what have you, they have the turn sideways mechanic, but it's called bowing. >> But, and the same is true of any collectible card game that has a tap mechanic. >> They're not allowed to use the word tap, >> but that's a copyright >> except except that Yeah, it's a copyrighted tap. The patience. >> So, I don't know if it's been tested because def I don't know if that patent has been contested. >> I would suspect not. >> Probably not. But it's it's interesting that uh however if you look at any of the Wizards range of products so including Pokemon and I don't recall what the others are they all use the term tap. So and but seems that because of the copyright which they hold >> they're allowed to do it but nobody else >> a copyright violation probably gives evidence for a patent violation. So, so you know, um, if you can stay clear of the copyright vi violation, the case that Wizards has to be able to contest the same mechanic in somebody else's gets a little bit weaker. >> But they might still have a case. They just >> I think that I suspect that they think that their patent is not enforcable. >> It's possible. >> Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to get away with not even calling it tapping as long as you turn a card. They would be able to say, "Hey, we have a method." >> Ridiculous. entering one or more cards into the play by playing one or more cards face up in the first orientation and the player's option uh you you know turning the trade card in other orientation in the playing surface doesn't even say for any reason just like they battles you have to turn a card upside down or like subway uh submarine cards you can flip them upside down to change it from >> um train card >> well no it's me a method of playing games though when two or more players love the block >> doesn't say anything about train cards So you can see how this gets annoying and quick, but there's actually a unfortunately actual good reason why things like a mechanics and more often implementations of the mechanism code are protected by patents is in that because there are already so many out there. If um if your company is just trying to make a game, the likelihood that you're going to run a file of patents actually pretty high. Um, so what do you do if you've got something that you know that you created? A lot of companies just go and patent that. In the event that it turns out to be a case where you run a file of a different patent, they might actually look at uh the company that's suing them and say, "But you are running a file of our patents because we just also trademark uh patented something pretty obvious." Um, uh, EA activation >> Yeah. What? >> It's all just mutually assured. >> Exactly. I mean well it's not destruction it's what they do is they trade licenses it's like you know we will let you use these patterns and you will let us use that patterns and thus avoid a legal fight but of course lawyers are getting paid throughout this entire process >> u it's cheaper than actually bringing it into court because >> you can get a your patent is validated if you can if it can be shown that someone else came up with it earlier >> in time you have to be the first person to come up with >> although there's also a nonobvious is an obvious clause. >> Yeah. >> And that's why I'm sure that that Wizard has never tried to actually use the patent against people because they suspect that it's not going to hold up an obvious clause. >> It's possible. You may not want to fight it, but it's sometimes the threat of a lawsuit is a big enough threat. Uh it's like you don't even have to be able to win it. It just we are a big company. We have lawyers and we can pay them. Do you? you know, and it's um so that's one reason I mean why companies that are otherwise opposed to the idea of patents will still secure patents protect them to protect their jobs. And it's it's kind of sad. It's like one of those things where you know in a city where everyone owns a gun, you want to own one. You want to own one too, you know, sort of thing. Um so that's patents. I've talked about trademarks. We talked about uh copyright. And one last thing I kind of want to talk about is fair use. Um, you know, fair use is one is kind of the defense that a lot of schools fall back on. And the idea is that if you're doing something for if you're appropriating some sort of material for uh or some sort of IP for political or educational reasons, uh you have a defense. Should the case be brought to court, you might be able to defend yourself and win that case by saying, well, this was the reason. So if I'm doing something for satical purposes, I'm doing something for uh to teach people uh about about games for instance, you know, and I'm going to like reprint rules or something and then you guys can can look at it and witness of the coast can sue me and I can claim fair use. I may not win. That's the problem. Fair use is only a defense. Fair use is not a law that automatically get protects me from being taken to court. So lawyers fees still get still have to be um who pays the lawyer's fees depends on who gets the the the the case but frankly I would rather not be put in that position. So there is that chilling effect you know um so uh just just just keep that in mind you know of the games that you guys are making these are class assignments um but of course we don't expect you to be say copying text verbatim from other rule sets in fact I doubt any of you will be particularly interested in doing so um certainly not copying art uh and uh but also keep in mind that also applies for things like art that you find online um you could protect yourself under fair use. This is for a class assignment. Darn it. You know, um and for the most part, no one's really going to notice, but of course, if you want to take these games a little bit further, maybe sell them in the future, you want to rethink about every single piece of art, every single piece of text that you're using in your game, is that is that coming from somewhere else or can we claim that? >> Has any past students or groups tried to pitch their games anywhere? >> Oh, you mean like a turn commercial? >> Yeah. Um, not to my right, but I really >> Yeah. Yeah. Do it. I mean, like based on the games that I that that we saw that that that we played on Tuesday. Absolutely. Yeah. Um, actually, one of the pieces of feedback that we got from the gambit folks, every single one of those games does something that not seen before in in in car game. Uh, so every every one of those projects had a really interesting mechanic and as far as I can tell, they were all really tested. So, All right. Okay. So, I'm not going any more into like IP discussions. My I spent too much time talking to IP lawyers because we create IP in this lab. We create games. Uh if anyone happens to be interested, I was considering a career in law. Uh you know, I'll be happy to to to go into greater detail. Uh but for now, um any more questions? Okay, that's just names.