The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> All right. So, uh this is our first lab session for CMS 608. And uh for folks who who wasn't here last Wednesday uh this past Wednesday. >> So one two >> who wasn't >> who was not here on Wednesday. >> Yeah. And then you guys So you weren't here. Um let's see. We have some blank index cards underneath the uh the plastic Tupperware. >> So if you can just fill in your name, your email address or favorite board game or card game. Uh the email address basically just gets added to the email list. Um did anyone not get an email from Jason this like yesterday? >> Yeah, last night >> you didn't get an email. I don't think so. >> Okay. So >> uh the email basically said that there was a swap >> uh of um Friday the 17th >> and the 20th. So we're basically swapping the readings around. Uh and uh that's that's that's really the only thing, right? Oh, and I fixed the link for Zimmerman's article. >> Yeah. And unfortunately, Eric Zimmerman didn't migrate his website terribly well, so all his pictures are broken. This is >> a pity. But I actually have one of his games, uh, Cifi 3000. Um, in fact, this is like before CI5 3000. So, the CIFI 2,999, which is going to be the non-digital version, uh, which is the whole point. Um, it is actually a computer game. It's actually a pretty decent flash multiplayer game. uh back in the day when flash multiplayer games were not that common. And uh if you haven't played it before online, uh after today, if you especially if you had a chance to play with the the cardboard the the card deck, uh try out the online version, do a Google search for 65 3000 and try it online. Hopefully, you'll be able there are still people playing it because you need kind of like a minimum of five people to be able to get a good good. >> Oh, suck. It was such a pretty game. Okay, never mind. You know, um it's uh basically what you had were you got avatar customization in the games. You could create your character and you could um you had this really cool retro pixelated uh look back in the time uh back in the day when retro pixelated stuff was not that popular yet. Uh but uh the gameplay was is pretty much exactly the same as what a card game has. Okay. Um the readings today basically uh covered a lot of uh jargon uh that we're going to be going through. We're going to be using a lot of that for the rest of the class. Uh for the most part, I'm not going to go through every single one of them because for the because you folks can read and if you if we mention something and you don't get it, you can always check back there. So just remember that that the that first chapter in breath has is a pretty good glossery of terminology that we're going to keep using. Um, but uh, one of the big things that they ask is what is a game? And, uh, it's one of those, does anyone actually want to offer their pet definition of what a game is? >> Go for it. A game is something that involves uh, players in a set of defined rules beforehand. rules that you have to abide by whether they be you can't uh go outside it limits you have to abide by certain uh you have to do certain questions certain orders something that has structure that is meant for one person to go from point A to point B >> okay structure rules limits players anything >> it's fun. >> It accomplishes some goal. >> He always has some kind of goal. >> Are you working towards something? >> Anything else? >> Always an abstract system. Often an abstraction of some system. >> An abstract system. >> Um so so these these are actually pretty good uh uh pretty good benchmarks. Now there there are again as Brenda describes there isn't one that's just the canonical answer for everything. It really depends on which theorist you're reading at any given time. Uh but usually they will involve a significant subset of all of these uh in the definition. Um, and I kind of like to keep things broad and vague because for the most part, um, by if you if you define yourselves too strictly, it might be useful if you're an academic and you need to write papers about it. But if you're a designer and you're just trying to create something fun, uh, or the word I would prefer to use is engaging because, you know, fun means a lot of different things to a lot of different people. Engaging, you know, basically means that this is going to be something that you're going to want to do for a while. uh that that is motivating. It might be terrifying you out of your wits, you know, but some people enjoy that uh you know or will find that experience compelling, but they may not call it fun. Um so so I I call that engagement. Um the problem with using fun and engaging as a metric for defining what a game is is that that means that a bad game is not a game. uh a game that fails to achieve fun, that fails to be engaging, you know, is not a game. But I will I wouldn't go that far. Uh largely because that means a lot of stuff that I've created is not a game. Um but but you know, it should give you the the the the you know there is no magic point where your game becomes where the thing that you're building becomes fun and then suddenly becomes a game you know. Uh I can imagine someone making that argument. is like it's not the game until it's fun. But uh I much rather sort of say fun engagement is kind of more of a metric of how well-designed your game is, not necessarily whether your game is a game. Um but you know what but but but that is a goal of a game designer to try to create a a a engaging experience. Uh something that people are going to want to do. Um there are I know some game designers who think that is not in fact their job. um their job is to maximize revenue for instance especially if you work in social games uh that there's a lot of discussion now in how business and game design is basically just one thing now you know the whole point of game design is how do we get people to pay a little bit more um Zinga is going to be on town by the way on September 30th and giving a talk uh so that has those two points >> so Um, so I I will sort of coordinate this out there as something that you that you're working towards, but all these other things, you know, um, a game should have players. Uh, again, I don't want to be too strict on that because I've certainly seen games that play themselves and um, anyone here involved in battle code that that game pretty much plays itself, right? I mean you set it going and then someone one side wins but no there's no human person at least during the time when the game is actually being played or you could argue that a whole course of uh of battle code for those people who don't know it's this IP course I believe where uh core 6 students basically write bits of AI to play a realtime strategy game against some other team's AI and uh the basic idea is that you know if you win a real time strategy game your AI wins but there's no human actually playing it at a given time. But of course there are humans writing the AI. So if if you think of the entire class as a game uh then there are players there are people um there are I have certainly seen people make a case that there are games that are zero player and uh and I've heard um for example there's a game out there called Nomic which is largely a game about coming up with rules and um and there are there is a system which are actually in the rules themselves about how you change rules and you And um of course those rules themselves can be changed. Uh and and that changes the way how you change rules. And by the time you actually play the game, someone's already won because somebody in the game has no legal moves. Uh that's that's the whole game. It's basically making it impossible for someone else for someone else except for you to win. Um so does that game actually have players? Well, yes it does because you guys are arguing over who uh all the rule changes, you know, and through uh through the rules of the game. But in a sense, it had no players because the game never actually got played. The the the rules are basically stating, you know, this is an unplayable game for everybody but except for one person uh in the in in who's playing the game. Um goals. Goals are one of those things that I used to be very very adamant about like like a game had to have a goal. You you have to know what you're going towards and and if you don't have that then it's a toy or something you know it's a dollhouse. It's an experiment. The Sims was the one that I was like railing about when I was in an undergraduate. Um you know that's not a game. Um and of course my uh uh um I was working with many colleagues and eventually came across uh came over to the site that it doesn't matter whether I think it's a game or not. If it's in the game shelf of Best Buy, it's a game. So, you know, because people think it's a game. And if enough people think it's a game, then it might as well be a game, you know, because otherwise what what uh uh uh because that's what people think it's going to be. So when when when you come up with your game, I would say that goals are one of those things that helps steer player behavior. So and it gives it's one of those tools that you have as a designer to basically say this is important, this is not. Reaching the end of 100 meters is important for a sprinter. Um that that end is really not interesting for you know somebody who's running 400 400 meters or 50 meter dash. Um but uh that gives someone a direction for them to go towards. But there are plenty of games where you have to invent your own goals. Can other than Sims, anyone can think of any where inventing your own goals is kind of the fun >> RPGs. >> A lot of MMO RPGs have have that they have goals. They have quests, but you know that's not where a lot of the fun is. >> Second life. >> Second Life. A lot of virtual worlds. >> Game like Eve. >> Uh Eve. Yeah. I mean Eve. if if you you you kind of want to you like you have to set your own goals, right? Because whatever's in the game is only good enough for like a single player to uh to to tell whether a single player whether they're doing well or not. >> But the Eve is not about a single player. Eve is about what thousands and thousands of people playing simultaneously. >> Um um actually have people heard of Eve? >> Okay. Right. So yeah. Cool. Cool. >> I stopped the development. >> Oh, cool. In Iceland. Yeah. >> Was it like really cheap when you went over there? Could could you have bought the entire studio? >> No. >> Unfortunately. >> Yeah. >> It was really cheap. >> Yeah. Like months ago. >> So they must have been making tons of money because Yeah. They're making money in US dollars and >> euros. Yeah. They probably hire most of Yeah. support most of the economy. >> Icelandic economy. >> The capital is 20,000 people. Yep. >> Um so um so I would say goals are very important tools and as a result of that you see them in a lot of the games and you know uh for most of the games that you guys are going to be building. Yeah. Uh you're going to give a very clear goal of this is what you want to do. Earn a certain amount of money. Uh prevent your opponent from doing anything else. you know, uh, take over all of the land, that sort of thing. Um, let's see. Well, I'll get to rules last. Um, but, um, systems are, um, I might already have mentioned this in the last class, but, uh, games are systems in a way that most MIT engineers would think of systems. you know, they're a bunch of interconnected little modules, all of them with sort of predictable behavior, and then you put them into a big interconnected system, and it is no longer really all that predictable anymore. Um, at least that's the kind of games that we're interested in this class. There's also the game theory games where like the whole point of it is trying to predict what could possibly happen. uh and uh those are those are great thought experiments and there's some really really interesting math behind all all them and some interesting rules of thumb that can come out but for the most part we aren't going to go into too much detail about that largely because I'm not a mathematician or economist so I don't really have a good a good sense of game theory uh just be aware that you know there is this whole field of game theory in economics uh if you're doing a game like an auction system if you're doing a game where people are doing uh either a lot of simultaneous moves or um yeah or the whole point of the game is trying to predict what your what strategy your your opponent is going to do. You might actually want to read up a little bit of game theory if nothing else just to give you some vocabulary to talk about it with your teammates uh and some tools to be able to think through some of the design problems that you've got. Um and then we we we do have one session where we I'll introduce some of them. Um and finally we're getting to rules. Um you know the the things that give that give your game structure and you know the limit the constraints of the things that you can't do. You you can't move from here to there without having your foot tied to another player. You know that that sort of constraint uh or a rule being you know you can't say anything uh during a a certain part of part of the game. Um there are two uh there are two bits of terminology introduced by Brendo uh and and Ian Shriber in in their book which is um core mechanic and core dynamic. Um so before I'm going to go into core mechanic and core dynamic and then talk about mechanic and dynamic. Um anyone want to throw out the definition of mechanic? It's sort of the uh the actions like a player takes during a game like the physical uh physical actions he takes. >> Okay. The the actions that a player decides to take >> decides to take action. >> Sorry if this is a little >> um I saw Patrick and Oh, did those hands just go there? >> I thought I saw a few more hands. >> Actions that are sort of designed by the game designer. >> Okay. So, intensive actions. >> Um, design is definitely a good point. Uh, a game mechanic is definitely something that you're uh that you as a game designer control. Uh there are you know if if if a player decides to do something in the game that you did not explicitly think about and you did not explicitly say all right this is what players are going to be doing in the game then it might not not actually be a mechanic. It might be something that you're discovering in your play play testing that you will turn into a mechanic but because it's not designed uh it's kind of it becomes more like a strategy actually like a immersion strategy. Sorry, you were saying Jeremy. >> Is it more like a dynamic? >> Um, possibly. There are times where it is. Yeah. And yeah, um, actually let's throw out some definitions of dynamic. Uh, what do people uh, well, Jeremy, >> behavior that emerges from mechanics. >> Okay. So, so emerges emergent behavior. What what else uh use of mechanics that isn't uh directly stated in the rules of the game? >> Okay, so so unstated. >> I'm running out of space here. >> I thought I saw a hand. No. Okay. Uh All right. So, um yeah, dynamics are basically interactions of mechanics. you know, it's like you don't have a uh uh you don't have anything that may necessarily explicitly say, you know, because of this one rule and because of one this other rule and because of the things that the players can do in that, you know, a a good strategy is to do something else. So, let me see whether I can think of an example. Right now, everything that's coming to my head is Starcraft. Um, >> has that been the case for the past few weeks? >> Unfortunately, yes. Uh, by the way, if anybody is playing Starcraft, I need testers. Uh, because >> yes, >> I I I need testers for a map that I'm resigning. Um, >> especially I play >> there's a good example in Puerto Rico. >> Oh, yeah. >> Right. So, there's this role selection mechanic where everybody picks the thing which they want to happen during the turn and they get a bonus for doing it. Um and also everybody chooses to like build particular crops. >> Um and the dynamic that emerges from the sequence of play which goes clockwise is that it's best to optimize your strategy so that you are doing so that you are benefiting from the role that the person to your right is most likely to choose. >> But you're making the goods that the person to your left is most likely to want to ship or sell. So the mechanic is roll selection and turn order >> and then the dynamic is the strategy written purpose out of that >> which which gives you some idea on what to select as oo you know the the mechanic is you can select the dynamic is here are a couple of strategies that you can use in sort of assessing what would be best to select. Um, and if all the players start to understand that, then it almost becomes like a, you know, like a second layer of rules almost. And if anyone's played a game like Bridge, for instance, there's actually a ton of things that are assumed in the play which are not actually in the rules of bridge. Uh, when it comes to bidding, like when you call out a bid, it's highly dependent on what you actually have in your cart uh in in in your card hand. And that's not actually written in the rules anywhere. Um but the assumption is that there is optimal way to do it and since there's optimal way to do it everyone's expected to know there's optimal ways. Um the example in the book was chess moves like you know every single move uh piece of chess uh has a set of moves that it can perform right pawns go one or two squares depending whether the starting uh bishops move diagonally but there are also opening gambits. There are opening habits that that that that are uh that are also wellknown at least among professional uh chess players. And the idea being oh this person is using this opening therefore if I counter it with this response I actually have uh you know a reasonable chance of actually winning the the this game and professional chess players know this. Um the other thing that comes up in chess which is not in the book is uh there is um there is the concept of threatened squares. If you if you move u if there is a square where there is no piece on a chess board. Everyone here knows the rules of chess more or less. Yeah. Um, so say you've got a bishop and you know this is my very simple chess board and you've got a bishop um and and and it can move like that, right? So every single square along these lines uh is threatened. It's it's something which a uh which which a uh the bishop could move to unless of course it's you know blocked by by a pawn or something and these are no longer threatened. what it honest um uh if if you're a knight obviously is no longer straight lines. It becomes, you know, specific sort of like a weird stochastic pattern of squares that become threatened. Uh but uh but but but but the idea of here's this square now that nobody dares move into until something's done about that bishop. Either move something gets moved in its way or you know some something takes out that bishop or forces the bishop to move by threatening. it instead in a way that they cannot respond. So threats and squares is not a rule in in in in uh in chess but it greatly shapes your decision m your decision making and that's the difference between dynamic and mechanic. Um there's a lot of strong correspondence between uh mechanics and weights. Um but uh and and I had a long long uh little rant about exactly what the difference is between mechanics and rules and uh and what I basically I I I'm not going to give the rant right now but but it's like overlapping ven diagram you know there's a very very large area where it's exactly the same thing. Um, my general rubric for you for trying to figure out whether something is a mechanic or not is whether this is the thing that changes the state of the game. If it's an action, if it's if it's something that someone's going to be doing to change the state of what the game is, you know, in chess, that's largely the move the movement of of a piece. Um if it's um uh if it's ultimate you know it could be just physical movement you know you are limited on when you can physically move if you have that frisbee you're not moving uh well you're feet are not moving I believe that's a of um so so uh the the reason why I use that definition is because there are occasionally times where I need to talk about mechanics that players aren't actually doing like the game requires certain pieces to move in a certain way, certain things to happen in the game. You know, um in Settlers of Katan, for instance, you have these die rolls. Uh and um actually that's not a good example, let me think. Um well, right at the beginning of Setters of Katanda is the way how you set up the board and that establishes what a game state is going to be. You know, it it changes the game state by giving you a game state in the first place. um that I I I consider that a mechanic that that is something that's going uh that that it's but that's not one one rule. It's actually a whole collection of rules and if you're interested in finding out what those rules are, the box is actually in that closet over there. Um but it's like something like five or six different rules on this is how you set up your board. It's going to set up your game state and I consider that a mechanic. Um how people do bidding and buying things in setters of katan that's dynamic. you know that's that you know there are no real rules on how much something costs that's up to the players to work out on their own um so that's how I sort of consider the difference between core dynamic uh between dynamic and and and mechanic um really really useful concepts because really for the most part as a designer you have an idea of what kind of dynamics are interesting uh and the more games that you play the and you know the more inspiration that you get from various sources. Uh your vocab your range of different ideas of what kind of dynamics might be interesting is going to expand. Uh but all you have control on are mechanics are the specific rules that that you're giving your your note that game mechanics don't necessarily need to be written uh or described out. Um, this is one thing that I think you and your teammates should figure out when you're talking about mechanics for a given project. Are we just talking about the things that we're writing down? Because there are some assumptions that uh that are just given. Um, we are playing a game in, you know, we're playing some sort of schoolyard game or something, you know, uh, hitting people with large solid solid objects is disallowed or something like that, you know, not necessarily something you need to write down unless you're playing with certain people, but you have uh, you know, but you can assume that's a game a game mechanic there. Um, things like how fast, you know, people normally do things. There's a game over there over over here called Falling uh which is actually a real-time card game. It it goes as fast as you can possibly play it. And uh there is no there is no limit on how fast you can play these cards, but there is a real physical limit on how fast you can physically grab a card out of your hand and put it down. Uh so actually it's not even on your hand. You're just moving cards on the table. So uh so make sure you give that a try uh today. Oh um finally uh we'll we'll we'll we'll be getting to aesthetics uh I think next class next week. >> Yeah. Okay. So, so which is another thing which uh a game designer uh in fact which is what I would like game designers to actually spend more time thinking about which is what is the feeling you want your player to have as opposed to this might be fun you know it's like oh this might be engaging it's like specifically how is it fun how is it engaging is it fun as in like yes victory I have crushed all my opponents or is it fun as in wow we had a really good time together and we got to know each other really well you know there are games that are designed for both of those Um and uh and what what is the aesthetic you're going for? You going for something poetic? Are you going for something, you know, fiercely competitive, uh tournament competitive, or you going for, you know, just a nice little social experiment? Um core mechanics and core dynamics are uh are a tool again for designers. uh the idea of there there really isn't a huge difference between what's a core mechanic and what's just a mechanic uh except inside a designer or a design team's uh discussion. Um the idea of having a core core mechanic as you identify this is what our game's about uh or a core dynamic mean this is what our game uh our game's about. And a lot of core core mechanics in first-person shooters is pointing and shooting, right? I'm going to point at something and I'm going to launch a projectile that way and that projectile is going to move in a certain some physical properties. You know, maybe it arcs, maybe it goes straight. Um, and other core uh I would say that the core mechanic of Halo isn't actually that core uh who has not played Halo or seen someone play Halo. Okay. Um, so like the I the core mechanic or I think my Budgie calls it the core gameplay loop um uh of uh of Halo is you shoot at something, you take cover, you throw a grenade at it, you wait for the grenade to go off, and then you shoot it again until it dies. Um, right. That's pretty much all you're doing for the entirety of Halo 1. Um sure Halo 2 Halo 3 gets complicated. Yeah. You know um but but but they identify that if you actually read the postmortems and and if you read at the talks that they've given they say those I can't I can't remember it's 20 seconds or 5 seconds of gameplay which they use to describe that. I think it's five that 5second of game play is what they focused on. And if they could get every little thing in that sequence correct they can repeat that same thing at infinitum and you'll still be having fun. um Halo one everyone, you know, they're they're kind of right. But the idea being, you know, if you've got a core mechanic, if you've got one thing in your game that someone's going to be doing over and over and over again, all your players are going to be doing over and over again, maybe it's bidding because they're making some kind of auction game. Um, in falling, it's and in pit it's transferring cards to other people. Um, uh, I'm trying to think of the other games that we've got here. Um in in Siss fight, I would imagine is the the main the main core mechanic would be uh putting down the card uh and and everyone revealing the card simultaneously because you you you all take simultaneous turns. You know, make sure that's really really fun and Yazi is rolling dice. You know, that's that action, that thing that you're going to be doing over and over again has to be at least fairly engaging. Um because if you c if you can't get that right then what happens is that that same movement that happens 30 50 times in your game you know just gets m the badness just gets multiplied by 30 or 50 uh and and and you don't want that. So for core mechanics you know I I would say the thing that happens in your game the most and uh and you want to make sure that that part is is as engaging as possible. It also gives you a rubric to say what's not a core mechanic might be in fact expendable. You might not actually need it in your game. So if you've got a problem, this game takes too long to play, this game's too hard to learn, uh this game's over too fast, it's too random or something, take a look at all the things that are, you know, of course make sure that your core mechanic is not the cause of the problem. But if the your core mechanic doesn't seem to be the cause of the problem, that seems to be working. Something else in the game is not working. Everything else is expandable. And so you you you you can look at everything else in your game, all these other rules that you've got and say, "How does that work with the coral mechanic? How does that help? How does that hurt the coral mechanic?" It just helps your discussion as a team. Uh or as a game or as an individual game designer, it helps your thinking about what could we throw out, what could we keep. Um similarly for core dynamic it's you know it's like here's this particular um uh particular interaction that we really really want um in cisifi is guessing what other people are going to do um and uh I'm trying to think of other examples and like territorial uh space acquisition I guess go is about taking over territory in space um you know if that's your core dynamic if you say that's kind of fun. Just making sure that I'm in control of a space and nobody else can do anything that they want to do in a certain part of the board. That's fun. Um that's what I'm going for. That's my core dynamic. That's what this game is all about. Then you can look at every single mechanic, even your core mechanics, and say, is it all serving that goal? Now, there's a whole bunch of uh tips right at the end of chapter one of uh of uh challenges for game designers about how to break designer block. Um but I would say actually those things are just things that you should be doing all the time. Um not not just when you have a problem, but you should be experimenting things like, you know, okay, you've got a variable, you know, draw two cards every turn or something. Multiply it by two, see what it does to your game. Have it, draw one card, see what it does to your game. um you know throw a rule out you know um it and and that sort of gets you to the whole iterative design thing is that you don't actually because games are systems they're these complex little collections of seemingly simple things you don't actually know how these changes are really going to affect your game. You may have a hunch but until you actually play it out you don't actually know. So um so the whole point of iterative of iterative the design in in engineering as well as in game design is that you know you you make the change. There has to be a substantial change. Um and then you actually put it to the test and see what happens. Um this means of course testing and testing takes a long time and if you're going to be making a game that takes a long time then your testing gets even longer. So, uh, for the first project that's going to be coming out, the assignment, uh, assignment one, you want to be aiming for games that take really not very long to play. Um, these games that we've got today, I'm not sure about shake, but I know everything else that we've got on that table is pretty darn fast, which means, you know, if you've got an hour with four people, uh, who've never played your game before, maybe you get through two or three rounds, four rounds of them, you know, each time maybe tweaking a rule once, uh, uh, here and there and seeing how that change that that changed the game. If you've got a game that takes an hour to play, and believe me, a lot of the of the projects that we've gotten from previous semesters take at least an hour to play, um, then you know you've got four people for an hour and they're not going to finish the a single play of the game because by the time they finish learning your your your game, half your time is up. Um, so that's the process that we would like you all to be using in your teams, in your assignments. this iterative design pro process right from the beginning uh I wish I had more space um but uh we're going to start with brainstorming uh there that's actually going to be Friday the 17th where we'll actually sort of uh for folks who haven't necessarily formally learned uh bra bra bra bra bra bra bra bra bra bra brainstorming, we're just going to do a quick refresher uh so that everyone s sort of is on the same page. You learn how to do brainstorming. Um, you come up with a basic idea of your game and you start to identify things that could be your core dynamics. You know, you think of what what sort of core mechanics could address that. Knock something up really really quickly with the crappiest materials you can get your hands on and start playing. Um, since nobody in your team knows really what game you're making at that point of time, you can probably test it with your team. As soon as you do that a few times, your team becomes useless as play as testers because you already know too much about about the game and what and and what the game could have been and you start playing it in ways that a fresh person who's never seen your game before wouldn't even consider. Um, so you actually want to keep looking for people who've never played your game before. So the next step would be to broaden it to other teams in this class. Um, since everyone's going to be broken up in more or less teams of three or four, that's pretty much, you know, I'm going to take this game that we designed for a team of three or four and give it to that team of three or four and then you play their game and, you know, give each other feedback. And that lasts for about one more session and after that, everyone in the class has used this now. So, you have to go and look for doormates, friends, you know, um, people on the street, you know, just go right ahead and try to get as much feedback as you can. Um there is some value in replaying um especially later on once your rules are pretty set uh in that people start developing strategies those sort of emergent uh uh behaviors and you start understanding sort of higher level play of your game and you do want to test that um but don't let that prevent you from also testing with fresh players uh because in the end um you have to get past that initial hurdle. Anytime someone sees your game, they are going to have to learn to learn your game from scratch at least once. And if they don't even get that far, they're never playing it your game a second or a third time. So don't optimize for the people who played your game, you know, for for weeks because the um because you really want the people who've only played it once uh to have a good time as well. Um, that's not necessarily the case if you're making, you know, uh, a huge wellunded game with based on a franchise that, you know, that's been around forever. If you're doing Halo 3 or Modern Warfare 3 or something like that, you know, then sure, you can sort of cater to the fans uh, who've already developed these strategies and and skills. But in in our case, we're develop we're going after a new audience. We're going after someone who's never played anything like what what you've played before. Cool. Any questions? I've been soap boxing here for a while Jason. >> Um, so I guess the other thing that I would that I would add from my experience, especially with iterative design, is a big trick of it is learning to kind of distance yourself emotionally from what you're working on. Um, because half the time you end up chucking things that you really like. you think, "Oh, this would be so great, but it's best to just remove it." Um, it helps to think of it as putting kind of putting it on the shelf for later and saying, "Okay, I'll deal with this later. I can try this in another game." Um, and on a related note, I don't know about you, but I found that when games I'm designing have a problem, it's almost always fixed by removing something as opposed to adding more stuff on. Um, unless you're going for something, I think really complex off the start, I always prefer to try and take something out something out and simplify it. >> Yeah, especially in short projects like these, it almost always works better. Um, and then and in terms of testing too, one thing just kind of a a tip that I find works is if you're designing a game that has a lot of different um like paths to victory, and this is a little bit higher level, but you'll see what I mean when we get there, where if you want a game that has different viable strategies, a really good testing method is to have different people kind of play like a perfect version of that strategy. And you say, I'm going to do this strategy or I'm always going to do X. And it doesn't matter if I think it's dumb, I'm just going to do it. Um because that'll really help you find rules that are broken or find something that's overpowered. Um a good example would be Settlers, right? Like if you say, "I'm obviously this wouldn't work because the game is a good game, but like I'm always going to build roads." You know what I mean? Like in practice that would be stupid, but if you're when you're designing a game, you do that kind of strategy and you just limit yourself to one action, you can really find things that are broken really quickly. Um, thanks. Yeah. Much appreciated. Cookies, dude. We have cookies. Thanks, Google. Just the Google family. Uh, uh, let's see. So, um, so yeah, we I think after this we're just going to play games. Uh well um we do have a play testing as a topic coming up later in the semester where we'll actually sort of talk about the discipline on how you do testing. Uh uh honestly it's you shouldn't wait for that class to necessarily start practicing. Uh you know if you it could be as simple as just grabbing a game that you have never seen before and just trying to get a whole bunch of people to play it and critiquing it at the same time. you know, it's like why did I do that? Why did you do that? Why did you do that move? You know, and um there are sort of practices to make sure that when it's your game, you are not sort of telling the players what they should be doing uh while they are trying to play the game because that affects their player uh in the game in a way that biases it. Uh but uh but we'll get to that later in the semester. for now, you know, uh just just be aware the more that you're testing, the more that you're sort of tweaking your rules in between tests and then getting another chance to test and test and test, the closer you are to getting a game that's actually fun and engaging to play. Um, and that's what we're looking for. That's the process that we expect you folks to to stick in. Whe whether you ever get to fun and engaging, who knows? We don't know whether you're going to get there. So, we're not grading you based on that. Just remember that. We're not grading you on how engaging your games are, but how well you stick to the process. Yes, absolutely. Um, there was a question on the forums about when do you stop, right? Did you put it up? Um, I didn't get a chance to look too closely at it. What? Um, can can you repeat? >> So, essentially, it's the question of so there's this iterative design process and when do you know when to sort of get out of that process? >> Due date. >> The due date. Okay. All right. That's always a good reason. Uh, >> but I guess like if you didn't have a due date, like how would you know when to ship or let's say you have control over the due date? >> Um, I guess part of that is you should always be iterate like you should always be updating blah blah. >> So I guess the question is when do you know when you have something that you can put out into like the world? >> Um, so the cynical answer yeah is that is that you wait for you know you have to ship right or you're not getting any cash. Um, the I personally think it will be sooner soon. s sooner than you think. It's like, you know, oh, my game's almost ready, but I notice something wrong with it. Especially when you're a student. Um, right. Right now, I'm in this I'm in this mode with my Starcraft apps, which is this map is crap. I know there's something wrong with it. I have no idea what it is. Therefore, I'm going to release it. Uh, because until I do that, I have no idea what's wrong with it. I need to get that that that information. The nice thing about stuff like, you know, uh, computer games is that you can ship updates. Um, it's annoying, but you can. But even board games and card games now have re rule revisions, rule clarifications that you can release o um, uh, over the net. Uh, for the most part, if you are going to go professional, your publisher will tell you and then the answer really is due date, right? You know, it's like it's going to the presses on this date. And uh that's one maxim which is game projects are never finished. They're just abandoned. Um you know it's just all you know I can't do anything else about this because I'm out of time. Ship it. Um but one thing that you can do to prepare for that um let me see is there an er there there's a guy who runs a blog called Lost Garden. His name is Dan Cook. He works over in Microsoft and he talks a lot about game design um specifically about video game design, but actually his stuff is actually really really applicable and he has this concept that you know game design or iterative game design kind of goes in this in this kind of cycle where uh this is this width down here is the number of features that you've got in your game. Uh the trick though is that um what you are really doing is you are taking let me see if this is right. So this is all the good stuff. This is all the stuff that's not so good. Um, and the whole idea of of of sort of like using iterative design is to allow yourself to the space to come up with a whole bunch of ideas not knowing whether they're good or bad, but then also give you a gate to cut out all the bad stuff. So at any so at frequent periodic intervals you have a collection of rules of cards of designs of whatever consists your game that is pretty much as good as you possibly could have made it given the amount of time that you've got and that could ship. Um so you know so if if your ship date was here you would have as good a game as you possibly could doing it. if ship date turned out to be there all of a sudden. You know, you've still got you still had the opportunity to quiddle out all of the all the stuff that you knew was bad. Um so iterative design is not about let's just keep accreating more and more and more and more features. It's more about you know we're going to add some features and then we're going to remove the ones that don't work. Um and that's really really important. Uh so that at any given time you're prepared to sort of release it. Um, and as for when you actually decide that this is now ready to go out, I would again I would I would repeat sooner than than you think because you need that feedback. U sometimes uh you don't know how a market is going to respond until you actually do it. But you can do a soft launch. Uh if you're doing uh commercial product, you you can do things where we're going to release it to a few select stores and get that feedback before we go into major print run uh or you know uh burn burn 10,000 different copies of the same board game. Uh we're going to do 200 copies and see how that does for us. It gives you the opportunity to to make a revision, but it's still an official release because those 200 people think that this is the final package product. Um that's pretty much how a lot of manufacturing industries actually work anyway. So if you think about u any kind of product design, a lot of them have a sort of like trial period. >> Soft drinks >> soft drinks you get a lot um Japanese electronics you know it's like you release it in Tokyo and then you release it in the rest of Japan. Uh and sometimes it never makes it out out of Japan. uh because you know that initial test yeah it was it was a good product but not enough people bought it because of these problems. So instead of releasing into the world we're going to make version two and maybe that will be one release too. That's that's that's one example. All right. So we have games um but who has not played? >> Okay. All right. We have more games than we have. No. Okay. So, um Jason, you're going to do a youer uh table. So, um >> like just a four player trick taking game. Kind of vehicles. >> Um looks like we have exactly four people. One, two, three. One, two, three. Oh, yeah. We have an average of three people per table. That table is four. Um, I think most of these games are three to five players, although I'm going to be absolutely >> Yeah. This is like four to eight. >> You guys play fully. >> Yeah. So, so falling might want to be larger table. You guys might actually want to try the round table in the corner. >> Yeah. It says table. >> Yeah. 48 people. >> I really want to play. >> All right. Let's do this play. Please. Um, >> so basically take a game um uh from the table. Uh, I'll I'll bring some out and I'll see that play uh play them. Once you've had a chance to play a few times, feel free to switch >> and try to get as many games played as possible during during the next couple of hours and stuff. >> Cool.