The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, so uh last time we talked about nonlinear dynamics. We drew phase plots. We talked about basins of attraction. We talked about fixed points um and and we hinted at control, right? And I tried to motivate control not as some some um nice matrix manipulation of equations, but actually by thinking about phase plots and saying you're going to you're going to move that phase plot a little bit. You're going to reshape it in order to to bend the system to your will, right? But just a little bending, right? You're only allowed a little bending in this class. Okay? So today we're going to we're going to make good on that idea. Um but we're going to do it on an even simpler system first. just just today uh we're going to do it on the double integrator which is uh q dot equals u okay here I can do everything analytically on the board okay um if you want a physical interpretation of that um which I always like you can think of this as um a brick of unit mass uh on case where you provide as a control input a force like this and be the force equals u and there's no friction and mass equals 1. Okay. What we're going to try to do with this this um double integrator is roughly we're going to try to drive it to some to the origin. We're going to try to drive it to zero zero position. I guess that's negative x in this picture. and with zero velocity. Okay, it turns out um there's lots of ways to do that. Um and the goal here is to to make you think about ways to do that that involve invoking optimality because that's going to be our our computational crutch for the rest of the term. Okay. Um so let me I I've been trying to bring um the tools from the different disciplines all together. So, let me start by doing um just a quick um sort of pole placement analysis for those of you that don't think about poles and and linear systems that much. Um so, if I want to write the a state space form of this equation, again, I've always tried to use Q just to be my coordinates and I'll use X to be my a state vector. So, a state space form of this is going to use the vector x to be in this case q and q dot. Okay. And that dynamics there is the simplest state space form you're going to see. But um a state space linear um equation will will have the form ax plus b u in our case. It's going to be the the trivial 0 1 0 0 * x plus 01 * u. Right? Okay. It's not going to get easier than that, but we're going to we're going to use that form because that's going to help. Okay. Our goal now is to design you, right? We want to come up with a control action U which you can think of as being a force on the brick let's say which drives the system to zero. Um so in general our goal um is to design some feedback law um I use pi for my u my my control policies which is a function of x. Okay let's start by doing the linear thing. Let's start um with considering uh u's of the form negative kx okay where k is a matrix well actually what is k in this case a one by two right so it's going to be k1 k2* x which is my Q Q dot equivalent to saying K1 Q minus K2 Q dot. So many of you will recognize this as a as a proportional derivative controller form. Okay. Okay. So if I take this u= kx and I start thinking about what that what if I change k what happens to my um control system? That's easy to do in linear systems. So if I stick that gain matrix in then what I get is a closed loop system which is a minus sorry minus b k x right which is just the system 0 1 - k1ative k2 x. Okay. And if you've had a class on um differential equations, you know how to solve that. Um right, the solution uses the igen values of this system. You can quickly take the igen values of that matrix character characteristic equation works out to be k^ 2 - 4 k1 all over 2. Okay. with igen vectors. V_sub_1 is this, V2 is this. Okay, that's just the igen values and IGEN vectors of this matrix. Okay. Okay. So what are the conditions on the IGEN values to make sure the system is stable? You want them to be both negative. Okay. And we also potentially we care about whether the system has any oscillations or not which manifests themselves on whether that's whether the thing is complex got complex values. Right? This is all things you you've seen in plenty of classes. But the only way it's going to be complex is if this thing goes negative, right? Okay. So, we want we want a couple things, right? We want both of them to be um both of these to be less than zero, which we can get um pretty easily. And we want K2 to be bigger than 4k1, right? K2 squared is bigger than 4K1 then the system is actually overdamped. If it equals 4K1 it's critically damped and it's under damped if it's less than 4K1. And we want for stability we want um lambda 1 and two to be less than zero for stability. Okay. So just to connect this to the phase plots we were talking about yesterday. You've seen you might have seen phase plots first in this context in the linear systems context. Um the reason to do this value decomposition is that you have these beautiful graphical interpretations of the solutions to the system. Um let's ch let's choose a particular case. Um what did I pick? Oh yeah. So so let's say K1 is one. That means I'm going to want to think about um uh an overdamped system. I'm going to think I want K2 to be um at least greater than two. So let me make it. So I'm going to choose K equals K2= 4. If I do that then my um values work out to be -4 plus or minus 16 - 4 / 2 which is -2 plus or minus 3 is about 1.75 okay so I get.2 25 and negative 3.75 for my igen values. Okay. And the igen vectors are going to be just this form. So what that allows me to do is make my same state space plots we were making yesterday where now I have Q and Q dot Okay. And my first iggon um vector is going to be 1.25. Okay. So for if I go I'll use these as quarters. So I go minus 0.25 25 and the time I go one here. So I get a line that looks like this, right? That's V1. And I get a line that goes almost -4. So a little bit under that here. V2 is over here. Okay. And the IGEN values on this, if you've seen these plots before, we typically cartoon. They're both negative. So, we're going to draw an arrow like this. Systems initial conditions that start on this will just get smaller, right? Initial conditions that start on this will also get smaller, but they're going to actually get smaller a lot quicker. just to say a few of the subtleties, right? So I I chose an overdamped system so I don't have repeated values, right? I chose a overdamped system so I don't have oscillations because I can't make the same plots. But for the overdamped system, this is a great way to think about things. um the reason that the when I don't have repeated igen values the um uh any initial condition of the system can be written as a linear combination that means that if the when the system doesn't have repeated igen values the igen vectors span the space okay any initial conditions can be written as a linear combination of the two igen values okay and the com and the dynamics of from this point are just the exponential dynamics on the of the two components. I I don't know. Tell me tell me if you want me to say that again in a more um it's not it's not really the focus but but if if if you uh if you understand that you got the whole thing here. So um what it means is you could you could take any initial condition. It turns out any initial condition when I have igen vectors which span the space I'm guaranteed to have that if I have unique IGEN values um then I can write this as a as a combination of these vectors. Okay. So if I I'll try to do it. It's some I've got some sort of one component like this and one component like this. This initial condition if I say this is x0. Okay. And it turns out the so I could say x0 is alpha 1 * v1 plus alpha 2 * v2. Okay, we know that initial conditions that are just on the line v1 go like e to the negative lambda or e to the lambda t um v1. So the whole system goes like alpha 1 e to the negative lambd sorry just got negative values to the lambda t v1 plus alpha 2 e to the lambda 2 t v2. Okay that's the it's the great thing about all these linear systems. So what that means is if I've drawn the IGEN vectors then I know exactly the entire phase plot of the system. Okay. So we're connecting it back to the pendulum. The pendulum I I went through in all the different places I thought about what the contributions were and mapped it out here. I don't have to do that. I know that this system is going to the component that it's based that has in this value is going to decay quickly towards zero and it's going to decay faster than this one. Which means an initial condition like this is going to go like this. I should have used one of my many other colors to do that looks like a blue. All right. So trajectories from that initial condition are going to do that. Okay. And trajectories from this initial condition are going to what are they going to do? What if I start over here? They're going to go mostly down and eventually we think it's stable so it's going to get to the origin. I could even do my filledin circle there. Okay. When are they going to start bending towards the origin? Later. Yeah. Uh they have to pass this before they get right. They have to pass that and get to negative velocities before they can hook back in. Okay. So the trajectories look like this and go in. Yeah. And and likewise. So all these trajectories sort of you can map out the um the entire phase portrait of the space pretty quickly um just by understanding the igen values and IGEN vectors. Okay. The same thing is true over here. So it's okay. So just another example of a phase plot that we have in the linear systems. It works out to be clean. You can just do these igen values vectors. Okay. Now control. We're allowed to change K1 and K2. Changing K1 and K2 is going to change the the phase portrait, right? It's going to change those vectors. I want to change them to make it do whatever I want. So, so that's actually the first discussion is what do we want to make it do? Okay. Um maybe even before that I should observe that without thinking about optimality at all um it would be easy to sort of stop here. Okay, because I if I look at this carefully as long as I choose K squar K2 squared greater than 4 K1 I know I'm going to not oscillate. Okay. And I can just start driving K1 and correspondingly K2 up as high as I like, right? And make the system get to the origin as fast as I want and it won't oscillate, right? So what's my motiv? Why would I I mean, why not just drive them all the way to infinity? You don't have a motor that can do that. You can't don't have a motor to do that's the one first unsatisfying thing. Absolutely. Probably there's some unmodled thing. Even if I did have a motor that could do that, there's probably some unm modeled things that I might excite and cause bad things to happen. Anyways, the ice you could melt the ice on the brick. That's right. That's right. I guess I could have said wheels and then maybe they'd melt the tires. Okay. Um and you can see that here actually remember. So, um what does the what does the unactuated phase plot of the system look like? I can just draw that. If if u was just uniformly zero, if k1 and k2 were zero, what would what would the face plot have looked like there? Is that a circle? Oh no, but that's a con. It would have just been x dot equals a of x where a is this guy, right? So it wouldn't have been as interesting, right? It would have been every point would have just had a vector like this. Right? It would have been a little bigger with bigger velocities. Right? But it's just it would just be a a flow like that, which I hope is sort of what you'd expect it to do if since it's an integrator, right? Things are just going to off into the uh to the ether. Okay. Um, so if I consider I I started with this and I'm getting out things that look like this, I'm already I mean in my unitless cartoon here, it sort of already looks like I'm using a lot of torque to do what I'm doing, right? Or I'm using a lot of force. Uh, right. I'm I'm really significantly changing those dynamics in order to bend this thing to come around like that. That's okay. But we can do better. Okay. So today I want to use this system which I think it's quite easy to have strong intuition for to start designing optimal feedback controllers. Okay. So let's address the uh you know we don't have infinite torque problem first. One more comment on this. So there's AI didn't actually call them poles. There's a pole placement version of this, too. It's exactly the same thing. If you were to draw a root locus, what would the system look like? In root locus you would be changing typic the typical root locus would be you you're multiplying the entire feedback by some linear term you're not you're not scaling them you know in some squared law. So what you get is for very small feedback gains you get oscillations. As you crank it up, the poles connect in the left half F plane and then they separate. Right? And as I keep turning up my gains, one of them creeps towards the origin, the other one goes off really far to infinity. Right? So just those you think about poles and zeros, this is exactly the same way to say that. Right? I didn't do a root locus because I was changing two parameters, but it's all it all connects. Okay? Okay. So now um let's say I have a hard constraint on what U I can provide. Okay. Um let's just say that that I have an additional constraint. That's let's say the absolute value of u has got to be less than one. Okay. Well, that changes a lot of things. Um my my linear system analysis is sort of impoverished. Now I'm going to, if you want a graphical view version of what that's doing, that's sort of, you know, my my zero input looked like that. I wanted to go like this with my linear controller, but maybe it's capped at something like this, right? Okay. So, what's that going to do to your system? If I were to just take my U, if I just ran the policy, u is um some saturation, let's say on negative kx, I took my same feedback linear feedback controller and I just said if it's greater than one, it's one. If it's ne less than negative 1, it's negative 1. I think you're still okay. It's things are trajectories are still going to get to the origin. They might take fairly long routes to the origin. Okay, you're not going to lose stability in this case because of that. But it starts to feel like, man, I should really be thinking about those hard constraints when I design my controller. Okay. All right. So, how do we do that? One way to do that is optimal control. It's not the only way to do it. Um, let's formulate an optimal control problem. Let me sync up with my notes so I don't go too far a field. Okay. Um let's say my goal in life is to get to the origin as fast as possible in minimum time. Okay. And but I'm subject to this constraint. Okay. So that's the famous minimum time problem. subject to uh that constraint. Right. Okay. Are we trying to stop at the origin? Yes. Do we want both the position and the velocity to be zero? Turns out you need this constraint to for it to be a wellpost problem. Right? If I didn't have constraints on U, then like I said, I would just use as much U as possible. I would get there infinitely fast. And we haven't learned a whole lot. Okay. Um, there are other ways to to penalize you or or something like that, but we're going to put a hard constraint on it here. Okay. Now, muster all your intuition about bricks on ice and tell me if I've got limited force to give and I want to get to the origin as fast as possible, what should I do? Bang. Bang. Bang. Bang. Okay, good. He knows the answer. What should I do who haven't thought about it and don't know what bang bang is? Accelerate as much as possible and save as much as hard to start. Right. Right. So, if I want to get there as fast as possible, I'm going to hit the hit the accelerator, go as fast as I can until some critical point where I'm going to hit the brakes and I'm going to skid stop right into the goal. Right? There's nothing better I can do than that. We're going to prove that. Okay? But I want to see that's a fairly complicated thing. It's something you can guess for the double integrator. You can't guess for a walking robot for instance. Okay. Um but we want to get that out of some machinery that's going to be more general than double integrators. Okay. Okay. So, the proposition was um um bang bang control. Okay. Bang bang control. You might hear people casually say bang bang control is optimal. And that is it's a it's a it's very common if you have hard limits on your actuators. It's very common that the best thing to do is to be at those limits all the time. Okay. If that's the way you've defined the problem, bang bang control solutions are are pretty ubiquitous. Okay. They don't always work that well on real robots because actuators don't like to produce z, you know, infinite force and then or max force and then negative max force within a single time step. But good. Okay. So, um I think the only subtle part about it is figuring out when I need to switch from hitting the gas to hitting the brakes. Okay, so let's see if we can figure that out first. I think a pretty good way to do it is to think about what happens if you hit the brakes. Okay? And then you want to hit the brakes and arrive directly at the goal. There's only going to be a handful of states from which if I was going at some if I some position and some velocity and I hit the brakes full now, I'm going to land exactly at the goal. Let's see if we can figure out that set of states first. Okay. So um let's think about the case where um Q is greater than zero first. Just pick a side. Okay. So in that case um getting the brakes. Um is that positive one or negative one? negative one. No, it's positive one. Sorry, you almost got me. If Q is greater than zero, it's positive. Q is greater than zero, then U is positive one, right? I want to be pushing back in the direction I'm already coming from, right? So, U is positive one. Okay. All right. So, now we're going to have a uh some math ahead of us. See if we can integrate this equation. Okay. Um I can do that on the board for you. Um Q dot of T. Let me I better get it right. Is a Yeah, U of T. So in this case was one plus Q dot of zero, right? I'll just make it a little bit more general here. This case it was one. Okay. And q dot of t is um sorry switch orders. Q q0 + q dot 0 t + 12 u t ^2. Right. Okay. I want to figure out um did I screw it up? What? Just in the label. Just in the label. The first symbol is Oh, sorry. Sorry. Thank you. Good. Thank you. Okay. So let's figure out if u is one um what trajectories are going to get me so that q at t at some tf final qt and q dot of t are zero. Okay, simple enough. Little little manipulation. I want Right. So, it turns out I'm going to solve for Q 0 and Q dot zero. So Q dot0 looks like that's going to be negative u of t. It's a little bit weird my notation here. I'm saying that the initial conditions are are moving backwards. Hope it's I hope it's a the equations are simple enough. I hope it's okay. Um and q 0 of t had it better be um it turns out to be 12 u t ^2. So q dot of t is negative u of t. Add those together. Q0 is going to be u t ^2. Okay. If I solve for t, solve out t. Um in this case u is one. So um see is just negative q dot. So q um of zero is just 12. Let's keep that as just one. Um t ^2 q dot 0 squared. If I plot that, what I've got in my state space Q Q dot is a manifold of solutions. Okay, which starts at zero and then I said I did this for u positive. Okay. And it goes like this. Okay, this one's not a solution. Why did where did I get that out? Um, one of my assumptions here when I uh inverted t or something, then I that solution disappears. That's not a reasonable you can't have negative time. Okay. Okay. So, uh, in fact, in my notes, I did it. I solved for the other T, which would have been better. Sorry. Okay. So, um, there's a line of solutions here, which if I start at this Q, so this is this is actually the, uh, the positive Q, negative Q velocities. I hit the brakes, I go coasting into the stop at the origin, right? Turns out if I do if I think about the negative Q case, I get a similar line, similar curve. It's just a quadratic curve over here. Okay, this is the You know what? Let me be a little bit more careful. Let me make that one pink because this is the now um use negative one case. Okay, good. Okay, I figured out the the line of solutions where and if I hit the brakes, I get to the origin. What do I do? Harness your intuition again. What do I do if I'm here? accelerate and stop, right? I want to So, this was the, you know, stopping all the way to the goal. So, pretty much if I'm anywhere else, I want to accelerate. So, what does accelerating look like when I'm here? It's going to put me going up. Okay. And what happens is anytime I'm sort of below this curve I'm going to um drive myself up. I can't go backwards like that. Going to drive myself up. Hit that and ride it in. Okay. And if I'm above the curve, what do I do? I have to overshoot a little bit, right? can't bend down more than this. So, I'm going to ride it all the way over to here, connect up to this surface, and ride it in. Right. Okay. And it turns out anytime I'm over here, the best thing to do is to Did I get my colors wrong? Got my colors wrong. This would be the same action as uh Let me fix that real quick. Sorry. This is the um That's confusing. This is the accelerate, right? And then break. And this is the break, right? Which way is it? Yeah, this one should Let me just recolor it for you to make it a little more clear. Sorry about that. So let's say I'm pink over here, blue over here. Okay, then I want to be pink. I want to decelerate just like this. If I'm above it, right? Because I want to take these curves that are almost there. Okay. And if I'm if I can't if I've got extra time, I'm going to accelerate to the point where I decelerate again. So down here should be blue. And then this is again the case where I I decelerate as much as I can until I take the pink line in. Okay, this was the u= 1 and this was the u= positive 1. Okay, because that is all satisfying. We can now connect this back again to your um phase plot pictures, right? We had our initial lines that look like this, right? I'm allowed allowed to apply a bounded amount of torque. Right? So, the best thing I can do if I'm right here is I can warp this thing down to the point where I get right there. Okay. And if I'm here, I can warp it up to the to push me here and then write it down. The hard part is actually showing that that's optimal. And the reason I'm going to go through it is because it's it forms the basis for all the the algorithms that are going to be more general. Okay. So let me show you that that's optimal. To do that I need to introduce our first sort of optimality ideas for the course. Are people okay with the that picture? Bottom right below the line. Mhm. Y overshoot. So tell me where bottom right. Okay. So here um so this is the place where if I decelerate I get to the origin. Right? If I'm here then I have a little bit more velocity in the same position. Right? So if I if I hit the brakes I'm not going to stop in time. Right? So I can't I just I don't quite decelerate fast enough to get here because there's limited torque. So I just slip past it until my chance to come in the other way again. So these two regions are being separated by one. The the only separation is is that curve. But on the top left everywhere up here you want to be top left. You said yeah on the top left and bottom line like below the line you said you're fine here you're blue you actually want to the same way you want to accelerate as much as you can because you want to get to the place where you have to hit the brakes right so this is what this is me I'm at some position um I don't have enough velocity that I have to just hit my brakes so I'm going to gun it until I'm at the velocity where I just have to hit my brakes and then ride it in right up here I'm at the point where I have too much velocity Even if I hit my brakes, I'm still going to overshoot a little bit, which means I'm going to have to So you could think of it as now the word brakes maybe flips when you flip that across across. Maybe that's the right thing. But the the action I take um you know is only changing based on that switching surface. Okay, which as you know will be a a nightmare for a lot of our reinforcement learning algorithms. This is a hard cusp. Okay. So in general um you know these so if you have a control system that has a hard nonlinearity like this which is you know I'm doing one thing here and I'm immediately at some discrete place doing a different thing. Okay, that's, you know, that's a very nonlinear event and it's hard to get analytically when you're doing something more complicated than a double integrator and it can be hard to get computationally, but we'll we'll we'll talk about that when the time comes. Okay, so how the heck do I make an optimality argument about this? Okay, I want to introduce Pontriagen's minimum principle. Okay. This is going to be a a load of equations real quick and we're going to we're going to tease them out. Okay, in general, optimal control problems are going to go are going to be formulated by designing a cost function. Okay, that that cost function is some um some scalar quantity that that I want to minimize. Okay. So, um I'm going to use J for let me let me be a little I'm going to use the symbols G of XU as an instantaneous cost function. Okay, I'll use h of x to to mean final costs. I'm going to show you what this means in a second here. And I'm going to use j of x to be a cost to go. Okay, it's very important all of these are scalers, not vectors at all. just a scalar quantity. Okay. So a typical optimal control problem will be formulated as something like h ofx capital t plus integral from 0 to t g ofx u dt subject to x dot of t is f ofxu. Let's say the dynamics and x0 of t is some let me call it x knot here x knot. This is a general um cost function sort of cost to go function form for optimal control. We're going to use it a lot. Okay. There's just a couple things to note about it. So, so just to get some intuition. So, g of x u that says that's things I'm penalizing throughout the trajectory. So, maybe um maybe I want to to do small um actions in general in which case I could put some term in here which penalizes me um for having a u. I could put a u ^2 in here or something like that, right? Or maybe I want to just um worry about being a long way from the origin. Maybe I'll put an x squ in here or something like this. Okay. Um h is a final cost that's only going to penalize. It's some function that only penalizes the final state of the system. So maybe I don't care what I'm doing for the first capital t seconds, but at time um capital t I want to um I want to penalize it for being away from zero x x^2 here or something like that. There's lots of different forms. Um the only thing that's really important to note about this, the only really restriction in the forms that you can play with is that we do tend to assume this form which is additive. it's integraable integrates some scalar cost G. Okay. So I don't look at um multiplicative contributions of from X at time one and X at time four or something like that. I'm only looking at additive cost functions and that assuming that form that additive cost form um will make all the derivations work roughly. Okay. Okay, so for the minimum time problem, um what does that form? You can formulate it a couple different ways. Um Um, I could actually just have in in this case I could actually have g of x u equals 1, right? and have capital t defined as the time um and have h of x equal z. Right? That's a perfectly reasonable optimal control formulation. Okay? So it certainly fits in this sort of general optimal control form. Okay. So now we need to know how to we've got this guess. I'm going to leave that hard earned picture up there. I like this one too, but Pontreagan let me just say what Pontriagen's minimum principle is first and then we'll make sure it makes sense. Okay. So for this general form j of um x is h of xt plus integral from 0 to tg of x u dt subject to and I'm I'm going to try to be very careful about writing these all every Um let's assume for to begin with capital T is fixed just a parameter somebody chose and I'm going to let's say U is bounded to some set U in our problem right now it was negative 1 to one The minimum principle goes like this. Um I'm going to define this new auxiliary function Hamiltonian capital H. Okay. If I have found some optimal control solution, I'll think of it in terms of the the solution right now in terms of a trajectory which is some sequence xstar of t u star of t then it must satisfy the following conditions. First of all, we know it must satisfy f ofxar u star. That was already one of our conditions and it has to satisfy the Okay, there's a significantly less trivial one which is that P do of T has got to equal to negative partial H partial X evaluated at XAR. D star P, which if if H is what I had up there, works out to be um partial G partial X plus partial F partial X transpose P T And this auxiliary variable that we had has to be the gradient of partial h evaluated at xar t. One last condition. So this is sort of one two three u star of t had better be the arg min over u of h x star u p Okay, sorry. Got that out. We're going to make sense of it now. But okay, before we derive it and I'll just do a sketch of the derivation, but before we derive it, let's just think about the implications. Okay, first of all, um this says the optimal control trajectory must satisfy which means it's a necessary condition for for optimality. Um if I found some optimal trajectory xstar u star some trajectory x u I can verify that it a necessary condition is that all these things are hold but that's actually not a sufficient condition in general okay um for linear systems that are convex linear dynamics that are convex in the cost function it turns out it's okay but in general it's not always sufficient And it says that if I take my x and I integrate it forward in time, solving x by integrating my dynamics forward, and then I take this other function, this new set of variables p, which happens to have the same size as x, we'll see that, and integrate it effectively backwards in time because I final condition on P. If I do both of those things and I can write down U as being the argument of what's left H X, then I've I've satisfied a necessary condition for optimality. Okay, let's try to make sense of that. How many people have done optimization before at all? How many people have seen Lrange multipliers before? Okay, good. So, let me say a few things but not dwell. And there's there's a lot of there's a lot of information in the notes. Um, as fast as I can type. All right. In general, what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to minimize some function. In this case, I'm trying to minimize J, right? I'm trying to minimize this J of X um by finding the the U tape, which minimizes that. Okay, but let's make it a little simpler just to make sure we get the the basic idea. Let me just say J is some function of some parameter alpha. Um I'm trying to minimize J. Some function that depends on I can even do it even simpler. Let's get rid of let's just say minimize over X J of X. Okay. Uh so if I have some function of X J of X looks like this. I want to find the minimum. The first condition, the necessary condition is that at the minimum the derivative of that thing better be zero. Yeah. Okay. So I can check by just checking um if partial j partial x equals z, right? then I've got a candidate I've got a necessary condition um for a minima okay um that's actually a lot of it the the second part is the lrangege multiplier part now let's say I have um um let's say j let's say x is a vector now two dimensional vector let's say I want to do the optimization um minim min uh j of x um subject to the constraint that x1 equals x2 or x4. Let's do something slightly more interesting. x1 + x2 is 3. Okay, turns out thanks to the method of Lrangee, one of his many methods, um, uh, solving this problem is sort of no more difficult than solving this problem, finding necessary conditions for this problem, right? By just um making an augmented function um you can now minimize x um and lambda of j of x plus lambda times this constraint which in this case is x1 + x2 - 3 has to equal zero. It turns out if partial j partial lambda equals zero then that means the constraint is enforced right partial j partial lambda in this is x1 + x2 - 3 if that equals zero which is the condition I'm looking for anyways for the minimum then I've now not only um have I sort of satisfied my constraint but the remaining minima the minimization of this is this constrained solution to that optimization okay if the lrange multiplier method is very very useful if you don't know it look it up it's very Yeah. So the partial J part of lambda that J in the partial is this new J. Oh, sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Yep. Good catch. Good catch. Thank you. Partial of I don't know that whole thing. Partial lambda. Thank you. Good catch. And in the method of lrange multipliers um sort of lambda has a has an interpretation as sort of a constraint force. Okay. What you're about to see is that um all I'm saying in Pontriagen's minimum principle which is you know an absolute sort of staple in optimal control is all I'm saying is that J of X is which is my my cost function my cost to go function is at a stationary point with a lrange multiplier which enforces this dynamics okay and that lrange multip multiplier happens to be P. Okay, so let's just see how that plays out. Okay, so this is a sketch of of the derivation of Pontriagen's minimum principle, which I think I'm just going to do enough so you see where those things are and have some intuition about them. A sketch of it based on the calculus of variations. There's many other ways to do it. Um, the calculus of variations, which is a scary name for a very simple thing. Okay. Um, this is the problem I'm solving. J of X0 is H of X plus G integral over G subject to those constraints. Okay. So how do I write that in terms of a lrangege multiplier? I'm going to do a second function which I'm I won't make the mistake of calling J again here. Let's call it S. some function s is is going to be um h of x t plus the integral from 0 to t of g of xt u t plus some lrange multipliers p in this case times my constraint which is x dot minus f ofxu hope I was trying use TE's everywhere. Let me try to keep using TE's everywhere. Okay. So now I can explicitly try to find the place where s which is my my lrangege multiplier version of my problem which has the explicit cost that I'm trying to minimize subject to the constraints that x better be satisfy my dynamics. Okay, exactly the same as that 2cond lrange multiplier introduction. Okay, now getting it right is a little bit funny. Um so s is now you could think of s as a functional right a function of functions. Um if I take a variation, this is just it's going to be exactly like your uh your basic calculus, but the the calculus of variations uses these symbols for a variation on a function is just going to be partial h partial x times the variation in x of t plus the integral 0 dt. Notice quickly that this thing inside here is just H, right? That's my Hamiltonian. So that thing inside there, I can just Okay, this says this is a variational analysis of S that says if my function changes by some small amount in X tilda, this is the the result of in changing S in S. Similarly, if my thing changes by a little bit in XT or in UT or in PT or in all of them simultaneously, this tells me what the variation is going to be in S. Okay, the stationary conditions. Then if I'm at an optima, what I care about is that that I if I change U a little bit, if I change X a little bit, if I change P a little bit, S better not change. That's my condition, my necessary condition for optimality. Okay. So what's um if partial h partial p is zero then I know that changing p isn't going to change the solution. So I can look for stationary points with respect to p. Partial h partial p better be zero. What's partial h partial p? Well, it turns out it's just x dot minus f ofxu, which is my forward dynamics. Okay, so if I've integrated my system forward in time, then this thing's going to be true and partial and a steady state with respect to changes in p. Okay. Okay. Let's look at the changes with respect to to X. So to get um the contributions from x correct, we first need to worry about this x dot. We don't want to have that x dot floating around in there. So let's integrate by parts to get that out of there. Okay. Um we're going to look at this partial h partial x um the variations but first integrate by parts. So if I the integral of my p of tx dot tdt from 0 to t is just going to be p of t x of t minus P of 0 X of 0 um minus the integral capital T of P dot T X of T I forgot my transpose DT right basic integration by parts okay if I now take my variation in partial X having used that then what I get is um which gives me which in this case was partial G partial X transpose plus partial F partial X transpose P of T. My goal is to show you enough of the derivation that you understand what these terms are and not so much to get completely bogged down in it. If you want a good treatment, a careful treatment, um you should see Bert Seikus optimal control book. When I say careful treatment there, it's going to be five pages or more at least. Okay. So Pontriagen's minimum principle says that if my my constraint is satisfied X dot and if I can just integrate back this P dot backwards in time from some final conditions which are the same the same basic variation argument that drives this. Okay. Then I found Lrange multipliers which satisfies that constraint. Okay. And the final variation says that u had better be the minimum of h of x. That puts me at a at a local minima in my constrained optimization. Okay, big pill to swallow, but this is the way we're going to to uh show that the the brick um solution is optimal. People are much more enthusiastic when there's um bricks. Okay, it's okay. I understand. Okay. So, let's let's turn the crank and use this tool now to um see what the heck see if we can verify our original bang bang policy is optimal. So for the bang um see contrian on bang bang double integrator. Now, what's the Hamiltonian look like for this thing? G of X U we said was just one. Okay. Then panspose time x dot minus f ofxu. I'll just write it out in element form since it's so simple. It's p1 * q dot plus p2 * u. Okay. So let's um if we were to had if we had derived our bang bang controller just like this then we could actually immediately say what's the optimal control solution. If I want to take um U star is the argu in one of one of H XU P. And what's it going to be? Just looking at what I've got on the board here. This is a good time to make sure you get it. Yeah. Good. So um these terms are are have no impact right um if P2 is positive and I want to minimize this thing then u you better be negative right as negative as possible it's negative as possible means negative 1 and if P2 is negative then u it be should be as positive as possible to minimize that thing okay so it turns out our same policy that we worked hard for in the Pontriagen in terms of the Lrange multipliers works out to just be P2 sine of P2 of T negative sign sorry so the sign function is just one if it's greater than zero negative one if it's less than zero my equations for P which if I didn't use the word adjoint equations yet should have these equations for P are called the adjint equations. My equations for P are pretty painless, right? So p1 dot is uh negative partial h partial x1. x1 is q so doesn't appear at all. That's zero. So that lrange multiplier isn't going to change at all. That's pretty painless. And p2 dot is uh negative partial h partial x2 and that's negative p1 t right. Okay. Um so it turns out that um that P1 my lrange multiplier is just going to be some constant and P2 T is just going to be the integral of that constant C2 + C1 * T. Okay. Trying to debate how much the Squeeze in the next few minutes. You know what? Let's let me do it tomorrow for real or on Thursday for real cuz I don't I cuz cuz it's going to take 10 minutes to finish but it's worth doing it right. So for homework to yourself see if you can work it through. Take the equations that we had and show that these that those four conditions are satisfied and I'll spend the first 10 minutes of class doing it properly on Thursday. I don't want to rush through it and have it mean nothing. Okay. Um sorry if I I wrote three here. There's there's a condition a final condition on P2. So three conditions by this number. Awesome.