So today's class uh is uh introductory class. We'll talk uh about the class itself uh and uh about the program of the class. uh uh then uh uh Jake will talk a little bit about the uh uh financial uh financial terms uh and uh uh and ideas and I'll talk uh about bond mass a little bit. So the the class is because it is uh organized to introduce you uh to uh to the uh applications of of mass in real world. Uh the class is split between a mathematical part which will be taught by by Peter and uh application part uh which will be taught by many people uh who come from industry. uh maybe start with a little bit of introduction of myself uh and how it is all comes together. So uh I I was at MIT a long time ago. I got my PhD uh from mass department in uh 92. Uh my adviser was Gil Strang. uh and uh my uh topic of my uh PhD was has nothing had nothing to do with with finance. It was actually applications where it was about wavelets uh and applications were in signal processing. So after that I was a mass professor for for a few years uh and did mass research. Uh but at some point I decided to to switch to uh to the industry and um somehow I did uh like mathematical finance. So since then I've been at quant working in uh in mathematical finance. I've worked in in many many places for a long time. I was with Morgan Stanley and right now I I run uh fixed income quants at RBC. Uh so uh the uh and and uh my history is definitely I I very much uh appreciate having experience both with academia and and and with industry and that's what uh what I would like to uh to show and uh to show you through through the class. So now a little bit more about the class. Uh so as I said there will be math part and uh there will be finance part. The the uh lectures will be intertwined not necessarily one after another but uh but more or less uh in equal proportion. uh the um in terms of prerequisites uh I do think that you all have uh necessary mathematical prerequisites which is uh linear algebra some statistics uh and some uh probably some uh calculus and mathematical analysis uh we don't require any prior knowledge uh of finance uh even though uh if you have been doing uh some uh some work or internships before that that certainly helps. Here is uh the schedule uh which we intend to to keep and please keep in mind that things may change and may shift uh uh particularly with uh with invited speakers. Uh Peter will talk uh about the mathematical uh part uh here but I I'll just introduce uh the uh a few classes. So in a week's time uh Jeff Shen from uh from Black Rockck will talk about uh equity investing in particular quantitative equity investing. Uh then uh Stefan Andre from Two Sigma will talk about principal component analysis uh and finance which should go well together with uh with what Peter will be talking about at the time. Uh then uh Andrew Constensson from Mizuho uh will will talk uh about uh linear rates products, swaps, bonds and curve construction. Um then James Shepard from Quantel Technologies which is now part of uh London Stock Exchange will talk about optimization uh and compress compressing derivative portfolios. Uh then uh very interesting uh lecture uh by Takman Mansour uh and and uh uh Luna Lopez from Kchi. Uh they'll talk about their company and how they started. They all they both are MIT alums uh and actually uh alums from the class from a few years ago. Uh then um uh Ross Garham from Millennium uh will talk uh about investments uh in systematic investments. Uh Andrew Law from MIT will talk actually about applying uh some techniques from computational finance into uh biio medicine and biomedical portfolio. and uh oh I I missed uh both Jake and myself uh there but Jake will talk about about portfolio optimization I'll and I'll talk about uh black shaws and and the last invited lecture will be by John Hull uh who is u legendary in derivative space but he will actually talk uh uh about machine uh machine learning his newest interest With that, let me pass it on to Peter. >> Okay. Thank you, M. Let's see. Let me just page back up to the schedule of lectures. Um, although before that, let me give a brief self-introduction. I have a PhD degree in statistics and this was a mathematical statistics program at UC Berkeley and I was getting rather uh distracted with mathematical uh arguments and analysis and took a class at the business school at Berkeley the high school and that renewed my uh passion basically for studying finance and quantitative finance. Um I taught in the statistics department at Harvard and then joined the Sloan school where I pursued research on financial statistical modeling and finance. Uh that led to interesting consulting projects where one client uh hired well wanted to hire me to work on a trading program in international equities and we ended up agreeing on becoming partners rather than deciding how much I should get paid for that. And so I worked uh with hedge funds uh for a number of years. um ultimately had the great pleasure of uh working for ICOs, a hedge fund in Cyprus, which is in the eastern Mediterranean. Um following that uh I came back to academics actually to help with this course uh now what 11 years ago or 12 years ago and had the great pleasure to work with Vasili and Jake on this class. And what I think is really important to highlight is how the mathematics lectures are teaching you mathematics that's really quite practical and useful. So um I like I I love mathematics but I love I guess financial uh applications even more. And so we'll be stressing those tools that are useful uh in financial modeling. Um I do think it's important to emphasize the stature of many of these guest lectures. Uh and you're really going to be hearing from uh people who are the top in the field like John Hall. Many of you probably are familiar with his work uh and Andrew Lowe. Um and uh actually I had the pleasure of teaching uh Tar and Lana uh in statistics classes, one of which was this. And uh what they've done is created a new futures exchange which is rather impressive. Um, when you look at the history of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, there are maybe, I don't know, 50 or so futures exchanges that have come and gone. Uh, maybe the most important is the Chicago Merkantile Exchange. But here were two students who uh basically create an exchange where you bet on discrete events, whether things will or will not occur. And uh anyway, it's a it's a great uh to have them join the class. Well, um let's see with the different statistics or math lectures, you can see the range of topics. Um and these are all uh lectures that introduce you to these topics without much background. So I think it provides an excellent introduction to to the different topics. Um, we will also be using uh the language R in our studio for illustrations. And I think most students here probably are Python experts. I am not a Python expert, so I use R. But let me uh just tab over to a slide showing this. Let's see with using R. One of the reasons for using R is that it gives you immediate access to state-of-the-art statistical methods that get developed and but in addition to that it facilitates the downloading and collection of financial data from the internet or from other sources that you might have access to. uh but one can see issues like nonlinear volatility models, regime modeling, those are uh packages that uh are quite useful and powerful. Um in terms of sources of financial data, everyone I'm sure looks at uh the financial markets a bit and any data that's available on Yahoo is importable into R. Also the Federal Reserve economic data base has all well around 80,000 different time series of different rates. So um let's see we distributed in the canvas site this R notebook FM intro1 which basically uses um the R studio cloud to uh collect data and display it. And so this year um we have an alternative to asking students to install our desktop on their machines but just to sign up to this uh R studio cloud and you can basically with a simple login create simple files which we give you and display different uh time series. So this um this FM intro one uh R program basically will dis collect and display data and you don't need to know anything except to maybe update the dates for starting and ending data collection. And so one can look at the S&P 500 index, the VIX index. Uh perhaps one of the more important indexes in uh equity markets is the VIX index, sort of a fear gauge. And uh it turns out that the sort of fear gauge tends to spike when the market drops. And so there are interesting uh relationships between these that actually get formalized with option pricing theory. And let's see just for interest there's here's the time series for Bitcoin. Um the beginning of this time series is about when our class began. And if you were fortunate to be uh at MIT at that time, uh an alum of MIT gave all the incoming students, I think, $100 in Bitcoin. And uh many years later, some of them still had their Bitcoin keys and could cash in. Some uh were very regretful that they somehow lost their their Bitcoin keys. But it's really an interesting market. Um I I was a complete skeptic back here. Uh and I guess I'm still a complete skeptic, but uh that being said, you know, there's obviously great potential there. Um here's the time series graph of Nvidia. Um, curiously, in last year's notes, we displayed Nvidia and since then it's risen rather dramatically. Um, a really interesting topic for analysis is the uh creation of bubbles in financial markets and can you detect a bubble and when it might uh might burst very challenging. Um let's say one last uh point to uh illustrate was the crude oil futures contract. Um it's one of the more popular futures contracts traded. Um and what's rather striking is that in 2020 the price of this contract went negative significantly. And this was an event that the brokers, important brokers, didn't program in that possibility into their systems. And so uh when the system sort of became updated on this day when the price was significantly negative um those who held say thousands of contracts of the contract actually uh owed money to the exchange for their negative position. Um anyway, the financial markets offer these cases where surprising seemingly impossible events can occur such as negative interest rates. When I was studying finance u the thought of negative interest rates was uh was just considered um an impossibility. So um with that um let's see I just want to highlight this uh our uh our studio uh cloud um allows you just to log in with just a username and password and it's free and then you can create our programs and it should display the R studio running from the cloud. And so here is a directory in this cloud project which has an RMD for our markdown file which is displayed in the top left and that simple program runs creates that HTML file. So analyses are very easy to illustrate with our studio and we I hope to uh share with you various R programs that you can use to replicate studies we do in our lectures. All right. Um, let's see. Finally, uh, let's see. We distributed assignment zero today, which is asking everyone to fill out a simple survey of where you come from, what your interests are, and to submit perhaps a resume or CV if you have that accessible so we can get to know all of you.