Okay, today is our second and probably last day of homogeneous dynamics and projection theory. Um, let's remember where we are and then we're going to uh try to use the the things we learned about last time to say something about dynamics. Okay. Um, so we'll have a league group G, which so far is SL2R, and we have a discrete subgroup, which so far has been SL2Z, and we're interested in GOD gamma. Um, we have a metric M, which is a right invariant metric on G. and then we get it leads to a metric that I also call M and G mod gamma. Okay. So now G also has a left action on G mod gamma and this left this left action does not preserve the metric because the metric is not left invariant. So this left action distorts the metric and we started to study that last time and it's going to continue to be crucial how it distorts the metric. Um but it preserves the volume. Okay. Um cool. Okay. Now uh inside of this group we have the uh unitary group uh sorry the unipotent group let's say UT is one t and our goal is to understand what how the unipotent orbits in gamma look. So we're going to study u dox in gamma. So x is a gamma and there's an an old theorem of headland from the 30s which is the the kind of thing about about this orbit that we're interested in that u dox is either periodic or dense. We won't exactly prove that but we'll prove some things that are a little bit related. Okay. Um, now the unipotent group is special and the one way of getting our hands on something special about it is to see how it relates to diagonal matrices. So let's say this a sub is that matrix that diagonal matrix in SL2R. And then acute observation is that a subr u t a subr inverse is u e to the 2r t. Um it's just a computation with matrices. Uh I've done it a couple times and I start to sort of anyway doing it in front of you I think is not very useful but if you are interested in this it's if you do it yourself it starts to make sense. Uh okay. So now let's say that u 0 t of x that means the set of u t of x t is a zero t. So if capital t is large this is a big piece of an orbit and that's more or less what we'd like to study. What is the shape of a big piece of the orbit? And this observation tells us that um u0 t of x is a r u01 a r inverse of x. Okay. And this is helpful because this this u01 is much less intimidating than u t. So this here is just a little piece of the orbit. Um and so to understand a big orbit we have to understand how this a sub rar acts on a little orbit. Um okay and another simple observation is that a r is like a little r to the j. So if big R is big J * little R then we have this. Oh and in in this equation by the way um E to the 2 big R is T. Okay. So this a a r we can think of it as a little r applied many times. Okay. So therefore it makes sense that we could just try to understand how a little r acts on unipotent orbits. Okay. So, we made a picture of this at the end of class last time with models and props and everything. And uh and this picture is is is uh the the the main tool that we're going to think about for homogeneous dynamics. So, I'm going to draw this picture again and then we're going to talk about why it why it is the way we drew it. Um okay. So, over here something a shape that I'll draw as being kind of a cylinder. And this is a fundamental domain. Um so so this is either the whole fundamental domain or maybe a tube in in f. So f is sitting in the group g and it's a fundamental domain for g mod gap. Okay. And so this length scale is one. And this length scale um is also one. Or we could also make it smaller if we'd like to have a thinner tube. All right. And now inside of this tube are a bunch of pieces of unipotent orbit that I'll draw like this. Okay. So each of those is a piece of unipotent orbit. Um here is t = 0 and here is t = 1. Okay. And now understand what is going to happen to this picture when we apply a subr. So what we're going we're going to apply um I guess strictly speaking l the the we're going to apply it on the left. We're going to multiply by a subar on the left. Okay. So what's going to happen? Um first of all the unipotent orbits are going to stretch that way. Then second of all, okay, so so so you just think about what happens to the cylinder. There's going to be a direction where it stretches. There's going to be a direction that compresses. And there's going to be a direction that stays the same. That will be true at every point. Um, but what's important is that the direction that compresses is kind of not the same everywhere in this picture. And so to illustrate that, I'm going to draw what happens at at a couple of different heights. So at t = 1 this um and there'll be some direction that compresses maybe it's that direction and so when we apply l a r inverse this disc is going to be squished vertically and when it's squished vertically then we'll have a triangle that looks sort of like so. Okay. And also at t equals z we have the same disc with the same triangle in it but there's a compression direction which is different. So maybe down here it's this direction. So when we apply LA subar inverse um then we will get a pancake who gets squished this way and that will affect these points differently. This after squishing the green point and the orange point will be quite close together. All right. So that's the picture that we ended with last time. And what is important here key point is that the compression direction is twisting relative to the unipotent orbits. Meaning that if at a given height two unipotent orbits are being compressed towards each other then at most other heights uh they won't be. All right. So this is where we left off last time. Um are there questions or comments about this picture? Yeah. >> So in the picture you had last week, these after things are all kind of stretched out and compressed, they're then mapped back onto the fundamental domain half. But if they've been twisted around, like is there some are they kind of mapped back onto F without twisting in some way to make it all perfectly line up or is there kind of some other twisting that happens again as they get back back on F? >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay, that's a good question. Let's So the question is about um how this gets mapped back into the fundamental domain. Let's try to draw that also. So here here's our fundamental domain. First we apply this map just in our group and we get something which is tall and flat and perhaps it is twisted a little bit between the bottom and the top. Um um okay anyway then that is going to get mapped back into our domain. So pi is the projection from g to gm mod gamma and which gamma will identify with our fundamental domain. So this thing is going to get mapped back into the fundamental domain. What does that look like? Um, so the fundamental domain is kind of sort of a unit cube, but this thing is way taller than a unit cube. So imagine cutting it into pieces whose height is only around one. Okay? And this was only ever around one. So each of those pieces now is small enough to fit in the fundamental domain. Um, and um um let me call it piece one, piece two, piece three, and piece four. All right. Now, those are going to sort of fold back into the fundamental domain. And at least roughly, I think it's good to imagine it like this. So each one of of these guys is corresponds to one of those guys, right? Okay. But they are not in order. So it's not like they go 1 2 3 4. They're in some um they're in some order. uh one two three um so uh I don't know much about about this order. I personally don't know anything about this order. Okay. So now I think the question was how would this picture look if this thing were twisted a little bit. Um so first of all you know when we say that this thing is twisted a little bit it's a change sort something like a change of 90 degrees or 180 degrees between the bottom and the top and there are many steps between the bottom and the top. So that means if you just look at one of these guys you don't notice or barely notice any twisting. This thing is basically a planer slab. Um, and then these planer slabs are at slightly different angles, but this map pi, it it doesn't it doesn't exactly preserve. I mean, those angles aren't exactly well defined because this this is not living in R3. So, it's actually not it's not clear exactly what we mean when we say that this slab and this slab are they parallel or are they twisted compared to each other? Anyway, when they get mapped back in, it's not I I think that imagining this is is reasonable. Okay. Um, okay. Now, that raises a bit of a question coming back to this picture that people that that that we we were trying to digest last time, like what exactly do we mean when we say that the compression angle is twisting? Because the compression angle here lives at one height, it lives over here, and the compression angle there lives over there. How do we compare an angle over here with an angle over here? Uh given that this is not R3, this is living in a curved thing. Right? So I actually rethought how to state it and I added some words that I don't think I mentioned last time. I think when we talk about this twisting, we need to include these words relative to the unipotent orbits. Okay. So let me try to make a more precise statement about what this twisting means and then we'll see how we can do some computations in the league group with matrices and and see that it happens All right. So, um, okay. So, precise statement about what is twisting. What is twisting? Okay. So suppose I have a piece of unipotent orbit in my fundamental domain starts at G knot that's over there some group element in my fundamental domain and then over here I have UT of G KN and T goes say from 0 to one. Okay. Now at each point here there's going to be a vector that compresses when I perform ar. So let's say v compression of t. This is a a vector uh and this is the direction that compresses when we apply left arce. So it's the um so it's a it's a vector. It lives in the tangent space of our group at the given point. and it's the smallest singular vector for the derivative of this map. Okay, so that's what we mean by the compression direction. Now, what does it mean relative to the unipotent orbits? So suppose that over here I have another unipotent orbit and it's this is like a nearby unipotent orbit. Okay. So this might be g plus epsilon * v kn. epsilon * v is a little vector that goes between these starting points of these two nearby unipotent orbits. And up here or maybe here is ut of g plus epsilon v kn. And here there's a vector that goes between them. I guess epsilon times v orbit of t. So V orbit of T is going in the direction of the from the red orbit to the orange orbit. Okay. So so the the thing that is twisting is V compression of T relative to V orbit of T is twisting. The angle between those two vectors is changing. That's the precise statement of what is twisting. And we can we can check what it's happening by computing these two vectors. Yeah, >> you're conjugating technically, right? Not just applying action. You're conjugating, but when you say twisting, you need to compare that some if you apply the apply the the gemic you end up somewhere else. I'm not sure if I understand comparison twist. >> Well, are you also following the body orbit too? >> Um, right. So, the question has to do with keeping track of things given that they live in different tangent spaces. So, okay. So, the compression direction is a vector in the tangent space at the given point along the orbit. Does that is that okay so far? >> Uh yeah yeah yeah. >> Okay. Um but then the comment is you know if if I have a family of vectors in one vector space then I can say that they're twisted. But here I have a family of vectors in a family of vector spaces. And so it's not so clear what it means that they're twisted. Um, so I need to I need one way to do it is to pick a reference vector to compare them with. And so that's the job of the of this V orbit vector which goes from the red vector to this from the red orbit to this orange orbit. And that's like a a reference vector. Um and then we'll see that so at each t there's there's a orbit vector and a compression vector and um the angle between them is changing. Okay. Um cool. So, so there was a question last class that basically was like how are we sure that this is happening this picture and the one way to be sure is to compute these two vectors and then and see that that they're not the same. Okay. So, let's compute them. actually one of them we can comput. So ut is a matrix. So when we can we can just multiply this through. This is ut plus epsilon ut of v kn. And if we compare sides we see that v orbit of t is u subt. Okay. Now let's figure out what v compression of t is. Okay. Um, cool. So say we have some G knot and um we're going to apply the left action of a R inverse and that will move us to to um a subr G. And we want to understand how this map is distorting the geometry of G knot, the geometry near GN, and in particular figure out which direction is being compressed. Okay. Um, so I think the best the best way I could figure out to understand this is to put it in a picture uh with connecting this thing that I don't understand yet to some maps that are easier to understand. So here's the identity and from here to here I could apply a right multiplication by GMAT and right multiplication is much easier to understand because that's an isometry and the identity also is kind of nicer than other matrices. Okay. And then I'm going to go back to the identity. So this is right multiplication by a r g all inverse which is also an isometry. So if you put this all together, I'm going to have a map from the tangent space of the identity to itself. And that map is an isometry times the map I want to understand times an isometry. So that all of the metric distortion is going to come from here. Okay, now this map is not so hard to understand. So if I apply what am I doing? So I I start with some matrix H. I right multiply by G knot. Then I left multiply by A R then I right multiply by the inverse of A R G KN. What do I get? Well have h I might I multiply on the right by G knot. Now I multiply on the left by a r. Now I multiply on the right by this. Okay. When I invert this I switch those. I get a g not inverse and they cancel. So this operation is none other than conjugating by a r. Right? So this is the conjugation by ar. Okay. So conjugation by a r is a map from our new group to itself takes the identity to the identity and therefore this map or really its derivative takes the tangent space of the identity to itself. All right and now you can write this down. This a r is an explicit matrix uh tangent a tangent vector here is a matrix abcd. So this is just a b c d goes to or d c a r of this is e r e minus r ab c d e minus r e so this is a thing you can write down it's not that scary and we worked out last time uh what it does so recall from last time that we have first of all we have an orthonormal basis of TE of G which are there's a basis vector N 0 1 0 0. Last time I called this U, but there were so many U's on the blackboard that I was worried it was not a great idea. So I'm going to call it N. N for nil potent which is also true. Um there's N tilda which is 0 1 0 0. And there's a diagonal guy which looks like this. Okay. So what we figured out is that the conjugation makes n way bigger. It makes n tilda way smaller and it leaves the diagonal fixed. Okay. So if I start at the identity and I go all the way around, I'm doing this conjugation and n tilda is the vector that's going to get compressed. But now if I want to know what vector over here is going to get compressed, well I start with antilda. I map it over here. It hasn't gotten any shorter yet because this is an isometry. That's the vector that's going to be compressed in this set. Okay. So it's the right action by g of n tilda. This is the singular vector of d l a r inverse with singular value e to the minus 2r. Okay. So that's basically the answer to our question. So the V compress the compression vector at T that's R at so now I'm not necessarily at the point GN but I'm at the point ut of N tilda. So that's n tilda ut g. Okay. So now if you compare how these two things are changing with T, you see it is not the same because our group is not commutative because when you changing the orbit of T, you're multiplying by UT on the left. But when you're changing the compression direction, you're multiplying by UT over here in the middle. And it's a non-commutative group. So those two operations are not the same as each other. Oh um so I don't necessarily think it will be helpful to do more computations but I did some at home to be sure and you know if if you imagined that at time zero the these two directions coincided and then you see what happens AST changes. You'll see that they stop coinciding. >> Yeah. >> So picking the inner product of the vectors it makes sense as an operation to do it to compare the angles in the tangent space. >> Yeah. Um that's right. So these are vectors in a Romanian manifold. um and so they have a well- definfined angle and we can compute it by taking inner products and and then um uh right so I guess I guess we could say that the coine of uh of the angle between v of t and w of t would be um V.W over norm of V norm of W. I used to teach this a lot in 1802. I think that's right. Um so we have formulas for V and W. So we can compute this and um it'll be a little messy but we'll see that it is not constant in T. Other questions or comments? Okay, so the first big goal that was the first chunk of the class, the first big goal of the class was to um check that this picture happens and then the second part of the class we will uh discuss how to use this picture to figure out stuff about a long unipotent orbit. Okay. So, let's switch gears. Okay. Okay. So, let's call this tracking the spread of an orbit. All right. So remember that we had this u 0 t of x is a r u01 a r inverse x. Let's call this guy x tilda. Um now this uh there was a discussion last time you know what happens if this orbit here is periodic if this orbit here is periodic the special thing that happens is that this point X tilda will be deep in the cusp and the deep in the cusp is sort of a special case because we were imagining that this was like a regular nice orbit of length one but if it's deep in the cusp it's sort of different. So let's assume that X tilda is not deep in the custom and that's equivalent to saying that UX is not close to periodic. Okay. And let's break up R as capital J times little R. And uh so then I'm going to say that U.j J is a little R to the J of U01 of X to Okay. And I want to track how this thing is spreading out through my homogeneous space GM mod gamma. And we'll we're going to track it by noticing how many delta balls it takes to cover it. So recall that X delta is the minimum number of delta balls needed to cover X. So our goal is going to be to estimate U.j J delta um in terms of J delta and R. Okay. And for for context for reference um the we have a three-dimensional space. So for the whole space the number of delta balls that we need to cover it is delta to the minus 3. Okay. All right. So, next of all, our U.J is like a bunch of these unipotent orbits. Looks like that. And so, you might notice that it only really matters what the top cross-section looks like. All the other cross-sections are similar. So let's take that top part down. Inside of there, we see this. So let's call that XJ. That's the top cross-section of U.J. And um then it's not hard to check that U.j delta is like delta inverse time XJ delta. have uh cut it into slabs of thickness delta. For each thickness, the number of delta balls that we need to cover that slab is xj delta. This is the number of slabs. Okay. So, so basically we want to track how xj delta depends on delta. So, so fully spread or maybe I'll say very spread. Um, that means that u.j delta is like delta to the minus3. That would be like saying xj delta is like delta to the minus 2. That xj really fills a lot of the disc. So now how does this picture help us to study XJ? So using the key picture. All right. So um so let me label these maps pi 1 and pi 0 and somewhere in the middle we would have pi t. Pi t is what our map ar is doing to the slice at height t. Okay, using the key picture have a lama. So if e to the minus 2r is delta then um xj + 1 delta is around a sum over t of pi t of xj delta. And which t's do we sum over? The t's are in delta z and t goes from zero to one. Um this is al we can also write this as delta inverse times the average t between zero and one of pi t of xj delta. Okay. So, proof sketch. Um, okay. So, here is our fundamental domain. Cut it into slices of thickness delta. So here's a slice at height t with thickness delta. Okay. Now when we apply l, we uh stretch it up vertically and we compress it in some other direction. We get something like this. And then we divide this into pieces at different heights. And let me color this particular slab in red. So that red one is one of them over here. So this these are each of height one. Okay. Um right. So in this new picture there will be so in the in the old picture there were some unipotent orbits that went through our slab. Um so x describes where the unipotent orbits hit the top of our slab. And now we apply this map and now there will be some points over here in the top of this slab. And who will they be? Those points over there would be pi t of x. Okay. Now we want to cover things with delta balls. So this distance here is e to the minus 2r. So that's delta. So we want to know how many delta balls does it take to cover that. So that number there is delta covering number of pi t of xj. Right? So over over here we started with xj. Now what happens when we apply pi? Each of these slabs gets folded back in. Okay. Um and um the red one went somewhere. I don't really know where, but maybe it went over here. And here in the top of it is pi t of xj and it's delta covering number. So the number of delta balls in this strip that would be um pi t of xj. Okay. And now the uh this thing these dots up here are are xj + one. It's the set of set of dots on the top face. And so how many delta balls do we need to cover them? Well, for these ones we needed pixj delta covering number and and these other guys those corresponded to different um slabs here. So there are different terms in this. Okay. Um so now we can try to use projection theory to study this thing and it will tell us how the covering number XJ + 1 delta evolves as we increase J. Any question? Yeah. >> Why do the delta balls start to overlap when J is large enough and kind of the compression is more than delta? Because delta is kind of the size of one round of compression. If you do multiple, why would it be for that? Um so I think the question is suppose at the beginning that there happened to be two guys here in X whose distance was less than delta which might happen >> then um what would happen to them? >> well >> not that they're less than delta slightly more than delta but less than eus 2r or e to the 2 r delta so that in the in f they're in the same delta b then applying the transformation diagonal transformation that they're then then they become in a delta But before they're not in before they're in two separate delta balls after the transformation of one delta ball. >> Right. Right. Okay. So it could happen that we have two guys like maybe these two guys are pretty far apart but after we perform um pi t they got squished together and they're now in the same delta ball over here. Yeah that could that could happen. And the the main thing we have to study is how often that happens. Um but um this lema is still true. Um this might be a lot smaller than xj delta because many many uh points that were far apart in xj may have gotten squished together in pi t of xj. But this is just the number of delta balls that it takes to cover um the the image there. >> Does that answer your question? >> Yeah. I guess also like in the third image like why is each delta ball contained in only the size of one of those kind of strips? >> Ah okay. So we we tuned delta and r to play together so that we picked r so the thickness of this strip is delta. I thought if the transformation is applied multiple times then you get multiple like e to the minus 2 r j scaling. >> Um that's not wrong but when we apply it multiple times we're not changing little r we're just applying a subr a sub little r multiple times. So so this picture is describing what happens in in one time >> and then you could use this in many rounds. So you could use this lama over and over again. >> Okay, >> which which is what we'll do. Okay. Um, let me change my notation a little bit. so I was using the letter pi for this maybe a little bit prematurely. What's clear so far is that this is a map. So I'm going to call it f_sub_1, f_t, and f0. And so then I'll change this. Okay. Okay. So now the next remark is that these maps look a lot like linear projections. So remark ft is kind of approximately an orthogonal projection um pi t. So let me make a picture. So ft does something like this. And this thickness is delta. This is one. Um and then pi t would just be an actual orthogonal projection. Okay. Um so uh ft is not not perfectly linear uh but it is smooth. So now here is a proposition or exercise about projections says that if x is in the unit ball in the plane. Then if you take the average overall directions theta and s1 of um pi theta of x delta is at least as big as x delta to the 12. Here's an example that shows where the x delta to the 1/2 comes from. So here's the unit ball and then inside of it I take a smaller ball and I call that X. So X is the ball of some small radius row inside of the ball of radius one. Um okay then when I perform an there's pi theta of X in any direction I'll get a line of length row. So I see that x delta is like row over delta squared and pi theta of x delta covering up is like row over delta. So this is the square root of that. Okay. And this is the best thing to do. Um you could devise an example where in one particular direction the compression is much smaller than the square root. Um, here's an example like that. B1, here's X, here's theta. Okay, in this example, pi theta of X delta is much smaller. I'll call this theta KN much smaller than X delta to the 12 for one theta KN. But at least in this picture, the most of the projections are way bigger. Okay, so it's not not super difficult uh to check this proposition. And I'm going to make it an exercise. I think we're out of problem sets, but if we weren't, this is a a nice one to review the class. Okay. And another comment is even though these FTs are not exactly linear maps so that we cannot just literally apply this proposition they're close enough that by using the proof of this you you can get it for FT2. So remark the proof applies to FT also. Okay. So if we put together this lema and this proposition, we'll get an estimate about the delta covering number of XJ. Okay. So correlary if we put these together xj + 1 delta covering number is at least around um delta inverse time xj delta to the 12 um proof. So xj + 1 delta is uh is at least by our lema delta inverse times the average over t of xj of um ft of xj delta and then by our proposition that's at least delta inverse time xj delta to the on half and that's the proof. Okay. So then let's just track what this means. So x0 delta would be one. Think about what x0 delta means. It's one unipotent orbit. There's okay. So therefore x1 delta would be at least around delta inverse. x2 delta would be at least around delta to the minus3s. X3 delta be at least around delta to the minus1 and 3/4 and so on and you'd get pretty close to delta to the minus2. Okay. And delta to the minus2 would be like a definite fraction of the whole space. All right. Um, so this proves that a unipotent orbit that's not close to periodic, it proves that it fills up a lot of the homogeneous space. It's not Headland's theorem. Um, hold on a second. So, we didn't prove yet that the orbit is dense. The orbit could be missing an entire ball that's like half the size of the space, and this could still be true, but we did prove that the orbit goes a lot of places. Yeah. Um and this proof like does apply since applying it each time loses some sort of implicit constant like how do we know that it's not becoming dense and just like kind of an infinite decimally small region of this full space. Um right so I think the question is like we we didn't actually get to a constant times delta to the minus 2 and if I tried to do this sort of infinitely many times I would be losing a constant each time. Yeah, that's right. So, you know, imagine doing this 10 times and we get delta to the minus 1.99 and and that's what the method uh proves so far. So, stronger things are true, but but this method doesn't prove them yet. so remark um this doesn't show that the orbit is uh is actually dense and so uh so maybe a question you know could the orbit do this so here's our homogeneous space there's a cusp but it's not that important and and the orbit like goes around a good bit, but it only ever goes around over here and it never goes over there. So, this proof doesn't say anything about that. Um, okay. So, as far as I know, the to finish Headland's theorem requires another step uh that is based on different ideas from these ideas. Um, so there's more to homogeneous dynamics than than this story. Uh but this we did still learn something interesting. >> Yeah. >> Do you know like how close it's possible to get to the full theorem by trying to optimize all the constants in this term? >> Um okay. So there are two things that we might like to improve here. So the question is how how close can we get to the full theorem by optimizing the argument that we've been talking about. So one thing that you might like is you might like to actually get to delta to the minus2. Um that still wouldn't necessarily rule out this possibility but it would be interesting. And um if you look if you look at this proposition, one thing that you you sort of notice that this proposition is sharp in this very clumped case. And if you remember back to the early months of our class, if X was not so compressed, then there would be even better estimates. So if if you knew as an input that X is not too clustered, then you could get all the way to delta to the minus 2 in one step or or two steps or something. Um and so you might try to track that. You might try to track not just the delta covering number but also the row covering number for different delta and row. And then you could take advantage of this clustering. And um I am not positive but I think it is a reasonable 18156 project uh to you try to use that to get all the way to delta to the minus 2. Even if you got a constant times delta to the minus 2, it would still not be obvious to me that you filled the entire manifold and that you're not missing a ball. And um I I thought about it yesterday and today and I I don't have I don't have a good understanding yet of what you need to to to get everywhere. Um so I would be interested to learn if people have thoughts about it or know about it. Okay, cool. Um so I think that there actually are a bunch of ways to prove Headlland's theorem and this is not one that I have seen in the literature. Um and all all of these problems become more difficult and maybe more interesting when you go to higher dimensions. Um so the projection theory also becomes more difficult and more interesting in higher dimensions. And I wanted in the last part of the class to just show you what happens. Um and in particular we will see a new question about projection theory that we haven't mentioned so far in this class but which I think is a really cool question. Um, okay. Okay. So that I'm going to put this way. What about SLNR? Right. Um so I'm going to take a somewhat specific example although I think most of what we'll say then would work for any N. So for example, we could have SL3R for our G. Gamma could be SL3 Z. And U could be the unipotent group of matrices that look like this. So the so from what I understand there are several different one parameter unipotent subgroups of SL3R. They're slightly different from each other. And this one is sort of particularly well studied in the homogeneous dynamics community because it's the one that comes up in the Oppenheim conjecture about quadratic forms. Um, okay. But anyway, so we have this one parameter subgroup. And so let's call this u subt. Okay. So our basic setup with like conjugating by a diagonal matrix that works. And the relevant diagonal matrix is this matrix. Okay. And then you can check that a subr u subt a sub r inverse is u sub e to the rt turns out to be e to the rt not e to the 2 rt but that's not too big a deal. Okay. So now um we have a bunch of unipotent orbits like before. There's a bunch of unit potent orbits, but um the dimension of our group is eight instead of three. And so we have the direction along the orbits t = 0 up to t= 1. That's still onedimensional. So this thing here is a seven-dimensional ball instead of a disc. Okay. So now we apply uh we study the action of L a r inverse and we'll have a picture like this f1 f0 um and okay something here will happen and something different here will Um okay. So you can study the singular values the singular values of l a r inverse and those are equal to of conjugation by a r. So conjugation by a r is is a very nice operation on matrices. You can write it down and see what happens. And you can compute these singular values and they are as follows. Um eus 2r eus r eus r 1 1 e to the r e to the r E2 r. I won't do it on the board but I promise it's not hard. Okay. Now one of these singular values corresponds to the u direction. So little n is the vector that's the tangent vector to the group u at the identity. Um and so little n is it's not super important what the formula is but if you differentiate that you'll see that the tangent vector is that and that's one of these guys. So as before the direction of the orbits is expanding and then on the B7 we have the other seven uh directions. So this thing over here is an ellypoid with axes eus 2 r eus r eus r 1 1 e to the r E2 r okay so as we go from here to here these fs are not exactly linear but they're close to linear they're close to linear maps and they stretch some directions and they compress other directions by these amount Okay. So what is different from before? Okay. One difference is that this thing is not exactly a projection. Um um but that's not the most important difference. Um so differences from last time Right? So if we had like an approximate projection that went from the seven ball to some vector space V of dimension three say so four dimensions are getting squished and three dimensions are staying as they are. That would sort of be approximately a linear map with singular values e to the minus r e to the minus r eus r e the minus r 1 one one right if I had a linear map like that these guys are almost zero so these are the four directions that are being squished these are the three directions that are staying the same the sing list of singular values here is not quite like that some of them are bigger than one we didn't have that before and the ones that are some of them are equal to one the ones that are smaller than one have two different scales. So that's a little bit more complicated but I don't want to focus on it. so our singular values are a little more complicated. Okay let's ignore that. Suppose each of these linear maps actually had those singular values. So it was more like what we were used to in projection theory. There would be a different there would be another difference from before which is more important. So number one number two we still have only a one parameter family of linear maps. All right. So before when we talked about projections from B7 to V to threedimensional vector space, we talked about like all of them. If you look at all of the projections from B7 to threedimensional vector spaces, then something nice happens most of the time. But we don't have all of them. We just have a very thin subf family. So this is not all of the projections. Cool. Okay. So, um there's also a cosmetic complication that seven is a lot of dimensions and there are a lot of numbers. Um that but that that's not that important. It's just a pain. But but but these are this to some extent and this is a really fundamental conceptual difference. Um so I wanted to show you not this problem but the simplest problem of this type which is called the restricted projection problem. All right. So this question which I think is is is a cool question was raised by Fler Katrine Fler and Thomas Orpinan in 2013 and the question is like this. So here's the two sphere. So we're going to be doing projection theory in three dimensions in R3. So the different directions are parameterized by the two sphere. But we're not going to project in all of them. We're just going to pick some curve gamma and project in the directions of gamma. So gamma contained in s2 is a curve. Okay, the question is like this. um if X is contained in the unit three ball and let's say X is a delta SC set we'll put to make it interesting we put some kind of non-conentration condition and this is the one that they had in their paper basically okay then estimate the average over all the directions in gamma of the of pi theta of x delta cover remember okay so pi so theta is a direction an element of s2 and pi theta is the orthogonal projection from r3 to theta per so from three dimensions to two dimensions so estimate the average of that seeh I erased the wrong thing okay on this very boring. Not two minutes ago, there was a proposition. It said if you had a set in R2 and you projected it in all the different angles, then on average the delta covering number of the projection was at least something or another. So this is like an analog of that in three dimensions for a set with the spacing condition, but with the key difference that we're not averaging over all of them. We're only averaging over the ones in a particular curve gamma. Okay. Now an interesting thing about this question is that it matters what the curved gamma is. And in particular there's a big difference between an equator which is sort of like a straight line on the sphere and a non- degenerate or curved gamma. So the answer depends on whether gamma gamma is the equator is one extreme or gamma non- degenerate is another extreme. Um instead of writing the definition of non- degenerate let me just give you one example of a non- degenerate curve. So an example of a non- degenerate curve is gamma is equal to the set of theta in s2. So that the third component of theta is a half. So it looks like a the boundary of a spherical cap like that. Okay. So let me show you how these are different from each other. Okay. So, example say gamma is the equator and s is two. So, we have a sort of a quote unquote two-dimensional set a delta 2 set. Okay. So, our set x is going to be a delta by one by one slab. So that looks okay. And so imagine that the the um the two big directions are in the plane of the blackboard and the slab is sticking out of the blackboard by a little bit delta. Okay. Now there's an equator of directions that we're going to project in. And think of that as the equator that's like uh the sphere was centered at the blackboard. You intersected the sphere with the blackboard you would get a circle. So here's gamma. So now if theta is in gamma then the projection of x is a delta by one rectangle. So there's a circle of directions where if you project this slab you just get a delta by one rectangle. Okay. So then we see that the average uh pi theta of x delta is like delta inverse. Okay. Okay. Now, there's no obvious version of this example where where gamma is that curve that's up nearer the top. And the difference is so you know if you're if you're projecting in in a certain direction then the fibers are like lines in that direction. And so what's special here is that all of these lines are co-planer. And so you could have a kind of planer object that has a lot that that p where these lines intersected a lot. And instead, when we have those directions, then all of our lines make an angle of 45 degrees with the horizontal. They're like light cones. And these just don't fit together in the same nice way that co-planer lines fit together. So, it makes a difference. And Fler and and Orpin, they they proved that it makes a difference. So, they proved some bounds for that thing that are strictly bigger than this thing. But it took a while to figure out what is the sharpest bound. Um and that was figured out sometime later in a paper of six authors. Um Shang Wang Gan Shia Guo me Terrence Harris Dominique Mald and Hang Wa many of whom were here working on it at various times. Okay. And we approved um I'll just do a special case. So if uh x and b3 is a delta 2c set um and gamma is non- degenerate like this example above then the average theta in gamma of pi theta of x delta covering number is bigger than cepsilon delta to the -2 plus epsilon Okay. And the best thing you could hope for here is delta to the minus2 because x itself probably has delta covering number delta to the minus 2. So up to small issues that this is the sharp theorem. Okay. Um this proof is based on some version of the fora analysis method. Uh but it's a more difficult version that involves decoupling. Okay, cool. So this connection between projection theory and uh between homogeneous dynamics and projection theory was discovered by Alan Linden Strauss and Amir Mohammadi who were working on uh quantitative estimates for how how unipotent orbits become dense in this setup and they realized this connection with projection theory and they found the literature they found the paper by Fler and Orpin and and all the follow-up papers and they used those tools to prove of quantitative estimates about how these unipotent orbits mix. >> Yeah. >> The question of projection theory where kind of each unipotent filament kind of reduces a different projection. Is that set of projections dense in kind of the whole space of projections or is it some non-dense subset? >> No, it's some non-dense subset. Yeah. So here t is going from zero to one. For each t we have more or less a projection. Um and so we have a smooth curve of length length one in the space of pro of not exactly projections but the space of linear maps. Um and so it it is not in any sense becoming dense in the space of linear maps. is really just a few special ones. And um and this is a a reasonable model to picture in your mind like that that sphere is like all of the projections or all of the linear maps and that orange circle is the ones that come up in the in homogeneous dynamics. Yeah. Okay. So in the last two minutes I will write down a theorem that they proved. uh at least approximately. Okay. So this is Linton Strauss, Mahmadi, Wang and Yang. Um so setup is on that board. So if G is SL3R, gamma is S L 3 Z U as above. Okay, we take X um and we suppose U dox is not close to a proper homogeneous subspace. So it's some analog of being not close to periodic. Okay. Then the conclusion is that u 0t of x is delta dense in um in the homogeneous space. But so the homogeneous space has infinite diameter. So this can't quite be true. But in the if you cut off the cusp. So you cut off the cusp. So you have a compact piece of this. Um and delta is t to the minus c. C greater than zero is a universal constant. Okay. And a key step in the proof is to first show an estimate of the kind that we were talking about that the delta covering number of this orbit is is pretty big. Right? So the biggest it could possibly be would be delta to minus the dimension of the group. That's the delta covering number of the whole space. And it's quite close to that. That's a key step. It's analogous to the proof that we sketched for the simpler SL2R case. Um, and there is an additional argument, but it seems like the most novel and important part of of this paper was using projection theory, using those kind of theorems plus some other smart stuff uh to show that the orbit covers a lot of ground. Okay. Um Okay. So homogeneous dynamics is a big subject and there are different techniques but in this course I wanted to show that there's a connection to projection theory which is one set of techniques and which helps to say some some interesting