The following content is provided under a Creative Commons license. Your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer high quality, educational resources for free. To make a donation, or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, "visit MIT OpenCourseWare at ocw.mit.edu." PROFESSOR: So today we are going to spend a little bit of time discussing the Bimber reading, which introduces a really important concept for us. That is the concept of technological determinism. I think this is particularly important in our look at music and technology because music technologies, I think, raise really interesting questions, and pose really interesting examples and counter examples of this question of technological determinism. So we'll spend a little time talking about that. Then we're going to experiment with some electromagnetic properties of sound generation. So we're going to generate a mini Telharmonium light, as Collins likes to say, using a simple motor. We're going to experiment with humbucker pickup, and see what kind of sounds we can pick up with that. And then we're going to build a little oscillator using the Schmitt trigger model, that Collins nicely provides for us. Good? Questions? In general, keep in mind we will have another quiz next Thursday, a week from today, so keep that in mind. OK, good. So let's start with the Bimber article, and I believe Jillian, you were responsible for this one. AUDIENCE: OK. So, basically this article is talking about, as he said, technological determinism. Which he kind of describes as the views on relationships between technology and human activity, or the significance of technology to this social change. But he kind of talks about how there's a huge debate on what the concept actually means. So he goes through the other three types of technological determinism, that would be norm-based accounts, logical sequence accounts, and unintended consequence accounts. He kind of describes those, and goes through different views on each of those. PROFESSOR: OK, good. And the big picture-- his goal-- his big question for this article is what? AUDIENCE: Basically, how technology relates to social aspects. Or, does it really? PROFESSOR: OK. So how technology relates to culture and society-- what action-- what power technology has in relation to society and culture. And specifically this article-- on the biggest picture, he's asking a question that doesn't really concern us. But what's the big question he's trying to answer with this article? AUDIENCE: Did what Marx say-- was it really technological-- PROFESSOR: Was Marx a technological determinist? That's sort of the big question, but that's the least interesting for us. People debate that a lot, and that's an interesting issue, but that's not really relevant for us. This article, for us, provides us with a really nice way of just getting an introduction to some of the different approaches to what technological determinism is. So let's first discuss a little bit about what is technological determinism, without looking at his three cases, let's just talk about this in general. What is this idea of technological determinism? AUDIENCE: Which one of them? PROFESSOR: Just in general. Try from the highest, most broadest description first. AUDIENCE: So you have this aspect of, does technology affect us? And how-- in that case, how much does it affect us? There's also the deterministic part , where it's like, is what's going to happen in technology really deterministic? And so that's at times, do we affect it? Do we actually have control over that technology? PROFESSOR: Right. I think in the biggest sense, that's the question we're trying to answer here. Is technology an independent force that acts on its own, or do we have some control? I think, in the the question this gets to. What is this concept of determinism? In general. Determinism? AUDIENCE: Do you have free will? PROFESSOR: Yeah, it basically gets to the question of free will. Determinism-- I mean, how could we not have free will? Well, what are you talking about? I make choices. AUDIENCE: It's to say that possibly the course of human history, or any event that happens, is all predetermined by the choices that we made in the past. So, it's hard to say whether or not your free will is actually your decision, or if that's just a conclusion of some other decision that's made. But then that case, then you still have decisions playing a part. That might be a sort of soft determinism. A hard determinism, taken further would be what? AUDIENCE: You have no choice. And why not? Why don't you have any choices? AUDIENCE: Everything's just a bunch of chemical reactions, right? It's just all physics. PROFESSOR: It's all physics. It's all chemical reactions. It's all causal change, causality and causal change. One reaction, one physical law interacts, results in another. And that chain of causal actions, leads in a result. That's the idea of determinism. And if that is taken to its logical extreme, then we don't have any room for free will. And that's a debate we'll let the philosophers discuss, it doesn't really bother us. Well it does. Sometimes it bothers me, but I feel like I have free will, and you probably all do too, so we can work with that assumption just because it's a little more practical. AUDIENCE: So then the other major in technological determinism is not determinism in general, but does technology determine social things? Does it cause social things to happen? So does the fact that the typewriter came about at a certain time, make certain things happen because of the typewriter? Not the other way around. Not, did the typewriter get invented because of social things? PROFESSOR: Yeah. I mean, the idea that technologies on their own, just by existing, play a part in the causal chain, independent of human actions, that's really at the core of the issue. We'll talk about that more, but let's look at Bimber's three-- he categorizes three groups of approaches, accounts of technological determinism. He's trying to narrow the field, because so many people have talked about this. He's trying to narrow the field down, and sort of categorize the ideas about this. Let's start with the norm-based account. What's the norm-based account? What are the norms that he's talking about? AUDIENCE: So basically, that technology is like a human activity. People create technology. They get together and make things, then their actions are governed by whatever political body is ruling. And also he talks about the fear of productivity over ethical things. PROFESSOR: That's the key-- I think that's the key point in norm-based accounts. Somebody else want to build on that idea? Norm-based? So the norms he's talking about-- he's basically talking about where people give up some control to technology, right, giving up some control to technology. And he's talking about that based on these norms. And what are the norms? You mentioned one of the norms that he mentions, which was-- which one did you say? AUDIENCE: Productivity. PROFESSOR: Productivity. Productivity, that's right. What are some of the other norms that he describes? AUDIENCE: Logic. PROFESSOR: Logic. Logic. And often with logic is reason. Logic, reason, productivity, efficiency, those are the norms that he's talking in the norms-based account. And what he's talking about-- how this is a sort of technological determinism is that people say, well, I don't know if I like this technology, but it makes my life easier. It's more efficient, or it's a reasonable approach. That's sort of a giving up of some control, but not all control. Ultimately, does he say that the norm-based account is a technological determinism? No. He rejects it because humans still play some role, but don't have complete control. OK, the second one. Let's go to-- let's jump to unintended consequences. What are the unintended consequences? AUDIENCE: Basically, you have a technology, and you're creating it for some purpose. And then, way down the road, it has some completely different affect that you couldn't have predicted. PROFESSOR: Good. Now how is that a technological-- suggests perhaps a technological determinism? AUDIENCE: For instance, he brought up the example cars. They were created to clean up the streets so there wouldn't be horses everywhere. And then it kind of led to this whole Co2 emissions, and that's kind of a technological determinism, because we couldn't have prevented that because we couldn't have predicted it in the first place. PROFESSOR: Yeah, unintended consequences. Technologies have results that we may not foresee. And that gives us a sign that the technology-- it suggests perhaps, that the technology has some sort of agency, that technology is doing something out of our control. That's another reason why it might be seen as a technological determinism. Does Bimber ultimately say that it's a technological determinism? No, he cuts that one out too. And why? AUDIENCE: He makes the distinction that because it's-- just because it's uncontrollable and unintended, doesn't mean that it's deterministic. PROFESSOR: Right, that's true. And also that humans still have agency rights. Humans still played a role in creating those technologies, introducing them, so it doesn't completely remove the human agency. Finally, we get to the logical sequence account, which is the one that he wants to hold up as the real, pure technological determinism. And what is the logical sequence account? AUDIENCE: The technology itself, creates the social change. PROFESSOR: Technology creates social change, that's one aspect of the logical sequence account. What are some other aspects of the logical sequence account? AUDIENCE: That the existing technologies will always entirely determine what next technologies [INAUDIBLE] emerge. PROFESSOR: Right, and that there's a logical sequence. Both it's logical, one leads to another, and that there's a sequence. Anybody want to flesh out that idea a little bit more? With this logical sequence, can we think of an example of how somebody might interpret this logical sequence in our world, or in some sort of practical context? AUDIENCE: Steam before combustion. PROFESSOR: Yeah, like you have to go through the steam engine, before we go through combustion engine, before we move through different technologies. AUDIENCE: Bronze Age. PROFESSOR: Right. We see this all the time in simulation games, like Sim World or something, where you're building a little artificial culture, and you have to go through the Iron Age before you do this and that, and that's an idea of a logical sequence of technology. Does it have to be like that? Do you agree? Is that-- AUDIENCE: I was just going to say that it was regardless of where it was and who-- PROFESSOR: That's right. The logical sequence happens regardless of geography, regardless of background, ethnicity, climate, cultural context, economics, politics. AUDIENCE: Personally, I disagree. I may be biased because we just read the [INAUDIBLE] article. But basically this is making everything linear, which, as we found out, isn't really the best model. PROFESSOR: Right, so it does suggest a linear trajectory. That's absolutely right. I think that's a good flaw. What else makes you wonder about this logical sequence? AUDIENCE: It's very Western Eurocentric. It's about our sequence that we've gone through [INTERPOSING VOICES] sequences happen elsewhere. So the idea that you need to go through certain steps-- and like now with globalization you see in Africa they use cell phones, but they don't use landline phones. PROFESSOR: That's a great example. AUDIENCE: It's not necessarily, basically leapfrogging all these things. PROFESSOR: That's true. We have great examples of that. And of course, the idea that the logical sequence is our sequence is pretty, I think, true. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] logical, because once you look back and you see which steps have occurred, it's hard to imagine another set of steps occurring. I [INAUDIBLE] with the deterministic quality of the universe, because we assume that everything-- if you assume determinism in the universe, then obviously technological determinism holds. PROFESSOR: Right. But of course we have people that are embracing technological determinism, without really being philosophical determinists. Great, so that's Bimber. And Bimber sets this out, and that's the really important thing for us. Now that we have a good idea of technological determinism, he doesn't want to say these other things are technological determinism, but I think we can think of them as technological determinism light. They're there, they happen. So the reason why I find this concept so interesting and relevant to us is because we find aspects of technological determinism all around us in our lives, . in commentary that people offer, both in the media and in casual discourse. And I'm wondering if you guys can think of some casual ways in which people reinforce or suggest technological determinism? Casual ways people talk about technology-- AUDIENCE: Just our idea of the future. We've predetermined what future is supposed to look like in science fiction. And so now if someone wants to design a product that looks futuristic, then they have a model to work with already. Even though it hasn't happened yet. PROFESSOR: Interesting. Interesting. Are people making choices there though? Or are they-- AUDIENCE: I guess we've made a choice that's supposed to drive some type of aesthetics of our development. These are the products that people develop and have [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: I think that's-- I think there's two layers there. One is not technological determinism, that it's sort of the result of creativity, of fancy, that imagines that future. That's one part. The part that's technological deterministic about that is the idea that, that future looks a certain way and is often better, or good, or more efficient, or more Star Trek like. AUDIENCE: Do you think that you can consider a social aesthetic that's [INAUDIBLE] your norm, or would that maybe not qualify? PROFESSOR: What do you mean a social aesthetic? AUDIENCE: Like he was saying, we had this predetermined way, just because of how popular the idea of the future was, [INAUDIBLE] maybe [INAUDIBLE] the stereotypical Star Trek idea. And then you have an idea of what a spaceship looks like, even though it does not exist. Can you call that-- you can define that as a social aesthetic? Can you call that a norm for certain [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's interesting. I think-- AUDIENCE: File that under norm-based accounts? I think it is a norm. I think it is-- there's some freedom there though, right? Because we can imagine other things. So I think science fiction offers some freedom and actually some ways out of a technological deterministic approach. Let me give you an example. One way in which I think that we see technological determinism, is whenever people give agency to technologies. So remember when we are reading the Stern article, and he kept on saying the MP3 does this. The MP3 has changed the way that we listen to-- That sentence, in and of itself, I think is problematic, because it implies that the MP3 is doing something. Is the MP3 doing something? Do you think it does something? Gets up, has a nice day, forces you to listen to music at a lower cost and a lower quality? AUDIENCE: Technically we were talking about how it's not the MP3, but it's the person who developed the MP3 coding that does [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. Either the developer or the user are real agents. But this casual use of language, this attribution of agency to technologies, I think is a significant point of how these technological deterministic ideas creep into our thinking about technology. Can you think of any others? AUDIENCE: I was going to say there is something to be said though for the idea that these technologies embody, in certain ways, the ideas of people. So, the people who made the MP3, had certain ideas about how people hear and listen, and so that sort of built into the MP3. PROFESSOR: Absolutely. AUDIENCE: So in a sense, we can say the MP3 does do stuff. You play it and it plays music back, and it has properties. So in a certain sense, those properties can shape things. There isn't agency necessarily of the MP3, but they are reflective of human agency cycled back. PROFESSOR: That's right. AUDIENCE: It's a bunch of math. PROFESSOR: Yeah, and it's sort of this casual use of language that sort of overlooks the humans behind the process. And I think that it's not-- that that's important to recognize, that that process is happening. Can you think of other examples of this, where we casually sort of give technology a power that it may not really have? AUDIENCE: The nuclear bomb overturned ordinary in the 20th century. It's completely different now. All political science has changed, international relations. And so I don't know if you give the agency to the bomb itself, or to it's inventors. But it changed a lot. PROFESSOR: That's true, that's true. And it-- very casually, people say things like the Nuclear Age transformed geopolitics. But again, the question I raise is, well, was it that? Or was it the people behind it, and the culture, that led to that? And is it significant in our language if we make a distinction? AUDIENCE: At the same time, I don't know if any of the people who developed it had a choice. Because at the time, there was a competition. And so you could look at that as a deterministic factor also, that once some spark goes off and there's this idea of the nuclear bomb, the superpowers have no choice but to develop it, and have no choice but to go into the Nuclear Age. PROFESSOR: That's one of the arguments for technological determinism. Yeah, that's right AUDIENCE: Once you're in the Nuclear Age, you can't leave it. PROFESSOR: That some technologies sort of push you like this. Some would say, and I would probably say, that we still have control. That we can still make a choice, and getting to that position that we were in, was still a choice. I mean now we're trying for-- we're attempting to do nuclear disarmament. And that's a choice to take that away, whether that can work-- AUDIENCE: But what you can't take away, is the knowledge of how to build bomb. So even if everyone disarms, then should things get tense again, will people start building again? You really can never go back. PROFESSOR: Yeah that's an argument for-- AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] I think it's optimistic, in a sense, that some people theorize that you can in fact destroy knowledge by rewriting history books [INAUDIBLE] 1,000 years [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Well, and there's contemporary examples of countries doing that in explicit and inexplicit ways. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] any knowledge globally? PROFESSOR: It's hard. it's hard to prove. So I think again another sort of telltale sign for this is when people say-- talk about technology evolving. That's another use of language that raises a question for me, because technology itself in my view, I don't think actually evolves. Humans change their uses of technology, and technology changes. But to say that technology itself evolves, I think this is a problematic thing. Another common way is this idea that the technologies we have are the best. That's a very common idea. People think oh, the technologies we have are the best. Are they the best? We don't know. AUDIENCE: His whole umbrella, technological determinism, and technology evolves in this direction and the current one is the best. I think people spend a lot of money to make us all believe that particular idea. Particularly some technological tycoons out in Seattle, and maybe in Silicon Valley. There's a couple of guys I have in mind who thought it was certainly in their best interest to make you think that in order to get best access the internet, you need this best technology browser, which works with this best operating system and best platform, and it goes in this way. And thankfully, we make it. PROFESSOR: Exactly. And those ideas, I think seep into the culture and seep into the discourse. And people who don't engage in technology, tend to think that. And they have a sort of resignation that they don't play an active role in technology. That technology is just there. OK, well they buy the product, or they're sort of passive consumers of technology, and not active agents in technology. And I think this idea of technological determinism helps us remind ourselves that we are active agents. Well, it may be a little easier for you guys. But it's important that everyone realize, even those unskilled and untrained are active agents in shaping what technologies happen, and what technologies move forward. A lot of people don't see that all the time. OK, so the last case now, in terms of music technology-- in our look so far at music technologies, do we have examples? Does our look at music technology support this idea of technological determinism, or does it counter it? Can we think of some things we've seen so far? AUDIENCE: Could the development of a certain type of instrument follow a logical sequence approach? Starting at the lute, moving all the way down to the electric guitar? PROFESSOR: A determinist might say, yes, the electric guitar is the logical outcome of the [? Ude ?]. A determinist might say that. Do you think that's true? AUDIENCE: I don't know. I feel like that probably wouldn't be the case, because it's either looking at it like the development and evolution of the instrument affected the course of music history, or it's the other way around, that music history affected the evolution, if you want to call it, of the instrument. So I have to give more credit to [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Me too. AUDIENCE: Quite a bit of music technology follows competing power, which is determined by literally a law, Moore's law, so-- PROFESSOR: It's not determined by Moore's law. Moore's law is empirical, based on an estimation of what happens. It's not determined-- AUDIENCE: It is a law, though. PROFESSOR: I don't think it's a law. AUDIENCE: If you're not coming out with a better chip every 18 months, you're breaking the law. It's pretty important that you-- PROFESSOR: Is it a law? I don't think-- AUDIENCE: You get booted out of Silicon Valley, if you don't. It's a real thing. PROFESSOR: It's a economic practice. So music techno-- go ahead. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] seems very confused that they have no way of measuring how successful a theory is. I feel like what we need to be looking at is their predictive power. So if we have a theory that says technologies are going to determine what happens next, then we should be able to kind of put these building blocks together from where we are now. And say, OK, ten years down the line, here's exactly what's going to be there. And then we can measure that. This hasn't happened. These theories have been around for a long time. So I feel like the ones that claim that things are deterministic, that they should really be able to back that up. And they haven't. PROFESSOR: I agree. And that makes it very clear and simple. But what I find really interesting is that these ideas of technological determinism sort of seep into our culture, and seep into our discourse. Even though, as you point out there, there's some ways where, very clearly, it could be tested, and could be shown to not always follow. And so in many cases-- AUDIENCE: They do say-- he mentioned Robert Heilbroner in there. And Heilbroner has this thing about technological determinism that one of the reasons that you might [INAUDIBLE] or anything, is that people have predicted historically technological developments. [INTERPOSING VOICES] which is sort of a crazy idea, I think, because it's not like they printed a lot of things. And so it's sort of hard, that's [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Nostradamus is right three out of 1,000 times. AUDIENCE: People say there's going to be flying skateboards. There's all these things that people predict, and [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Right. Well, there is the issue of a sort of simultaneous discovery, where people separated in different regions come up with the same inventions at the same time. There's many examples of that, which is kind of an interesting case. But again, to music technologies. I think music technologies pose an interesting challenge to this idea of because, one, we see the role of aesthetics and cultural factors making the choices that determine what technologies are successful and how they are used. Nobody intended the disk based player of a gramophone to be used as a musical instrument for altering the playback speed. Nobody intended the components of a radio to be hacked together to build a synthesizer. Nobody intended countless other examples of repurposing-- that was one of our articles, talked about the idea of repurposing technologies. We see many examples of that in music technology. We were talking about the attraction to 8-bit technologies. We see people going back to older technologies, inferior technologies, for aesthetic reasons, not for a technological logical sequence. And I think those give us some interesting examples of deviating from the deterministic approach. AUDIENCE: Yeah, I absolutely agree. And especially-- you were saying that in order to subscribe to the deterministic view, you need to have some sort of predictive power. It enumerates that you're actually committing some kind of fallacy that's really common. Which is to say, because it did happen in this direction, you forget that there were other possible directions that it could have gone into, that were dependent on a bunch of factors you didn't even think about. I wonder how dependent rock and roll, and all of the technologies that go along with it, be it distortion pedals or different kinds of guitars and pickups, is dependant on World War II, and the baby boomer generation happening, and the rebellious kids and stuff. PROFESSOR: You mean just independent of the technologies? AUDIENCE: If World War II never happened, we'd never have distortion pedals, right? It's probably true. PROFESSOR: Well, the Scott model talks about an interconnected web. And I don't like to give agency to machines, that's just my personal opinion. If you guys want to give agency to the machines in your lives, that's good for you. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] music though? PROFESSOR: No, not at all. In fact, I've argued very strenuously for the opposite of that, and that's a case where it becomes really, really interesting. But this is, I think, a useful thing for us to think about as we move forward. Other comments? OK, let's make some noise.