just the last year the sharp projection theorem in R2 was was proven and um the proof is is fairly big. It's fairly complicated but for the last three classes um I'm going to want to circle back to that and talk about the new ideas in that proof. So it's been a while since we talked about it. So I thought we could start by by we'll start just by writing down what is the statement. Um okay so this projection theory I I like to think of it as a um geometric measure theory analog of the sum troder theorem. So I'm going to start by writing down the summary TH start by writing down summary try and there are a bunch of different versions and we have I've picked out a particular version that sort of fits into the way the proof is going to go for this sharp projection theorem. Um okay so it says the following thing. So if E is a finite subset of R2 um and then L is a set of lines or let's say it this way for every X in E we'll have L X E is a set of S lines that go through X and L uh is the union over x we don't need this. So this set of lines L there's at least s of them through every point of e. Okay. Um so then conclusion is that the number of lines is at least the minimum of a couple of options. There's the size of E time S or there's the size of E to the 12 S to the three halfves. We'll call this um option A and option B. Okay, option A. It's very simple to imagine how this could arise. I have a bunch of points I set E and for each point I have S lines through it and they're just all different from each other. So I get E * S lex. Okay, option B is more more special, more remarkable, although not not that complicated. It's an integer grid and we talked about it a couple times in the beginning of the class. Okay. So in the integer grid that some sense. So we might have a lot of lines through each point but still each line is going through many points. So the total number of lines is a lot less than E * S. And if you work it out you get this. Okay. So that's the semir trotder theorem. Um, we saw early on that it implies a sharp projection theorem for finite sets in R2. And we're going to try to do some analog for like delta balls in R2. Okay, when we talk about delta balls, it matters how they're spaced. And the spacing condition we're going to talk about is the one that Pablo introduced, the delta SC condition. So I make a definition. So uh, if um, E is a subset of R to the D Let me say that E is delta S C F. Um, okay. So, first of all, I'm going to imagine here that E is contained in a unit ball or almost unit ball. Okay. And then um if you take E and you intersect it with a smaller ball, it's basically a new ball. If you take E and you intersect it with a smaller ball and take the delta covering number of that then that should be smaller than C * little R to the S times the delta covering number of the whole set. Um so for any X and for any R which should be at least delta so that's a delta SC it's a sort of a spacing condition on the set E that says that it's not too concentrated into any small okay so here is the statement of the sharp projection theorem theorem of Orpinan Schmurkin Ren Wong from 2024. All right. So if E in R2 is a delta SC set then um every X in E will have a set of tubes T subX. This is a set of delta twos through x. Um, and sorry, E is going to be this is it's just a notation choice, but if I don't match my notes, I'll go bananas. It's a delta TC set. Uh, okay. And so for each point, there's a set of tubes through it. And this set of tubes is a delta S C set um in in S1. So let's make a picture. So we have a set E which um you may as well think of as a as a set of delta balls. So there's E. And then for each of these delta balls, it lies in a bunch of tubes. Okay. And we'll repeat for all of these other guys. Maybe this tube keeps going and goes through there and tube there. Okay. But so if this is x, those tubes there, that's TX and they point in different directions. We can think of the directions as being parameterized by S1. And they are a delta SC set in S1. Yeah. What if you multiple tubes that are in the same direction of being offset from each other that I guess delta contain the same point? How does that >> Yeah. So if you Right. So if I had this point and then I had those Oh, I see. Um yeah, we'll think of those as the same tube. Okay. Um, so the the question was, you know, if I have my delta ball, could I have two delta tubes going through it that are going in the same direction or within an angle delta of each other? And I'm going to think of those as being basically the same tube. All right. Um, all right. Then t is the union overx tx which could be smaller than the sum of them because one tube might be in tx for two different x's. And the question is uh in terms of s and t how how big does this need to be? Okay. Um cool. Okay. So then the conclusion is that the size of t is bigger than okay there's a little complicated stuff cepsilon delta to the epsilon big c to the minus order of 1 um and then there's the minimum of okay so the e * s corresponds to delta to the minus t delta to the minus s the so this is this corresponds to There's somebody that corresponds to B. DeltaUS T / 2 Delta -3t / 2 that corresponds to B. And there is a new thing delta to the minus1 minus S that corresponds to C. Well, sorry that doesn't correspond to anything. There was no C up there. I will call it C. Okay. Who So who is C? Um, so C is a new phenomenon that has to do with the fact that these tubes and balls have a thickness which we didn't have up there. So here E could just be a could be any set and then T is a random set of delta to the minus1 minus S or so tubes. And the probability that a delta tube goes through a given point is delta. So a typical point TX would would essentially be a random set of around delta to the minus s tubes and a random set there might be a couple that are close together but on the whole that would be that would be a delta s set of tubes. Okay so that's where this new option comes from. Cool. Okay. Yeah. and option B or is one of the exponents supposed to be an S fun? >> Yes, thank you. That's supposed to be an S, right? Okay, so let's put these on top of each other for a second. So the size of E corresponds to the delta to the minus T and big S corresponds to delta to the minus little S. And so so those match up and then C is something new. Okay, good. Now, I realized I forgot one hypothesis that I'm going to add and then we'll pause and you can look at these statements. Okay, so we needed one more hypothesis in our list of hypotheses, which is that this S should be bigger than one. You see, if I just had one line going through each of these points, then I could just have one line and a bunch of points on it and one is not bigger than this. Okay, so that's a special case. And there is an analogous condition here in our list of hypotheses. We need little s to be bigger than zero. This corresponds to having not just one tube through each of these points, but pretty many. Okay, so that's the statement of summary trotder and the parallel statement of this is the firstenberg set conjecture um proven just recently. So let's pause there to digest and see if there are questions or comments about the statement of this theorem. Yeah, >> I'm still having a hard time understanding what's going on in case C. Would it be possible to draw a typical example? >> Yeah, let's draw case C. Okay, so E could go anywhere and then um I'm going to draw a random set of delt of of of tubes a bunch of them. So um okay, so here I go. So I I drew these tubes or I tried to do it without thinking at all about where the points are. There was nothing clever going on. Um but uh I drew a whole lot of them and uh one over a delta fraction if if I draw a random tube the probability that goes through here is delta. So if I draw uh m o times 1 over delta random tubes, I'll have about m of them going through this point. So let's say I do that. So I have about m tubes going through this point. Now what directions will they point in? Well, they'll point in random directions. And a random direction, a random set is a is a delta SC c set where s where delta to the minus s is the number of points. So so that's that's why we have this Okay, other questions or comments? Okay, so now let's start talk about the history of work on this problem. Um, and the going through the history of work on the problem will also be an excuse to kind of recap a big section big chunks of our class. So history of work slash recap of the class. Okay. So first I'll do what I'll call classical bounds which are uh essentially due to calfman and falconer and they were sort of written up in the context of this theorem. Calfman and falconer were talking about projection theory. This is a little bit more general um but they were written up. So this kofman kman and falconer were in the 60s and 70s. a pretty long time ago and then um adapted a bit by Wolf. Okay, the first classical argument is double counting. There actually two slightly different ways of dueling double counting and I'll tell you what they give. The first way gives that if s is at least t um then um the number of tubes is at least option a and this is sharp. Okay. So let's think about what it means. So s is at least t. That means that the number of directions through each point is bigger than the number of points. So um draw a little picture to the side here. So I have a few points, not very many. And then through each tube I'm going to draw through each point I'm going to draw a bunch of tubes. And the number of directions is bigger than the number of points. So I have a picture like this. So what you see is that most of these tubes don't go through any other point besides the initial point. Uh and that gives an easy estimate for the number of tubes has to be at least the number of points times you know the number of tubes through. Okay. There is another way to do double counting and it says that in general so just if s is bigger than zero which we've been assuming then the number of tubes is at least delta to the minus 2s. Um um so let me just let me just leave this one as an exercise. We've done we've done some double counting. Okay. Um then there was a forier method um that we did in in class and the forier method showed that t was bigger than the minimum of two things. One of them is option C and the other one is delta to the 1 - S times option A. And um so this number is smaller than one. So this is smaller than A. So this isn't sharp uh unless we're so lucky that S is equal to one in which case this is the minimum of A and C. And that's that's good. So this is sharp if s is equal to one. Okay. So I won't redo this one but this is uh just the forier method that we did in the in the third week of of our class. Okay. So the classical methods are occasionally sharp but usually not um and um okay so another comment about this story that about why why why this is difficult is that some of these statements are fields dependent. They're true over R, but they're false over C. But others others uh are true in all fields. Um so if we go back to the beginning, the summary detrader theorem is true in both R and C although it's not true in all fields and is all C in some in some finite fields. Well, it's really it's false in all kinds of things. Okay, this theorem here is uh true r but it is false over and that counter examples kind of haunted all of us who have been working on this. And one feature of these classical methods is that they don't distinguish. um they work over R or C. Okay. Um okay. So to prove this theorem we have to distinguish R and C. So we'll have to do something which in some way is different from these. Um and the next phase in the history is begins with Bans projection theorem. And I it's a phase that I'll label as epsilon improvements. So for quite a while actually there really was no progress on these classical methods. These ma classical methods are from the 60s and 70s. Wolf adapted them to slightly more general setting but um but basically there was no progress for a long time. And phase two is the phase of epsilon improvements. And the dates of this phase are from around 2000 to very recently. Um, okay. Where is the Borgan projection theorem? And it implies with a little work but not that much work an improvement over the classical methods in a very particular situation. So it says if t is one and s is 12 then this number of tubes is at least delta to the minus1 minus some epsilon we're g um so if you just plug in the classical bounds up there it would give this and there's an improvement although only for a rather particular for one particular choice of the parameters. Okay. Um so that was uh in 2000 and the next improvement is a theorem of Orphin and Schmurkin from 2021. And you could think of it as a generalization of this. It gives an epsilon improvement but in not just for this special value of the parameters but for lots of values of the parameters. So they proved that if t is bigger than s uh which is bigger than zero then the number of tubes is at least delta to the minus 2s minus epsilon. So delta to the minus 2s is what you would get classically by double counting. It takes half a page and then uh after 50 years and 50 pages you can get this. All right. So in our class we said a lot about the proof of the BADN projection theorem. I don't I wouldn't actually wouldn't say that we proved every did every step every detail and um uh this one. Okay, let me say so we haven't proven this in but let me just say something about the proof. So this is based on reg projection theorem um plus a bunch of ideas. Okay. And so an emotional reaction that I had to to learning this and going through it with you is that it is it's hard work and also epsilon is really tiny. seems like you know the harder the clever we are the harder we work we keep making epsilon smaller okay so this was the second phase of the history where people were able to make epsilon improvements I could also mention other theorems not about this exact problem but but in a similar spirit so for many different problems it was possible to make an epsilon improvement um by using burgans's projection theorem and by using and developing ideas related to the ones we put there. Uh okay, so it was hard work. Epsilon was really tiny. But one positive thing about it is that it did distinguish uh R from C. So both of these theorems are false over C. So we did start to do that. Okay. Um cool. So this theorem represents a third stage in the history where we didn't just improve by an epsilon over the classical results but we improved substantially and in fact proved people proved the sharp result. This is so so I should mention this. This is sharp. This is sharp for any essence. >> Yeah. >> Is that delicac or >> Yeah, it's sharp up to this. So sharp up to the delta to the epsilon. In future I'm going to abbreviate that mess by this. we won't be at the level of detail to have all of this in. Okay. So, um so this this the story I wanted to try to tell to explore over the last three classes is how is it possible to get from these epsilon improvements to sharp theorems. That's that's our our theme for the rest of the class. Um, and if I had to say it in a couple of sentences, what happened was people found a way where you can use an epsilon improvement theorem and you can use it over and over again and sort of each time you use it, you improve a little bit the exponent in your bound until you bring the exponent up to the sharp value. Okay? Now, it's not at all obvious how to do that, and that's what we're we're going to try to explain. uh um not with all details but to to make it seem like a plausible approach that you could that you could carry. Cool. Okay. So any questions or comments before we start? Yeah. >> Does doing that process make the like C to the O one constant kind of corresponding way I guess tiny compared to the epsilon constant? >> Um yeah. So I think the question is as as we as we use our epsilon improvement theorem many times does that cause this to become remarkably bad? I think it does. Okay. I think that this is remarkably bad. Yeah. Okay. Great. So today I my first goal is I want to describe the simplest example where you can get where you can use an epsilon improvement theorem to prove a sharp theorem. And then after that if we have time I will outline the proof of the big thing. Okay. Okay. So, simplest example where epsilon improvement leads to sharp out. Okay, so this is a theorem of Beck from around 1980 which is about the incidences of points and lines. So it's in the setting of the summary troder theorem. It says if E is a subset of R2 and it's not all on a line and in fact I'll say at most half of it is on a line. So for any line L L intersect E is at most half of it. Then the conclusion is there exists some point X in E. So that uh all right so let me make a definition. So I I'll draw a picture. So this is E. Here's our set E. Here's a point X. Starting at X, I will draw all the lines that start at X and go through some other points at E. Okay. So what's that set? So I'll call it L XE. This is the set of lines. So that lines L. So that X is in L and L intersect E is not just X. So it has size at least two. Now the conclusion is there is a point in E so that the size of LXE is comparable to the size of E. This is clearly a sharp theorem because the largest possible size that this could be is the size of all right. Um let me do a proof sketch. Um and we'll so we'll see that this follows from sem ready troder. Um but we'll also see that we don't really need the sharp exponents in semi troder. We just need to have something that's an epsilon better than um uh than a than a simple bound. That's why I've erased it but than the double counting kind of bound. Okay. So here we go. So the sketchy part of my proof sketch is that I will suppose that we are in the uniform case. Namely for every x in E, I will suppose that lx of E has size around S. So it's not really the case that they would all be comparable, but I'll just explain that special case. Okay. So now um how many lines are there in total? We can do a double count to find the total number of lines. So we're going to double count pairs um x l where x is in uh e and l is in our set of lines. So our total set of lines is going to be let's do this. Okay. So how big is le? Um well we could count the number of these pairs in two ways. We could count okay look at all the points of E and each of them is in S lines or we could say look at each of these and um how many points are in each line? Well, the number of the size of uh S the size of E intersect L for a typical L and L XE would be the size of E divided by the size of L XE. Right? Because I have all the points in E. They are divided among the lines of LXE. Again, assuming it's uniform, they would all have around this size. E over L XC which is S. Okay. So this is the number of points times they're each in S lines versus the number of lines times they each have this many points. Okay. So when we solve we see that the E actually drops out and we conclude that LE is around S squ. Okay. So um our goal is to have a lower bound on on S. So we want to have a lower bound on LE and the semi trder theorem exactly gives us a lower bound on LE. So we can use it. So the semi trider theorem tells us that L is at least the minimum of S * E and S to the three * E to the 12. Okay, but this L E is is S squ. So if you compare these we can get a lower bound for S. In in this case we would have S^ squ is bigger than SE. So s is bigger than e and in this case we would have s^ squ is bigger than s^ 3 e to the 12 and with a little algebra that is again s bigger than e. Um so right. Okay. Right. Now, now I claim that we didn't need to have this exact formula here. Let me write down all that we needed to to know. So what we needed to know is just that if E is much bigger than S um then the size of L E is much bigger than S squ. So that's a feature you can read off of this formula. If E is much bigger than S, then either one of these is much bigger than S^ squ. And that's all we needed to know because we know that L E is only S squ. So by the contraositive we could see that E S is not much smaller than E S should be at least around E. Okay. So this thing that we needed to know is very similar to the Orpin and Schmurkin theorem. E is much bigger. So now let's look up at that Orpin and Schmurkin theorem says if T is bigger than S just bigger than zero. So T is measuring the size of our set E and little S corresponds to big S. So that first hypothesis is saying that the set is much bigger than the number of directions. And then the conclusion is that the number of lines is much bigger than S^ squ. that thing is this. Okay. So this matches the theorem of Orpin and Schmurkin the epsilon improvement theorem. Okay. So that suggests an idea that we could use that epsilon improvement theorem by Orpin and Schmurkin and put it into an argument like this one and prove some kind of generalization of Beck's theorem that might have a sharp conclusion even though we stuck into it just a epsilon improvement and that actually works. So I'm going to write it down now for us. Okay. So this is called the continuum or we could call it in our class the delta ball version of back theory. Okay. So this is a theorem of merkin and wong in 23 I think. All right. So we're going to translate this theorem into the language of delta SC sets. So we're going to say if E is a deltaU set, I'm going to leave out the C. Uh things will depend on C, but E is a deltaU set. Okay, so that's our set. Now I need an analog of this hypothesis that E is not too much in the line. And the analog says that E will be not too much in any thin rectangle. So we'll say if R is a row by one rectangle um then if you take E and you intersect it with R take the delta covering number of that should be kind of smaller than the total delta covering number. Okay so it should be row to the ADA smaller than constant row to the ADA is smaller than the total delta covering number. Maybe we can we can put the C back here also. So who is ADA? At the very beginning of the story, we'll say for every ADA bigger than zero. So ADA should be a positive number. Okay. So this is a not super strong condition, but it's saying that E is not heavily concentrated into a thin rectangle. Okay. And then the conclusion is um there exists an x in e s so that um the size of lxe is greater than um uh the minimum of delta to the minus u and one. So this would be and sorry not one delta to the minus one. Okay. So what's going on here? The our original theorem would say that lxe e is at least the size of e and that's the size of so that's what it's doing here. On the other hand if I had every delta tube if lxe consisted of all the delta tubes through x there would only be delta inverse of them. So it couldn't possibly be bigger than this. So we have Okay. Um cool. So that's the statement of the theorem and it is again uh sharp because as we just explained this couldn't possibly be bigger than this and it also couldn't possibly be bigger than this. Um correct. So this theorem is sharp. It's also false over C. Right? So the example over C would be that the set E could be uh R2 which is sitting in C2. And if you imagine R2, if you take any point in R2 and look at all of the lines, complex lines that um go through that point, um there aren't the the each one of them goes through many of the points of R2 and um and the number there aren't that many of them. It would violate this. Okay, so this theorem is uh in the general spirit of projection theory. um it is a sharp theorem and it distinguishes R from C and I believe it is the first such theorem in the literature. So we were trying for 20 plus years to distinguish R from C. For a long time we could only do it with epsilon improvements. But this is not just an epsilon improvement on what was known before. It's not just an epsilon improvement on what's true over over C. And it's a sharp theorem. Okay. Any questions or comments about the statement? So the problem depends on >> yeah so if you unpack this it must depend on ADA. Uh I think it is a constant depending on epsilon and ada delta to the epsilon and big c to the minus big. So it depends on it depends on aa it's conceivable that this depends on ada. I'm not sure about that. Other questions or comments? Okay. Okay. So the the idea in the first place is to imitate this proof of Beex theorem proof that converts um a uh a an epsilon improvement on some simple estimate for sem ready troder into a sharp estimate for this beck kind of thing. Um but when we try to do that we will see that there is an issue with it. Um and and when we flesh out the proof a little more, it will involve using the Orpin and Schmurkin theorem not just once but many times at many different scales. All right. So let's sketch the proof. So first plan is to imitate the proof of uh of Beck. Um okay. So let's carry that out over here. I'll put the beex proof up. All right. So attempt attempt one. All right. So let's say that lxe is a delta SC set. Now that's related to the cardality of LXE. This is a theorem about the cardality of LXE. What is the relationship? Well, it implies that the cardality of lexe is at least uh around delta to the minus s, but it could be much bigger. Okay, so an example where these would be about the same is if lxe was sort of like an s-dimensional caner set. An example where they would be very different is uh if is if LXE was very clumped. So here's a piece of S1 and maybe LXE is clumped like that. So these dots represent Lexi. So if it was if if Lex was really clumped into a much smaller interval then um S would actually have to be zero. This is not a delta SC set except for S equals Z. On the other hand, the cardality of LXC in this picture is is is large and in particular, it's much larger than delta to the minus0. Okay, so this S is some non-conentration condition and non-conentration forces our set to be pretty big. But it could also be much bigger than that if it was kind of clumped. Okay. So let's uh let's try to imitate our proof. Uh I'm going to suppose that we're in the uniform case. So all of the lxe have the same s and the same size of lx. Okay, we can do our same double counting. That part doesn't change at all. And it has it gives us L E is at least L XE^2. Okay, sorry, is approximately LXE squ. And so to get a lower bound on LXE, it suffices to get a lower bound on LE. What happens here? Um so now we can apply the uh theorem of Orpin and Schmurkin epsilon improvement which I just erased in a suboptimal use of blackboards. Um but uh what it says in this case is uh that if u if s is smaller than the minimum of u and one but bigger than zero then we get le e is at least delta the minus 2s minus epsilon. So that this would be the classical bound and then we have this. Okay. And then we're interested in lxe. That tells us that lxe is at least delta to the minus s minus epsilon. Okay, so let's take stock. If S were equal to the minimum of U and one, then LXE would be at least delta to the minus S. That would be the bound we want to prove. So in that case, we would be very happy. Okay. Now suppose S is in this range. Well, then we get this bound. This bound is a tiny bit better than this bound, but that's all. This argument didn't work so nicely as that argument because in that case there was no distinction between cardality and the value of s. In that case this was the same as this. So we would get a contradiction at this moment and we could we could conclude that actually s is the minimum of u and one. Okay. Um so we did learn something. Um you know if if lxe were kind of spread out you then you might hope that the cardality would be about delta to the minus s and in that spread out case then we could get we would follow that that s was the minimum of u and one. So we see so we see this correlary if um lxe is a delta s set and the size of lxe is around delta to the minus s then we would get that the size of lxe is greater than around the minimum of delta to the minus u and delta to the minus1 and we would be happy. But it's a big if and we don't understand yet very well what might happen if these sets were a little more clumped. Okay. Cool. All right. So um let me put up a summary of what we've learned so far. So lama if s is bigger than zero and a typical lxe is delta sc. Um then size of typical lxe is at least delta to the minus s minus epsilon or sorry yeah if 0 is less than s is less than the minimum of okay so the proof of this theorem we don't have it yet we have this lema um the proof of this theorem is by bootstrapping this lema using it many times at different scales and locations. So we are effectively using the epsilon improvement many times not just once and at many scales. about it. All right. So, let's do a sketch of this bootstrap iteration. Okay. Um so we're going to suppose that lxe first of all is uniform and also that it is delta sc for some s which is bigger than zero. It's the start of our bootstrap. So because it's uniform and it's a delta SC set then it follows that if you take its sort of its row neighborhood then this is a row SC set for every row. And now we can apply our lema. And the lema tells us that the cardality of lxe the row covering number of lxe is at least row to the minus s minus epsilon. So row to the minus s is what we get just from being a row sc set. But actually has to be a little bit bigger than that by our lema. And that's true for every row. And now since since we have a uniform set and since these row covering numbers are a little bit bigger than expected tells us that lxe is a delta s plus epsilon c set. Yeah, actually I should here I needed to put 0 is less than s is less than the minimum of e1. We used all of these are hypotheses of our lema. So we use them here. Okay. Now this is our starting hypothesis. So now we can iterate. So s keeps getting bigger and bigger as long as it's smaller than the minimum of u and one. And so it will approach the minimum of u and one and then we're happy. Okay. So unlike in the proof of beex theorem we had to use this lama many times. We used it at many different scales and also we had to use it over and over again and each time we used it we improved this exponent a little bit until the exponent approached the exponent that we had in the classical vest. And so this is sort of typical of this new paradigm that you can take an epsilon improvement result and use it over and over again to keep epsilon improving something until the thing reaches the sharp value. Okay. Now you might be wondering how we started this argument. We needed to start with an S that was bigger than zero. And not every set is a delta SC c set for any s. Um so to start the argument we observe um that we had this non-conentration in rectangles condition. on concentration and rectangles condition here that our set is not too much in any rectangle. We haven't mentioned that hypothesis yet. We use it here to get started. So to start with non-conentration in rectangles uh easily implies that lxe is a delta ad set. Um because so if E looks like so there's not too much of E in any rectangle is our X. Therefore there aren't too many of these rectangles too much. You can't have if you had a lot of lxe in a small angular range it would mean you had a lot of E in a small rectangle. And that says this doesn't happen. Okay cool. So now we have sketched the proof of the continuum beex theorem the first sharp theorem in projection theory distinguishing R from C. So let's take a take a couple minutes to digest see if you have questions or comments. Yeah. >> On the uh I guess kind of the second step of proof would be Lexe row is that the intersection of LXE with a kind of row radius ball or >> sorry. Um so lxe e row is the row neighborhood of lx. Actually you can also you can also erase the row. Maybe that's the best thing to do. Okay. So lxe is a delta SC set and if it's uniform it's also a row SC set for all the bigger rows for row delta >> for yeah for all row. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, so recap. So, we don't so we don't Yeah. We don't we don't need to mention the right. So, so say it again. So, LXE is is uniform set. If it's delta SC, then it's also row SC for all the bigger rows. And so, then we get these covering numbers and then get okay. Okay. So let me share a personal reaction. So when this paper came out first of all I was very impressed because it was you know I had been wondering about this for many years and it's the first sharp projection type theorem which distinguishes R from C. But I also felt kind of unsure whether this would open the door to prove sharp results for things like the first set problem. Uh maybe it's a sharp result but maybe it's about a kind of thing that somehow is more approachable. It was well known classically that a epsilon improvement of something implied a sharp version of the class of the incidence geometry something here and that's just not the case for semary trotder. Sem ready trotder is not known to follow from an epsilon improvement on on some classical thing. Um and so it wasn't clear to me if this would open the door to prove sharp theorems about all the things we most cared about. All right. Um so in the rest of this class what I want to do is to uh give a give a outline of the proof of the of the of the first set conjecture and the different ingredients that go into it of which this will turn out to be an important one. Okay, cool. So the the first thing to say is that this proof breaks into cases according to the way the the set E is spaced that this del this delta TC set that definition on the one hand it's a good definition but under the umbrella of delta TC sets there are several diff quite different ways that the set E could be spaced and we have to pay attention to them and we have to treat them in different ways. All right. So, let's explain that. So, we're going to split into cases according to how E is spaced. All right. So first of all, let's assume that E is uniform. And I'll now I mentioned the word uniform above, but now I'll remember recall exactly what is uniform. Okay. So first of all, our delta is going to be capital delta to the M where M is a large number. And uniform means that for every J going from one up to M and for every Q which is a delta to the J cub. Then when I take my set and I intersect it with Q and I cover it with cubes or balls at the next smaller scale delta to the J + one. Um that is is around RJ. So um so I'll draw some pictures in a moment. The smallest this RJ could be is one and the biggest it could be is big delta to the minus2. Oh actually yeah let me say a little bit more. So the delta covering number of v that's going to be the product j = 1 to m of rj. Um and another thing we we can say is if I if I were to take the product J equals 1 to capital J of RJ that would be the covering number of E at scale delta to the capital J and that should be so um let's say so so if E is a deltat TC Then this should be at least 1 / C um delta J to the minus. So that gives some information about these products and being a delta TC set is equivalent to this information about these products. And so there are many ways that they could look. Okay, let me put up a couple of examples which also should hopefully clarify everything on this board and then we pause for questions. All right. Okay. So the first example that I want to put up is that all the RJs are the same. So RJ is delta to the minus T for every J. Okay. And then you'll see that this this will be okay. Um all right. And I'd like to visualize this in two ways. So the first way I'd like to visualize is as a tree. Um so oh in my visualization I picked that delta is four. Delt no delta is uh 16. Um and no sorry del sorry delta is one pointer and we and t is going to be one. Okay. So in in my visualization delta to the minus one is going to be four. I'm going to have tree. So that be r1 guys coming out of it. And then each of these have r2 which is also four uh uh branches coming out. I won't draw that but they're all the same. Okay. Now let's do the next stage of our visualization. We started with a square. and we cut it into smaller squares of side length delta. So that looked like this. This is stage one and r sub one is four. So we took four. So maybe this one. Okay. Stage two. inside of each of those four squares. I took each of them and I cut them into a 4x4 grid of smaller squares. And I took four of them. So I'll do the cutting carefully here. Right. So maybe I took those four and then down here I took four and over here I took four and over here I took four. So our set looks something like that at stage two in a new All right. So this is the first example. It's called the ad regular example. Alforce devided regular. Alforce and Devid are two people who worked on stuff that is related to this. And the word regular I think here refers to the fact that all the scales are the same as each other. Okay. Now let me show you an opposite extreme. Okay. So this one is called the well spaced example. So in the well spaced example, RJ is as big as it could be its maximum value for some range of J and then RJ is one for larger of J. Okay. So as a picture it would look like this. So we're going to visualize with uh big J is one, big F is two like over there. So we'll have two stages. And so our first stage is that R1 is 16. Draw it off. And then R2 is one. So from each uh point here, we have just one going down. So the tree looks like this instead of like that. A lot of branching at the beginning and then no branching after that. Okay. What does it mean? Our set looks like in space. Well, first stage one, I take my square and I break it into 16 squares of side length a quarter. And at stage one, I select all 16 of them. So the picture looks like this. Okay, now at stage two. So I have cut my square into 16 squares of side length a quarter and I look inside each one of them. I cut that into 16 squares a smaller size and I pick one of them and I do that in all in all the ones I selected at stage one which is all of them. So this set looks like this. Okay, so this is called the well spaced set. So I could fix a t. I can make a delta t well spaced. I can fix t and delta. I can make a delta t wellspace set or I can make a delta t alph4's regular set. And they look rather different from each other. And there's also a gray area in between. Um so this one is distinguished by saying that the points are the most separated. So if these points were like electrons that were sitting in this ball and they repel each other, they would come to a position that's sort of like this. It would be well spaced. And this one is distinguished by being this is the most clumped which is allowed for a delta t set. So this isn't the most clumped possible set. I could take these delta balls. I could smoosh them all there. That would be more clumped. But if it's a delta t set, it's not allowed to do that. And this is the most clumped that it could be. subject to the definition of a delta t sub. Okay, cool. So, so there's a range of spacing conditions um and and this hopefully gives a sample of Yeah. >> Is there some sort of like energy condition or kind of quantitative measure of the clumping that would kind of allow you to separate the two cases because they're both delta SC, >> right? So the question is there is there a quantitative measure of clumping or concentrating or spacing that would allow us to distinguish them? Um I I think the nicest way to do that is this list of RJS or perhaps this list of uh this list of these numbers here. Yeah. So it's not just a single number, but it is quantitative. And if you're willing to have, you know, like a a list of numbers describing your set, then it does quite a good job. Um, it's really a modern innovation to focus on that. In in previous times, people wanted to describe the spacing of their set with one number, which would be like the dimension of the set or the energy or something. Um, and when they were describing with just one number, then it was lumping together these two rather different behaviors. And it turns out to be important to unlump them um for to prove this theorem at least with the proof that we have. Okay, good. Uh, okay. So now I can write down the outline of the proof. Okay, so here is the outline of the proof of the main theorem or let me say of the first conjecture first. so first main ingredient is a theorem of Borpin and a Schwarin from 24 and they proved that the Fenberg conjecture holds in the ad regular case. Okay, so this is based on it builds on the stuff builds on the stuff we talked about today. So it builds on the continuum bec theorem of OSW which in turn built on the epsilon improvement of uh or OS which in turn built on the BAN projection theorem. All right, it's not at all obvious given the Beck theorem, just an ingredient. Um, and um, so there also some great ideas in that that we'll talk about next time. But also it involves some special structure of the AD regular case. Okay, we'll talk about that a lot uh on Thursday. All right, the second ingredient is a theorem of Guth Solomon Wong. So I was involved a little bit. This a slightly older theorem. It's from 2019 and we proved that the first invert conjecture holds in the well spaced case. Okay. And it's based on the forier method. Okay, this is much less difficult than this. It's the 4A method that we explored for a while with a little bit of extra something something. How do you take advantage of being really well spaced instead of just ad regular okay good. All right. So now um when I presented these two possibilities it the way I had thought about them is that these are just two opposite ends of a whole gray spectrum. And so if you have a method that works in one end and you have a method that works on the other end, I guess you might hope to have a general thing that sort of combines them both and and works for everything. But um but there's still all this stuff in the middle. Um and it turns out I think this is surprising and important in its own right that the proof of the theorem actually reduces to just those two cases or or um so the third ingredient is a multiscale argument which shows that the first conjecture actually reduces to the ad regular case and the what they call the semi wellspaced case. So this is a small generalization of this case that can be handled by more or less the same methods using for analysis. Okay. Um cool. Okay. So in in each of these I think there is something worth talking about and worth worth remembering an idea that could be useful in other in other pro certainly in other problems in this field and maybe in other parts of math. Uh we have two more classes so I'll vigil and wiggle and so my goal is in the two classes to say something substantial about each of these three ideas which fit together to prove the first and third conjecture. Okay, good. Any question la last questions or comments? >> Mhm. >> Within kind of each of these individual cases like how kind of much variation is there in the structure of the sets? Like I guess it's not going to be kind of rearranging kind of certain points within kind of one of the boxes does a lot or does a little Yeah. Okay. So the question is we've t so we've taken all the delta t sets we have then divided them according to their branching function and one extreme is the ad regular and one extreme is the wellspaced and then the question is if you look among different sets with the same branching function like among different ad regular sets how different are they from each other? Um well uh I will try to sort of answer that by drawing a second ad regular set in blue that we can compare to the one in white. So I should pick four uh big squares and in each of them I'll draw four dots. Um um I would say that the sort of spacing feel of these dots is is the same in all the examples that are ad regular. Um on the other hand actually let me draw another example. So this this would be here's another example. So something else is a little different about this example. Um and so yeah, so there are some more delicate things that could be different about the different ad regular examples. Even though so so what's the same about them is you give me a radius your favorite radius you stick down a ball of that radius and count how many points are in there that will be the same for any a dregular set but there are delicate things actually another very important delicate thing that would be different is so for let's now think about the well spaced set an example of a well spaced set is an integer grid that has some special properties. It has like translation symmetry and stuff like that. A typical well spaced set will still have one point in each of these boxes, but it won't have additive structure. It won't have translation symmetry. It won't have and it won't have uh you know very many lines that go through many points. So those kinds of things are different among the different sets with the same spacing condition. Uh okay. Well, let's stop there for today and we'll talk more about these things on our last two classes.