Well, today we're going to talk about volatility modeling. And this uh topic in finance is one that um it has really interested me for decades. Um and there are a lot of subtle details involved with understanding volatility, how to measure it, how to forecast it. And we've had some uh talks already with the group u projects about uh dealing with volatility estimation and uh measuring volatility in particular implied volatility. Uh today we'll focus more on uh realized volatility and modeling that. And so to begin um here's just an overview of different ways one might define volatility. And it's basic definition is the annualized standard deviation of the change in price or value of a financial security. And of course this this concept is really important for measuring risk and evaluating the uh value of options on underlying assets. Yep. >> What's it mean by randomized? >> Um what that means? Okay. Suppose suppose we have a sigma day that's equal to um say 0.01 percent. So 1% variability per day. If we wanted to measure volatility on an annualized scale, then we could consider possibly the square root of 252 times sigma day. So it's a matter of scaling the volatility up to an annual horizon. And the value of that rescaling is that we can talk about volatilities over different maturities and they're measured on the same scale. Um and uh with different estimation uh approaches. There's historical sample volatility measures which um don't require really any probability models with them. Then we have geometric brownie in motion. That's a very familiar model to everyone here. Um and we can consider extensions of that to the pson jump diffusion model. A group delivered a nice lecture on lecture note on the pson jump diffusions. And then following these cases are cases where volatility might have some time dynamics in them. Um with these uh geometric brownian motion and pan jump diffusion models, we think of volatility being some constant which is the same from one period to the next. But it turns out that there can be time dependence in volatility. And so there are ARCH and GARCH models which stand for auto reggressive conditional heteroscadastic models. And then the GARCH are generalized versions of those. And then there are stochcastic volatility models as well. Um I know uh let's see the H uh option pricing model uses a stochcastic volatility uh term in its in its formulation. So uh we have those kinds of extensions and then finally there's implied volatility from options and derivatives. So let's just look at computing volatility from an historical series of actual prices. Um if we have prices PT then we can define the log returns by looking at the ratio of price prices from one day to the next or one period to the next and taking the logarithm of that. Um this is a useful way of measuring returns as an alternative to simply the percentage change in value using the log scale or the log return. If we look at the cumulative change over successive periods with log returns they just add. um whereas if we were using percentage returns we'd have to uh basically multiply factors together representing that. Now um in modeling volatility uh we consider models that correspond to stationary processes for our returns. So the log returns of price series are often uh consistent w via tests with a stationary distribution of returns and under the assumption of covariant stationerity we can define uh sigma to be the variance of or the standard deviation of of those returns. Now in this notation here, this sigma for the volatility would be corresponding to a frequency of observation that's daily or weekly or monthly. And we'd have sample estimates given by the square root of the uh sample variance where we traditionally use the estimator for variance which is an unbiased estimate of the variance. So that factor divisor two t minus one is included there. And then if we want to annualize these values, it's common practice just to treat these returns as independent or uncorrelated over time. So that the variance of a sum is the sum of the variances. So there are roughly 252 days in a year. So we multiply by the square of 252 for daily uh returns. For weekly returns we do the roo 52 time sigma hat and roo2 for monthly. Now um when measuring uh historical volatility um we can think of a simple historical average sort of since the beginning of our time series. Um so this historical average would use all available data. It's reasonable to think that volatility isn't necessarily stable over the entire time range of a price series. And so we could consider just using the last m values. So take a rolling average of the last m uh values of this sigma hat^ 2 t minus j. Now um if we uh define sigma hat squared t to just be a single day volatility that could be like the square of the daily return on a given day. Now using equal weighted values over a window of length m might be improved upon by using an exponential moving average. And so exponential moving averages are averages where we take a weighted average of the previous estimate of volatility and the current estimate of volatility using the time the time t value. So this one minus beta beta weight allows us to uh weight the past versus the present um in an exponential way. And with this formula it's recursive over t and so it can actually apply across an entire range of historical data. um an alternative to just the regular exponential moving averages and exponential weighted moving average where we only go back maybe m periods but we decrease the weights on past volatility estimates um according to the power of beta j. So beta j is uh or beta is sort of a decay factor in estimating volatilities. The uh so okay additionally one could consider uh regression models with these volatility uh sigma hats indexed by t. Um and depending on uh the relationship of volatility to the past, you know, we might you want use more data to increase precision of estimators, but use data closer to time t when we believe that the volatility may be changing over time. And what's neat about these uh estimation methods is that we can evaluate say the exponential moving average estimates of volatility over different assets and different asset classes. And uh this approach was applied in risk metrics. Um here there's a web link to the risk metrics technical document. I think I have it listed here. Um so actually this uh riskmetrics was um created by JP Morgan back in the 1990s. Coincidentally, when I was at the Sloan School teaching statistics and financial modeling, I was part of the financial services research center that was sponsored by uh JP Morgan and other groups when this risk metrics document was um was created. And if we look at um let's see there's a section here of risk metrics um decay factors for volatility. Basically for different countries, one can use the exponential moving average of uh asset returns for foreign exchange uh 10year zero prices, equity indices and other assets. And what's interesting to see is that the decay factor is generally well above 0.9. It's more like 0 n5 which suggests that volatility is changing slowly over time. And the way they chose these decay factors was to look at how predictive they were with mean squared error of volatility. So these are reasonable uh estimates of volatility and an important aspect of these measures is having benchmark values that people can agree upon. So it we're not arguing that these are the best estimators, but they're a simple objective estimator that can be applied. And when we communicate about these other people understand what we're measuring. So those are important. Now um let's see with geometric brownie in motion turning now to having a stochcastic process model for the prices. Um if we have this stochastic differential equation the geometric brownie motion one um we see that and it's totally obvious but if we divide both sides by s of t we get mud dt plus um sigma d s of t or d sigma dw of t where w of t is a uh standard brownie in motion. So by looking at essentially the percentage change on an infiniteesmal level u we basically have a linear trend that's deterministic and then a random walk with brownie in motion steps on that scale. And with this geometric brownie in motion, we have um basically independent increments with normally distributed increments on this uh log scale for the brownie motion. And with our uh homework exercise this past week, we actually dealt with um estimating the drift parameter and the volatility parameter in geometric brownie and motion. And so if our increments of time are unit increments, then we can estimate a drift term mu star with the average log return. And we can estimate the period volatility or period variance uh with the the sample variance using n instead of n minus one. Um now these essentially are correspond to maximum likelihood estimates of these parameters and uh what's important to note here is that um the drift term mu star per period um is actually equal to the mu of the geometric brownian motion minus the square of the volatility term divided by two. And so what's important is that when we apply this stochastic differential equation um there basically comes a an extra term in the drift that's due to the squared variation in the process. So um in working with these stochastic differential equations, it's important not to just look at first order terms but to look at second order terms in your tailaylor series approximation. And that's how that mu star gets gets in there to be different from mu. Now um an interesting uh exercise which hopefully was of interest to people who worked on that last week. Um if we vary the increments delta J over which we observe this price process then we can talk about how accurate or how precise are our estimates of mu star and sigma squared. And it turns out that if the delta j the increments between observations varies then our estimate of mu star is always the same. It corresponds to just the cumulative return over the entire period divided by the length of the period. So it's the average rate of return per period. Interestingly, if we increase the number of increments, then our precision on the variance gets more and more precise and uh the variability of that actually goes down uh with a factor of n. So that was a homework exercise that I think is is an important one uh to realize. Now, a really interesting extension of sort of maximum likelihood estimation with normally distributed increments coming from the Brownian motion process is looking at the problem of using more information than just the close to close prices. And so what we want to do is introduce you to the Garmin class estimator. And let me just turn to the Garmin class paper. Um these papers are distributed in canvas in the volatility notes section. But um if we think of a period of time with one day going from yesterday's close to today's open to today's close. Then in thinking about measuring volatility using the difference between today's close and yesterday's close. That can be very useful. But it's missing out on other information that we may have access to, such as what's the opening price today, what's the low value today, what's the high value today, and how can we use that extra information to have more precise estimates of volatility. Um anecdotally, uh when I was studying for a doctorate in statistics at Berkeley, um I was a research assistant to Michael class and I was getting interested in non-statistics topics like finance and so I took a course from Mark Garmin who co-wrote this co-wrote this paper. So it's a rather interesting uh to have that had that exposure actually. It was a very inspiring set of uh classes that I took which uh motivated my I guess lifelong interest in financial modeling. So let's take a look at some notation. very simply will think of just a single period like one day and refer to the closing price on day J, opening price on day J, the high and low on day J as well. Importantly, the notation here includes this well includes the time points, but it also includes the parameter f which is uh the period the length of time that the market is closed on a given day. So the time between the close and open of the next day. Um so we have this notation and if we consider just focusing on single periods and in this case the first one um if we look at the change in closing values. Now perhaps it makes sense to think of these on the log scale of the prices. Um the uh close to close squared return um basically will have uh mean sigma squared and variance equal to 2 sigma to the 4th. Now this corresponds to the theory of normal random variables for returns which are comes from the brownie in motion and the uh expected squared value uh is well actually we can think of maybe the mean return being zero or being subtracted from all the returns. Um but the variance of this sigma knot hat squared is the variance of a ki squared random variable with one degree of freedom. And so in probability classes we learned that a kai squared random variable has expectation equal to the degrees of freedom. And if it's a scaled kai squared it's the the scale factor sigma squ times that. And the variance of a kai squared is equal to twice the degrees of freedom. So that's where that formula comes from. Now if we look at the closed to open squared return, the same arguments lead to this sigma 1 hat squared. looking at the squared return from close to open uh normalized by the length of the period between the close and open. Um this will also have expectation equal to sigma squared and its variance will also be 2 sigma to the 4th. So if the model applies throughout u the time periods you know of the market being open as well as the market being closed then these formulas u apply. Now we could also do the open to close squared return and again get if we normalize the squared change in price or log price uh if we normalize that by the length of the period 1 minus f then we get the same properties of the moments for these estimates of sigma squ. So all of these have estimate or have expectation equal to sigma squar and all of them have the same degree of variation. Well the second and the indexed one and two cases are estimates that use different time periods different increments disjoint increments of the process. And so these have to be independent if our Brownian motion model um applies. And so if we simply take the weighted average of these or the simple average then the expectation is unchanged and the variance is equal to basically a half squared times the sum of the variances and that equals actually sigma to the 4th. So we're able to get a more precise estimate of the volatility using these two increments separately. And so it's common in uh statistical theory of estimators to talk about the efficiency of one estimator versus another. And so if we compare um this sigma star we can divide its variance into the variance of sigma kn squared and get a factor of two. So um we basically have uh let's see have I got that correct right we basically have have twice the efficiency. um in this case. So we're sort of thinking of inverse relationships of the variance. Now um let's see Parkinson uh came up with uh considering the high and low values over a period and showed that this estimate sigma hat 3 squared um is an unbiased estimate of sigma squared when f is equal to zero. and has efficiency equal to 5.2. So this high and low data really has a lot of information in it compared with just the close to close returns. we our precision with estimating sigma squared basically can increase by a factor of five with using the high and low values instead of the close to close. Um and uh let's see. I just posted today the problem set due next week. Um where there's an article by Parkinson discussing issues of high and low um or high or extreme value estimates of the variance um which I think it'll be interesting to read. I think it's somewhat fun to read the sort of classic papers in these areas especially because what the older they are the easier they are to read I think although sometimes that's not totally true. Anyway, what Garmin and class did was um they considered alternatives which included the high low uh volatility estimate and a simple average or weighted by a uh and one minus a of this high low estimate of Parkinson and the sigma one which is the uh let's see let's go back and the sigma one which is the open open to close um value um this has an even higher efficiency of 6.2 two and a rather striking result of their paper is they were able to derive the best analytic scale invariant estimator. So depending on whether you like mathematics or not, you may like this paper or not. But it's really interesting to see how a property of finding a scale invariant estimator that is best among the class of such estimators. Um that's actually derived by Garmin and class. So let me just uh sort of highlight how this section five in their paper talks about best analytic scale and variant estimators. And you may be able to see from the derivation here that their arguments just are dealing with some quadratic forms and solving for properties minimizing these quadratic forms. And so it's it's rather neat that they're able to uh achieve this result. Yeah. >> Why is it necessary? Because that's just commenting about the comparative, right? >> Right. Well, well, with a higher efficient uh estimator, you can have as precise an estimator with a smaller or shorter time series. So instead of using say 20 days close to close, you could use a week of data and have estimators that are comparably precise. extra assumptions that complicate things. And in many of these developments, there there are simplifying assumptions like um the mean is zero. But um but if you were trying to model time varying volatility, then rather than looking at say close to close volatility and how that changes over time, if you use these other estimators, um the garment class for example, um you could maybe use a much shorter time period and be able to track or model changes in volatility over time with that. Okay. Well, let's see. Um, so then finally, there's this composite estimator which uh has efficiency 8.4. Um, and finally, there are a number of extensions of the Garmin class that are listed here. And um the one that is actually recommended these days is actually this Yang Jiang uh model which has a drift independent volatility estimation based on the high low close. So the fact that it's drift independent deals with that assumption that was just just mentioned. Now um let's see there's a case study uh of using R to calculate these different volatility estimates and uh let's see here. So here's the uh case study which um goes through calculating different measures of volatility using close to close Parkinson's all the way down to Yang and Jang in section 1.6 six and then comparing those for the S&P 500 index and we'll go through these in a moment but following just looking at these individually um we consider time series modeling of these different volatility statistics. Um and so in terms of understanding realized volatility, a useful um analysis is to be able to predict how our realized volatility is going to change into the future. Um so there may be some predictability there and what we'll see is that in the time series analysis of these volatilities uh time series models such as auto reggressive integrated moving average models can be applied and can be very useful and in particular um there's a role to be played with seasonal ARMA models. So um let's take a look at that. Um and just as a preview um let's see one of the problems in uh the next problem set is to look at this same analys set of analyses for the S&P 500. look at the same analyses for uh the stock ARK which is Kathy Wood's ETF and uh just see how different the results are. Um and uh what's nice is that the R markdown files that create this case study can be applied to any other stocks you want to analyze if you so choose. Uh for the problem set, I posted the two versions of this study for S&P 500 and ARK. So you don't need to do R at all. But if you set up a posit cloud account for with our studio cloud, you should be able to just upload the file, the R markdown file, and rerun the programs and do so with another stock if you want. So choose. So so in this note, the first section just goes through and looks at the S&P 500 index. It actually is going through a couple of days ago. Um it's a good time to be have an equity exposure. Um and if we look at close to close volatility, um this is a graph of the 21-day variance scaled up to an annualized basis by multiplying by root 252. And what's important is to see that volatility generally is well below 25%. Often it's sort of around like 12 to 15% when it's low. Uh but it does have spikes and uh during COVID there was the huge spike up. Um and uh more recently there was uh some elevated volatility uh that uh suggests that volatility is not constant. Um so anyway this is the close to close volatility. If we look at the high low volatility of Parkinson then we just are averaging the log of the ratio of the high to low and scaling it up and so we get this plot which is very very similar. Um, in principle, this estimator is more precise, at least if if our underlying sort of brownie emotion model or geometric brownie emotion model is is true. Um, but it gives us different values and then the Garmin class model is here. So what's what's useful just in this case study is partly just seeing what the formulas are for the volatility estimates and then being able to compare those and then finally this uh Yang Jiang model is a extension of Garmin class and as it says here this is currently the preferred version uh of volatility estimates. Now in looking at these different volatility estimates um we can uh create a panel series of all the volatility measures. This sort of shows not surprisingly there's peaks at the same times with all of these. Um what's more interesting is to look how they move simultaneously. And if you look at too much data, it's hard to see exactly what's going on. So there's a graph here of looking at just uh the last year, almost two years of data and seeing how these different volatility estimates vary. So what this highlights is how a choice of volatility measure matters. there can be significant differences between them. And what would you anticipate is sort of a good property of a volatility estimator? That's a very general question, but um intuitively what would make one estimator better than another? And there's no right or wrong answer to this, but I think it's useful to think about what you would like to have in an estimator and whether these estimators might be consistent with that or not. any any thoughts? Well, one of the problems, I guess I'll call it a problem, uh, with the close to close estimate is that if you have a rolling window of close to close variance estimates, then if you have a spike in returns, positive or negative, that spike is going to remain in that window until it falls off. And so there can be elevated volatilities due to from in the close to close series um volatility series that may uh not be as persistent with the other estimators. So when there are spikes in volatility, often that those spikes occur when there's some great uncertainty in the market that gets resolved and the volatility often drops a fair amount after that. And so, um, I would think that those volatility estimates that basically drop faster following the spikes could be better. Um, and uh, certainly if we're trying to use these volatility estimates to predict future realized volatility, that property could be useful. Um now what's interesting in section two of this case study is to just consider some really really basic time series modeling of the different volatility measures. So the so what we are modeling is different volatility measures over a 21-day period that's rolling through our time series. And so one of the most basic forecasting models there is is a model called the naive model. And with a naive model, we have a time series yt and we basically have that um y t is equal to yt minus one. And if we think of yt is equal to y t plus an error term then our errors are equal to yt minus yhat t which is equal to yt minus yt minus one. And this specification corresponds to a random walk model. So there's basically a random walk model for YT and the random walk model is consistent with sort of efficient markets where our best estimate of what's going to happen is what's h where things are now. So um so this naive model uh basically has an autocorrelation function which has a very high or the our data uh has a high first order autocorrelation. And if we calculate first differences which are the residuals from this model then we get this residual diagnostic information the time series of residuals um the autocorrelation function of the residuals and the histogram of residuals. Now, would you say that these residuals are consistent with white noise that may be Gaussian or normal? I see some going and others going um well one thing that's important is that the autocorrelation function um if the residuals are consistent with white noise there should be no significant autocorrelation at any lag and so there are some spikes of autocorrelation that break beyond the critical levels And so those are suggesting that this is not a white noise. And if we look at the distribution of the residuals, they're unimodal, but they certainly aren't well described by a normal distribution. Um so let's see the uh so we can sort of plot forecasts of this uh naive method and then um let's see we can also fit an ARMA model to this close to close volatility series and with the ARMA model. Um actually there's this package in R called um FPPP2 and this was created by the authors of a book forecasting principles and practice that's in the references to this. They have an automated ARMA modeling function which will take an input a time series as output what is judged to be a decent auto regressive integrative moving average model. And so this ARMA 310 um corresponds to ARMA P = 3, D = 1 and Q = Z where P is the order of the auto regression, D is the order of differencing. Yes. How is it random? Is it um like AIC or BIC or something? >> Yes, it it uses um a criterion that's called the corrected AI information criterion. And so there's this AIC which is equal to the corrected AIC. And the corrected AIC is due to the fact that with shorter series there's a bias in the AIC that is systematic and so this corrects for that bias. Um now when we do this um with any sort of fitted model what's really important to check is how our estimated coefficients compare with their standard errors. When the signal estimate to noise standard error ratio is bigger than two. We have some confidence that that's an important factor in the in the model. And in this case, the AR3 is almost three uh has a signal to noise ratio of almost three and the AR2 has a ratio that's one and a half. Now um if we go through let's see this second section sort of does the same analysis of the the Yang Xang volatility estimate. And I guess importantly here um we have an ARMA model now uh for this Yang Jiang model which is an ARMA 111 and the coefficient estimates are many multiples of the standard error. So these are highly significant. And this um is our residual analysis check which suggests that for the most part the residuals are consistent with white noise. The autocorrelations tend to be close to zero. However, there's this large spike at 21. And here are the residuals. Now, why do you think there's a large spike at 21? Well, we're computing rolling statistics and so the window is of length 21. So this corresponds to cases entering and exiting the windows. And so interestingly we can accommodate that by fitting a seasonal arma model. And so with the seasonal ARMA model, I'll sort of jump to the uh conclusion here at the very end which is um for the Yang Jiang volatility estimator. Um this is its simple autocorrelation function before the model. And then when we fit the seasonal ARMA model automatically, it gives us a 213 and a 2011. And let's see when we introduced you to time series models before um let's see if we have an ARMA model which is P DQ um we basically have 1 minus V1 V - V2 B ^ 2 minus V P B to the P power time YT turns out to be equal to 1 minus theta 1 B minus theta 2 B^ 2 minus theta or sorry 1 plus here plus theta Q B to the Q power times our error term. So we have this kind of mathematical equation for an ARMA model um where we assume that the epsilon t series is white noise which means that it's expectation is always zero and the uh variances are constant and the correlation between any different epsilons is equal to zero if t is not equal to t prime. Um the power of auto reggressive integrated moving average models is that these sort of auto reggressive terms as well as moving average terms can account for all of the correlations autocorrelations in the original series. and our residuals which are estimates of this error sequence should be consistent with white noise. Now what ends up happening with um with uh actually I should maybe put here yt prime where yt prime is maybe equal to 1 minus b to the power d yt. So if we have an ordered D model, we take the deth order difference and put that into an ARMA model. And if we have a seasonal ARMA model, we actually add a capital P, capital Q, capital D, capital Q. And here we have sort of the frequency of the data. And in this example I considered a 21 period frequency just to correspond to um the window size. And what this model does is it sort of has another polomial of So this is B to the 2 * 21. So we basically end up having um backshift operator polomials that work with the seasonal frequencies of the time series. And so um so uh okay so this is a a polomial of order Q of order P in B to the 12th sorry B to the 21 and then we would also multiply this on this side perhaps by a one minus capital theta 1 B 21 or plus theta 2 B to the 21^ 2 so times 2 and so so this kind of notation leads us to these coefficient estimates. So there's this sort of simple order auto reggressive terms and moving average terms. Order two auto reggressive order three moving average. But then for the seasonal auto reggressive terms we have these terms here. And for the seasonal moving average we have uh the last term here. And what's generally important in fitting models is when you consider the last terms to enter into a model such as in this case the seasonal moving average term it is its estimate is many multiples of its standard error. So that's a a very important factor in the model. Um and let's see just as uh let's see as an anecdote um let me just say uh let's see if we take a series yt and we look at a seasonal difference operator and a first order difference operator. Um this turns out to be equal to the first difference operator multiplying the seasonal difference operator and it equals basically 1 - b + b to the uh sorry minus b 21 + b 22 times yt. And so with seasonal differences in auto reggressive moving averages whether we take first differences nonseasonally and then seasonal subsequently or reverse the order we end up getting the same transformation of the data. And so um what's well actually with economic time series where we have a seasonal frequency of say months then the uh basically the seasonal differences correspond to year-over-year changes whereas the simple uh differences um are just uh period by period differences. Anyway, with this final uh example here, this is sort of how the residual analysis looks. And it actually um does yield residuals that do look a lot like white noise, although there is still this sort of persistent spike just beyond the sort of window width for the computation. But the uh distribution of the residuals looks more Gaussian perhaps than well much more than than the cases before. So um with that um let's see in in analyzing different time series models there are these accuracy statistics that can be computed for any forecasting model. And so you're probably familiar with root mean squared error or mean squared error. Um but we also have the map which is the mean absolute percent error. And I actually find that pretty useful uh for judging uh how effective the models are. And what's really nice about the uh FPPP2 package is that one can just ask it to plot the time series and the forecast and it generates a point forecast in a solid blue line and prediction intervals about that forecast which assume Gaussian or normal distributions for the error terms. But one can see how those evolve into the future. And it's really consistent for prediction intervals to get wider the further out we forecast. And that's happening here. What's rather interesting about this forecast um using the Yang Jang uh measure and forecasting that into the future is that it actually after being at a lower level is predicting that it might go back to more of a mean level of volatility. So that's that's an interesting property. Okay. Well, let's go back to the notes here and um let's see. There are extensions of uh geometric brownie in motion that we have uh seen before. One of them is a pluson jump diffusion model. Um where the stochastic differential equation has the brownie in motion part as the first two terms but then has a jump process as a last term where the jump process can be modeled as a plus process. So a jump occurs at some rate that is that defines the plus process and the rate is lambda and if an event in the plus process occurs then there's a jump in the uh stock uh which is given by this factor here. So um one can actually model uh data with this plus jump diffusion model and um let's see I I ended up working with uh David Pickard and Arshad Zacharia on fitting this diffusion model and it was an interesting um uh application in statistics of using the EM M algorithm. Um basically the jumps are treated as latent or hidden values in our data and those hidden values occur according to plus probabilities like the probability of one jump or two jumps can be computed using the plus parameter and one can apply this EM algorithm to obtain maximum likelihood estimates of all the parameters. And um in applying this an interesting property that uh occurred was that um there were quite frequent there that or the rate of uh plus events was quite high like every couple of days. And um what the model was doing was capturing heavier tailed distributions than a normal distribution. So instead of a single normal model for the return, one has a mixture of a normal with no jumps, a normal with one jump, two jumps, weighted according to plus song rates. And so the implication of the model fitting was that one didn't have sort of rare events necessarily that occurred uh but one had uh or there was evidence suggesting sort of uh a jump process that related to um trying to capture the excess variability of the stock price returns. Now that leads to um another model extending Brownian motion and this is the lelass distribution where if instead of observing a time series over equal increments. So between zero you know one can think of just equal increments of time. So t1, t2 and so forth up to tn say from time z to capital t. Um, it may be that we observe the Brownian motion process at random times. T1 and then here's T2, here's T3, where the increments of time themselves are also random. And it turns out that if the times at which we observe have sort of a time increment that's exponentially distributed then the increments of the brownian motion follow a lelass distribution. So heavier tail distributions than normal and this is the density of a lelass distribution. It's depends on the exponential of minus the magnitude of the deviation of x from mu as opposed to the square of that deviation. A Gaussian or normal distribution would have a power two there. With the lelass distribution, it's the absolute. And with this distribution, we have a mean mu which is sort of at the center of the distribution. The variance turns out to depend on this scale factor B um which is twice B^2. So um So let's just take a look at what lelass models look like. They basically are bilateral exponential distributions. And if we consider fitting the uh daily returns on the S&P 500, this is data for I know four-year period. um this sort of peaked distribution with exponentially dis decaying density is fitting the data really quite well and more importantly much better really than a Gaussian curve does. So here we have the fit of the Gaussian bell curve in red comparing it to the lelass curve in blue. And an interesting question is how do we judge whether uh one model or another is a good model? And a useful tool is to construct a QQ plot which is a quantile quantile plot. So we consider points where the vertical value corresponds to the magnitude of our data and the horizontal coordinate corresponds to the theoretical value for the smallest from a sample of lelass, the second smallest from a given lelass distribution. And so um we basically plot sort of observed quantiles versus theoretical quantiles for the fitted model. So this fits quite close to a line although it's not perfect. At least if it were perfect it would even sort of snake around the straight line where uh the sample quantiles equal the theoretical quantiles. If we do the same QQQ plot for a Gaussian or normal model, this is what our QQQ plot looks like. And so one can see that this second QQ plot is not fitting the data very well at all. So um this would favor uh using the lelass instead of the Gaussian with as a model for independent daily returns. Now the independence of or period by period returns is one that may not be satisfied by the data. And uh Robert Engel um proposed looking at time series um of returns and considering the possibility that the variability of these returns given by the variability of the epsilon t terms that these in fact have time varying volatilities sigma t where the sigma t squared evolves according to a sort of moving average of past squared errors. So an auto reggressive conditionally heteroscadastic model is what he proposed. And um in looking at this model um it's interesting to note that if one normal or one can sort of reexpress the arch model in terms of this squared error term and have this model uh in the second equation being consistent with the first. And this second model corresponds to there being an auto reggressive model consistent with the squared returns. And so this lrangege multiplier test can fit the auto reggressive model to these epsilon hat squares and test whether there is auto reggressive structure or not. And if we look at the autocorrelations of the S&P 500 returns squared, you can see that the first almost 10 autocorrelations are significantly different from zero in magnitude. So there is strong time dependence in the log returns. And so um how does one sort of fit this model? Well, the go-to typically in statist in statistical modeling is to consider a likelihood approach where we consider a density for our data uh specified by the model. So if the errors epsilon t are uh independent gaussian distributions with different variances then uh this likelihood function defines um the uh joint density of our data given underlying parameters. And what's becomes tricky with this likelihood specification is that there in fact are constraints on our parameters. So with the arch model we can't have a negative alpha because with the Gaussian squared epsilon that could be arbitrarily large negative or epsilon could be sorry I sorry if the alphas were negative then the epsilon squares could be arbitrarily large positive we get a negative variance so we can't have that also we have this property of the sum of the auto reggressive parameters is less than one and this corresponds to the process not being explosive in its in its movements. Um and then uh let's see an extension of the arch models was done by Bowlers Lev and this basically adds to our arch model terms like an order P arch model. It adds an order Q set of terms on lags of the volatility. And if we consider the special case of the garch1 model, this is its form which is very simple and parsimmonious. What's rather surprising is that the empirical specification of these models is um such that the garch1 model is often chosen or identified as the best garch order case. So we end up having a very simple model with just a few parameters to characterize the the volatility and um let's see okay these notes talk about how the GACH model induces an ARMA model. So this is some time series results that are gone through here and there's a long run variance of the Garch model um that uh is given here and with a GACH one model there basically is a sort of long run uh volatility sigma star uh which has this particular formula and one uh basically can okay so one can find the long run variance of a garch model with this formula there this formula also leads to sort of updates of volatility being a multiple of the long run variance plus a deviation from that long run variance and So um all right so we have a maximum likelihood estimation for these models. Now I wanted to share with you let's see a case study using arch and garch models with foreign exchange returns. And so this note uses data collected from the Federal Reserve on foreign exchange uh values. Um section 1.2 actually fits Brownie in motion using different time scales. So not assuming time dependence. It actually is sort of interesting to think about different time scales. Um but um if we go to section 1.3 1.3 and look at time dependence and squared returns this is uh uh the dollar pound u returns. Um this shows the autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation of the returns. So there are sort of strong partial oiler correlations um of the actual series and if we look at the squared returns um the actual series um has high autocorrelations over time but the partial autocorrelations have very high spikes at low lag. So this suggests sort of an auto reggressive model in the squared returns and the note fits an arch one an arch two. So one lag or sorry one auto reggressive uh term two auto reggressive terms or 10 and then fits the GARCH one and the results are highlighted here just showing you the different coefficient estimates for these different models. They're all statistically significant in terms of the parameters. What's of interest though is just to look at the time series plot of the fitted volatilities using arch of different orders. So here's the arch one model. Here's the arch 2 model. A property of this these arch models is that you know it never goes below zero. There's sort of a lower bound. Here's the arch 10 model which looks like it's maybe tracking time varying volatility well. And then finally we can compare that with the GARCH one model. So instead of having 10 auto reggressive parameters in arch the generalized arch model is capturing time varying volatility in an appealing way. You know whether that's really valid or not is is of interest. Um but it certainly is an alternative to these arch models that that is quite powerful. Um and in the uh well here's just a graph of all three together. Um this this note actually does a final section of looking at what happens if our error distribution is not Gaussian but is a t distribution. the code there are packages ruarchch which allow us to specify parameters and fits using t models t distribution models for the errors and what's very curious is in judging the uh uh in judging the uh histogram of standardized residuals Um, the t distribution seems to do a decent job. And so here's with Gaussian residuals, I guess. And then here's the uh Gaussian garch residuals and QQ plot associated with uh the standardized Gaussian assumption. Then finally um there's the QQQ plot of standardized residuals with a t distribution assumed. So what's significant is just how the quantile quantile plot suggests that this model is really fitting the data much much better in terms of characterizing the variation and the choice of which order model to use for um let's see for the uh degrees of freedom there's this um negative log likelihood function of models for different t distributions as we vary the degrees of freedom for the t and a t distribution has a heavier tail than a Gaussian distribution at least if the degrees of freedom is really high it's virtually equivalent to a Gaussian but this is suggesting that there's uh possibly a nine degrees of freedom for that so that's a very interesting finding And it actually arises with some mathematical analysis that sort of t distributions are appropriate if we think of spherical symmetry in the number of dimensions equal to the degree of freedom. And so if you imagine sort of a joint distribution that is spherically symmetric in really high dimensions when you project that down onto coordinate axes you end up getting a Gaussian distribution. But if the symmetry is just of say nine dimensions then you end up having a t distribution for what those projections are. So, so this suggests that in terms of um time periods over which um the distribution of volatility sort of is is stable, you know, could be close to sort of nine dimensions. Um so perhaps corresponding to nine periods of data, I believe. All right. Well, we'll finish there. There's a lot of interesting material for you to check out. if you like. Um, and uh, I hope you can enjoy reading some of the articles of people who have studied volatility and see what their work has contributed and uh, it's a really interesting area for uh, uh, final papers um, you know, modeling volatility and predicting volatility. This is really scratching the surface of the topic. So there's a lot of interesting problems you could study. All right. Thanks a lot.