The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Some content in this audio is not covered under our creative common license. For more information, see the course materials on the MIT Open Courseware website. >> Okay. So, so today we've got uh a guest panel uh of folks from uh the education arcade uh folks from news network uh which is actually very closely related. Um these are folks uh the the is the comparative media studies uh research group over based in the in the old media lab building where I'm working right now. Um and you work with the shadow uh teacher education program. Um for folks who are unaware of of this MIT actually has a teacher education program. If you want to be like a certified teacher uh to teach uh I guess >> middle school math and I not middle school, secondary math and science. >> Um then that you can take classes and basically get your certification or apply for your certification at the end of all those classes. Um but then they also make games. They uh they they make augmented reality games using uh portable devices like like iPhones and uh and PCs. uh games that run on flash um together with campus to prototype stuff before and uh focusing a lot on games for learning. So the education arc is the research group learning the learning games network is kind of like the spin-off company of the education arcade that basically sort of works on uh on projects that will be too expensive to do inside universities because universities are really inefficient. Um anyway um maybe some uh can you get start introducing yourself I'm the latest in the group. So okay yeah hi I'm Constantine. I come from Austria. I'm at the moment researcher at the education and um so I come from an I I'd say I'd come from an I come from an educational background. So I did my PhD on on learning through failure, learning through mistakes. And I kind of like worked on on theories that explain why we why we learn through mistakes and why we most of the time don't want to learn through failure. But in games we think it's really funny or entertaining or or challenging. So I was really interested in how games um can be tools to um understand learning and also is it possible or this is like one of my research questions. Is it possible that people maybe learn who play games how to cope with failure better like even be more open to realize maybe sometimes in life we make failure and our expectations are not true or sometimes not maybe they're wrong so I do um research on a theoretical level with that and um do um interviews with players on learning demographies how um learning experiences through games were important in their lives and in in the summer um I was um happy to um for for and designing a game in the summer workshop. Maybe they heard about that anyway or not. >> Okay, so it's just like I had um eight weeks I was product owner on a team and kind of like my theory was was used as basis to develop a game a learning game um called Afterland. Um of course it's free online um and I think our students did a really good job on that game and it's it's a platformer where um I will not tell you what's about because then I would ruin it. But there is twist. >> Yes. And um and what I'm going to do now in the next um year is um as it looks at I I join game for a few months and do research on how the game um is used by players, how they learn in the game, how they reflect on the game and I would use I would work and hopefully even elderly people on that. Very good. Hi, I'm Dan Roy. I'm a CMS alum. I did a master's and finished in 07. Worked with Philip a little bit here and there. Um, mostly I worked with the education arcade during my time at CMS and with Scott and we worked on a project called lure of the labyrinth which you may have heard of. It teaches middle school math and literacy skills particularly to But I believe to anyone who's interested >> free online. >> Free and online. Yeah. So go play. Better than after. >> Just trying to keep it interesting. >> Is there a twist? >> Yes. Well, >> not as good a twist as we originally wanted. >> There was a twist in the development process. So that one was uh funded by the department of education and that's the it was a larger scale project but the grant didn't go to MIT it went to Maryland public television. So that was part of the I believe the impetus for the spin-off of the learning games network is to have a structure that can accommodate the sorts of larger scale projects and think about them in more sustainable ways. But I'll let Scott talk about that. Um so how did I get into this? Um my interest in learning games is mostly around engagement. I feel like people who are extremely motivated and enthralled with a particular subject will find a way to learn it and that a game may or may not be the best way to learn anything in particular. but that there are many people out there who struggle to get interested in a topic if they're even trying and that a game can be useful there. So as a an exploratory tool say well I never really thought about history but I like this game and I want to spend some time with it and I want to be good at it and it's social now I'm finding myself asking the kinds of questions that other people are telling me ask and I don't know what label they want to put on it but I think it's interesting and just sort of having that kind of introduction to a topic also I think games are helpful for uh I guess I'd call it identity exploration so for people particularly learners who may not think of themselves as learners or as competent learners that they can sort of put that identity behind them when they enter the game because you know it's a game and anyone can play it or maybe I'm particularly good at games so I can play games and then I can suddenly realize that I might be good at other things as well or I might be interested in other things that I wouldn't allow myself to discover if whether or not I was interested because it was a risky sphere to enter. So current projects, we're doing a language learning game. Uh it's a casual and massively multiplayer online game with a grant targeting a population of Spanish speaking high school students in the US. Um and that is from the Hila Foundation. And then we have a couple of other projects going on as well, science and some other stuff. So that's about it. So I'm Scottwell. I'm the research director of the education arcade. Research I share two titles, research director and creative director. Um the education arcade, but also one of the co-founders of learning games network. Um and I don't want to repeat too much of what's been said except that I I at the same time as as I do this for a living, I still struggle with the term educational game because it's not the way I think of what I do primarily. The first I before working in this set, the first game I did was a commercial game. It wasn't designed as an educational game. It was designed just as a puzzle adventure game. It happened to be about math and logic, but that was just because that's what we thought was interesting. Um, it got marketed because of changes in the marketplace as sort of enterainment. But when I started in the business, there was no such word as enterainment. Most most games, if you go back to the early 90s, were sort of exploratory environments. I mean they either either they were sort of twitch games or they were exploratory environments. I have nothing against Twitch games but the exploratory environments are all about thinking and problem solving. And to me that's what's interesting. No matter what domain you're working in, whether it's mathematical or whether it's historical, it's still the process are the same. And just to one slight twist I want to put on what Dan Dan said. I think we are on the same page. But because he led the idea of engagement, it's possible to think that I'm talking about games as sort of an inducement to do something we don't want to do. And I think it's games are an opportunity to discover how much fun something is which is very different from sort of we ah we tricked you just mad but rather this is really interesting. Don't you like doing this and um you can do more and then then maybe and that and that's all that you get out of it that's fine. If you later realize oh I like doing that and that's math and I'm going to do more of that. That's also that's even better. And then I think it's not so much because we just said it's fun. It's because I think the um very process I think the very process of thinking and problem solving is rewarding and I want people to understand that better and people do get that in games and I just think it's important to tell people realize if you enjoyed it in a game you can enjoy it in life and maybe this comes from my own realization but if anyone told me if when I was in sixth grade instead of them saying scientific method and writing this list of dull steps on the on the blackboard they had said play this puzzle and let's talk about how you solve the ple that science. Um I think I might have ended up working at MIT. >> So anyway, um that's so so so talking a little bit about finding about identifying how you're going to make how you're going to locate what's enjoyable about the thing that you wanted people to engage with. like how can you talk a little bit about maybe in a in a recent project or in past project uh how you went about that process? Let's let's let's talk about the the things that you worked on. Um and maybe sometimes it's more difficult than you have some challenges. Maybe sometimes it was just pretty obvious. >> Yeah. I'll take it always. I'd like to congratulate Scott on this personal group. So, with the language learning game that we're working on at the moment, there are approaches to language learning out there in the world that emphasize vocabulary memorization or grammar. Grammar meaning memorizing tables of conjugations. Um, and It's pretty much stripped of any sort of meaningful context. So, and a meaningful context could either be a text, and I use that word loosely, that is engaging. It could be a film that you want to see that happens to be in a language that you're trying to learn, or it could be uh a means of communication. After all, that's what language is. So if you're thinking about using language as a means of communication, then of course you need to think about what are you communicating and fortunately games are full of communication between the game and the player and the player in the game. And if it's a multiplayer game between the players in the game. So it was almost like if you start from that philosophy, it's almost a trivial exercise to say, okay, well, what's something interesting for people to talk about in a game? And so you come up interesting game. And instead of having the mechanic be click this button to uh activate whatever the nuclear missile, you have to you build in collaboration. So I have part of the piece and you have part of the piece and we need to talk about uh when to use what and which contexts and on whom. And so suddenly we're talking and it doesn't even feel like we're learning a language. It just feels like we're playing a game. Uh and then if you're doing it in a language that you're attempting to learn, then there there's the barrier there where you might want to say something that you just don't have the skill yet to say. So it's not quite as simple as just saying, "Hey, go talk." Um, but there's slightly innovative ways that you can give people tools to allow themselves to express themselves in a fairly constrained context. So, because you've designed the game, you sort of break the system, you know that people aren't going to talk about absolutely anything. Maybe they will in the chat, but primarily in the game, you're incentivizing their discussion around a particular topic. So if you give them tools to discuss that particular topic, uh not only does it make the game play more efficient, but that's also how the learning can happen because there can be some sort of selection mechanism whereby I am able to say something that I want to say but without needing to bring all of the knowledge of how to construct that on my own. You know, there's some amount of oh, I can just recognize that that's more or less what I want. Uh, and then by seeing it repeatedly and by seeing other players use the same tools to communicate and knowing that the communication in certain contexts is is valid that I can pay close attention to that and start to become familiar and learn. But it's it's not AI have to memorize it so that I can use it. It's I'm using it and I'm using it so much that I just naturally learn it. >> Question on that. >> So if you're trying to encourage me to talk Spanish and you talk Spanish. We're trying to work something out. Yeah. >> What prevents you from just typing something in in English and having you read it in English? >> Right. So, it depends on the game. Uh, and in some games that's totally fine. In other games, we have uh teams moderate other teams. In other games, we have some sort of communication tool that's not free text entry. So it's uh not so one extreme is here's a list of 10 sentences that you could say click one of them and that's not the direction we tend to go in but that's an example of how to communicate something without free text entry. So there could be some sort of sentence construction kit, let's say, uh where you have a pool of different words that you can assemble in a variety of orders to express a small set of meanings. And if you think about games like charades or pictionary, the need to communicate with constraints doesn't stop us from necessarily enjoying the game if we make it interesting. In fact, that's part of the game. Part of our insight was thinking about our own experiences learning languages and sort of the game of say and this gets at my sort of core idea which is to find the game that's already there. So a game that I always play when I'm travel particularly when I've traveled in France where I speak the language sort of is how far can I get into a conversation before they figure out I'm not American. So that becomes a game and sort of the whole and and then and how how can I have it or if I know someone uh who's friends how much of a conversation can we have in French that's again from at that point it becomes kind of fun. So I think we were just really trying to access that and I think that really gets back to your larger question when you take on something new I want to know where is the game already in this and I mentioned it to Raj from my the first game I did was math and colleague with my who designed the game we both spent a lot of time saying when we were kids how do we play with numbers what kind of things did we do what was interesting to us with numbers we really try to access our own our own play um and similarly now uh I try to if I can try to meet practitioners in the field and say you know what do you think about in the shower or when you run it where's the because that's where the play is actually happening um in the field and I think that's where that's where people who love their jobs it's the play in it that they love about it and that's what I think you try to access in any in any service um so Dan talking about the language one um we're doing a game with the Royal Shakespeare Company if we can get funding around the Tempest and trying to figure out how to make a game of it. And um I realized that that part of the challenge with Shakespeare is to some degree the language too is sort of making sense out of the language which is now somewhat archaic but really interesting. And so we try we made a game that's sort of a um puzzle that you assemble by finding pieces of the play and associating things. So you find a hedgehog and you find some text that makes a reference that somehow makes you think of the hedgehog and you put them together and you actually start building a visual puzzle. So it's really sort of a challenge of making sense of snippets of text that gradually grow out and the picture of the play starts to of the Shakespeare play tennis starts to emerge through the game play. So you a story sort of appears out of the way a picture appears in a jigsaw puzzle. So it's a game you can play without knowing without knowing without ever having seen it. Um but that is sort of part of the experience of theater is the way stories emerge from I mean they emerge from different pattern but still we're still trying to make a story through exploration that was maybe if if I if I talk about my experience coming I think I come from an area where we made really bad games like we made there's this saying like education games are like chocolate covered broccoli like not healthy not sweets you know and I think I come from a background where um teachers or educators were asked to build games for somebody and what you had is content and then it was like and I I I can say that because I think most of my colleagues didn't know better. They thought okay I have content that content is good and now I just make it a little fun and the kids going to love it. And I think we as you all sit here, we all know how um as how quick kids realize that this is not fun, you know, and um and I think um there there are tons of bad games out there um that that ruins the reputation of educational games in that sense. And coming here to MIT and working um with Scotland and people like Dan that I realized more the question is more what makes us curious about a problem about the learning content. Of course, we can have the content in the game. Sometimes we don't even have the content. It's more abstract. We we look for metaphors that kind of like, you know, you you can understand how to be interested in history without really learning all the the the the real data. Maybe you learn other history, but you get interested in how history works. And I think that's that's kind of like what I learned here. And and I I realize now that it's really useful that that um we don't we don't use the chocolate cow broccoli anymore. um we ask more about what do we really want? Um do we want to have something that is healthy or sweet or something different? Let's cook it, you know, let's not just combine two things. And um and I think that's something um that also like the good educational games that are out there are kind of heading in that direction. >> You have counter examples from your own work of like, you know, a something that seemed fruitful but then kind of turned out to be a dead end. uh some you know maybe you're trying trying to address some subject area and then you're trying to marry some some specific game mechanics you thought it might work but it didn't quite >> um I can talk about one that I'm it's not resolved yet I'm struggling I'm starting to work I'm doing a game with a um professor here in ocean and environmental engineering um about microbes he does all this work studying microbes in the which I I learned about I mean half the biomass of the ocean are microbes and we know almost nothing about them because until people like him which is one of the few built apparatus to study oceanlike conditions in the laboratory they had no way of knowing what was going on with them. So, I mean, that's interesting if if you get into it. It's not something that a middle school kid is dying to know about, right? Um, although it could be I, you know, so anyway, so we're doing a simulation where we try, well, where you the premise is that you've got a part of the ocean that's dead and you're trying to re-engineer it by putting plates by introducing nanobots which you can build. Um and these nanobots would simulate the functions what microbes do because microbes are doing at the microbial level what does too which is processing oxygen or rather plants and you know plants plants and processing either oxygen and producing CO2 and energy or the reverse taking CO2 and sunlight. Anyway, um so we so the challenge we made a sort of interesting playable simulation where you build this stuff. But I I haven't figured out yet. I'm struggling with uh is it is it sufficiently does the have we found the way to entice you to do this stuff without having to give you too much information? I mean, I'm a big believer that a game this game does not start with instructions. I mean, because I don't believe games should ever start with instructions, but I'm still struggling with the information we're providing along the way. It's too much too much need this now as opposed to and and I think the problem is because simulations are very wide open environments and it's very hard to constrain a simulation enough that the brain says ah now I understand what variable I just used and and particular because kids has have a tendency to see simulations as black boxes. So they'll throw in they'll change three variables at once and not notice that they've changed three variables and not think about well which variable wasn't. they just don't have the they haven't got the habit of mind to practice changing you know really controlling the variables and if you don't do that simulations do become these black boxes and I'm still struggling with how to how to not sort of say mark down mark the kid down the road and say okay now make this choice now make that choice because that's too constrained and not fun I want to have have them have a lot of choices but also help them understand the the effect of the choices they made that's the best way so I had to have just processing I'm not speaking with a very clear way. I can give you a bad example. So I was working on this game like I wasn't really working on that to my excuse. I was beginning to work with these people and then realized this is not the way it's it's I want to go and then I stepped out of it and I think it's u it's a good example what you shouldn't do. So this this um small town in Austria is is um using their waste to produce energy like renewable energy. It's it's really it's interesting the town is like somewhere in the countryside nobody was interested. They make so much power now that they can um give power for free in their um the town companies and the neighbor companies uh the yeah neighbor companies in neighbor towns. So a lot of people are interested in how they do that and they thought wow we want to be a cool town we make a game instead of was providing the content. But what they did they gave us all the content and said this is what what you should like teach to people and do it make it fun and and in the end you know like you know these people were sitting together like okay what do people like comics and you have to have a character that is moving around and then we make small multiple choice tests and afterwards you get a reward and you get the reward out and it says your name and it says you are trained in that discipline and what was interesting for me that they built the game and the the game's been bad and it's very sad and it's horrible. But the funniest thing for me was who was the target group like and and they never talked about that. They always thought who cares about target groups? We make this game, everybody's going to love it. Everybody's so interested. The idea was who decides if you can do that. It's the major of towns. They say, "Oh, we we want to have a company like that." And so now we're talking about Austrian European majors of towns and they are normally fat and like to drink wine. You know, normally they sit with another major and have lunch and then they say, "Wow, this works." And then they decide to do it or not. But now they were sending these games to the majors. They didn't know at all what to do with this. You know, they they they they couldn't get into the game. Um and so not that the game was bad, they didn't even think about their target group. And um I think that's one one um one aspect that interests me the most is you have to have the the context of the game and the learning experience has to be suitable. If this is not happening you know you can play the most interesting game um if somebody doesn't want to be like doesn't get the problem doesn't get engaged to the problem it's just you know it's just um something happening is not really interested in that. And um I think that's that's a major problem that this this example was totally addressing. So >> So know know who you're designing your game for and how and and how they tend to get engaged with things. >> Yes. I think um um if I so I mean just to do a simplistic example but it's one that's just as applicable. If I wanted a game for my mother who occasionally would play a casual game, I wouldn't do a massively multiplayer game with lots of stuff going on. All these senior systems are going to get into this massively multiplayer game. I mean, in some ways, it would be really great to come with a massively multiplayer game for senior systems because they're isolated. But you also know that they're not they're they didn't grow up with computers and they're not going to be able to navigate a 3D space. So I mean that's a that's a simplified example of why it's important. >> What is really beautiful if if like a game like like Remish the the cancer game maybe some of you know that like a cancer game actually it was actually mentioned in >> but it's probably one of the best learning games out there. But the good thing for them is people that play that game have cancer and they you know so you have the problem to the game is so close that people will not play oh I don't care about cancer no like they care about cancer because they have cancer the game is about cancer and the way how chemotherapy works so the the context and the engagement is automatically um kind of like the problem is solved but what about as as Dan said what about a learning game where it's about language learning um are these people already interested to learn the language. Do they come there with a language problem or or do we want to to introduce them to the problem or or show that maybe they don't have to be afraid to learn language or whatever. this this question has to be addressed. It's a very very early stage otherwise you if if you'd stop design it and then address the question it's late I do think I mean it's the question is sort of about sort of the explicit versus the hidden so if you played the game Waker that was really designed to introduce basically what an idea that people have struggled with which are what position and velocity graphs actually mean um but the game doesn't mention velocity and it doesn't mention graphs. And in fact, in the same reviews that got lots of good reviews when it came out, a lot of them said that I had no idea this was educational. Um I I would sort of I don't believe that that's fine that people don't necessarily know that as they play a game that that they you're still building up some conceptual knowledge. I don't think that I think that some large percentage of people who play a game at that setting will probably they walk away from the game and do nothing else but three months later it'll have gone. I mean that that experience for most people will not be resilient not because they didn't enjoy it but because they got lots of interesting resil lots of things going on in life and there's more information coming out of something on the other hand the kid plays that game and then you sit down and have a conversation about velocity and position grass there might be some real meaningful learning that occurs and so I think it's really important to not overreach in that sense um I try to avoid although we slip into saying it that our games teach anything because I think teaching is a much more active and explicit activities that our games do. I think our games let people play with things, let people learn things and then just like if you write a you write a book, the book doesn't teach anything. The books the information it's available and I think that's really sort of part of what I think we have to be modest and humble about as we do this stuff. So, but that also puts on us the challenge at an audience of thinking about if if you do want some learning to occur, where do you want the learning to occur? is for people's personal lives. Is it in a mediated setting like a hospital or is it in a school that it's really those are really critical questions? It's not it's not just the audience but the setting for the audience >> and who's introducing the game to them for instance to the teacher doctor >> right and while they play it like with Labyrinth which is this middle school math game that Dan and I worked on uh we knew that if we didn't if we didn't push in another direction the implementation was going to be well we'll create this game that gets played in classrooms. If you've ever seen your all, if you remember your own computer labs in school, if that was your edge, which is true, actually, it meant every now and then you went, you had to line up and walk down the hall to this other place. So, what you could only get to occasionally and it took by the time you settled in your chairs and booted up, you had maybe 20 minutes on a computer that it was time. So, that was all, you know, if you're designing for schools, you're talking about a 20 minute experience once every two or three weeks. I'm not sure that was was worth thinking about anything for that sense. So we designed a game to be played online at home and encouraged teachers to let the kids just play it. And there was another advantage of that which was to go back to who introduces it. If you're playing that even if we have a perfect 20-minute game for the computer lab, if the teacher's walking around, I mean there's some I shouldn't say I've seen good uses of that space, but there's some greater probability that you're going to feel like this is just a lesson. Whereas if the teacher said, "Go play this at home," there's some greater probability that you'll sort of forget about school and get playful. And it's not that again, it's not that we want to trick you when you're doing math. It's that we want you to engage with the math in the most playful spirit possible. And the few the less we make it give the rapper of scroll to it, the more playful you're likely to be, even if we're not denying that it's math or science. So that was the other that was part of you had said um that the cancer game was really well evaluated. So, did any of you have like stories or experiences from seeing your games out in the world that like like have you gotten feedback from teachers who have tried this class? >> No. >> Yeah. No, no. Was it um Oh, um yes. I from the from this this game I just talked about about um renewable energies. It totally failed. Like people played them and didn't understand it, hated it or or um before. So I think like total failure. Um and I think I think just to kind of like to start with this this conversation is this is a this is um problematic thing because we hardly have any um we there is very little um research going on on evaluation of games because it's it's also very hard takes a lot of effort and and it also would take a lot of money to re to evaluate the the research the success of the of the game for learning purposes. Um I I just know very little studies that do that in the end. And I think we just kind of like reach that moment where where people start to think that this is um an interesting way to do it. And remission as I said is is probably the only I I just like I hope maybe you're correct in a second, but I think that's the only game I would put my hand into the fire for it. But what but the question is what do they learn in the game? They learned about self agency. They learned that that they that there is something they can do and they they learned a more positive um perspective and positive um relation to medicine. They didn't learn anything else, you know. It's like they didn't learn like in the research because they didn't change their illness. >> Yes. And they and they didn't get happier, you know. It's like not that they said, "Wow, now I can Yeah. I cannot they couldn't cope better with their with their illness. They just took their medicine." And so the doctors were really happy with that. But you know, And that's the stated goal of remission actually is is this this is a it's a 3D game where I think you play like a a woman in space suit something um going you know shock down and and and suddenly someone blood bloodstream u but but but say the goal of the game at least of the people who are making it was to try to encourage uh people who are suffering from cancer to keep up with their medication. uh you know just don't don't don't fall on your don't fail keeping up the schedule of taking your chemotherapy drugs basically and uh and again designed to sort of show what happens what what these drugs actually try to do and some sort of like fictional or fantastical I'm not going to say the fictional yet all based in science um so that's that's that's remission is this famous >> yeah so you can Google So um on labyrinth the the original grant included an extensive one-year evaluation um of the game abuse and then when Congress cut back the funding of the larger program which is just one small piece that got cut off and so the research didn't happen. We're now looking for a grant because it's being used aggressively in Maryland schools. So we are going to look for money but generally there's less m as little money as there is for developing interesting engage is even less for researching them and and I think some of what I think our work about is design research. We figure out what we can learn by making the games and we publish what we've learned in the hope that other people will pick up the ball. People who are have more of a researcher bent traditional sense we'll start doing the research about it. I think we're on the brink of that. I think with stuff like the quest to learn school. I think increasing numbers of educators are interested in asking those questions. Um I do have only anecdotal evidence but the very first game that I did which was this math and scienceoriented game a math and logic oriented game um ended up being not particularly well marketed um and nevertheless sold a million copies. And the anecdotal evidence I got was that it was one of those rare cases where parents would bring it in and recommend to teachers or teachers would recommend to parents or kids would come home from school and recommend and and there seemed to be this fairly broad acceptance by both parents and teachers and kids without without kids having the sense that oh my teachers make them do this and I hear that now that there's original players in their 20s I will hear from them and some of them say it's what interested them in math and stuff. So that's all anecdotal and maybe every that's but I think the million copies is >> sure I'll just add a little bit to that I also have some anecdotal stuff around some of the other games but the most interesting thing that I've discovered was with Labyrinth in a target audience that I've seen play it that it was not specifically designed for, which is uh kids with some sort of um attention disorder, whether it's ADD or autism or something. and seeing these kids engage with the game, even engage with the game in a social way. Uh, and be hyperfocused on the game and be highly confident with the game and to really calm down and adopt pro-social behaviors that were not characteristic of them. or that their peers or families hadn't seen in them before. I think there's a lot of power there. >> The first two teachers I met who used Labyrinth um said that they were seeing performance from kids they didn't expect to see in the program which is exactly what I think we were hoping for because we our sense was that lots of kids have competencies and skills that they don't show off in the format of school. School being its own kind of game which only certain people are good at. Um and so having a be able to demonstrate competency at a different kind of game and let the teacher see it because part of the design lab is that teachers can track progress online. Um that was one of our goals that was that was >> Chris said it possible to look it up. >> Yeah, sure. We've been talking about it. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. >> Doesn't actually exist. It's just a notion that >> other people can keep a little bit while while we're setting it up. Um I think talk ask a bit about prototyping. So I mean in the process of um in the process of designing the these are mostly digital games that we've been talking about all this time but I'd like to talk about you know sort of the early stage when you're working with paper or um or simple digital prototypes. uh uh how maybe you can talk talk a little bit about how you how that might be similar or different from designing um uh other kinds of computer games or even board games? I mean do do you do do you test it differently because you're designing it explicitly for a specific audience? Do you test it with instructors as well as players or independent players? I think it's always best to try to test with your target audiences. The things you've learned from uh um there's things you learn you can learn from any audience particularly usability which is important. Frequently the flaw in a game is not the core mechanic but the ease with which the player can understand what they're supposed to do. And you can test that with that with any wide range of people. anyone who you think is roughly as computer or game literate as your target audience. But I think if your goal is sort of to interest kids, for example, middle school kids like we were with this game, just turn this on. Um um then you do want to because there are questions about age appropriateness. Um or uh sorry for let me mirror my screen. All right. So we're about to get the screen here. So this is just a login screen. And this is not really this is not the first screen you would come to if you'd started again from scratch. But um you get some more information about but I've already logged in. So but you'll notice um oh let's just let me just log here. So it's online. You can play from any computer. That was important because we were concerned about underserved populations who either don't have computers at home or or who have less control over their time, don't have a computer in the room certainly or might do all their work in in an after school setting or in a library. So basically you can log in from any computer. Once you have an identity, you can log in from anywhere. I'm going to briefly enter the game space, but then we're going to actually So here we're already in the middle of the game. This is a puzzle adventure game. And um the plot is someone stolen my pet. I've tracked it down to this underground factory that's being run by monsters with the help of remember there's middle schoolers with the help of um a mysterious woman with kind of bluish skin and wings um I've been given a monster costume. So in the guise of a monster myself I can go around and sort of do jobs at the factory find my pet figure out what what the monsters are up to which is indeed no good. Um, and uh, I'm in the middle of this game, so I've already ran some. There's a sequence of rooms, which part of the game is just finding the room where the puzzles are. So, for example, we're going here. Uh, one of the wings of the factory. There's 100 doors here, and I can click on every door if I have to, but I have I get map, which is itself a mathematical tool to find where I want to go. Um and uh and as I go through each each room represents a different puzzle. Um anyway, having said that, I want to actually go back and oh the other big the other big feature in an egg is that um you play on teams and you can communicate with your teammates um through this communicator. Um, and the reason there is to actually get kids reading and writing about what they're doing with math because if you want to help your teammates, but you can't give each other the answers because you'll see we're about to play a puzzle. Um, every uh every puzzle is every time you play it's a different solution. So, you can't tell each other the answer. All you can do is talk about your strategies. So, you're going to leave your game and go to puzzle mode play. This is like a shortcut. >> Yeah. Shortcut to puzzles, right? You don't have to play in the in the context of the game. You play any puzzle that you want. Um, well, I'm going to try one. I don't I've never played this with a group before. So, usually uh usually I pick the same game play because I get used to playing with people. But let's just try this one. This will be a real I think I try level one. >> Okay. So, you So, I'm trying to remember what you know here. You have to basically you're in the fac the shipping area and you've got to come up with a manifest to um ship the number of objects that you've got. That's all you know. Okay. You got to give it the right you got to basically give them the right instructions to ship it. And so, now just tell me what to do here. Quick. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Of course. And that's what you know kids up into the >> drag. Okay. >> Up into the slots up there as one zeros. >> Okay. >> Can we put that crazy fish head second to the right on everyone in the equal spot? >> Yes, you can. >> You want to try in the equal spot? Go equals on this one. >> Just tell me what your thinking was. >> Well, it looks like we're trying to build math equations and usually they end with equals something >> and you saw the Now, just so you know, the equation that we're going to build, you're right. And just as a short, this is not about arithmetic. The equations are simple. I'm not interested in drilling kids at arithmetic. This is really about the fact about uh number systems and that number systems are just symbol systems. But there's also some algebra that's going to go on as we start to do this too. And at higher levels of the puzzle, this gets into other basics. You start doing stuff in base two and base six which sort of dubtales with the notion that that number that our representation of numbers are disembodied. So zero a one a one zero doesn't have to always mean 10. It's It's just a symbol. Anyway, so now what should we do? >> Pac-Man should be minus because the only ones with six digits have Pac-Man as the third digit. >> Sounds good. >> Okay. I'm not sure which one is >> right. This guy >> thing is if you look at the top left then what is the twodigit number that minus the last digit gives a single digit number. So 24 >> so yeah >> oh that's a good point. Yeah, it has to be divided by >> Yeah. Yeah. See, but but now what you're really doing is thinking about the structure of sort of math, which is exactly what we want. >> So, what you say that is divided? >> Yeah. >> So, I'm going to guess the banana is four. >> And you want to say why? >> Four. Oh, because well, like using that same logic, that first equation, it's something nxid x= some single number. >> I'm guessing X is four. >> By the way, I think by the way, you guys have have avoided have not noticed a piece of information which would make your work even more um >> what's that thing? >> The thing at the top. >> What's the thing at the top? >> The thing at the bottom. >> Oh, it could be two actually as well. >> What are all the green things? Can we click one? >> Those are the things you're shipping. Those are jars of stuff. Oh, pepper. Oh, that makes sense. >> Banana something banana >> banana >> equals >> something banana. >> So try banana. >> Well, banana could actually be two cuz doubles 36. >> 5 * 5 is 25. Oh, with in that respect that means the little um the four. >> Yeah, the four squares is times. >> We try that. >> Has to be 01. >> By the way, every time you play the game, the symbols are different. I mean, the same symbols, but they're different. >> Triple dash has to be Oh, no. >> You're still missing a piece of information, but that's okay. That's what games are all about. >> So, what's this thing in the top left? Can we like put things in there and press enter? And will it evaluate them for us? Um, yeah, but right now you're not done yet until decid. >> Oh, triple dash is one because one times banana is bananas. >> Unless banana is zero. >> But I can't banana. >> That would be a banana. six. I think >> by the way, I've never done this game before. You know, the fact that you're naming all these symbols, which of course they were just symbols. >> What am I telling you? I can tell that you're wrong. >> I think banana because it's banana >> So, banana squared is equal to something times banana. >> Not as many times. >> So, yeah, it could be 25. >> It could be five banana. Now remember, I didn't know the solution to this when it came in, but I actually have enough data to know that you're wrong. >> No, it's on the screen. >> Banana definitely is >> five. >> It's five because banana squared is uh >> something is like anchor banana but uh but flower banana divided by banana is also an integer. So if flower banana and anchor banana are a multiple of banana, then banana should be five and not six. >> Yes, >> because flower minus anchor time. >> I love your math. >> All right. No, that's good. So you're saying it's what? I think it's >> okay. >> Well, it could work, but you could have done it in a simpler way >> or you could have surmised it. Not known it, but surmise. Remember this wasn't the first thing like subsequent times you'd have other information you don't have. So, >> oh yeah, the number of blocks 25. >> Oh, so the maximum number is 25. >> That's what you're actually sort of short. So, normally in the group I don't give away this much. So, give it away. But in fact, you're making a ship. That's sort of those that's the describe the thing on the pallet. >> So, anchor is 20. >> Anchor's two. >> Yeah. >> Sorry. Two. >> You call this the anchor. Yeah. >> Anchors anchors to claw. Claw zero. >> Wait, where's claw? >> Claw is the one on the top left >> of of the squares that are left. >> Oh, you mean press circles. That makes sense. >> Yep. >> Oh. Oh, that >> that's zero. Has to be zero. >> Wait, why is it zero? >> Uh cuz if you look at the the equation at the bottom, >> wrong one. I'm looking wrong. >> It's definitely zero. Ninja star is four. >> Ninja star is four >> which contains epsilon is five. >> Wait, dude. >> Nine. No, I guess it is a sigma. >> Sigma is nine. Sigma is nine. >> Yeah, sigma is nine. >> Uh, see >> wait. >> Okay. It shows the other >> like the scythe is scythe is a plus. Scythe is plus. >> No, it has to be minus. >> No, it has to be something. >> And then uh the crescent moon dot the banana banana is three. >> Oh, that's banana. The sticks is >> No, I'm not talking about that one. >> Look at the bottom. No, I was talking about >> the backwards thing has to be triangles. >> That one the triangle that one that looks kind of like the last one. >> But I'm just curious anyone who who was having trouble and and this happens in the group and so please anyone have trouble following it as people were making stuff up finding stuff because if you did it's okay. In fact, sometimes you got to play the game yourself for it to make sense. So I didn't have said in front of the crowd. I could have told you. I actually think I could have told you a lot about the game going into it and there would still be a high probability that when you started playing it, you would have not absorbed anything I'd say. That's my experience. I can almost give it a wall away and people still don't get it until they play it. >> So theta talks about the value of play. >> Theta doubles upside down as eight. No, not really. Quickly enter that now. All right. >> Oh, so now you have to type in one times whatever equals >> you have to type in what this is. So this actually is getting at an alternate another representation. >> So let's see >> 8 + 9 >> 8 + 9 is 17. >> All right, let's try that. And then here you don't actually have to remember just divide by six, right? P is the top right time. It's puzzle mode. >> So 56. >> Yeah. And by the way, it can take it in either order. library= 52. >> I think there's only addition in this level. There's only addition. >> We actually come up with a way of representing subtraction division plus >> 2. Yeah. >> Or we could do 10us 2. >> Anyway, I just point out that that when you were solving that, you were doing 10us. when you were solving for those numbers, you were doing Algeb, you were really sort of thinking about X and the structure of the math and and the the numerical quality of it and and like I said, now this is simpler, but it's still getting at the fact that that there are multiple ways of representing numbers and quantities. >> Is there any mechanic to prevent like brute force, >> you run out of yes, those lights go out, you run out, >> but you do earn points along the way in the game if you make some progress. And so we we try not none of these puzzles are brick walls because you can always play multiple puzzles at once. You can leave this puzzle go to another puzzle. And if you do make any progress at all, you're accumulating points for the end of the game. You can actually get to the end of the game story without having to solve any puzzles. Takes a long time. The rewards are there for doing well. And there are rewards for doing well, but there isn't punishment for not doing well. There isn't sort of a we don't say you can't we don't we don't make you sort of stop in the tracks. You can do it again. >> Yes, that's right. You can do it again instantaneously. >> And there's no cost. There is no cost in the game to having failed repeatedly. It's not if you eventually solve it, you end up with the same score whether you solve it on the 20th time or the first time. This um that's what really problem solving about is not about being the fastest. It's just it's just about learning how to solve things. Speed speed is underrated. And in math it's much very you know big kids think they have to be able to do calculations in their heads. Anyway I don't want to go any I mean it's just more of this and higher levels we do have come up with we came up with representations of subtraction which is that you have like a large number like you have 10 jars and five of them are empty so it's 10us. >> How is division? >> Um are they 10 rows of jars? rows are empty. >> Yeah, I think it's the same. I think that's it. I think that's the same. Ah, it's in the it's in the it's in a grid pattern. Um so, >> and how would you do uh I guess uh there's algebra in there, but do you have any algebra such this like format? Uh no no but what so what we encourage is that so what comes with this is material for teachers to relate this to the curriculum and what we really want to happen is the kids have played the game before they get the subject where the teacher introduces symbol systems or base six or whatever it is that relates to this instead of saying all right you start up a new unit you are get you again know nothing we're start you're starting again at square one and have to start all over again with something new instead the teacher comes in and says I want to introduce a new concept but it's one that you've really already begun to master and uh it's called basis. It's called basis and it pulls up, you know, the higher level of this game. How did you solve this? What was going on in this game? Um and they have a conversation about what they already know as a way of leveraging into leveraging what I mean I arguably don't know. I mean I don't I again I would argue that the way we deal with bases by the way is you have boxes, you have things in cartons. So a carton of six jars plus some leftover would be a carton of six jars plus three left over would be one three in basics. So uh so anyway the point is that the kids begin to build up this sort of robust conceptual understanding and hopefully with a play a sense of playfulness about it so that when the teacher talks about it it's something they actually feel kind of good about instead of here's one more here's one more reason you'll ever be a mathematician which I think math education is largely designed to gate everybody so that at the end of the high school only 7% of the population thinks they're good at math which means that we've taken 12 years teaching 93% of the population no better than math and they should stop doing it and I don't know why we waste 12 years we could just tell everyone to kindergarten um but that's sort of what we end up doing anyway I think that's true with every subject that's how you know the number is so I'd like to turn it around where everyone says there's things about math I can do that >> yeah can I talk a little bit maybe about how that process >> sure I also wanted that provide a little extra nuance to one of the questions about what if you just brute force your way through it and the higher levels um it won't tell you when you put a symbol in a spot whether it's correct or not. >> Yeah. >> So which actually you can learn something kind of interesting because you can start doing something like suddenly you end up with something that doesn't add up. That's actually mean you're learning something. >> So there's 10 puzzles or how many nine puzzles and we came up with 9 plus x and some of that x was uh slated for implementation and we never got there and some of that x was uh puzzles or activities that we ended up deciding deciding were not as compelling as the others and our process for that uh we did a hybrid approach with paper and computer programing And in general, the rule is if it can be paper prototyped, paper prototype it. It's so much faster. Uh but there are certain kinds of activities that really can't. So for instance, this one is perfect for for paper prototyping. You just take out a piece of paper and a pen and you create uh I mean you have to create some of these uh equations so that you then have a system of equations to solve. But once you've created some of those data sets which would need to be done whether it's a paper or a computer prototype then it's trivial to put it in front of someone with paper. So this is an example of something where we would uh for the first round test internally with just symbols and numbers and then uh probably we would do we might even test that version with people in our target audience. But probably we would try to do some rudimentary art treatment >> uh before we put it in front of people just so there's a little bit of context and it looks a little bit more like a game. And then in general >> and sometimes we try to if there's story this one has less story about it but if there's story as you are in some places we actually try to act it out even I mean you have to sort of get over your resistance to doing that you sort of act out the character in even if it's you're the computer when you do and so even if it's just a character giving a response to something that the player does um you try to do it in character you try to get a sense of what because I think even even in that kind of rudimentary form you are engaging the player's imagination So you know whether or not they're interested in this character or the ide >> and like a dungeon master you need to prepare because it's hard to be the computer without also being the bottleneck if you're a human. >> Yeah. >> So uh and in fact we've done some game not represented here. We've done some games uh that are real time that if you want to prototype with people and then especially on paper and you want to keep things moving then you need to have more than one person be the computer because there's just too much to track for one person do it all. Um or if you want to do sometimes we do hybrids where we'll do a computer prototype but there's aspects of the game that are not represented through the interface or that logically we haven't modeled and so we'll do you know players directing human interactions with the computer or uh I guess not players designers uh you know influencing those interactions. So anyway, this is a game that uh moved pretty much all the way to final design on paper and then went straight to implementation. Some of the other games, so for instance, there's a game um you want to show bats maybe. >> Bats. Yeah. >> That's an example of a game that's a little bit harder to think about playing just on paper. >> I just want to think we implemented this early. >> Yeah, we did. So this is a game um about modular arithmetic >> and common multiples and that sort of thing. So it's very hard to see on the screen. In the upper left there is an avatar. >> There's you >> and you know from the story that your goal is to get the golden eggs. and avoid this guy that that much you know and you're in a factory where they mix stuff. So >> let's put >> Do you move your avatar >> one and two? >> What? >> Oh >> how about one in class? Oh, with 11. All right. >> Yeah. >> There is one flaw, by the way, in the in the fence in the um interface. People don't realize they're going to have to click to get their guy onto that >> thing. And it was supposed to start with with it up right where he was so that people now. What should I try now? >> Four. >> What? >> Six. >> Or four. >> Why? Four. >> Six. Then you can move against. Bam. >> Four is stuck at the top. >> Oh, can we move? >> But you'll notice that these bats all are different amounts. And so it's really about modular arithmetic. So what's 12 will take you once around on one of them, but it'll take one and third around on on another one. And and you start doing simultaneous equations to solve to solve this. This is this level is hard. I I think maybe the hardest puzzle we designed the whole game is level three of this where you've got to every step you've got to align two bridges. >> Oh, that's fun. >> And yeah, it's it's serious work. >> Oh, you're trying to avoid that monster. >> Yeah, you kind of avoid the monster. >> Oh, okay. >> Which isn't always hard, but but you do have you have to sort of keep in mind sometimes it means instead of going around once like nine, you know, instead of going one on the nine thing, maybe you go um 10 and that'll c and he'll he'll always go on the grid that shows up. So maybe that'll cause another bridge to show up and get your way. So this is really Chinese. >> Yes. >> Anyway, again, you know, you can play a game without without think about math school math at all. There's no school math in this game. >> But I think there are really interesting things to think about. >> But I think I want to highlight what you just said with the character if he walks or not. Like I think if we far it's clear anyway, but You have to keep in mind there are two forms of learning. One one is learning the game, how to play the game. The other one is the learning like the the problem solving or the puzzle in the game. And I I think it's sometimes especially my experience in educational games. It's so easy to mix it. Yeah. >> You know, because sometimes you make it cool that it's educational game and it's really interesting but but you know like for inance the character wouldn't move if you don't press the mouse button. So he would always stand there in the beginning and he would get that effect you know. And I think the mixture of both forms of learning is quite interesting to keep in mind when you prototyping. >> Yeah. And it's actually there's two there's two add that one is I never think just because you want people to think hard. I don't think the interface should be the thing they have to think hard about. It's always tempting to say oh that's really good and t that's a really hard thing to solve. How do I you know how do I make them jump? But no, I mean I think generally it should not be hard to figure out how to make him in trouble walk left or right or how to open a door or you know unless that's a puzzle and it's easy to delude yourself that by making the interface hard. On the other hand, there is this other challenge which is that kids do have different degrees of sort of literacy around games and it's hard to figure out the sweet spot of this. That's one I don't have an easy answer for because some large percentage of the audience naturally knows, you know, try to get to the edge, try to, you know, knows what winning means. But there's some kids who don't. And the question is, do you if you make the game, if you bend over it backwards, like if if tried to do I I watched my mother play this and it was horrible. Um because she just didn't she just was totally clueless about where to go with this. But I think if I tried to set up the game to work for my mother um you it would only work with all this explicit instruction that so so they hopefully with kids it's less of an issue that they there's more I think uniform game literacy but it's always a challenge. No game appeals to everybody and you do want I don't think we I don't think those of us who make learning games have a good answer to that. I don't think we can ever make a game that every kid will play with equal fervor and we should never claim that you know that we're going to get 100% on that. >> Um, >> one thing that I know that uh you've you've noticed uh is the amount of tolerance that kids and adults have for frustration. You know, when when I seen kids say, "I hate this game. This game is too hard." And they will just keep keep going at it. You adults have this tendency to get really embarrassed if they console the first time. >> It happens when you're uh 26 and you suddenly sit down and say, "Well, I'm not very good at this." People who were you may you may have been a gamer all your life, but at some point it's it's what having another adult watching you. I don't know. You know, there's some point in life when you suddenly say, "Oh, I'm not good at this." I don't know why why it happens, but it doesn't it hasn't happened. useful. >> Can you negative numbers? >> Uh, not on this one. No, that's a good idea though. It's initially thought. Yeah, we didn't think about >> Well, you could in modular arithmetic. You could always do it as just put in a larger number. >> I I have a question for content because so far we've been hearing from you guys about coming more or less from a design from a game design angle into playing games for as a learning purpose and you kind of came the other way around. You came in from the education and pedagogy side. Are there things to keep in mind when you're working across disciplines that you might need to know? >> Yeah. Um, so I think I I think one one one difference that I still have um or see between the way I approach games and the way educational games approaching games is I'm I'm I'm more focusing on on learning as an experience like more in abstract form. It doesn't mean that I wouldn't be interested in that but that's not what I've been working on yet here. Um so for instance in in after it was so the re research question was how can players overcome expectations that are wrong and um and I didn't um so the idea was not to use um educational stuff like numbers or whatever but more can we develop patterns in games that players realize very quickly and are they ready to give them up if they realize that they that they think what they've seen is wrong. So um for me it was very interesting because I come with an abstract theory inside and then u so we were developing prototypes and it's very interesting when you come from the abstract idea to prototypes and I thought paper prototyping is perfect because it really you know like it made me as a scientist come to the grounds you know like because I can of course I can read and all these people and say wow um experiences this and that and then you suddenly have pen and paper and sit there and think about a game that kind of like is is a metaphor for your theory. And um so I think my so kind of like my takeaway was that paper prototyping was very healthy for me and with the team to come down to the fact what is really doable in the game. what can we really I think and in the beginning I was a bit like being not that experienced in prototyping like wow we can all do that later um we can do the cool stuff when when we get to programming but then I realized no we can't you know if we cannot do it as a paper prototype how should we do it you know like in programming what what what is changing you know and um and I think for us it was very interesting we had so I think one experience we had is we had them develop different prototypes and so I That was healthy for us not to make one paper prototype and then think how we can do it better. But that's what what what education kit anyway makes a lot of prototypes you know like and and and to stay open and even if you spend like three or four days on a prototype if it doesn't work with others the moment you show them and they go like what like these are the rules are you sure I don't get it you know and if you explain the 10th time maybe maybe you know it was a cool idea back home or with your friend maybe it just doesn't work you know and um so this kind of like experimenting with prototypes was very healthy for us and then coming to the point and I realized for me it was important that somebody coming in the room and playing the prototype for five minutes kind of like understands the core mechanic. If this is not happening, you know, like who takes the five minutes to understand the core mechanic, you know, nobody today. >> Be like in this game like walking onto a bridge. >> That's right. That's right. >> And um so yeah, I think coming from a different perspective again prototyping is kind of like the way to to to to get in the game, you know, even as the designer. Um because from then on, you know what you're talking about. And I had to lose a lot of my abstract thoughts in the process. and then the play testing you know so I so it was interesting sometimes to see even if the prototype is cool then you you have a prototype and then people come in and say I don't I don't get it again and you go that can't be true you know it's so easy but then you know you can start to stick with your idea or say no if if maybe I have to go down with the theoretical aspect and and really look what is suitable for the players so another thing about prototyping it's temp it's not focus groups So it it's not a case of it's sure you want to do as put it in front of as many people as possible but you really want to I think avoid stuff like what did you like what didn't you like those kind of questions because people want to be helpful and sometimes when what people say they didn't like is actually the part where they were working hardest you know so I didn't like that I had to jump over the wall well in fact you have to jump over the wall and and it may not really mean that that that if you took that out they would enjoy the game more in fact they might not enjoy it at all so you have to be really careful about and people want to please you and they'll say, "Oh, it's good." And some of that I think it's really important that what you do with prototyping is watch the player and then trust yourself as a designer rather than ask them what you should do because they won't they'll try and be helpful and they'll come up with wrong suggestions. watch them and try your use your best judgment as a designer as to what they're reacting to and why they're reacting the way they are and try to fix it and maybe ask them try to get some questions to try to maybe get some access to their thinking but don't think that they necessarily know what what was interesting to them or what how or how or what would make them happen. Don't ask those questions. Those are focus group questions and you shouldn't ask them because it's not going to give you the answers you want. You got to trust yourself at some level as well. And something that I also had to learn was if you have the focus chest or like or or the play test and and and then you you realize there are problems and it's really healthy to write down the problems and then brainstorm different solutions. Don't ever like when you discuss it, try to come up with a solution immediately because what happens is you quickly develop one solution and then you go in with another problem but you don't realize that sometimes you know like some problems stick together or sometimes you realize wow we have so many problems just because of this little aspect we have in the game why don't we just you know and if you don't do that you start to you spend two hours on solving a problem then realize it was wrong or you never realize it again. to kind of like seek more to the problems and quick solutions where you are still movable and not make solution solution solution and then have the same problem a few weeks later again. Yeah, I just want to clarify focus test and focus uh focus group two two very different things you know we're talking um the kinds of results you're talking about focus testing which is which is specifically identifying individual problems in your game >> and focus group is asking them what what they like which is actually very not useful for most product design in fact uh games >> one piece of advice because you're all that I think is really important if you're a smart college student like an MIT student is that you probably learned you probably learned in spite of your education. You learned by having someone sit in front of the class and tell you what was going on and you somehow you absorbed it. Um that's why you got here. But lots of people don't learn that. And it's really hard to avoid the tendency in the game to just tell people what they should know which is sort of for my money like when you meet up someone who speaks a foreign language and so you're not understanding each other. So you both start speaking slower and louder. to no effect and I think that's what a lot of education that's a lot of bad education in general does speak slowly aloud and certainly a lot of bad educational games so so and just remember that just because you got the first time and someone told you doesn't mean that everybody else it's not just about explaining it better giving you a different way of learning questions Just wanted to say something. You ever heard of Fire Hose Game? Post this on the forum. Uh so I told him I know a guy works there and he said we got focus group tomorrow night or PS3 central a few months and they didn't want to go tomorrow night 7 o'clock. for an hour and a half. >> That's that includes NK alums part of people who haven't played the game before. >> Maybe they're not. >> Can I ask a question? Can I ask questions? >> Let me know in the next. >> So the question I would have for you is is did anybody of you have his in this in this play biography educational game that you played that you would say was was kind of like an important experience to you that even you know like I know maybe it's embarrassing now with the other ones are listening but does anybody out there yeah like Sam Bon whatever that game was best game of all time I mean it was it was similar in that you you had like an avatar they taken around and had to solve little puzzles that you know underlying them was math and like simple m equations, but like pizzas like just divide up pizzas. Cool. >> It was awesome. >> We can't let that that's got me. >> Oh, it is. I was going to ask you. I was like I was like you. >> No, but but and I think it's interesting to think about if you had an experience like that, what was it that made you like the game? you know, like I think it's worth very rich because a lot of people have um have bad experience with educational games and then think about them when they design it. Think about the the cool ones that have um there's this series of games called thinking things and one of them had a mode that basically was kind of like programming in that you could place different types of units on a grid and then give them instructions in a loop. So say go forward then left and right and they could they could paint a square. And so what you could end up doing is with certain configuration a certain set of rules you could get them to draw patterns and stuff like that. And what used to happen is my dad would say can you get um you know two like inverted triangles drawn on the screen and then I would like sit there and try to like basically program without realizing that it was actually a programming game. So >> does that made a game which is there's a bunch of games that have done that. Um, the last puzzles and beans actually did some of that stuff, too. Um, and there's a product out just now called that I'm hooked on right now called Trainard, which is on the iPad. The I >> Yeah, I thought that be >> what? I thought that would be your name. >> Yeah. And and it really is about um it really is a programming game basically. It's kind of cool. >> The iPhone version. I was just going to say that two games which are really informative for me like in the educational context were Dinosaur Discovery which is an ancient game >> and I would have played it when I was in kindergarten and I'm all most of the people here um and it was it was a an adventure text puzzle game which was which was the year and then where in the world is San >> another classic game that I played back when I think it was back when about the time when the internet started getting popular because mid9s it was uh math blasters or something >> Mario teaches typing that's >> oh Mario teaches typing >> the incredible >> machine that's like thinking it's really I love >> and I think this this is a even this romantized wow that back in the good days you know like I really enjoyed that game that's that's kind of like I think where we all want to have to with educational games it's not like oh my god you know I have to play an education game but more they can be really and I think the best convers was it came with an almanac they encouraged you >> yeah to look use research search of fact answers. In fact, it wasn't cheating to look up the answers. It was smart to look up the answers.