So today we're going to begin our discussion of chapter 8. Remember last time we went through the costs of we have a highway project. We talked about the costs in terms of labor, in terms of asphalt and in terms of maintenance. We talked about the issues involved in measuring those costs and came up with the total cost. Then we turn to the benefit side and there's two types of benefits. There's valuing time savings and valuing lives saved. For each of these benefits, there's fundamentally three methods that are used to value the benefits. Three methods one can use. The first method is what we call the market value method. And that's basically using a market revealed price to measure the value of something. So for time the market real price is wages. Remember I talked about the fact that in a standard no friction standard economic model of the labor market the wage is the appropriate measure of people's time. So in that world we can use the wage to measure what time gained is worth. We then talked about why that may or may not be a good measure. Okay. So wage has pros and cons. Remember it might be too big or too little depending on various imperfections in the labor market. So in a perfect labor market with no imperfections, the wage would be the appropriate measure of time. In a labor market with imperfections, it may not be. Okay. The second approach we use is an approach we call contingent valuation. Now this is once again I've mentioned this before, but part of what you get from this course is a few trade secrets. And one of the trade secrets in economics is you make a lot of money by making up fancy terms for things which are really not very hard. Okay. Contingent valuation means asking people asking people what stuff is worth. Um and that is basically saying look what's it worth to you to save an hour and doing a survey and ask it's worth save an hour. That seems like the standard place one would start if one want to know what an hour of time is worth you to ask people. The problem is people have no idea that it's a very hard thing to know how to answer. What's an hour of my time worth? And it gets even more complicated when you ask them harder questions like how we v value various other potential benefits of regulation or damage for environmental considerations. There's a great article which talks about um all the kind of problems you have when you ask people their preferences. So for example, one problem is um uh you is whether a question is asked isolated or with other questions matters. So if you ask people how much they'd be willing to pay to improve the visibility of the Grand Canyon, if you ask them solely, if you only ask that question and then ask them as part of a series of questions, a randomly ask some people only the question. Other people ask five question that's the third, the second group values it as much as the first group even though it's random. Okay, some asking in a list makes the Grand Canyon one as valuable, which is not plausible. Um there's also the order of issues matters. So if you ask people they'd rather save whales or seals. Okay. Um uh if you ask uh about seals and then whales, you find that seals are worth um uh about the same as whales. About 142 to save the seals and 195 to save the whales. So whales are worth about 25% more than seals. If you ask about the whales first, now seals are worth twice as much as Now whales are worth twice as much as seals. $172 to $85. So the order you ask matters. And then finally, there's sort of something called the embedding effect, which is people a hard time thinking about magnitudes. So if you ask people randomly, what is it worth to save 2,000 birds, 20,000 birds, 200,000 birds, or 2 million birds, they give the same answer, okay? It's because they don't know how to and it's not surprising. It's hard to think about what these things are worth. As a result, it's hard to use contingent valuation methods to value things. Okay? And that's why economists typically prefer a third approach which we call the revealed preference approach. Revealed preference which is basically saying pe saying you know people might not know how to answer a question but their actions betray their true valuation. That econ fundamental rule economics you want to know something about people look at what they do not what they say. And real preference methods are ways of using people's actions to value how much they value things. So for example, someone tell me, raise your hand and tell me, if I want to think about valuing how much an hour of your time is worth, how could I use a revealed behavior to tell me how much an hour of your time is worth? What could I do? I want to know an hour of your time is worth. I see you do lots of things in life. I track you all day. I see everything you do. How could I use your decisions every day to tell me what an hour of your time is worth? Yeah, >> great. That's a great idea. If you use a grocery delivery app, you pay five bucks more and you save x minutes. So, you could look at how much more you going to pay to save x minutes. You could look at two different ways people can drive home. One way which might have a toll and one way which wouldn't have a toll but takes long. can actually set ways to avoid tolls. You can look at people who set the ways in different ways ways different spellings and see how much they'll pay to avoid tolls. So you can look at people's decisions to try to reveal it. A classic way of doing this is looking at the most important single financial decision every American makes, which is to buy a house. Houses are worth different amounts depending on the commute. The value of the commute is embedded in the value of the house. The further you have to commute, the less a house is worth. Now the problem of course is house value is determined by lots of things. Okay. So while it's true that in general long commutes associated with lower valued houses, it's also true that lots of other things matter. So, for example, if you look at Everett, which is about um which is about three miles from downtown Boston, most of the jobs in Boston, the average house price is $300,000. If you look at Lexon, where I live, which is three times as far away, the average house price is a million dollars. So, that would seem to be backwards. We're three times farther away. Our house prices are worth more. That's because like we've got good schools and nice houses and all that stuff. So, it's very hard. And likewise, all the decisions we've talked about, it's hard to use them. So the fact you use grocery delivery or not, maybe that's not about value of time. That's just like you're socially awkward. You want to deal with people. Or the fact you drive one way or another, maybe it's just habit. So the problem with a reveal preference approach is that decisions are endogenous. If I want to try to value your time by comparing two things, I've got the problem we discussed in chapter three of the bias problem. that people who use ways who use ways who get groceries delivered and don't get groceries delivered aren't the same. So you can't just compare them and people who live in Lexin and Ever aren't just the same. You can't just compare them. So we need some kind of experimental or quasi experimental method to look at how people value time. Probably my favorite example in this case for valuing time is this super cool paper that was done uh many years ago actually the mid 80s but it's a really cool paper. What they said is look during the gas crisis of the 1970s many of you may know in the 1970s OPEC was formed and gas prices went through the roof. As a result gas prices got very high in the US. Politicians responding to this put a cap on gas prices and said that you could not gas stations do not charge beyond a certain amount. Well, we know from standard economics what that did. It created giant lines at gas stations because basically gas was now artificially cheap because the government had capped it. So you're waiting on long lines to get gas. The problem with that is so the not the problem the interesting fact that is that I didn't know when I read this paper. It turned out those gas caps only applied to national chains. So your mobiles and Exxons had that cap but Joe's gas did not. So it turned out you had side by side for random reasons gas stations with cheap gas and long lines and expensive gas and short lines. And you could use that difference to value time because essentially you could choose. You could decide, do I want to go to Exxon, save money and wait online, or do I want to go to Joe's Gas, spend more, not wait online? And that's a true random choice. I mean, there might be some underlying preference for Exxon, but that's probably likely to be not a big deal. So that's kind of a cool quasi experiment. So what did he found? He found that in today's dollars that you saved about 50 cents a gallon actually precisely 0.54 cents 0 54 cents a gallon savings 54 cents a gallon savings by going to Chevron going to a chain you waited on average 14.6 more minutes. So you you you save 14.6 6 minutes to save 54 cents a gallon and the typical purchase was 10.5 gallons. So what that meant was the typical person was waiting 14.6 minutes to save $22.50. Okay. Was waiting 14.6 minutes. Uh, oh, I'm sorry. No, that's that's wrong. I don't mean that. What I mean is typical person saved $22 $27.50 per hour they waited. If you do that math per hour someone waited, they saved $20.50 $27.50. So that's the value of time. We can value time. People randomly had to choose and their preference reveals that they would pay up to $27.50 to save an hour. But beyond that, they'd rather they wouldn't rather save the hour. What's very cool about that is in today's dollars that's almost exactly the average wage in America. That actually the estimate you get from that is very similar to the estimate you get from the first approach. That's pretty cool. These approaches are very different and these two align. That's very good news. So it seems like we have a pretty good estimate of the value of time. Okay. The average wage in the US uh was about $23. So it's a little bit higher but close enough for government work. Okay. So basically looks like you got a pretty similar estimate of what time is worth $23 27 an hour. Okay. So that is an example of how we use these methods. Now let's come to the more interesting case which is valuing lives. Let's ask the first question which is God that sounds awfully morally difficult and ugly to value lives. I mean if you go to your cocktail party and they're like oh my god we got to save this kitty's down the well. and you're like, "Well, depends how much it's going to cost to save them." Your friends look at you like you're an and you're just an economist and that's why they call us the dismal science because we make statements like that. But in fact, society does not leave us a choice. We cannot choose whether or not to value lives. We have to choose whether to value lives because all the time policy makers face decisions that turn on the value of a life. So there's some fun examples in the book. So, in 1993, uh GM, swear to God, it's a true example. Um GM made a new truck, uh that was exploding. Turned out they put the gas tank on the outside of the truck. I'm not kidding you. Literally, they built the gas tank on the outside. Turns out when the gas tank is outside of the truck, it's more likely to explode. Okay, GM probably should have known that. Uh what they And so, there was a recall, this auto recall. They said, "Look," so the government said, "GM, you got to recall all these trucks getting off the roads." So the government estimated that um the recall would cost $1 billion and would save at most 32 more lives. 32 lives. So that's a value of life of $1 billion divided by 32 or $31 million. So GM could save those lives $31 million. GM went back and said, "Wait a second, that's hugely inefficient. What if instead we said we are going to um buy 200,000 child safety seats and provide all this money to educate people about drunk driving, wearing seat belts. And they estimated that that would save at least 50 lives at a cost of at least save at least 50 lives at a cost of $50 million or only $1 million per life saved. So GM said, 'Look, you can make us do this recall, but that's going to be $31 million per life saved, or we can save more lives for way less money. And as you can imagine, their GM even saying that caused a massive uproar and they had to recall the cars. But they were right. Okay, that's a rational calculation. Okay, let's look at another example. Uh 1999 there was a commuter train crash at London's Paddington station killing 31 people because basically the brakes failed on the train. Basically the safety system failed. So basically London wanted to use a new safety system for their trains. And they had a choice. They could put in a system called the train protection warning system which would stop any train traveling under 75 miles an hour for $700 million. Okay. So they could for $700 million they could put in this one system or for $3 billion $3 to9 billion they could stop trains traveling at any speed. Okay, they could have a better system for $3 to9 billion. Okay, that would save one to three more lives per year. Okay. So, if we think this system was going to cost 30 last 30 to 50 years, that would mean it would the cost would be would be between 20 and $300 million per life saved. So, by going from the one system to the better system, we could save as many as three lives a year at a cost of 20 to $300 million per life saved. Worth it? Uh that's uh that's pretty expensive. They decide not to do it. Were they wrong? Were they right? That's what we need to think about. But the point is they couldn't avoid that decision. And let's talk about the most pertinent example to us which is COVID. This decision was per during COVID. Now first of all if sometimes there's like it's a no-brainer. So for example um aggressive testing for COVID basically uh cost a tiny amount of money per life saved or vaccines cost a tiny amount of money per life saved. Those are sort of no-brainers. But what about all the shutdowns? That's a harder case. People have actually valued that and tried to value how much we lost in economic activity versus how many lives we saved by the shutdowns. And they estimate that basically um uh the shutdowns cost the US about 7.2 trillion in foregone economic activity and saved 1.24 million lives. Falsely precise, but roughly speaking for a cost of about $6 million per life saved. That's a big number. How big a number should we pay? $6 million save a life. So you cannot avoid this and certainly in your lifetimes you've seen it in bright lights in COVID, which is how do we think about let's take $6 million if that was worth it or not. So once again, we go to the same three methods to try to decide is $6 million of life worth it. The first is market value. What's the market value of a life? Well, once again, we have wages. You could say basically the value of your time is wages. People work on average about 20% of their life. So, we can take the average wage, take a 40-hour week and or take the average wage applied to every hour you're alive. Okay? And what you get from that is a value of life about $4.5 million. Okay? So, that's below the $6 million. Now clearly that has some flaws. What might be wrong with that? Yeah. >> Well, that is that's this is a very important question. This is why we're unpopular. That is not a problem. Why is that not a problem that there's wage disparities? Why is it not necessarily a problem? When would it not be a problem that there's wage disparities? Let's make it simple. Imagine workers in um uh you know garbage men make less than finance bros. Okay. Why is that not necessarily a problem? Why garbage men lives may be worth less than finance bro lives? >> No. >> If if their marginal product to finance pros is higher then they're worth more. That's the kind of we got to deal with as economists. Okay. So basically um essentially the point is in our economic model the value of life is a function of many things. One of which is the marginal product of what you produce in society. Now you go further and argue as is probably right that what finance bros makes does not necessarily reflect their underlying social value. Okay? No offense to all you future finance bros and sisters. Okay. Um and then maybe then maybe we start to have an issue with wages. But let's be very clear just like external we have to start with what the basic model says. The basic economic model says that essentially in a perfect labor market your wage represents your marginal product and the value of your life is your marginal product applied to all your hours. So one problem so one problem with that of course is we think wages are a bad indicator of marginal product. This isn't a problem with valuing time but it is a problem with valuing life. We have all the other problems we talked about a reason why people can't set the value of wage equal to leisure. We also have the problem that like your wage may not reflect like how much people like you. Okay. Was it going back to the finance bros? Uh so basically you know different people will be differentially sad if you die and that should presumably reflect in the value of your life too. Yeah. >> Yeah. You know, exactly. So, so market value is not great for lives. Okay, that's not really going to fly. Although in legal circumstances, typically what's used. If you look at typically like the look at damages case, people are killed by accident. They'll often use foregone wages as a measure. Second would be contingent valuation. Ask people. Now, you can't ask me what their life's worth. That's sort of dumb. But you can ask people questions like, how much would you pay to reduce the risk of your life? So, for example, you could say, look, you're about to take a flight in an airline. You've you're about to take a flight from A to B. You have two choices. One is an airline where it crashes once every 50,000 times, and once an airline where it crashes every once every 500,000 times. How much more would you pay for the second airline than the first? And then you could say, well, that gives you an incremental value of a life because basically you're getting a probability of dying. They'll tell you they say if it's $100 more well then base that gives you $100 is the is you divide that by the incremental change in the value of dying that gives you value of life. The problem with that is when you use that method you get the tight estimate of 1 million to $32 million per life saved. People just don't know. I mean how can you know right? And that's why economists once again turn to our favorite method which is reveal preference. How do you get people to reveal their preference for their life? How do you do that? Yeah. >> I don't know. >> Exactly. You look at choices that are made that reveal that differ in their risk. And in particular, one of the most significant choices people make is working conditions. So if you are someone who is an unskilled worker 50 years ago in West Virginia, you could become an administrative assistant or you could become a coal worker. Okay? Those had very different risk profiles and you could ask, but they had basically similar skill background requirements. Okay? You can work at a grocery store, be a coal miner, make that better. similar requirements but very very risk profiles and you look at how much higher are the wages in jobs that are riskier. So if a job that has a 1% chance of killing you a 1% higher chance of killing you every year pays a $1,000 per year more then that says your life is worth a thousand over 001 or a million dollars. Okay. So you basically look at how much more you have to pay to get people to take jobs that risk certain that change their life risk by a certain amount. And there's a huge literature doing this. This is sort of the economist go-to method for valuing life. And the best estimates from this literature are that a life is worth about 10.5 million dollars. Okay? Which is a big number bigger than the COVID number we talked about before. Now there are however while I sort of agree with most economist is the best method to value life and it's a number I use in my work and references um there are a number of problems with this okay what are some of the problems with this what are some of the problems real preference method yeah >> determining the risk >> yeah well not just determining it but the person knowing it not just I mean I can measure it statistically but the person has to know it. So, it's an information problem. Yeah. >> They don't have free choice uh in in in what they do. Okay. Great point. Other points other reasons why this might be problematic. >> Yeah. >> Great. This is the only difference is not just that it kills you. There's lots of things the working conditions suck. You might get injured. This is of this compensating differential which by the way this is a concept. The concept of compensating differentials I should have mentioned goes back to Adam Smith. He actually talked about this in 1776 the wealth of nations the first important economics text. He talks about this idea. Okay. But the problem is the compensating difference between two jobs is the differential for all the amenities between the two jobs not just death. And it's hard to find two jobs identical except for the risk of death. Typically risk of death comes with other health risks as well. The other problem is in some sense you're overstating the value of life if you use this differential because you're actually valuing the value of everything that's crappy about this job. Okay. Other problems. Yeah. >> Okay. So this is very interesting. This is a very important point I want to come to that's come home very clearly to me with my daughter's work which is when you use this method you only get and this comes to the point also about West Virginia workers having choice when you use this method you only get the value for the workers who are on the margin of deciding between the two jobs so I don't get your guys' value of life by comparing coal miners and grocery workers of West Virginia you guys are nothing like that. Okay. So, if there's a difference in value of life that give a very different answer. Okay. My daughter's an EMT. Okay. It's an incredibly hard, stressful and skillful job. She had to study six months, pass an exam. Very hard job. She took a pay cut moving from Starbucks to EMT. Why? Why? Yeah. >> Yeah. She's an adrenaline junkie. Okay, she wants that job. She'd do it for almost free. She's in school now. I totally don't have to work. I'll pay your living expenses. She said, "No, I have to work." Okay, so basically the point is if there's differential taste for risk. Okay, so the simple example, imagine imagine the workers are deciding there's 900 coal miner jobs, okay? 900 coal miner jobs fulfilled and there's 2,000 people and a thousand of them are risk lovers and a thousand are risk avoiders. Who's going to take the coal miner job? The 900 risk lovers. So, they're not going to get paid a whole lot more because they're already risk lovers. So, you're getting an underestimate of the value of life. If you look at it actually takes if you took my daughter's job, you'd say, "Gee, you don't have to. People don't really care. They're happy to put in stressful life-threatening situations." Well, they're not. It's just people take those jobs are is not an appropriate estimate for the average person. And that's an important bias here as well that you're not getting the the overall estimate. This is fundamentally the econometric level. What Josh Angrist, my colleague here at MIT won the Nobel Prize for was pointing out basically that whenever we do economic estimates, we get the estimate not necessarily for the average person but for the marginal person whose behavior has changed. If you look back at chapter three, we don't talk about this in chapter 3. Look at chapter three all the examples. We're looking at deviations like a welfare benefit changes by $100. We're looking at people who get whose behaviors changed. That's that's a small subset of slice of the population. If they are not representative of the whole population, we're not getting the right average answer. We're just getting the right marginal answer. So this is an example of that here which is a particularly worrisome example because a set of there's a set of people may love risk or be less risk averse and they're the ones who you're getting the estimate for. Okay, questions about that? Yeah. >> Well, no. So, so for that argument, I say 10.5 million is an underestimate. Other arguments might say it's an overestimate because it accounts for injury and all the stuff that's crappier about the jobs. So, that's why I end up using it because I don't know which way the bias goes. Um, there's also the fact there's the information fact. There's another fact which is we talked about behavioral economics and people are not good at optimizing over these things. It's al people may not be making this decision appropriate even if they have perfect information and they're going to make the decision appropriately. So there's a lot of biases to this. I think there's less biases than these other methods and I think there's no there's been no evidence that the bias systematically goes one way or another. Okay. So that's why I tend to use that estimate. Okay. Um, another fun thing um uh about um value of life is should the value of life how should the value of life vary with age? So you're a policy maker, you're king, you don't worry about political correctness. You get to decide how much to spend on saving people of different ages. How would you change the value of how do you think the value of life what should be the age profile of the value of life? Yeah. should should when >> yeah so basically it should be you know low in your baby peak around not actually 20 or 30 because your margin product's always going it should really peak because remember it's not just marginal product it's also attachments you have to people it's all the things that are value having you alive in society those probably peak I don't know 50 60 something like that right when you're at the peak of your earnings power okay and when you sort of maximize your attachments to the world, okay? And then it should fall again, okay? Because you're not earning, people are dying, you're not as attached to them, whatever. Okay? If you actually do estimates by age, the value of a life, it actually looks like this and then like that. It doesn't drop. That is people who are 90 think they're worth just as much as people who are 50, even though our models would say they don't, which is once again says that's a problem with the market value approach. Okay, so that's another so this is a fascinating literature. Here's another really cool Yeah, >> this is from compensating differential studies because when people are older now you might say they're not working. We have also consumption based studies the kind suggested like how much more we pay for an airbag in a car as a child. >> Well, that would be that would be that that's a great point. Many people would say, well, you know, uh, it should be potential. This is sort of a replacement value model, right? I mean, this says like the first day you're born, you're worth the least because you're not earning anything and you're replaceable nine days in a month. So, that's awful. As a parent, I can't imagine anything worse than saying that. But that is what the economic model would be saying. But if you're saying potential, but the point is you could replace that potential. So, that's kind of the idea of why it's low. Once again, why we're not popular parties. Okay, so this is actually a really cool study. The state of um in February 2003, the state of Oregon had massive budgetary problems and laid off a bunch of police. So they couldn't do traffic stops anymore and people drove faster and died more on the road. So people, this study looked at how many more deaths were caused by driving faster versus how much the state saved by laying off the police. What they found was there would have been 2,167 fewer fatalities and the state saved $670 million which implies a value of life of $39,000. That is if life is worth more than $39,000 they should not have laid off the troopers. Life is definitely worth more than $39,000. So by that metric, it was a huge mistake to lay off these troopers, which once again speaks to the fact that societyy's not always pulling in the same direction. They had a budget crisis. They had to do something. There's no social planner saying, "Oh, don't do it. Life's worth more than that. I'll give you money." So that's an example of the problems that we face in society making these hard decisions. Okay. Questions about that? What I what I really like about this lecture is cost benefit seems like it'd be almost the most almost certainly the most boring thing in the world, but it turns out to be really interesting and fun because there's all these really interesting moral questions and ethical issues that come up now. Yeah. So my question now are we like >> well not just one cost life for every person there's a great there's age there's income there's countries how do they have value of life in Bangladesh versus valuing a life in the US there's all these difficult issues and basically we don't have very clear answers so basically what we do is we have to pick a number we the government picks a number. Okay, but that number even values across government agencies. Okay, so it's really really a challenging issue. But once again, because it's challenging, we can't throw up our hands and say we're not going to deal with it. We have to deal with it. It's not a choice. The co example shows that. So we just have to keep working on trying to find it and do better and better job. Some things will never be resolved. will never resolve how to value a life in Bangladesh versus the US because fundamentally economics would say the life in Bangladesh is worth less. Fundamentally moral morality would say it's not and that's an unresolvable gap, right? That we're never going to resolve. Okay, but let me Yeah, go ahead. >> Is there a difference between how someone values their own life and people value that person's life? >> Great question. That's another problem with this measure, right? Which is it's what I think about my life. I may think nobody likes me and a bunch of people, you know, might like me. Okay? Or I think people like me and they don't. Okay? So that's another problem of this measure. But this is really interesting. So this at this point you can be pretty frustrated like, well, I don't know what to do. I don't know what's life worth. But we can realize there's an important thing we can obviously do, which is the fact is the government every day makes decisions that save lives. And we can ask are they making them in the right priority order. So if you look at table 83, this looks at the social cost of a variety of regulations the government puts in place and how many lives and what it costs per life saves. So for example, enforcing that lighters are childproof does not cost the lighter producers much money but saves a ton of lives. So you save basically it costs $140,000 per life saved by childproofing lighters. Okay. On the other hand, regulating cattle feed so we don't get mad cow disease has a tiny chance of affecting our health but costs a huge amount that's $250 million per life saved. So what you can do is you can say look even if I don't know what the number is I know we should put more money towards things on the bottom of this list and less money towards things at the you know more effort towards things at the bottom of this list and less effort towards things at the top of the list. So at least it can help you with relative answers or what we call cost effectiveness analysis. Cost effectiveness analysis is not necessarily what's what's the value but what's what should we do relatively what action should we take relative to others. So at least putting valuation on lives can at least help us rank different interventions even if the absolute level is really hard to pin down. So there is value in that. So to the extent we're a little depressed about the fact it's hard to know how to value this at least there is a useful piece which by doing this exercise [clears throat] we can at least rank things and say hey you know among decisions this will be the most efficient decision. Yeah. >> Yeah. No it's great it may be like we can't ch we can't do more to childproof lighters. They're child proofed. I agree. So think of this but think of this more along the decisions we'll talk about like for example expanding health insurance programs you know you could expand health insurance programs or you could you know uh subsidize uh better highways they save different things you could use the valuation and try to get out that >> is there any does this include sort of marginal like benefits of scaling once you have every car as a seat belt presumably >> that's a similar question which is sort of you know it's not linear and there could be cliffs at which beyond it which which it doesn't help. >> Yeah. >> I wouldn't care for myself. >> No, I mean well actually that's a great question which is this whole discussion is taking the this sort of theoretical perspective of the social planner that I'm one benevolent person trying to do what's best for society. as we'll discuss more next chapter we talk about political economics right now people don't seem to feel that way about our society okay sort of benevolent towards their fellow citizens so that's another factor to put in but I think that's sort of the last issue I want to worry about let's assume this benevolent social planner that makes it makes life a lot easier okay other questions thoughts okay so um let me talk about uh one more issue which is what about the fact that a lot of these benefits happen in the future Now we talked last time when costs happen in the future we discount them. We put in person discounted value. You do a similar thing with benefits but it's a little once again ethically difficult especially something like global warming. Even with a very low discount rate lives in 100 years aren't worth a whole lot relative to lives today. And lives in 500 years are worth almost nothing by the time you discount them. Do we really want to feel that way? So imagine the way global warming worked is no one died for 200 years then everyone died or not everyone died but then a huge number of people died. Well if you said gee I could save onetenth of those people today I might rather do that because like by the time I discount those people in 200 years aren't worth that much. Well that sounds kind of weird doesn't it? People aren't worth something in the future. So that's another tricky ethical issue which is how do you discount the future? And once again the standard model's got a clear answer. you should discount it because we'd save that money to save all that money in the future. But money does no good when the earth's on fire. So it's not our standard model is assuming it's a substitution of money that money can solve the problem. But money can't 200 years from now it's too late. Money can't solve that problem. So for global warming many people say we should use a lower or no discount rate because you can't easily trade off the money between you now in the future. So for example, think about think about a different example. Imagine um uh investing in food today versus investing in food in the future or something like that. Then you would want to use a discount rate. You want to say, well, if we don't if we invest in food today, if we invest in food in the future, that's money we could put aside today. We'll have more money in the future. We want to account for that. But if it's stopping global warming in 500 years, you can't do that because the money in the future is no good if we're all underwater. So it's that's another difficult once again, not to make it even more difficult, it's another tricky issue that we have there. Okay, let's put it all together. We put it all together in table 84. We already talked about the cost of this project being being a $253 million in present value. We're going to then have time saved and lives save, but those are going to offer in the future. So, we're going to discount them. Let's use the save 7% discount rate. Let's ignore the global warming issue I just talked about. And you end up with benefits that are much much larger than costs. So, that would say you should do this project. that the value of time saved and lives saved is massive relative to the costs. It turns out that lives are worth so much that when you're saving lives, most projects want to get done. Okay? So, it turns out that once project involves saving lives, it's going to be a pretty inefficient project not to want to do it. Okay? Because the number is so massive. $10.5 million a life is a lot. Okay? So, that's sort of where we end up. questions about that. Let me talk about a couple more things before we stop. The first is um how to if you ever find yourself in this situation, how to avoid the mistakes non-economists make. And a common mistake non-economists make is double counting benefits. So, for example, if you do this analysis, someone would say, well, that's good, but you've but you've understated the benefits because you've also created all these jobs. What about that? What are the value of creating the jobs? What would your answer be? How would you why would you explain that's wrong? >> Yeah. >> Well, based Okay, that's kind of a nerdy answer. Like they'll be like, "Okay, I don't understand you." >> Well, how would you answer them in in in more intuitive terms? Yeah. >> Yeah. They would have found a job else. We're not creating a job. We're taking a job from somewhere else. Okay. So, or for example, if someone said, "Yeah, well, not only you save time, you raise the value of houses because now it's quicker to get back and forth from work." Why shouldn't that be counted? Why shouldn't you count raising the value of time? No, raise I'm sorry. Why shouldn't you count raising the value of houses along the highway? The answer is you shouldn't. Why not think about why those house houses are worth more? Why is houses worth more? >> Yeah, Alec, >> it'll be double counting. You've already counted that they're worth more because you save time, but you already counted saving time. Okay. These are the kinds of mistakes that people commonly make in this that we need to use our e economic intuition to avoid. Okay. Now the last point I want to come to I want to discuss this early in my office hours is distributional concerns. We have this course so far has been efficiency efficiency efficiency and we don't care rich versus poor. We discussed a little bit here but largely we haven't talked about that but distributional concerns can be really critical when doing costbenefit analysis because the cost and benefits can occur to very different types of people. For example, a lot of the most serious environmental damage in our country has been done to most some of the most disadvantaged communities. So if we said should we clean up this environmental damage might say well overall it's not worth it but and or we might even say more well it's certainly not worth it because they're poor people so their lives are worth less. Okay but that's sort of worrisome. How do we deal with that in a rigorous way? What economists do is they say we have distributional weights or social welfare weights. Remember let's go back to our standard utilitarian social welfare model. In our stage in the social welfare model, we want to redistribute income until everyone's margin utility of income is the same. Well, poor people have a higher margin utility of income than rich people. So that would say we want to redistribute from rich to poor. That would say that a project which taxes the rich and distributes the poor should get a special plus up relative to a project which is just taxes the rich and benefits the rich or even worse taxes the poor and benefits the rich. That's what we call a distributional weight. Distributional weight we gt would be that basically you're going to put extra value based on who's helped and who pays for this project and that value would be weights which are higher on the poorer people because in a utilitarian social welfare function they have a higher margin utility of consumption. So valuing resources of them more highly. Yeah, Stephen. It's >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean this is once again once again, you know, you can look at any problem like this and view as an opportunity or challenge. You can say, "God, this is really hard." Throw your hands up and walk away. Or you can say, "That's really cool. Let me try to add that into my analysis and figure that out." That's not been done well, but it should be. We should look at all the benefits and all the costs and and to whom they're attributing. And that would be exactly the kind of interesting thing to build in these kind of costbenefit analyses. Yeah. doing that society by having >> we're going to talk in chapter 17 more about theories of income inequality but essentially there are many theories of income inequality which lead you to the same spot which is from today's perspective we'd be better off taking a dollar from a rich guy and giving it to a poor guy and there's many ways to get there but at the end of the day you get to that same spot which fundamentally most Americans not all far from all but Most Americans would sort of agree that all else equal, taking a dollar for rich guy to a poor guy would make society better off. Okay? And we'll talk we'll talk at length about that in chapter 17. Okay? Now, speaking of difficulty of getting Americans to agree on things, let's now turn to chapter nine and political economy. As I said, the fourth fundamental question in the first lecture, the fourth fundamental question of public economics is why do governments do what they do? At one level, this is the ultimate overarching question of public finance, which is I spend this whole lecture assuming some benevolent social planner. Okay? And you know, it's hard to teach this chapter without revealing one president's one preferences, but I certainly think it's hard to imagine Donald Trump as a benevolent social planner. You may like him and dislike him, but certainly that would not be your description of him. Okay. So basically the question is how do we think about a world where decisions are not made by some theoretical social planner but by real people and that's the field of political economy which builds in government decisionmaking. Now I only do a lecture and a half on this which is very unfortunate. Fortunately our department has the best political economists in the world teaching here. Jerona Samogloo who wrote the the book why nations fail probably the most important political economy book maybe ever written or at least in the last century. uh Ben Ulen who does amazing work on how we think about governance in developing countries. Abjet Banerjee Nobel Prize winner who's done incredible work about the theory of political economy. We have incredible resources in that our department and there's multiple courses you can take. So I urge you if you want to learn more to take those classes. Unfortunately here I only about a lecture and a half. Okay. So here's how we're going to think about political economy. Next time we'll do the fun like gossipy stuff. Now, we're going to do like the more rigorous economic stuff. Here's how we're going to think about political economy. The way we're going to think about it is we're going to proceed in several steps. The first step is going to be imagine a theoretical world where we could implement the perfect form of political economy. Then we'll say, okay, that doesn't exist. A second alternative would be imagine a world where we where literally everybody every American voted to choose every item. no politicians or what we call direct democracy which occurs in some cases but not in most. And then third and most interesting we'll talk next time about representative democracy which is what we have in most countries have where we don't literally make every decision we elect people who make the decisions. Okay. So that's the three steps we're going to proceed and we're going to start with an example of what we call a model of unanimous consent. So this first model is a model of unanimous consent which is imagine a world where we can only do things if everyone agrees and imagine a world where we could actually make that happen. We get everyone to agree. That is a world of what we use what we call Lindal pricing named after a Swedish economist who developed this model in the early 20th century where he basically said look as long as we charge every individual their marginal willingness to pay for a public good we can get unanimous consent. To see that let's go to figure 91 which is a replication back from uh an earlier this a replication example from an earlier chapter chapter 7 which was demand for fireworks and we talked about marginal willingness to pay fireworks back then it was Ben and Jerry now it's it's a jack. So, the funny thing is when I wrote this textbook 20 years ago, 22 years ago, um, every example involved the names of one of my kids. I've now had to change it because that's not really fair. Um, and I was very upset my kids being mad at me. Ava, Jack, and Sam, and Sam is now Rachel, but time was Sam. And I was very upset about my kids being mad at me. So, I carefully went through and made sure I used every kid's names exactly the same number of times. And the ironic part is none of my kids have ever opened the book. So, I spent all that time for nothing. Anyway, Ava and Jack are two of my kids and let's imagine that uh they have a willingness to pay for fireworks. And let's say Ava's willingness to pay is depicted in the first in panel A, Jack's in panel B, and the total social willingness to pay in panel C. Just like we did with Ben and Jerry, it's their willingness to pay for fireworks. Okay? So, AA is willing to pay a dollar for the first firework and by the time you get to the hundth firework, it's worth nothing to her. Jack's willing to pay $3 for the first firework, but also 100 fireworks worth nothing to him. And so society as a whole is willing to pay $4 for the first firework with it with this diminishing demand. And if the marginal cost of fireworks is a dollar, then the optimal number of fireworks to provide is 75. That's the graphical implementation of the Samson rule, the sum of the marginales to pay. So here's what Lindol said. What if we set up the following system? It's in your textbook, so just talk it through. It's hard to write it all down. Okay. Imagine the government says, "We're gonna set a set of tax prices for firework. For every firework we choose, we're going to charge each person a certain amount of money. Fireworks cost a dollar each. It could be 50 cents each, 90, 10, whatever it is. We're going to charge each person a tax price for each firework." They said it's going to add up to a dollar. That's the only constraint. Tireworks are a dollar. No's not going to make money. It's going to have to dollar, but we set these tax prices. Each individual would then say, well, at that price, this is how many fireworks I want. Well, the government by doing that over and over again can essentially trace out the demand curve. So, I go to people and say over and over again, how many fireworks you want at 10 cents or 20 cents or 30 cents. I trace out the demand curve. Once I have the demand curve, no marginal cost, I can figure out the outcome of fireworks and then I can charge people what they said it was worth to them. So in this case, if the ultimate of fireworks is 75, I say, "Look, it's 75 fireworks. Fireworks cost a dollar." Okay. Uh fireworks cost a dollar. So that's $75. How am I going to pay for that? Well, Ava said for 75 fireworks, she's willing to pay 25 each. Jack said for 75 fireworks, willing to pay 75 cents each. So I charge Jack 75 cents on 75 fireworks or like $49. I charge Ava 25 cents for for 75 hours. It's like $21 and it adds up or or $26. It adds up to the $75 whatever the numbers are. I forget what I have here. Okay. I charge Jack um so I charge whatever I just charge the amount. So basically this delivers the the Samuelson equilibrium. each person, you're adding up to the proper number of fireworks. You're covering your costs and everybody's paying their true marginal value. You're done. And there's no reason to deviate. A and Jack are both perfectly happy. They'd be happier paying less, but they are on the domain curve, so they're happy. So, you've achieved the first best. So that would be the ideal political economy system would be you we could get the first best Samson equilibrium. Now in fact we can't do that and we can't do that for the three reasons I laid out uh was it last lecture a couple lectures ago? I think it was last lecture. The first reason is the preference revelation problem which is if I set up this system people have an incentive to lie. Let's work through the math. Imagine that Jack lied and said his preferences were the same as AA's. In that case, we would say, well, if Jack and Ava were the same, we would end up producing 50 fireworks at 50 cents each. If there were two AVAs, the optimal number of fires 55 is 50 cents each. What would that mean? That would mean that what Ava pays uh Ava used to pay 25 cents for 75 fireworks or 1875. She used to pay $1870.75 and get the same 75 fireworks Jack got. Now she pays more. She pays $25 and gets fewer fireworks. She gets 50. Now Jack gets fewer, too, but he doesn't pay that much less. He doesn't pay Jack gets fewer too, but he pays a ton less. I'm sorry. Jack used to pay $56.25 for 75 fireworks. Now he pays $25 for 50 fireworks. So he gets fewer fireworks, but he pays a ton less. What's happened here? Jack has become a free rider on Ava. By lying about his preferences, he's made a forced Ava to contribute more. He's hurt himself. He gets fear of fireworks, but he's paying less than half as much to get threequarters to get twothirds as many fireworks. Abe is paying more to get fewer fireworks. So by lying, he's managed to make himself better off at A's expense. So there's a huge incentive to lie. That's the first problem. People get that. Huge incentive to lie. Second problem is people may not know. We don't know what things are worth. People may not know what fireworks are worth. Okay. And the third problem is aggregation, which is this is all well and good in a twoperson society, but if we had to collect every person America's preference for every single public good we provide at every possible price, the entire population work for the government collecting that data from each other. Okay? It wouldn't work. So this system is a great theoretical benchmark of how you'd achieve the unanimous first best, but it's irrelevant in practice. Okay. What it does highlight, we'll come back to this in later lectures, is that decisions will be more popular. The extent to which they can link the taxes people pay and the benefits they get. One way to make a decision, and you'll this will come to explain a lot of decisions governments make is try to link to get closer to the indel equilibrium by linking what people actually pay and the benefits they actually get. Okay. So that Yeah. sense, >> right? >> Right. So, basically, first of all, there's a couple things. Maybe they don't realize how what it's going to be like to have shitty roads. Second of all, they may be lying. And third of all, how you put that all together. Once again, the tax benefit linkage would be how do you raise money in a way that more directly links the benefits of better roads to the taxes people pay? Well, let me ask you a question. At what level of government do we fund road repairs? The federal government, the state government, or the city government? >> City. >> City. Why does that help answer Enoch's question? Alec. Yeah. >> Their taxpayers are going to be the ones directly. >> Yeah. >> If I'm taxing you to pay for roads in Alabama, you're like, screw that. So, basically, that's exactly that's why this model can actually help explain decisions governments make. And we'll come back to that in chapter 10. All right. Okay. So, that's the first method. While it has some interesting directional predictions, obviously relevant reality. Second method says okay let's move from unanimous decision-m which never works to the common decision-making mode used in the world which is majority decision-m and the best way to tell if a majority of people want something is with direct democracy. Let's just have everybody vote over everything. If you vote, you solve the aggregation problem because you're voting. Okay? And you potentially, and we'll come back to this, solve the revelation problem because there's no reason to lie when you're voting, but we'll come back to why that may not be true. Okay? So, direct democracy. Now, direct democracy is a long history in the US. The first town meeting in the US that's recorded was held in 1657 where the re in 1657 the residents of Huntington, New York uh held a meeting to vote to hire the first school master of their town. There's still town meetings held all over New England. Many decisions in New England are still made by town meetings. People get together and they vote on what they're going to have. Literally, there's no politician making the decision. This actually led to an interesting case in New Hampshire. The problem with that, of course, is many people don't show up. And what happened in town New Hampshire is there was this guy who was a very extreme anti-government person. And he realized in this town that town meetings are poorly attended. So he gathered a few of his friends and they went to the town meeting and voted to basically end public financing of all things in the town. Basically turned a purely capitalistic town with no government, no schools, fire department, nothing. Uh people got upset. They had another town meeting where people actually showed up and voted them down. But this is the challenge. Aggregation only works if people show up. Okay, so that's the example of director marketing extreme. More generally, many of you may for states from states where their ballot referenda or ballot initiatives, which are when you go to vote for your politicians, you also vote on a series of questions. A referendum means that is a case where there's been a law that's already passed and citizens can basically ratify or not ratify it. Okay. A um an initiative is when voters can actually decide an issue. Okay. Now initiatives are uh have the popularity of these methods have waxed and waned over time. 24 states allow initiatives. It started with Oregon in 1904. Um more than 2600 initiatives have been in state ballots uh and about 41% have passed. Although 60% of all initiative activities occurs in only six states, Arizona, California, Colorado, North Dakota, Oregon, and Washington. The popularity of initiatives waxed and wains over time as do the topics. Okay. So early in their lives, initiatives were used for things like taxes. So the most famous of which we'll discuss in chapter 10 was the passage in California 1978 of Proposition 13 which limit how much revenue towns could collect in property taxes. Um that was an that was an early initiative. Um then basically um uh no earliest there were things like election rules, alcohol regulation, labor laws and government were sort of first things on. Then there was taxes. Now the most popular issue of course is marijuana legalization. Uh but there's lots of other things that are on ballots as well. Uh and uh for Massachusetts we've had initiatives about charter schools, initiatives about the minimum wage. Lots of things are decided by initiative. Yeah. >> I feel like abortion. >> Abortion may have abortion is now this round. Abortion's on a lot of ballots, but these are the this that's common example. Good point. Yeah. >> Are there ever? >> No, never. um it's just not the way the US government has done. Now there are other countries Switzerland makes almost all its decisions by full majority voting on initiatives things like what the tax rate should be uh uh that is not done in the US. Okay. There are state level initiatives on things like tax levels uh but never done federally that I know of. I could be misspeaking for the record but uh uh that I know of. There's none. Okay. Now um let's what I want to do in the remaining time is write down the economic model of majority voting and in particular I'm going to talk about when majority voting actually works and when it doesn't work. I'll define what working and doesn't working means. So let's talk about what principles would we like in a voting system. The fundamental principle we'd like in a voting system is that it consistently aggregates preferences. The fundamental goal of a voting system is that it consistently aggregates preferences. What do I mean by consistently aggregating preferences? I mean three things. The first is it must achieve dominance which means that if one choice is preferred by all the voters by a majority of voters that choice should be chosen. Uh no all voters I'm sorry. If there's one choice preferred by all voters, that should be chosen. If that's not true, the system is not consistently aggregating preference. If everyone wants something and the voting system doesn't deliver it, then you're clearly not aggregating preferences appropriately. The second is our old friend from kindergarten, transitivity. And I say kindergarten because you probably now in all the math class you guys have been in, you're sick of the term transitivity. You all know what it means. Okay? So, it's just transitivity. We want if a choice A is preferred to B and B is preferred to C, we need A to be preferred to C. Okay, that's the second condition we'd like. So those are two sort of I would say non-controversial decisions. The third decision is a little more controversial but in political economy generally assumed to be important which is what we call independence of irrelevant alternatives. Independence of irrelevant alternatives. And this system says that the choice between A and B should not be affected by the random introduction of C. Okay. So let's say ignoring the financing, ignore the money. Let's say your town's choosing between erecting a statue and building um uh and uh basically uh a statue and a park. You're going to build a park or a big monument. Okay? and your town votes and prefers the statue to the park. Now, let's say a new option is introduced of a new police station. Now, that could win, but it should not affect people's preferences on a statue versus a park. Okay? The fact that this third alternative, it I'm not saying third couldn't win. I'm just saying relative ranking should not change when a random independent alternative gets introduced. Okay? That is our third condition we impose. And that's what political economists impose as the conditions of a consistent voting system, consistent aggregation. Okay. Now, what we're going to show you is when majority voting systems do and do not meet this condition. So, let's start with an example of a town that's deciding on levels of funding for public education. Let's go to table 91. Okay. in table 91. Okay, there are we are voting over whether to have how whether we should vote how we should fund the level of school. And there's three choices. High, medium, and low. High means great schools, high taxes. Medium means medium schools, medium taxes. Low means crappy schools, low taxes. And there's three groups of voters. There's parents, there's elders, and there's young couples who aren't sure if they're going to have kids before they move. Parents, and then we have for each group the ranking of their choices. Parents choose their first choice is high funding. They want good schools or have to pay high taxes. Second, medium, third, low. Elders of the reverse, these are selfish elders, not altruistic elders. Elders reverse, they're like, I want low taxes. I don't care how crappy the schools are. the worst outcome for me. So, I want low taxes, then medium, then high. The young couple, they're not really sure. So, they're like, "Well, I'm not sure I'm going to be here, so I want to hedge my bets. My best is medium. My worst is low because I don't want to be stuck in a town with crappy schools. Uh, my I'm I'm sorry. My middle's low because if the schools are crappy, I'll just move. The worst for me is high. I pay high tax in a town I may not even stay in." So I mean I'm not saying these are right preferences. I'm saying these are not crazy preference for people to have. So imagine those are people's preferences. If you had those preferences majority voting you will deliver a consistent outcome. Now majority voting let's think of majority voting is happening pair-wise. Think of pair-wise voting. So for example we f no matter how you have pair-wise voting you'll always end up with consistent outcomes. So, for example, imagine we voted on H versus L. Look at this table. If we had H versus L, what would win? Yeah. >> L would win. Uh L is preferred to H by two out of three voters. So L would win. Okay. So now what about H versus M? Same person. H versus M. M wins. So we got our two semi-final winners. So let's go to the finals. M versus L. What wins? >> M wins. And it turns out no matter what order I did those in, you'd get the same answer. M would win. No matter what order I did those in, you would get the same answer. M will always win in this case. Majority voting works. As opposed to, you might say, that's sort of what do you mean by works? Let's talk about example where it doesn't work. Imagine that the elderly person moves out and they are replaced by someone who either is going to send their kids to the public schools if they're good or the private schools if they're not. So, we're going to turn flip over the next page. Go to table 92. Oh, you lost table 92. Okay, we don't have table 92. Table 92, okay, is uh table 92 looks like this. And this one I I I'll copy from the book so I don't screw this one up. Okay. Although I will say you guys were most active when I screwed that graph up. So I'm not screw up on purpose, but I want I want to keep that level of activity. Okay. So now let's imagine you've got your public school parents, you've got your private school parents, and you've got your young couples. Okay, first choice, second choice, third choice. So we know the first and third. This is HML. This is MLH. For the private school parents, they have an interesting choice. Their first choice is crappy schools. They send the kid to private school. But their second choice is H. And their worst choice is M. Why? Because M is the worst. They pay medium taxes and they can't send their kids to school. At least with H, they'll then send their kids to local school. But the worst is a town with pretty high taxes and and mediocre schools. They'd either rather have a town with low tax and crappy schools, they'll go to private school, or town with high tax and good schools, then they'll go to public school. Once again, not crazy preferences someone to have. But with these preferences, we get a very different outcome. Let's do the same voting as before. H versus L. What wins here? H versus L. L wins, right? L gets two votes. H gets one. Okay. L wins. H versus M. H wins. Okay, so H wins over M and H wins versus L. So you might think we're done, but what about L versus M? So I'm sorry, L wins over H. H wins over M. Okay, so we've got L vers um but but imagine we did Okay, so now let's do L versus H. Who wins that? No, we already did L versus I'm sorry. H beats L beats H. H beats M. So L versus M. What do we get? >> M which is inconsistent. It's violates transitivity. Okay. And in fact, no matter how you do this vote, you're going to violate transitivity. You're never going to get the conditions of aggregation. No matter how you do this vote, the order is going to violate Okay? And indeed, no matter how you set up the voting mechanism, you can never guarantee a consistent outcome. You might say, well, this is one voting system, John. What about other voting systems? Let's get to some other systems. Imagine let's let everyone vote in their first choice. Well, in the first case, okay, if we let everyone vote on their first choice, we'd get a tie. In the second case, we get a tie. It wouldn't help us. Voting first choice doesn't help us. Let's do another thing like my dorm used to do. We'll do weighted voting. Three points for first choice, two points. Second choice, one point for third choice. Okay. In the first example, M would win with seven points. In the second example, once again, be a three-way tie with six points each. So, no matter how you set up this voting system, you're not going to get a consistent outcome. Indeed, let me come to this exciting punchline. Indeed, this is the proof, a graphical proof, a very complicated set of math that I cannot do because I'm not going to win the Nobel Prize, but someone who won the Nobel Prize did do it. Kenneth Arrow, that proves mathematically that you cannot ever have a system which ever and always satisfies these three conditions except a dictator. Absent a dictator, you can never have a system which satisfies all three of those properties in generality. A question. >> So how often is this actually a problem? Because to create this, you created very hard. >> Let's talk about that. Great point. Let's go to the figure. Let's go to the figure. Okay. The figure shows figure A. So what we're doing is we're mapping on the X- axis is levels of school spending. on the y axis is preferences first, second, third choice. So look at for example the green line. The green line is parents. High spending is the highest utility. That's a point A. Low spending is the lowest utility. That's a point B. People see that. Now look at the elders. It's the opposite line. Now look at the young couples. It peaks in the middle. Okay. Now go to figure B. The difference with private school parents is it goes down then back up. Okay. The red line is different than any of the lines in panel A which all have what we call a single peak. So as long as preferences are single peaked majority voting works. So the restriction you can impose to get around the impossibility the impossible theorem holds. You have to pose a restriction. The restriction is what we call single peaked preferences. preferences where there's a where the local maximum is the global maximum. Okay, that's not true in the second panel. When is that likely or not likely to be true? And I did not this example Alec was not that weird. In fact, when the situations likely violated are exactly situations when there's a good private alternative to the public good. That's exactly the conditions in which it is likely to get violated because those are conditions which people might might want one extreme but not the middle. Generally people prefer the middle okay where they have linear or they have monotonic rankings. The fact there's this non-monotonicity where they like the middle worst. That's because there's this private option. So AL is generally right. Generally it's a pretty safe assumption that prefers single peaked but not always. And the theoretical proposition important which is not always means that it will not um will will not always work. So basically we restrict preferences. Okay. If we restrict preference to be single peaked we get that majority voting works. But we get more than that. we actually get an even better more powerful outcome which is that basically if preferences are single peaked you can prove mathematically what we call the median voter theorem. The meteor voter median voter theorem states that if preferences are single peaked the outcome of majority voting with the outcome preferred by the median voter. So you don't even need to know anybody else's preferences as long as I count people up. If there's a thousand and one people, I don't need to know the thousand's preferences. I just know the one guy who's the median voter because they're the swing vote. Their preference is determined. So long as you know is the median voters's preferences. We call them swing voters now. Back in the old day, we call them median voters. Okay? I don't care if it's a million people or two million people. As long as I can decide who the median voter is, I just need to know what they want, which is incredibly powerful in terms of reducing our information that we require to understand decisions. That's an unbelievably powerful theorem. Doesn't matter how big society is, I just need to know the median voters preferences. Okay, that's the good news. The good news is that in a model with single peak preferences with majority voting, the median voter will always determine the outcome. Yeah. top of the ranking >> consistent voting mechanism that voting delivers the outcome that meets these three conditions. Okay, so the good news is we can meet these three conditions with single peak preference with majority voting and the even better news is all we can know is who the median voter is and what their preferences are. But here's the bad news. Is that outcome efficient? Is the median voter outcome efficient? When would it be and when would it not be? Okay. And here I'll accept the graphical intuition. Not that kind of graph, but thinking about statistics. When would the median voter remember what's efficiency? Remember the Samuelson efficiency condition? When will the median voter outcome achieve the Samuelson efficiency condition or when will it not? There's actually a mathematical answer to this. Yeah. Yeah. And what would that mean in terms of a distribution? It would mean the median equals the mean. Because the Samuelson condition is that the sum of values get set back equal to the cost. That means on average you want the average person's value to be the average cost. Okay? That in a median voter system that will only be true if the median equals the mean. But if the median doesn't equal the mean, it will no longer be true. In particular, if there's more intensity of preference on one side than another, you will not get the efficient outcome from the median voter theorem. So, for example, imagine your town is considering building a statue to you. You got an MIT, you got Life's Made, you're all set. They don't care what you're going to do. You already deserve a statue. Okay? And let's imagine there's 101 voters in your town. And the statue will conveniently, for our mathematical purposes, cost $40,40. So that is and the town is going to finance it by an equal tax on everyone of $40 conveniently enough. So a tax of $40 will finance building the statute to you. Now let's say everyone in this town knows you and let's say that 500 of the people in this town appropriately recognize you are awesome. Okay? And each of those 500 people would happily pay up to $100 to have the statue for a value of $50,000. So the Samson rule would say the statue should get built if I if I aggregate assuming the other people's value isn't negative. Okay, the statue should get built. Assuming even if everyone else is zero, the statute should get built because basically $50,000 social value exceeds the $40,000 in 40 costs. But let's say you have a vote and the other 501 don't know you, don't like you, whatever. And they vote no. What's going to happen? Will the statue get built or not? No. Because the median voter doesn't like you. The median voter values you values you at less than $40. So the statue won't get built. So we do not meet the samples condition through the median voter theorem. So the median voter theorem will only meet the samples condition if we have equal intensity of preferences or if the median distribution equals the mean. Okay. Only in that case will the convenience of the median voter theorem meet the efficiency of the same condition which is going to be pretty rare. Okay. So let me stop there.