So last time uh last time we talked about the basic algebraic operation for limit of sequences. We talked about the mono convergence theorem. So the mono convergence theorem was that you had a sequence that was increasing or it could be decreasing. So either it was increasing this meant that the next element was bigger equal to the previous and then they were all assumed to be bounded. If you had such a sequence or similarly if you had a sequence so this was the increasing case then there was a similar decreasing case where the the the previous is bigger equal to the next one and then they are assumed to be bounded from below. So this was decreasing. So monotum convergent theorem was that if you had a bounded increasing sequence or a bounded decreasing sequence in either case uh uh the sequence is convergent and it's converging in the first case in this case here a um it's converg to the soup of the xm to the in case Okay. And in the case B it converts to the in case case B. So that was the mono convergence theorem. And the third thing we talk about and that's where we will continue today is uh is cruise sequence. So we talked about push sequence. So let me and we prove a few things about cruise sequence but we want to examine that all today. So let me remind you what a cruise sequence is. So a is said to be Uh if for all epsilon greater than zero there exist there exist n such that if little n is bigger equal to the capital n then Um sorry if little n and little m. So if n and m m and n are big or equal then they are epsilon close together xn and x m the distance between them. So this was a cus sequence and it just meant quis sequence just meant that the tail right of the sequence bunchs together. Now, uh, let me just prove I think we maybe talk about this, but let me but I'm going to let me just a little theorem here. Um if if uh xn is a cruci sequence then uh xn is bounded and so the proof of this is a proof. So now in the definition of it being a frequency you can take epsilon to be equal to one. So if you take take epsilon equal to 1 in the definition of being accuracy sequence. So this means that there exist there exist there exist some n such that uh if little n and little m are bigger than this n then the difference between these two is less than one. Right? This is the definition where I just apply it to epsilon equal to one. We have this but of course in particular in particular we can set say m equal to this and then you have that x all the other ones. This means that for all then for all um little n bigger than capital n if you're looking at this difference here then this is less than one I'm only applying this now I'm just choosing just one single m and I'm choosing it to be equal to that capital so you have that And so this means that that now you see that if you take now so so if you take uh x so now suppose that little n so so for little n bigger than capital n if you if you look at little n then you have this so or for or little n big or equal to capital n. Then you have that the norm of little n. Well, you can write little n as as um as a difference. You can write little n like you can subtract it first and then add it again. So this is clearly the same. And now you can just So you have the sum of two things. You can think about this in here as one number and this is another number. So this is now less than x n minus x capital n plus the norm of x capital n. And this here was because little n was bigger than capital n. This here is bounded by one. So this is less than one plus the norm. this. So you see that for all the the little ends that are bigger than capture all of those there is a uniform arch right and so this means that if you're now just taking them the maximum of uh the norm of x1 the norm of x2 up to the norm of xn uh minus uh sorry xn minus one and then x capital n + one. If you take the maximum of this and call this m then clearly for all n for all n clearly you have for all n you have that x n is lesser equal to n right because if n little n is bigger than capital n then it's bounded by capital M because it's it's a maximum in particular of this and on the other one that's sort of obvious. Okay. So so it means that if you have a cushy sequence it's automatically bounded. Okay. Now we have the convergence theorem. So next we want to discuss is convergence. So this is the following that uh any any precision principle is convergent. Okay. So remember that last time we proved the following. So so recall that last time we showed the converse So namely we prove the following theorem. to prove that if that any convergent sequence is a cushy sequence and so the cushy convergence theorem is to Now uh so we'll come back to the proof in just a little bit but before that let me talk about some applications and so the first one we we sort of started talking a little bit um last time and this is uh the contracting mapping the so contracting And that in itself have a number of applications. So contracting mic and for that I need some I need to uh call some definitions. So, so a map a map t from r e to r uh is set to be a contracting map. If there exist some constant C positive C is positive and the key point is it's it will have to be positive. So that but the key point is that this constant has to be strictly less than one. And then contracting mapping just means that if you looking at the difference between the images then they are closer together. This they're strictly closer together than than the points that they are images of. Okay. So this is a contracting map right then. So the contracting mapping again this here inequality is it say that under the map the images are squeezed more together. So now that's one concept. The other one we need is that for fixed points. So the other concept is fixed point. So So X here is a fixed point. for MF. See if if it is if under the map the the points uh remain unchanged. So T of X is equal to X. So this is what it needs to be. Yeah. >> But that it's not the same C for X and Y. It is the same scene. It is. >> Yeah, it's the same scene. >> And we'll come back to this in just a second, but but it but it it is supposed to be the same scene. You can weaken that a little bit. Uh but essentially, I mean, you sort of, you know, at least we'll talk about this in just a second, but it it's important just think about it that it's a requirement that it's the same seat for all. And the key point is that this C is strictly less than one. Okay. So this is a fixed point. And now um so now the first little that. So we have a lema here. Uh if t uh is a contracting then then um there's at most at most one there cannot be more than one fix. Okay. So let's prove that. a pro. So yeah, so I'm going to So suppose X and Y are fixed points and I want to show that X is equal to Y. So I'm looking at the images. So uh Let's continue. So I'm looking at the images under F. So I'm looking at So I take T of X and I'm looking at the difference between T of X and T of Y and I want to estimate that difference. Well, on one hand T X is supposed to be a fixed point. So T of X is the same as X and likewise for Y. So this here is the same. So T of X is the same as X. T Y is supposed to be the same as Y. So I have this. On the other hand, it's a contracting map. So this here is less or equal to C times the norm of X - Y. Right? But now C here remember C is strictly less than one. So you can only have an inequality like this, right? If this number here is zero, right? when c is strictly less than one. So this here implies that x - y the distance is zero and so of course this means that x is equal to y. >> Okay. So that's what we want to prove. Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm sorry that was uh yeah it should because otherwise you know it's it wouldn't be if x is equal to y would be so should be let's change okay so a contracting map have at most one fix one okay now let's uh so so so let me Just so you're going to do this. So um um I have harassed the graders to give you back the homework. I uh it should be back today. I mean otherwise they're in trouble. So hopefully but but but and the assignment for next week is already posted. And and here's here's um so this is on the next so I I will so here's um here's something on pet stream and I think it's uh okay uh yeah I forget which one it is but anyway on on the third pet You will be asked to prove the following that if uh t here is a contracting map and and x here is any point any point in the domain of this Then if you form the sequence a n so a1 say that's just x a2 uh let's let's call it a sorry let's let's call it a z is x uh a1 here is t of x t of a is zero so this is t of and a2 is t of a1. So this is the same AST of this. So this is t * t of x which I'm will write like this and uh a3 so we continue this way a3 is t of a2. So that is t applied three times. So t g t g t g t g t g t g t g t g t g t g t g of x and I'm going to write this as g c 2 of x and and so on. So a n is going to be t of a sorry it's t a n + one is going to be t of a n. So that's the same as uh t to the power n + one of x. Okay. So if you have a contracting map and you just start with any point you want and now you form a sequence that is based on that point and uh and the nth element is just where you have applied the map n times to the original point. So if you form that sequence then you will prove uh you will show that uh in the homework you will show that this sequence so this set three and I I will just do a special case of it that you will start with but we'll just do this now and then the rest to you to you know I leave you for the homework but but on piece of three you prove that this a is a secret and what is the the key starting point starting point for this so now because you're there you know you're already uh well started on on p three is a key starting point for this is to prove that it's a cruise sequence so I want to estimate so this is not enough right I mean I need to prove what I need to show is remember I need to prove that when little m and little m are sufficiently large then I want to estimate the distance between these two and show that they're bunched together, right? That's what we need to prove. Prove this precision. I I won't quite do this, but I do a special case that is a key starting point. And that is the where I'm looking at this thing here. I'm looking at two consecutive element in the sequence and I'm estimating the distance. That's not enough to prove that C sequence, right? Because I need to prove that for all n and m sufficiently large. And I'm just proving here that for any ns sufficiently large if I'm looking at the neighbor then that this is very small but but but you can use the estimates that we will now prove to prove that it is in fact a sequence. So in order to estimate this right I'm can think about this thing here AST as a to the n + one this here is just t of a to n and a n itself this is t of the previous element right this is how we define them so this means that this thing here so again I could just write this in here. So this thing is equal to a n minus t of a n minus one and now I can use that contracting map right because now I have these two gez here so I can use that contracting map so I get less or equal to and then a n minus a n minus one and so you see that that's the Next the distance between the next pair is because C is strictly less than one. It has decreased with some factor. Right? And so now the the the key starting point is that if you just iterate this. So now if I iterate this, so I'm looking at a n + 1 minus a n and I now have that this thing here is less than c a n minus a n minus one. But now I'm writing forget about the c for a second. I'm just writing this thing here. So I do the same thing again. I write this here as the image of a n minus one and I write this n minus one as the image of the previous one. So n minus two right and now so I write this so c here I just have to carry along for the right and then I have t a n minus one minus t a n minus 2. And now forget about this just use this contracting mapping. So then this is less than equal to and then the C here I to carry along. But then there's another C that pops out. Right? So this is times C that pops out because of the contracting mapping and then a N minus one minus A N minus 2. And so you see that you have written this as c^ squ a n minus 2 - one minus a n minus 2. And so now you continue it and so you see that the further out you get right. So you continue this all the way down to that you're getting that this element is the initial point and and this one is the first ele you know a1. This is a z and this is a1 right and so you see that you're getting something which is like a a c to some power n times the distance that you started with right so this is bounded by uh something like c to the n * a 1 - a z something like that and so that's a key starting point. So if you going very very far out remember that this number is smaller than one. So this here will become incredibly small when n is large. Right? And so this is the key starting point uh to prove that to prove that if you take a contracting map start with any point and you form this sequence here then it's a sequence. So now so and I leave the rest for the homework. Uh now let's prove the contracting mapping theorem using the cush convergence. cushion will not prove the contracting Not going to serve. Okay. So what is a contracting mapping theorem? The contracting mapping theorem is that if t here is a contracting map. So T g from R to R maps R into R gives a contracting map. Then then T has a fixed point. We already know that such a fixed point is unique, right? We already proved that it can at most be one fixed point. Okay, so let's try to prove that. So we're going to use like this result from PC. So I start with I start with any point X. You pick any point you want and then we form the sequence where you apply this uh uh end time to X. Now we have that. So, so then we have we have so this is this pie set from P three that a is a sequence. Okay. But then the but then from the from Kushik convergence we have that uh we have that am is converging right that this here is this here is a cushy sequence but the cus convergence I'm saying that any cushy sequence is actually convergent so this here converts to some a okay and now the idea is that we want to show so want to show a is a fixed So that's this is a kind of uh it's a you know it's it's it's the contracting mapping is actually extremely powerful uh it can be used to again can be used to solve uh you know uh what's called o ordinary differential equations. And we talk a little bit about that at some later point in the class. And but it can also be used to solve uh PDS which is more complicated partial differential equation and in all kind of other areas of math. Um and um okay so now we want to prove that this a here is a fixed point. So I have and and we we will come back in just a minute we'll through something um related to this but but let me just very simple uh so I talking about a n here I know that it's converted to AI then look at the sequence t of a Well, t of a n that was a n was wrong, right? It was just one further out of the sequence, right? But so since a converge, this means of course that since since a n converts to a n, this means that this here will also converge to a n. So since this here a n + one as n become very large for converge to okay now if you're looking at t of a n so you want to estimate now uh so what I want to prove is right so now I'm looking at this distance so I want to show So want to show we want to show that C of A right is equal to A. That's what we want to do. And so if I'm looking at T of A N, right? T of A N, this here was A N + one. And so if I'm looking at t of a n plus uh a n minus uh t of a right because it is a contracting map this thing here is bounded is lesser equal to c a n minus a and this is also equal to a n + 1 - g of That was just the definition of the a + one. So now I have that a m converts to a. So this means that this here converts to zero. Right? Since so now since a n converts to a then you have that a n minus a you can think about this as a sequence that converts to zero. But this inequality here say that since this goes to zero this in here must also go to zero. So you see that therefore a n + one minus t of a goes to zero. Right? So but this but that this here goes to zero. This just means that a n + one this much converge to t of a right. But this sequence already converts to a. There can only be one limit. Right? So we already had that a m + one converts to a. But then these two numbers must be the same. Right? So the conclusion here is that that a must be equal to g of a. Okay. So from the cus convergence theorem then you get the contracting mapping thems and and we already proved that there was you get a fixed point and we already knew that there was at most one fix point and so so and so this is a very powerful idea because for many things it's almost impossible to find the actual fix point. But what you do is that you're starting with some right. So in this case you just said you pick any X and then you just apply the map enough times. Right? Sometimes you would start with a you can't find a fix point but you can find something pretty close to the fix point and then then you iterate from there on and we'll see we'll see just in a second. which I already talked about that this applied to the existence of solutions to OD and to PD. And now let me illustrate this last point. Another example and this come backs to your question uh about you know is this the same but but do think about it as being the same for all X and Y. But you could have some kind of local statement where it was true for X and Y in some small range and that would be enough to guarantee you a fix point. But but but in general just I mean it's the same in the definition it's supposed to be the same for all x and y but so let me explain that in what's called Newton method. So this is Newton measure and so the idea is that you have a function you have some function here f maybe it doesn't look like a function but it's supposed to this is f ofx and you want to find where this or you want to find points where this function vanishes. Okay. And so so the method is sort of a numerical method to find such a you know just you know if if this function was very simple like a linear function or quadratic function then of course it would be easy to find but maybe this is a very complicated function and so you wouldn't be you wouldn't necessarily be able to say exactly what the point is and so the idea is that so Newton method Newton method is that Newton's methods require that you start with a good guess and but this is the idea of the Newton method. So here's the idea that we're looking at a function like this. I'm going to assume that this is um that is not zero. So it's actually monotom is either increasing or decreasing. So I I'm assuming that there's nowhere where the the fractional vanishes. And then I defined a map t of x to be equal to x minus uh f ofx frime of x. This seems kind of uh quite it seems uh yeah seems far away from now. But if you define it like this. Now let me take the derivative of this. If I take the derivative of this now then I get that this in here the derivative of x that's just one. The derivative of this in here um it's the this is a closing. So it's f prime uh times my derivative of this time frime and then f prime squ minus and then uh f fp prime like that right that's a quotion for taking and so you see that you can write this if you split this up into two this has one you split it up to two this has frime 2 / frime squ and then this here becomes plus and then I'm writing it as f f prime fr and so you see that this here cancel with that so these are cancel so you have that the derivative of this map is just f of x uh frime prime of x frime of x² that's the derivative and now of course if I'm using the mean magnet Then I have that uh derivative. Then I have that t of x minus t of y. By the mean man theorem say that this thing here is the derivative it's actually like wer theorem or whatever but but you can also think about this is the derivative at somewhere in between x and y times the difference between x and y so We see that if we already knew. So if we can show if we knew that the derivative was bounded everywhere was bounded by some C little C that was less than one. If you had that then of course then you just take absolute value of this. So then you had the t of x minus t of y the absolute value was was equal to t prime in this intermediate point x - y but in this intermediate point we're assuming that everywhere the derivative is lesser equal to c. So this here is now this is lesser equal to c. So c x - y and we're assuming that c is strictly less than one. So you see that this here if we knew that the derivative of t was strictly less than one everywhere then we would know that this map was contracting that. Okay. But but of course you know what we have for the derivative is we have this in here. And so now but now the idea is that if you start with a really good guess so if you start with a so so the idea is so so idea the idea of with Newton method is start with a good this like this and I'm not going to make that too precise. I'm putting it in quotation marks but the idea is that you want to so good guesses remember that what we want is we want to find a point we're interested in this point here where this function here we're interested in a point where the function vanishes right so starting with a good guess means that you're starting you may not start where the function vanishes but you're starting somewhere where where the values is really small, right? That would be a good guess, right? And so start with a good guess meaning that f at that point is is is small is is very small. Now, of course, you're going to ask what do you mean by very small? So very small here is going to mean that the value. So so now we have right from this here. So we have that we have that the derivative here of this map here was equal to these two terms cancel out. So this is f of x f prime of x uh frime of x². So starting with a good guess means that this thing here is really really small and in fact I want it to be small compared with this. Right? So if this here is really small compared with that then I can guarantee that the absolute value of this is smaller than one. Right? And so you see that if you start with a really good guess then it would be a contracting mapping right and then of course you need to prove that so you're forming the sequence right and you need to prove somehow you need to estimate that you need to be able to say that that once you form the sequence you you know the next thing that is spitting out is also a good guess right so that you stay in this range of good guess, right? And if it has this property, then it would be a contracting map and you would guarantee to get a fixed point, right? But and but that's all the Newton methods say, right? So you need to kind of justify why if you start with a good guess, why you keep as you're iterating this process, why you keep in the range of good guesses. But but but you know the news method doesn't doesn't tell you anything about that but but but it require that to be a part and so okay so it's a contracting map this T is a contracting map right if if I can start with a good guess and when I do this when I form so I start with this good guess and then I'm looking at that the next thing is this t of x and then I t^ squ of x right then and I want all of these to also be good guesses and then I'm saying that as n goes to infinity this here is cons is going to converge to this fixed point I guess I called it x well this is the fix point for for t Now, so now we we we started with a function and what we were interested in, we wanted to find a root. So, x0 where this function vanishes, right? And I constructed a contracting map. But now I need to relate this contracting map or the fixed point for the contracting to the original problem. So, what is a fixed point for the contracting map? So the map here the map we defined was g of x is equal to x - fx over frime of x but a fixed point fixed point. So if x0 is a fixed point then this means that uh this here is the same as x0 minus f of x0 frime of x0 and now you can just write. So therefore this implies that f of x0 minus f of x0 over frime of x0 this here you subtract x0 on both sides and this is equal to zero but that of course means that denominator must be zero. So a fixed point is indeed a point where f of x0 is equal to zero. Okay. Now, um, so now we want to prove the C convergence, but we're going to cheat just a little bit because we are going to deduce it from another theorem that I will prove next time. So, so to prove the component and that's we'll prove next time. So, what is a bosano? So the person theorem. So the person theorem says that every bounded sequence has a convergent substitution. So that's a coal is okay. Now let's try to so I assume this again I'll prove this next time. So let's but let's This is to prove the cush from the from the device. I show kids. >> That's fall off. So remember the cushy convergence here I'm saying that if you have a C sequence then it is converted. So suppose XN is a C. Okay, I want to prove that it's convergent. But I already we already showed we already show we already proven show that any C sequence uh any C sequence shown that XN any C sequence is bounded right this is this earlier. So now by therefore by the biosium by the pano biosium there's a subsequence a converted subsequence So there's a converted subsequent x and k. So So now So you have you have that uh you have that this subsequence here convert to some x and now I want to show that the original sequence converts to x. So uh so give so since xn is accus given given uh epsilon greater than zero. There exist there exist uh capital n. So that so that if m and n are bigger than capital n then uh x n minus xm is less than epsilon using the epsilon in the definition of being but now I and this let's call this the exist n let's call it n1 So now since x and k converge to x there exist for that epsilon there exist uh n2 uh k2 n2. Yeah. So that if uh if k here is bigger than n_sub_2 then uh x n k - x is less than ep 2. Okay. So now, so now you just take, so now we take um we take um n to be equal to um the maximum of uh n1 and n sorry and n two. This is the one that corresponds to right. So this is where where k is taking equal to this n2. So if we take n like that and you're looking at uh n bigger equal to n and you now want to estimate this thing here then you can think about this difference here as x - x n2 plus uh sorry x n like this minus plus uh x x n uh x uh x n - uh x uh n / x terms like like that and this here is now in this. So this is now in this uh subsequence and so one of them this is less than epsilon / two and this here is less than epsilon / two and so you get that this difference here was less than epilon. Okay now so this is why the balsano vastra theorem implies a cush convergence. Okay. So now the next thing is that I want to give another uh application of so of the kus convergence. So here's another application of the cus convergence. Right. So one one application was to the contracting mapping theorem. But here's another application of the of the cushy convergence theorem. So this is the extreme value theorem. them. Now before I I um before I explain that, let me introduce uh this notion of a function being continuous in a rigorous way. So what does it mean for a function to be continuous? So a function f say from r to r it could be a subset of r all of them is set to be continuous to being continuous at x0 at some points x0. If for all epsilon greater than zero there exist there exist delta greater than zero such that if x minus x0 is smaller than delta then the images are within epsilon. each other. So if you think about it, so if you have like the function, this is a function you you to say that it's continuous at some x0 means that if this thing here is this here is now f of x0. If you take a little interval around here, this is a epsilon interval around here. Then there should be some delta interval around here. So that if you're looking at images here, then it will map into here. Right? That's what it means to be continuous. Okay? So this is continuous at a point and a function is set to be continuous if it's continuous at all points. So, so a function is set to be continuous. If it is continuous at all. And so now we have a little theorem here and this is often useful way of thinking about continuity. So if f is continuous. So let's say f let's just say it doesn't need to be all of r. You just have to be careful that everything that you talk about is in the domain. But let's just say that f is a function from r to r is So if f is is continuous uh and xn is a sequence that converts to x then then the images so f of xn this is another sequence those converge to f of x this is this This is a usual way of thinking about it being continuous. Um, and so now so now why is this the case? so since f is continuous, the only leaf that is continuous at is x. So since it continue at x, this means that for all epsilon you're given Given epsilon greater than zero there exist there exist delta greater than zero such that if uh x - y this is this this x here that you think about fixed if x if you have another point that is within delta And uh the images f of x - f of y this is just that is continuous at that one point x. Okay. Now since since um xn converts to x right since xn converts to x this means that if you use this delta here in the definition of uh convergence then uh there exist there exist capital n such that If x if sorry if little n is bigger than capital n then x n minus x is less than delta. But now you see that if little n is bigger than capital n then these lies this close to x. But then this say that the images. So therefore the images f of xn minus f of x is less than epsilon. And this was just as long as little n was bigger than capital n. That's exactly proving that this sequence converts to that. Right? So that's okay. Now let's prove the extreme value. I need to state that first. And there's two versions uh of it. So extreme guys. So you take a function f on some interval a and b a real number. They're both included. And f here is continuous. It's continuous at all points. It needs to be continuous at all points and this interval needs to contain the ins. So if this is continuous then the soup of f is achieved at some uh x. So meaning that soup of f over this interval is equal to the value um let's say let's call it x capital m yeah capital m for max at some point in particular the soup is finite right the soup is finite and it's not really a soup it's a max Right? And so likewise it also said that moreover just the same thing and you could in the usual way you could obtain it from this by looking at the function minus f if you wanted or you could just prove it directly with the same that we're going to give here. Moreover, uh the in of f over this interval is equal to the value at some point. So it's not, you know, it's not just a in it actually is a minimum where x little m is. And so now let's try to prove that. And so this is going to use this theorem that we proved this theorem and then it's going to use uh the kushi conver So um okay so and I'm just going to prove like just because the two the two there's two parts to the extreme values the this with a soup and that's this with in but the proof uh you know with obvious modification they're same okay so I'm just going to focus on the soup. So, so I so I want to prove so looking at the soup of this function I pro the soup could be infinity. Okay. So, usually we like soup to be finite but let me allow this that if if there is no upper bound then I will write infinity. So in any case I um there exist there exist xn so that xn so that f there exist a sequence in this domain here so that the f of xn converge to this of Okay. >> Okay. I'm allowing here and we don't usually like this but I allow this here to be infinite. If it's infinite then I just mean that there's a sequence where the value of these become larger and larger than right. So I have that but now you see this here is in this range. So this is a bounded this is a boundary. So note that xn So note that xn is a boundary sequence. So then I'm using not kushi conversion but I use the banana vas. So it's a bounded sequence. which I know that they exist a convergent subsequent it's a good exercise to see that this sequence in itself you know you can just draw a little picture and you'll convince yourself that it this sequence it in itself may not be convergent. But after you pass to a subsequence, you you can find a converging subsequence. So it converge. So this here converge and it converts to something in this interval, right? And that's important. So it converts to some to some x and I call this x capital m. Okay. So converging and the key point here is that this thing here is lying in this interval and and the function is defined in particular at this point. Right? So if this had not included the end point it converts to one of the end point but the function would not be defined there. So you wouldn't be able to conclude the extreme direct but anyway. So should we include the end point here? Then now we have now we have that from this theorem that is right here we have that since this sequence converts to that we have that the images converge to sorry to the image of X capital N right but on the other hand this sequence here was a subsequence of a sequence that converts to the soup. Right? But if you take a sequence that converts to whatever number, then any subsequence will convert to the same number. So this here also converts to to the soup to soup. And so this means that these two numbers here must be the same. And so you should just you know it would take you just a second to convince yourself that everything is fine if you know if AI didn't know that the soup was a finite number but infinite right that it's that is still fine but but it's that should also take a minute to convince yourself about that. So that that proves the extreme value theorem right that the if you take a function that is continuous and defined on an interval where the interval include both end points then uh the s the soup is achieved. So the soup is really a max and the in by very similar proof the inom is also achieved and so both the min and max Sorry. >> Okay. So that was the So yeah, that's right. So you're saying just so it was clear enough that it was a boundary sequence because it lying in this bounded interval, right? So it's a boundary sequence. Are you asking why such a bound sequence exist? >> So okay. So, so I just so you have you have this function, right? So, so like this. So, you you take the soup of f over this in term and so this means that that if you take any any epsilon and you subtract it from the two, right? Then actually there must exist a x depending on this epsilon there must exist so that the value at this x is larger than this right and so you could imagine instead of epsilon here take looking at a sequence like this and then this gives you a sequence like that and so right so that would be how and the same when you do and so once you have it it's bound sequence because it's lie between A and B, right? You're using the Banana Vest theorem that we prove next time to get a convergent subsequence and then you apply the theorem this theorem here to get that in that case the maximum and likewise for the minimum that they achieved. Any questions?