The following content is provided under a Creative Commons license. Your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer high quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT OpenCourseWare at ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: All right. So, welcome back. Today we continue our look at musical interfaces by examining the turntable and its various contemporary formations and a variety of controllers. What we're going to do is look at a little bit of the history of the development of turntablism. We're going to talk about some of the technologies involved including turntables proper, DJ mixers, look at a few scratch techniques. We'll cover a little bit about the development of hip hop extending back through the Jamaican sound system tradition from which it seems it came on to early hip hop innovators coming out of the South Bronx in New York and onto a bit of contemporary turntable practice. At the end I'll sort of argue that what we see now going on is sort of an abstraction of the turntable interface, extracting and abstracting out the key control interface components of the turntable, and we'll see some examples of that as we move forward. A brief reminder, remember Thursday your Sonic systems projects. We're going to bring those in next week. Some prototype, some draft, sketches, circuits, code, pictures, ideas, bring something in. Be prepared to show us something. We'll spend about five to 10 minutes on each person. So have something to share. And that's the next thing coming up. I have almost all of your drafts in for the for the case study paper. Now that you've turned that in, try not to stop thinking about it. Continue thinking about it. We'll get a little bit of time away from it, but continue to do your research. I'll get you guys comments back, hopefully within a week or so, and that'll give you more to work on as we move forward. Questions? Comments? One of your listenings for today was a track by People Under the Stairs. This is the hip hop group out of Los Angeles who speak about the folklore of hip hop. Let's listen to a little bit of this track to remind ourselves. [MUSIC - PEOPLE UNDER THE STAIRS, "STAY HOME."] In case you didn't catch all those lyrics there, a couple things to point out. What they're doing is talking about the folklore of the foundations of hip hop. It turns out that it's not really folklore in that it's colored by imagination. It's actually part of the real history of the development of hip hop. They describe 40 days in the studio, struck water from ADATs on top of a mountain made of milk crates. Going on, people who still live in the folklore of DJ Cool Herc, Bam Grand Wizard Theodore. We're going to talk about all those guys as we move forward today. We're going to use this as a way to frame our discussion of the development of hip hop. Before any punk with a keyboard could do it, yo Apache was the and every B-Boy knew it. We're going to look at Apache, one of the most famous breaks of all turntable breaks. And finally, yo it's number one rap, I'd rather hear an eight-o-eight hand clap than that. We already know what that's a reference to, the famous eight-o-eight hand clap. So before we go on, let's review our history of the turntable of the phonograph. Remember 1877, Edison comes out with his cylinder based recording mechanism. 1887, Berliner releases his disc based gramophone. The disc ultimately wins out primarily because of-- why, why did the disk win out? Yeah? AUDIENCE: Because you could record more, and then because it was horizontal versus vertical wedges, or edges, whatever. Basically it made it so that amplitude wasn't really affected as much. PROFESSOR: Well there's a little bit more regularity in doing the transverse rather than the lateral cut, right? But-- AUDIENCE: Isn't it easier to encode larger amplitude swings with less amplification. PROFESSOR: Right. We can regulate the amplitude more better and the cutting of the record, but more importantly, we can make copies. We can press copies super easily of this flat disc and sell those pre-recorded copies. That's probably the number one reason why the disc won out, because it was easier to reproduce. And we talked about that as sort of a flattening of the dimensions of the recording medium from three dimensions on a cylinder to two dimensions on a disc. By 1948 Columbia releases the 33 and the third. That's the large format LP, and that gets back pretty much up to where we've talked about the phonograph in the gramophone so far. 1969 Technics releases the SP-10, the first direct drive turntable. This direct drive mechanism turns out to be a fairly important technical feature. Previous turntables had used a belt mechanism. And the belt, while effective, tended to wear out over time and slow down. The rate wasn't always as constant and posed some other technical problems. With this direct drive turntable, the performance of the turntable was a little bit more rigorous and could handle a little bit more abuse, namely, the kind of abuse we see with contemporary practice. 1969, Technics releases a less expensive model, the SP-1100. 1972 they release the SL-1200. And it's this turntable that really defines the modern turntable practice. If you go find a DJ somewhere, and you look at their turntables, probably six to eight out of 10 will be using this turntable or some variation of it. Now they have the SL-1220 and SL-1260, et cetera. But the SL-12 is still the leading model and, in fact, you'll hear hip hop artists refer to the SL-12 as the turntable of choice. This model allows you to select different rotation speeds depending if you have a 78 or 45 or a 33 and a third. And it has this nice variable speed adjustment slider here on the right. Why would you want to smoothly vary the speed of playback? Slow things down, speed things up. AUDIENCE: Skip ahead to the next track. PROFESSOR: Fast forward, well, yeah, you could do that. OK, that's one approach. Yeah you always just grab the needle and throw it over. Yeah? AUDIENCE: If you're playing two at the same time, if you want to get them to be about the same pitch or if you want them to be about the same speed, you can always just adjust one smoothly. PROFESSOR: That's right. By adjusting the rotation speed here and changing the rotation speed-- go ahead? AUDIENCE: I was wondering if that was their intent or if it was actually intended to just be able to adjust for fluctuations in line frequency? Because, you know, you may need to do that if you need it to go exactly 33 and a third. PROFESSOR: I think with the direct drive motor and the modern design, they were able to pretty regularly get the speed that they wanted. So I think the motivation, maybe, and certainly the most common use is to match beats, to match tempo. So that you could slow down a track a little bit and move into another track and match the beats, align the beats, which leads to the whole practice of beat matching which used to be done manually by ear but is more often done with software now. AUDIENCE: Were people doing that in '69 when this turntable came out? PROFESSOR: Not '69 but the late '70s, early '80s. AUDIENCE: What's the response to that ability or was the ability a response to a desire? PROFESSOR: I'm not sure. That's a good thing to look at. This is a modern, this isn't the 72 model. Yeah. I mean, that's a great question to ask and something to look at. Now combined with the modern SL style of turntable, DJs often add a slip mat, and this slip mat is really the, sort of, secret ingredient to modern turntable technique. It's simply a circle of felt that goes under the record that permits the record to spin independently of the platter. Now this allows us to do a number of things with our record. The so-called baby scratch is the most basic scratch-- oops, this is the transformers-- either way, we're going to look at a couple scratches that don't require using the mixer, that just employ manipulating the disc on the platter. And this is only possible because of the felt of the slip mat, or at least, more possible. So this is the transformer-- oh, sorry, this is a bad clip. This is not what I wanted. Sorry. Let's go to the phases, maybe this is it. There we go. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] DJ QBERT: OK, phrases are just the same thing as lasers, but you're holding the record. PROFESSOR: [GIGGLING] So here he's showing a technique where he's just adjusting the rotation of the disc. He's not doing anything with the mixer. He's just using the ability for the disc to turn independently of the platter. Let me pull up the baby, this is the one I was going to show before. DJ QBERT: So the first scratch you're going to learn is the baby scratch. It's basically the easiest scratch to do. You don't need a fader. You just move the record back and forth. There was a deal in 1975, and this is how it sounds. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: So a very simple scratch, again, just being able to manipulate the movement of the record on the platter allows us to do this. There's this other one here called the waves-- hopefully I have the right link here-- which adjusts the rotation in a quick and slow fashion. DJ QBERT: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: What's interesting about that is the movement of his hand looks like it's mapping the cutoff frequency of a low pass filter which is kind of interesting. I don't think it's the movement of his hand that's making this technique effective. It's really adjusting the playback speed in a smooth fashion up and down that makes this technique effective. Questions? AUDIENCE: What's on the record? PROFESSOR: In that example? DJs like him and others sometimes use battle records or records that are configured with things really good for scratching. In that case, it sounded sort of like a vocal sample, somebody saying something, which often gives those good white noise sounds. We'll hear more examples of that in a little bit. Now the DJ mixer is one of the other really important components of the turntable's set up. And particularly, the cross fader. The cross fader and the toggle switches found on a modern DJ mixer allow the turntablist to apply variable amplitude envelopes to the sound. We've already looked at the development of modular synthesizers. We can think of the cross fader and the toggle switches, the cross fader located here and the toggle switches located here, as various ways of applying amplitude envelopes to the sound the DJ is capturing from the disc. Now there's a wide range of other tools available on the DJ mixer. Another important one is the ability to listen to more sources than are being played. This is often described as the queueing of the record or the queue input. What this allows the DJ to do is play one record and then play another record and listen to that record in their headphones before they play it out to the audience. This leads to the sort of stereotypical DJ pose of having one cup of a headphone ear on their head while doing something. They're queuing up the next record. They're listening to the next record which may be a record or may be a digital audio file or may be some other source, they're playing an existing record, listening to another record, adjusting where the records going to play, maybe adjusting the playback speed, and doing that all in the headphones before they send that out to the main mix to the house. So the ability to queue up another channel before sending it out is a critical feature of DJ mixers. Now some modern DJ mixers have a wide variety of different effects. Some have delay, some have reverb, some have samplers, some have various other technologies. For instance, this Mackie d.2 features an optical cross fader which is advertised as never changing its performance. The cross fader always performs the same way because there's no friction. There's other designs that are using magnetic technologies for the cross faders. This Numark DXM09 has some beat synchronized affects so it allows you to set the tempo and then echos and delays and other effects are synchronized to the beat which is a pretty nice feature. This Numark 5000FX features an integrated sampler which allows you to, while you're playing something, simply trigger a record, sample something, and then play it back either in reverse or forward later on, which as you imagine, could offer some nice creative techniques. We already saw another example where DJs work with something like an MPC sampler. So seeing a turntable next to an MPC is not uncommon. Some DJs might work with an external sampler next to their turntable, but we do see some cases where the sampler is integrated into the mixer. This device is very cool. It seems to have been discontinued, but this Vestax QFO has a single turntable with a mixer built it. This provides a DJ to do a solo set without a mixer. It has the essential functionality of the cross fader of a mixer built into the turntable so that with just this and an MP3 player, you can put down a background track and then scratch over this and have your cross fader. Now working with the turntable and the mixer is how most of the turntable techniques that we of have come about. I showed you guys some examples, the baby and the waves, that don't use the mixer. These examples use the mixer to create the various scratching techniques. So this is the one I accidentally brought up before. This is a transformer. As you might expect, this is named for making the type of transforming sound. So there we're basically taking a noise source from the record and then applying a variable amplitude envelope to that noise source in a rhythmic fashion which provides that very nice quasi transformers sound. Or maybe they use it for the real transformers, I'm not sure. The chirp, another technique, check this one out, that makes use of the cross faders. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] DJ QBERT: OK, this next scratch is called a chirp scratch which was made popular by Jazzy Jeff on a song called Magnificent. Jazzy Jeff made a whistle sound like a bird. Anyway, this scratch is kind of tricky so you let a sound play, and you've got to turn it off right when it plays and just move your hand backward in, like, a mirror fashion. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: Can anybody summarise what that technique is there? We'll listen to it a little bit more then you can try again. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] DJ QBERT: And then turn it off and take it back. AUDIENCE: It seems like it's basically amplitude modulation or modulating the amplitude with a really high attack. PROFESSOR: Well the attack is gradual. You can see that the attack of the amplitude is gradual, right? You can see him feeding it in. Anybody else want to take a stab at describing what this technique is? AUDIENCE: Without saying what he just did? PROFESSOR: Yeah. It basically links amplitude and pitch. So amplitude is faded in as the record is sped up, and then amplitude is faded out as a record is slowed down. So those two parameters are linked, and that allows him to create this distinctive sound. Right? So amplitude and the change in playback speed are linked. Ever hear that before? Of course, DJ Qbert's quite good at this. The crab gives us an example of some of the really crazy extended techniques that develop using the cross fader. If you've ever seen a Flamenco guitarist use all their fingers, this should remind you of this. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] DJ QBERT: Where I use two fingers, and instead of using two fingers, why don't you use five fingers.? So instead of the tapping like a twiddle, it's slide your fingers across kind of like snapping my fingers. PROFESSOR: Easy, right? DJ QBERT: And it was actually called the [INAUDIBLE] scratch because me and him [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: OK, it goes on a little long. DJ QBERT: This is the crab scratch. PROFESSOR: Right? You guys can go home and do that now, right? [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] You just use your thumb as a spring. But that's a great example of how the DJ mixer and particularly the cross fader combined with the variable playback of the turntable really provides a wide range of different sounds. Again, we can think of it as having variable playback speed and some frequency modulation from the turntable. And we can think of the mixer as providing a way for us to play envelopes and do amplitude modulation to our sounds. Questions? Yeah. AUDIENCE: The design of like two disc turntables with the cross fader was something just for queueing and playing for parties, and they made it spinning later? PROFESSOR: The original cross fader? AUDIENCE: Yeah. PROFESSOR: Yeah. It came out of, I think, the need to want to have two records and have continuous music. AUDIENCE: But they had these kinds of things in radio stations long before-- PROFESSOR: Yeah, we're going to get to some examples of why that came about in a bit. So when we look at the development of hip hop, and we look at the development of turntablism, it's essential for us to look back to the foundations in Jamaican sound systems. Many of the modern practices of turntablism, of DJ culture, come out of the Jamaican traditions. You may not know that in the '50s and into the '60s, the Jamaicans developed a wide range of different musical practices and developed a very large and robust recording studio system where there were numerous studios, there were numerous independent Jamaican releases, not only of reggae, but a wide variety of other musical genres. The genres that we are concerned about come out of a tradition from these things called sound systems. Now you may think of a sound system as a sort of boom box or something you buy at the store, that's essentially what these were. But, at the time in Jamaica, not everybody had access to turntables or amplifiers and speakers, so those that did started to hold parties. And they would have a sound system, a turntable, and speakers, and amplifier, and would use these as community record players. People would get together and dance, have fun, have a party, and this really led to the culture of the person who ran the sound system being in charge of providing the music, being in charge of running the party, selecting the music. The DJs even began to be known as selectors because they would select the music being played. Clement Dodd, aka Coxsone, was credited with the invention of this sound system concept. In the 1950s, he established a sound system called the downbeat sound system, and he later on went to open Studio One in Kingston in 1963. So we have this sort of mixture of somebody who starts off sort of as a performer, as kind of like a party organizer, then moving into the studio and becoming a producer and a studio engineer working with people like Bob Marley and others. Now the Jamaican recording industry was very active in the 1960s. They would often release b-sides of 45 RPM singles. These b-sides, very often, were instrumental versions of the a-side track. And these b-sides offered an opportunity for people to remix and experiment with these instrumental tracks. Two types of experimentation went on with these b-sides. One involved manipulating the sound on these records and producing remixes and, what we later began to call, dub. Another practice that came out of these b-sides was vocalizations, spoken word over these instrumental tracks. And many credit the development of the spoken word traditions, often called toasting, as one of the foundations of modern hip hop. So musicians such as King Tubby would take either these instrumental b-sides or four channel source tracks and remix them. And using basic studio processors available at the time, things like reverbs, echo machines, and the like, often things as simple as variable low pass and high pass filters, they would remix tunes and often manipulate the vocals, manipulate the instruments, in a way that created these instrumental tunes that we know as dub. One of the pieces we listened to for today's class, "555 Dub Street," is a collaboration between Augustus Pablo and King Tubby. Pablo was known for his performance on-- what instrument was that in this piece? Is it up there? The melodica, an instrument where you blow air into a small little keyboard that allows you to control the amplitude with your mouth and change pitch with your fingers. Augustus Pablo performed on the melodica on produced whole recordings. And in this track, King Tubby comes in and sort of remixed and modifies this track on top of all of that. Let's listen to a little bit of this. [MUSIC - AUGUSTUS PABLO, "555 DUB STREET"] PROFESSOR: OK, right there, what did we just hear there? AUDIENCE: That's the melodica. PROFESSOR: Yeah that's the melodica entrance, but did the melodica sound normal? What was going on? AUDIENCE: Some feedback. PROFESSOR: A feedback, a delay, there's a delay that has a high feedback level that's making it you hear an initial sound, and then it continues into a constant texture. Let's listen to that again. That's probably one of the most signature sounds of dug. First we have a beat, of course, but then this use of delay and echo to smear a sound. [MUSIC - AUGUSTUS PABLO, "555 DUB STREET"] PROFESSOR: Right there. What we just heard there can be done with basic studio equipment. You need a delay unit. You need some faders. You send the signal to the delay unit with a high feedback. It starts to feedback and produce that continuous sound. And then he dropped the source signal the rest of the beat so we got that very nice gesture where we had the feedback going on of the melodica and then beat drops out, the beat comes back in, a little anticipation and response. Let's hear that again. PROFESSOR: What did we just hear on the high hats there? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Yeah. Yeah. Moving the filters. Maybe a peak notch or parametric filter or a low or high pass filter with a high resonance moving across the high hats to create that change in timbre, another very common technique. PROFESSOR: So dub exploited these relatively simple techniques of cutting in and out of parts using feedback and delay, using variable filters to create really interesting instrumental music. That was one tradition that came out of the Jamaican sound systems. Another is this focus on taking an instrumental track and doing something over that instrumental track. In the sound system tradition, the leaders of the sound system would want to encourage people at their party to have a good time and often would start toasting or shouting out to the audience as the music was playing. Often these toasts would be rhythmitized chants of some sort. And as I said before, many people credit this as a key development to the existence of American hip hop. But more than the sound system the key person that's often looked to as connecting Jamaican sound system traditions to American hip hop is DJ Kool Herc, Clive Campbell. If we think back to the People Under the Stairs track we started with, people who still live in the folklore of DJ Kool Herc, the first person they mention. Herc moved to the Bronx from Jamaica in the late '60s and really transplanted this sound system concept. He began throwing parties in the South Bronx. He worked with an MC, Coke La Rock who would do some of the toasting and began experimenting with using two turntables each with the same recorded material. This led him to develop a technique that he called the merry go round which allowed him to cut back and forth between two excerpts from the same record and extend the music for the sake of dancing, for the sake of the party. In an excellent interview with Terry Gross from 2005, he describes this technique and the development of his practice in detail better than I can. So let's listen to a little bit of this. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] TERRY GROSS: You're such an interesting figure in hip hop. Everyone who was there in the beginning seems to agree that you started it all. But because you never recorded, in some ways you're more of a cult figure than a star. KOOL HERC: That's why it got to be called exclusive. So you can tell everybody because [INAUDIBLE] [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: So what do you guys think? Impressions, ideas, surprises? AUDIENCE: He looks like Ludacris. PROFESSOR: Yeah, ha ha, that's true. AUDIENCE: He really feels responsible. PROFESSOR: Say again? AUDIENCE: He really feels responsible for keeping people happy. PROFESSOR: That's right. Yeah his attitude about what's supposed to go on at these meetings, at these parties is different than we think of many hip hop or DJ performers these days. It's not about himself-- well, it is, you see the pride he has-- but it's also about, well, he's a shepherd. This idea that he's really concerned about getting people to have a good time. His attention to his audience is what led to his interest in the merry go round in the breaks. What is he talking about there, this merry go around technique? Ideas? And these breaks, first of all, what are these breaks? AUDIENCE: What he was saying is that people have their favorite parts of the songs that they were able to dance to and that have a little special move and a way to do that special move, and so he just figured why not repeat it over and over again so you can get people back on the dance floor, play their special move. PROFESSOR: That's right the breaks would be the instrumental break in a tune, a place where the vocals would drop out, and the rhythm section would come forward. These would generally be relatively short, 4, 8, 16 bars, relatively short parts where the rhythm section would come forward, and these would have a little bit more energy. And Herc realized that this inspired people dance more. So he developed a technique to extend the breaks. His technique was to use two copies of the same record, and then while one was playing, he could spin the other back and play the other and switch back and forth between two records with the same material and extend the break. He called this the merry go round technique. This led to a whole attention to these breaks, and he mentions a very important one called Apache which is also mentioned by our friends the People Under the Stairs in their track. So let's look at this. The link for the whole interview is there. It's really a great interview. So, Apache, every b-boy knew it. Apache, probably the most famous break of all breaks. It has a long and complicated history. A study of the history of Apache was done by an author by the name Matos called, "All Roads Lead to Apache." You can find the complete article here. The history of this tune is complex and comes from various sources. In 1960 there were two versions of this tune, Apache, that don't bear much relation to what we think of now as Apache, but we can hear a little bit of these. [MUSIC - BERT WEEDON, "APACHE"] PROFESSOR: Ever hear that melody before? AUDIENCE: Yeah. PROFESSOR: So that was one version by Bert Weedon. Cliff Richard and the Shadows did another version closely related to that version. AUDIENCE: Do you think that's closer to rockabilly or closer to like Jamaican? [MUSIC - CLIFF RICHARD AND THE SHADOWS, "APACHE"] PROFESSOR: It's hard to describe what it is. It's hard to say what it is. But you'll see where it gets into hip hop in a second. So here we hear the same melody, slightly different rhythm section. Now those were the sort of foundations of Apache. It was the incredible bongo band with their album, "Bongo Rock" that provided the break that excited people like Herc and so many others later on. You'll hear the same melody there from the 1960 tunes, but here he adds this bongo rhythm section that caught a lot of people's attention. [MUSIC - INCREDIBLE BONGO BAND, "APACHE"] PROFESSOR: It's the same melody. But that opening bongo rhythm is the thing that excited people so much. So shortly after the Sugarhill Gang produces, the first to put this in something more like a hip hop context. [MUSIC - SUGARHILL GANG, PROFESSOR: There's the melody. AUDIENCE: It's like two minutes like that. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Now, of course, a whole study could be done not only on the evolution of this tune, but the distant and complex associations and references to ideas about Native American culture which are irrelevant in this discussion. But we are just focusing on this one peculiar bongo rhythm which comes back again and again. Future sound of London, not a hip hop group, use it in this example. Here it's a little sped up [MUSIC - FUTURE SOUND OF LONDON, "WE HAVE EXPLOSIVES"] PROFESSOR: And there's some other things going on there. And A very clear example from 2002 by The Roots which starts off right with that Apache bongo rhythm. [MUSIC - THE ROOTS, "THOUGHT @ WORK"] PROFESSOR: So the Incredible Bongo Band, one of the most popular breaks there is. Another popular break is often referred to as the amen break. This again was nicely taken into a single context by the study of someone, this one was this guy named, Harrison, this idea of studying the history of a break as looking at the lineage of either a sample or a break, I think, is a really interesting approach to studying music. He produced this little audio documentary called, "Can I Get An Amen" where he looks at this 4 bar drum solo from this group called, The Winstons, that was found on a track on the b-side, a relatively unknown tune that sounded like this. [MUSIC - THE WINSTONS, "AMEN BROTHER"] So there we can really clearly hear the break, the part where the brass section drops out and the rhythm section steps forward. Does that beat sound familiar to anybody? Ever hear something like that? Maybe all over the place. The Nate Harrison documentary nicely describes the different ways that this was used, not only how it was used in its original form, but how was chopped up, sold, and commodified in various sampler libraries and other tools that people bought and rearranged. Some quick examples of this beat. Different artists use this in different ways. Some of the connections he suggest are maybe a little bit more distant. Like the idea of this beat, I think, is used sometimes as much as the original beat, but we can hear a little bit of this in "Straight Outta Compton" by N.W.A. [MUSIC - N.W.A., "STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON"] PROFESSOR: We can hear a bit of the first bar of that beat. Mantronix, "King of the Beats." [MUSIC - MANTRONIX, "KING OF THE BEATS"] PROFESSOR: Shy FX. [MUSIC - SHY FX, "ORIGINAL NATTAH"] PROFESSOR: Here we see that Amen break start to be cut up and rearranged a little bit. That's also very popular. [MUSIC - L DOUBLE & YOUNGBLOOD, "NEW STYLE"] PROFESSOR: Now Harrison goes as far to suggest that that beat led to whole genres of music that use that style of beat which gets a little bit more of a distant connection, but I think there's something to be said for that approach. Harrison also points out that this sample was sold in sample packs and available commercially which leads to all sorts of interesting questions about copyright and has this nice example from a Jeep commercial in California that uses this beat to suggest-- I don't know-- the rugged freedom of driving your Jeep to go skiing or something. [VIDEO PLAYBACK, JEEP COMMERCIAL] PROFESSOR: Hear it in the background there? Ha ha. AUDIENCE: Driving straight outta Compton? PROFESSOR: Ha ha. Now back to the People Under the Stairs. People who still live in the folklore of DJ Kool Herc. We talked about Herc. Bam is a reference to Africa Bambaataa. We talked about Africa Bambaataa earlier. Grand Wizard Theodore is often credited for inventing the scratch. And whether or not this is true is hard to say, but the story goes, he was hanging out in his basement listening to a record, and his mom yelled, hey Grand Wizard! I'm sure that's not what she said. Theodore! Turn that music down. So he grabbed the record and thus was invented the baby scratch. And that's what they say how the scratch was invented. Of course, Grand Wizard Theodore extended this technique with various variations of that scratch and made it into a rhythmic technique. Now Grandmaster Flash provides us with some really excellent examples of scratching techniques. He was known for extending numerous techniques, for developing his own electronics. He built some basic electronics, and some say that he invented, or at least refined, the cross fader itself. He, like many turntablists, came up with names for his techniques. He describes something called the quick mix theory, or sometimes called a back spin technique, which is actually very similar to Herc's merry go around. He also describes techniques such as the punch phase where he would drop in and out of a record to sort of grab one sample from it. His well known composition, "Adventures of Grandmaster Flash on the Wheels of Steel" was one of our listenings for this class. Let's listen to a little bit of that to remind us. [MUSIC - GRANDMASTER FLASH, "THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDMASTER FLASH ON THE WHEELS OF STEEL"] PROFESSOR: So we've already heard him switch between three or four different records. He was also dropping in and out doing that punch phase technique. I think that was the queen example. In another interview with Terry Gross, Grandmaster Flash narrates his techniques as he listens to this tune which provides us with a really great view into what he was doing here. Let's listen to this. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] GRANDMASTER FLASH: Punch phase. [INAUDIBLE] Punch phase. Punch phase. [INAUDIBLE] To Apache with a rub. PROFESSOR: Apache again. GRANDMASTER FLASH: Cutting it up, cutting it up. Knocking it in. [INAUDIBLE] Cutting into the rhythm. [INAUDIBLE] times. [INAUDIBLE] the rhythm against the queen. Good times flashing in. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: So there he's gone around in a sort of circle starting with that good times tune, taking a little trip on these different tunes, coming back to where he started. And this would all have been done live. So not only was he manipulating his turntables, he would also be changing records, queueing up the records to just the right spot, and of course having the timing and skill to execute this all without flaw. AUDIENCE: I was going to ask what exactly it means to queue up a record, but I guess it's just to just the right spot. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Well if we have a mixer, and we have headphones, we can listen ahead and get the record at the right place. But with the development of the art of turntablism, these DJs would start to know their records so well, that they would simply be able to see the groove. Herc was talking about being able to see the difference in the grooves to know exactly where to put the needle in the right spot at the right time. AUDIENCE: So it's usually like two turntables, one that's playing the current record and one to queue up the-- PROFESSOR: Often. Some DJs may even use more than two. But with techniques such as the merry go round and the like, the idea of having two turntables, I think, becomes really widespread. Other questions? Now we start to see the DJ take on the role of a soloist. That Grandmaster Flash, "On the Wheels of Steel" was 1981, but that didn't completely spread this idea of the DJ as a soloist. And it's with Herbie Hancock's tune, "Rockit," with DJ grand mixer DST that we start to see the turntablist start to take on the role of a soloist. This tune, "Rockit," was tremendously popular, one, because it's a good tune. Two, it has excellent scratching and very prominent soloistic scratching. And three, had an outrageous video which had, well, I'll just show it to you. Let's just look at this. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC - HERBIE HANCOCK, "ROCKIT"] PROFESSOR: No, thanks. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] PROFESSOR: Now you could write for a whole essay on this video. What are some interesting things going on here? Anything you see off the top of your head? AUDIENCE: Rhythmically he had the visual rhythm along with the acoustic. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Visual rhythm. I think that's one of the key things, is that the movement of the automaton, if you will, the mannequins and the like, is synchronized to the rhythm and some of the cutting of the turntable which sort of visualizes what's going on in the turntable in a way that people can grasp. Other things going on in this? Do you see any humans? AUDIENCE: Well through the TV. PROFESSOR: Through the TV, right. The only human you see is Herbie Hancock in the distance on black and white TV, sort of, removed. And you have these mannequins, these androids, sort of, taking over. You have this sort of removal of the human which could be interpreted in a wide range of different-- and he's vocoded also. You can see that he has a little-- it's going to be hard to find his picture-- there's his hands. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: You see that he's got a little mic on. I encourage you to watch the whole video. It's great. That video did a lot to popularize the DJ and to allow people to start to think of the turntable as a solo instrument. Some people have tried to transcribe what a turntablist does, and this has led to something, an attempt to this, called the Turntablist Transcription Method. This group has produced some transcriptions of famous DJ tunes which allow us to see a little bit about what's going on. [MUSIC - HERBIE HANCOCK, "ROCKIT"] PROFESSOR: Here we can see a transcription of the solo from that very tune, from "Rockit". We can hear a little bit of the turntable solo in that tune. Let me see if I can find it here. So the way this works, it shows the name of the sample on the left. So we can see that he's cutting, scratching over the word fresh. And these lines represent changes in pitch that happen over time. So time is represented on the x-axis. The y-axis is showing the time it takes to move the sample over that duration. Let's look at a little bit. [MUSIC - HERBIE HANCOCK, "ROCKIT"] PROFESSOR: So, pretty cool, huh? Now the traditional criteria we use to evaluate music often use ideas about a motific development, presentations of themes and variation, repetition, contrast, and forward movement. Do we see any of those things in this solo here? AUDIENCE: Yeah. PROFESSOR: Like what? AUDIENCE: You had motifs in dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun. PROFESSOR: Right, which is an elaboration of the drum rhythm, but it's like another motific thing. And we can see quite clearly transcribed here that it comes at the beginning of each of the four bar groups. So we have a very clear structure with an opening motif, a little bit of variation at the end. Good. What other motifs or ideas repeat in this tune, in this solo? We see this little repeated rub come back again and again in different places. Finally, at the end, and then in the closing phrase, we have some nice variation where the expectations that have been established so far, this opening motif, is cut up and broken which creates a little suspense, a little expectation for the final resolution at the end. This is all done with a turntable and with scratching. There are some more transcriptions here all of which are very cool. There is also a bit of Grandmaster Flash On the Wheels of Steel. We can look at this briefly to see a little bit about how this works. In that last example, we were transcribing cases where there was only one sample being used. He was scratching over basically one word. Here they're trying to show the use of different sources, and we can see that he's going back and forth between different sound sources in the transcription here. [MUSIC - GRANDMASTER FLASH, "THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDMASTER FLASH ON THE WHEELS OF STEEL"] PROFESSOR: There's our old friend Apache. AUDIENCE: What's the point of transcribing the drumbeat even though they came off of samples? PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's a good question. I think it's something to look at. AUDIENCE: Let's listen to that gargley piece at the end. Is that going to be-- PROFESSOR: So what he's scratching here though is good time. So you see this very clearly so that the transition to the good times becomes very clear where he's giving you a little taste of it ahead of time. Yeah, there's more here. There's some other transcriptions on that website. I encourage you to check it out. It's a very nice approach and really helps you see a lot of different things going on. There are many ways in which the turntable are used in contemporary practice. We're going to look at two in particular. The first is probably the most common where the turntable is used in hip hop in combination or in alternation with the drums and the vocals as a sort of rhythmic element, as a sort of counter interjection between the vocals and between the rhythm section. Sometimes we see the turntable take on a special role in the chorus of a song, whereas in a rock or other popular context the chorus would be filled by a big sing along. In a hip hop track, the chorus might simply be the DJ scratching or manipulating some sort of refrain. Let's listen to a little bit of Eric B. and Rakim's "I Ain't No Joke." [MUSIC - ERIC B. & RAKIM, "I AIN'T NO JOKE"] PROFESSOR: So how is the turntable used there? Did you hear the turntable? AUDIENCE: Yeah, it's sort of like a secondary track, but. The drumbeat's probably running on a turntable too. PROFESSOR: Right, we have the main beat probably on a turntable, but the scratching here is the key thing. [MUSIC - ERIC B. & RAKIM, "I PROFESSOR: Right there. Right there. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: What's that? AUDIENCE: I imagine the horns [INAUDIBLE] sample is spinning over? PROFESSOR: They could. Yeah. That's a good idea. Maybe the horn cut right there, but how's it been used in the larger musical context? Did you have an idea? AUDIENCE: I agree with [INAUDIBLE] point. He gives you a little bit of that sample. PROFESSOR: Right so it's sort of a preview like we saw with the Grandmaster Flash track. Other ideas? AUDIENCE: It's sort of like he's said something, it's like it's a response to what he's saying. PROFESSOR: Yeah it's sort of a response, and it's filling this gap after the verse before it comes down to the downbeat of the next phrase. So it's sort of a little rhythmic tension to push you at the end of the phrase into the downbeat of the next phrase. [MUSIC - ERIC B. & RAKIM, "I AIN'T NO JOKE"] PROFESSOR: He's getting in right where the vocals drop away with these little scratches. Now let's listen to the chorus. So that's so weird. That's the weirdest thing. So we hear there the chorus being taken or by this role of scratching. Instead of, again, the sort of big unified singing portion we typically associate with the chorus, we have the chorus replaced by DJ scratching. Now for an example of some of the most modern techniques, I had you guys listen to DJ Babu, DJ Qbert, DJs [? Mellow ?], a group called D-Styles doing a tune from 2002 called "Felonius Funk". Let's listen to a little bit of this. [MUSIC - D-STYLES, "FELONIUS FUNK"] PROFESSOR: So we heard there probably two DJs each taking solo breaks. This is a solo DJ tune, and they're treating this sort of as a jazz context. There's a rhythm section going on, a rhythm, a beat, and they're each taking solos over this beat. Can you generalize about the techniques, or what musically is going on in those passages there? AUDIENCE: Are they cutting up the main beat? PROFESSOR: The main beat seems pretty constant. It seems like they probably have one DJ probably playing the beat, and then they're cutting up other things. What are they using as their scratch material? AUDIENCE: Some vocal words. PROFESSOR: Some sort of vocal word, that's right. And how was it musically deployed? Did you guys notice what's going on? Does it sound unified? Does it sound musical? Do here a phrase? Does it sound like a solo? Did it have coherence, or did it sound like it was wandering just scratching and revving over the place? AUDIENCE: You heard the repetition and some special motifs going back and forth, so it definitely had some musical qualities. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Anybody else hear anything in particular in this? I think this is a really great example because in many ways it shows what we've seen many times in our look at music and technology. It shows an attention to an economy of resources. Using a small bit of something and extending it out and manipulating it in a variety of ways. The opening solo here. [MUSIC - D-STYLES, "FELONIUS FUNK"] PROFESSOR: After this little part here. This whole passage from here to the end of this phrase is all one phrase, someone saying, oh my god. So it's a woman saying, oh my god, and the DJ is scratching that one phrase for this entire passage. And in a way it's sort of a game. You start to hear the words come out until finally at the end you hear it very clearly. [MUSIC - D-STYLES, "FELONIUS FUNK"] PROFESSOR: The [? goddess ?] transformed into the melodic passage, yeah. So three words used as a sonic and motific source, carefully deployed, built upon, and extended to create what, I think, is a very coherent solo. We hear in the next solo-- PROFESSOR: What is the phrase being cut up here? Say what. PROFESSOR: Everybody hear it now, say what. Again this economy of resources, this using a small bit of material as a source for an extended composition is something you've seen time and time again, in many of the works that we've looked at. Think of Hugh Le Caine's "Dripsody" a composition that used one sample, one taped piece of sound as a source for the entire composition. Think of the rigorous application of tape techniques by Cage or others. This idea of using a small bit of material and extending it is so common in the tradition of music and one then we see here employed on the turntable. Now the last thing we're going to look at is what I consider the sort of abstraction of the turntable, pulling out the most essential feature of the turntable. And as we talked about in the beginning, the most essential features seem to be the ability to control the speed of a rotating disc that combined with a mixer and a cross fader. But this idea of a rotating disk that somehow gives a useful interface for controlling musical time. One reason the rotating disc is useful for controlling musical time is because it has momentum. When you have a rotating disc, there's a very tactile connection, and you gradually can speed it up or slow it down. It has a sense of momentum because it's going so that it takes force to slow it down. And if you let go it gradually speeds up. That issue of momentum of rotation tied to musical time is very important. It's not found on a digital audio file. We can start and stop a digital audio file. There is no momentum to the playback of digital audio, unless of course we build models that incorporate that. So various approaches have been proposed to keep this rotating disc, this rotating platter, available. This Technics SL D7-1200, this device seems to be discontinued, allowed you to enter a CD into this slot here and control its play back with the rotating disk. This is very much like the SL-1200 turntable. It's the exact same platter, but the platter, notice there's no tone arm, there's no record needle, the platter is controlling, exclusively, the playback of the content found on a disc. Another approach, this one by TASCAM, the TTM 1 uses a little component to ride on the disc and track its motion. That tracked motion of the rotation of the disk, again, incorporating any changes in playback speed by the operator, is used to provide a control signal that works only with their proprietary CD players found here. But this allows you to use the turntable as a controller for the playback of stored digital audio. AUDIENCE: It looks like the most expensive possible way to do that. PROFESSOR: Expensive, well, and also probably error prone, right? Because you could imagine the contact here may not be very reliable. This wheel might slip. They still make this product. The approach that has found the most widespread use goes under various names. It's now owned by the Rane Corporations. It's called Serato Scratch. There's various versions of this, but the way that this system works is you use your conventional turntables that you've invested hundreds of dollars in. You use your mixer which you've already invested a lot of money in. But instead of playing records that have music on them, you play records that have a specially encoded control signal. This control signal is tracked out of the output of the turntables by the computer. The control signal is formatted in a way such that variations in playback speed which may result by you changing the playback speed with the slider or by scratching are captured by the computer and can be applied to any digital audio file. So this allows you to use your old turntables as control surface for digital audio files stored on your computer in any format. This literally lets you scratch your MP3s. AUDIENCE: Do you think that still has the problem of wear? Old discs wear out and then you still have to buy more records. PROFESSOR: Yes. But I think it's more probably more accurate, and these control records are relatively inexpensive and probably last as long as any record does. So it may not be a major concern. AUDIENCE: Do you know of anyone who's used the degradation of these control devices. PROFESSOR: I don't. But that's a really interesting thing to look at. I don't also know exactly how the control signal is encoded. We could imagine a couple of ways. It could be some sort of binary spacing of clicks that it looks at, how close the clicks get together. They might try another approach, but it's interesting to think about how that system works. The control software for this is fantastic. It not only shows you the waveforms coming through which makes it easy to beat match by matching up the lines here, and it lets you queue up other songs for each virtual turntable and do a lot of other fun things. If you go to guitar center, go to the DJ section, you can try this out, it's quite a bit of fun. Now that's expensive because you still have to have real turntables, and a lot of DJs really like this approach because they can use their existing turntables. Furthermore, if they want to combine a vinyl disc on one turntable and a digital audio file on another, they can mix and match with the Serato Scratch system Other sort of hybrid systems are things like this Numark NS-7 which combines-- notice these are 78 size disc-- which combines this. Notice there's also no tone arm here. So this device provides an integrated control where you can control the playback speed with these discs. The mixer and other tools are built in, but again, it's all controlling digital audio stored on the computer. Here, presumably, the actual movement of the platter is what is used to speed of the digital audio. But this, again, is another approach of abstracting out this essential feature of momentum based playback model. So I like to look at what we've looked at here as sort of trajectory from first coercion. Taking a device that was not intended to be used as a soloistic instrument and refining the number of techniques out of this process of coercion and then, now that that's sort of solidified, what would the term be that Biker might give to that sort of the scratching techniques? Sort of reach a sense of closure, we see a sort of next stage where now the essential features of the turntable are being abstracted, pulled out, and made into a number of devices that provide similar control but a totally different playback mechanism that is reading digital audio off of a computer or other stored data. Ideas? Can you imagine other types of momentum based controllers we might have if we imagine what the next stage. Will people continue to use things like Serato with conventional turntables, or might we imagine other interfaces that will allow DJs to do what they've done for the last 30 or 40 years but in alternative ways? AUDIENCE: Like surface tables that you could sort of show images and work off that. PROFESSOR: That's true. I mean, we do see this interest in touch screens and the like, and you could visualize the screen. But I think the problem there would be that you don't have momentum, you can't feel the speed, and I think that's a very important feature of turntablism. And I think that's something that's retained in the abstractions that we see there. I think that really illustrates a good point because there's something in the contact, in that sense of momentum of having to physically spinning disc, that seems to be really important to turntable practice. AUDIENCE: Do all of those actually rotate though? I know some of the CD DJ interfaces don't actually rotate. PROFESSOR: Some don't rotate. There are some that don't rotate. They just give you a big button that you can move, but it doesn't seem like DJs are really attracted to those. The ones that DJs seem to be attracted are the ones that actually represent playback time in some sort of rotational sense. Other ideas? AUDIENCE: What about DJ Hero? PROFESSOR: DJ Hero, how does that work? AUDIENCE: It's one turntable, a cross fader, the turntable has buttons on it, and you scratch like the two outer buttons you hold down while scratching. And that's how you can-- PROFESSOR: Do you have to move the cross fader to succeed? Do you have to-- AUDIENCE: Move the cross fader into the three positions or whatever. But the weird thing with the scratching is it doesn't spin or anything. It's a lightweight turntable hand. It's hard to press a button and scratch a thing at the same time. PROFESSOR: That's great. Well you can all play DJ Hero or just go to guitar center and tryout Serato Scratch. It's really fun. Great, I'll see you guys next time.