The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. >> Today is pretty much just set aside for brainstorming. So, we're probably going to do about an hour of that uh just to like throw the ideas that people already have in their heads about what could be with the problem space that we're working on. I mean, this this whole preparing people to deal with violence uh and uh uh with with folks suffering from mental uh illness and you know there's a whole bunch of different things that people might be interested in working on. And the idea is that we hope hopefully if we can get this all out then um that we can spend next half hour and frankly the rest of this week uh trying to figure out who's in which team uh you know who's who's collaborating on similar topics and who's interested in working. Um and did anyone actually manage to get through any of the readings that I had put up? Okay. Right. So so there's a few things in there. I realized there wasn't a whole lot of time to read uh to read and there's probably more stuff up there to read than it needs to be necessarily but it's all there as resources any any ideas that people thought might be interesting to work on uh going uh Andrew and then >> so one of the basic issues I heard from the presentation and papers was communication >> so I guess uh the brainstorm simulation but the real world system would be communication between the psychiatrist and the like the >> patient patient >> patient yes the patient along with the psychiatrist with the person uh above them >> psychiatrist patient communication >> yes >> what's I for what they call >> patient >> person not the patient but patient psychiatrist person >> orderly >> nurse >> what what function do they have >> give us more information our system is under constraint >> mind psychiatrist patient for Yeah. But >> but I mean you're not talking about psychiatrist nurse patient. >> No, it's like uh >> psychiatrist resident. >> Sorry. Maybe like nurse patient and then nurse reporting instant to >> supervisor. Three levels. So >> yes, that's the one. >> So like you have a supervisor, >> you have a nurse. >> Yeah. Sorry guys. >> And you have the patient. Like those kind of like reporting up, reporting down. Great. >> All right. Uh yeah. So I have a couple ideas. One of them was maybe an idea like uh you have there's a patient and there's two uh I guess doctors psychiatrists >> and so one one psychiatrist is one psychiatrist is trying to calm the patient while the other is doing the opposite and trying to make this patient as angry as possible. So the way I'm thinking is with the one that makes you the psychiatrist is trying to uh enrage the patient that's kind of training in what not to say >> while the patient or the doctor is trying to calm them down is >> so so by showing how you can how what was the worst possible way to get >> Okay. So I couldn't call that good bad cup. >> Yeah. And then another idea I I had which I thought with bashing yesterday was um maybe have like have a team of psychiatrist working with one patient. But in interace in one of the uh psychiatrist is like a saver trying to is trying to enrage the patient. Remember the target audience is going to be psych like actual residents in so so so but but I'm going to like I I I just going to say several and a group >> of psychiatrists maybe an idea of the dynamic that we can play with. Okay. Uh John >> uh so three quick things. One would be I'm not exactly sure how this fits into a game, but uh simulating people who are delusional schizophrenic by either having every player have a a separate like audio track playing in their ear as they play. So there's like voices speaking to them and they have different audio experiences or having just one speaker that everyone can hear that uh that is playing audio. just incorporating audio into the experience to simulate in some way the internal thought process and perhaps these delusional thoughts that sort of you know the voice that tells you to go kill your mother and whatnot which isn't you know documented issue >> now this particular game doesn't have to be a board game doesn't have to be a card game you have a lot more flexibility on how what what you want to do I would suggest steering away from doing anything that requires digital logic like uh you know but you know MP3 players will be >> right exactly so something like that um so that's the first idea second thing would be a board game where you're in charge of managing a ward it's just a logistical making sure that you don't leave anyone neglected or or forget. >> Oh, definitely. Okay. So, yeah, people will >> So, you know, patients have their favorite nurse, you know, and they have sort of hidden issues that you have to uncover and and deal with. And if you leave something unattended and someone, you know, goes over, then they become violent. And so, you're kind of trying to make sure. And the the third idea would be to have uh one player pay as the patient and to simulate the their inability to communicate properly for whatever reason. the information of their own condition is hidden hidden from the player. And so, um, try to create a game experience that is genuinely frustrating because the the the player doesn't quite know what's wrong with them and can't articulate it properly and the other players are in charge of of finding it out and creates some sort of time constraint thing. So, it gets heated and and like >> there are a bunch of improv games that are exactly that. It's like I have something about me, but I can't tell you what it is. >> But, but you know, if the player doesn't even know that, it can get really >> right. Yeah. That's like the game where you have I can't remember what it's called, but the one where you have you try to make the other person say a word, but you can't use a certain series of like >> I just wanted to say on the simulating schizophrenia with audio tape. >> Um I've been part of RPGs which have done that well. So like live action role playing stuff which did which did it really well. It actually works. So um I recommend that it's actually quite >> exploring that further. >> Yeah. I mean it's been tried in a setting which I've seen before and worked really well. So I think it could work out. >> Mhm. >> You can do a refinement on that idea. >> Uh >> um so I know one of the main things that he was talking about is like knowing what to do and like just having the like going through the process of like what happens when somebody does something. And so that brought to mind like D and D and how like you have to prepare before the encounter and then in the encounter like you have certain actions that you can do like calm through speech, calm through, you know, presenting some object or some idea or whatever. Uh which I think would map pretty easily to the D&D space. Um and then you could also like you know you have certain abilities that are natural to your character like you're very charismatic which makes some things easier and such. I think that >> so >> so simplified D and D to um to handle interactions with patients. >> So so tabletop RPG style, >> right? >> And the kinds of things that you wanted to emphasize were things like preparation uh and sort of playing out your actual skills, >> You know the things that you're good at, right? >> So natural skills and uh preparation All right. So, I kind of had an idea for a game that could potentially be a card game where the player who's playing as the patient and the player who's playing as the doctor are operating under different rules. And one of the main points of the game is that they don't act they're not actually aware of the other player's rules. So, for instance, the patient could have certain goals which he's trying to achieve, >> but he is unaware which of these goals is like completely unreasonable to the doctor. And the game, the doctor has certain actions he can take and and is unaware which of these are going to be threatening to the patient. And so there there could be an instance where the patient actually believes the only way he is capable of winning the game is by using violence. And so that could be one of the end conditions, >> So So sure and then you you kind of have to did you again to >> uh I really like the idea that uh a psychiatrist has to really keep their composure when they're dealing with a violent person. they can't raise their voice, they have to keep them a certain distance and they can't uh you know seem upset for whatever reason. So a sort of a party game idea, you could have, you know, two people um basically one person would just have to be throwing insult at the other person and the person who's receiving the insults would just have to stay calm the whole time and continue talking, which is really hard to do even if you know it's coming at you. >> So like keep your cool. I mean that that that could be a game where you're like literally insulting someone or it could be a thing where you're playing a character with a certain amount of like composure points or something like that and you know you're sort of like planning actions to try to maintain those >> uh and different tactics to be able to increase those or decrease those >> back uh co-op type game where you are a bunch of nurses trying to basically take care of the ward. So, it's a lot like Jeremy's uh Diner Dash style game, >> except you have a limitation to how many you can actually do at once. So, you will be forced to neglect one every so often. >> Patient one neglect one patient, one patient, one >> some nurses will get sick and they'll have to leave. >> So, so or or rather you have limited resources uh not quite nearly enough to deal with every single crisis that's going to happen. >> Okay. Um, so I the one thing that I kind of found interesting in like reading the stuff is that statistically the amount of violence that happens like with mental patients is is not actually like that different from the amount of violence that happens in general population. >> Um, and you know they talked about how like people going through this and like deciding to go into the profession might actually second guess themselves because they have this perception that there's more violence. So I think like incorporating something where you have um life in the ward and life outside of it to just like so you you incorporate both the things where you're trying to deal with the patients but you're also reinforcing this idea that like it's not it's not like significantly more dangerous than real life is. >> None of your patients stab you then you get in your way home. >> Yeah. Like something like that like you know it's it's just life. I mean I mean one thing one thing that would give you the uh you may put it up one one thing that could be really attractive is that that now broadens your audience to people who aren't just psychiatric >> right >> so I like the idea of the patient and doctor having different rules goals triggers etc. Um, but I also like the idea of incorporating like an escalation and deescalation into the conflict between the two of them. >> So I feel like part of the thing which was really compelling about the role playing scenario that they showed was um there was there was the sense in which the doctor can say things which can escalate or deescalate this the situation, right? Make it more or less likely that things will go in a good or bad way. And like one way which we could do which that could be done in partially through roles would be to have like hidden keywords which the um which the patient responds to or what have you and that kind of moves them into a different state and then like transitioning between these two states um changes the goals which the the patient has. They may be intent upon trying to get nurse what was the name nurse's name Dave or >> nurse John but for that as they get deescalated then they just want to change their meds but then as they get dis um deescalated from that they may just want to go home or something like that >> just coming up with the rules that model what an unreasonable patient >> Yeah. Yeah. to give up or or what would be he willing to give up >> and and and actually putting somebody in the shoes of that is actually really useful to sort of think about what I can do as a doctor. >> Uh so there was this game I used to play in my family where like you're given a scenario and like a certain number of words that you can't use but like you want someone to like guess them. So essentially like it's like you choose random words and you have a scenario and like very similar to what you were saying where like certain keywords do certain things but like you have to you have to somehow create like the best story or the best like calm down like passage to read to the patient and then like there's some arbit like arbitrator like the GM of the game that like decides like which of the three people that were playing like which one had the best story out of those um to sort of get you to like have to come up with something to deal with like you know you need nurse John right away. Best way to deal with that for >> I mean you you you could do a thing where you had to create a story out of a randomized collection of elements maybe cards you know uh but then some number of those cards specifically the other player or maybe there's a game master player specifically just saying that knows internally that you're not supposed to be able to use those words and there some 20 questions type of way to be able to try to figure out what those currents are without the language. So that that that would be like a doctor trying to figure out what they're dealing with, you know, while that >> you could make that game like guess who where each person like draws a card and you're allowed to like give a statement to the other person or ask them something and then you see whether like escalate or deescalate and each individual card has like traits where you talk about this that's bad, you talk about this that's good. >> I I'm not familiar with guess. So, uh, okay. So, it's not really that much like Guess Who. >> 20 questions. Is that >> the idea thing of is everyone just you have a whole bunch of character cards and each of them have traits like watch this? If you say this, they'll get upset. If you say this, it's not very fully fleshed out, but everyone just like randomly draws traits and you take turns like speaking to each other and then the patients either get like will respond and then either get like more angry or sing. >> So, It's almost like your like your role is a collection of randomized traits or randomized behavioral uh rules. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So, rules defined by randomized rules. All those people um in the assassin's guild uh or familiar with the assassin's guild, there's the concept of cycripts. Uh things that you're that you as an individual player uh are are are given at the beginning of the game as things that you can do or you have to do or if you do something you have to do it under specific conditions. The psych psychological limitations is what they're called. It could be something as simple as you have to speak an accent all the time or you have to live. It could be something more like every time you see blur, you have to run away because there's a phobia and something like that. Uh, and some it might be interesting to think of collection of those things and that crafts how we behave. Um, so this makes me think I should probably do the live action class at some point and talk about party games and and uh I think you have >> Oh, I hope my hands are up. >> Okay, your hands are just up. like >> um another thing that a psychiatrist has to do when they're talking to a patient is to try to get the story out of them like why why they're upset. So you could have um a game where the patient has you know some set of of cards that uh has some some sort of story with some keywords and the doctor has to try to you know get the get these words out of him but the patient himself can't the patient himself doesn't fully know his story. So like he keeps on changing. You would keep modifying your story as you go by drawing cards and throwing them away and you can only really get the full picture once you get all the cards that the patient has in his hand. So wait, so does the patient have all the cards? >> The p the patient has his full story, but it keeps changing. >> Okay. So Okay. So ever changing story >> and and you want to kind of stay on top of entropy. >> Yeah. Okay. >> Cool. Um, this isn't a fully fleshed out idea, but as a mechanic, um, say there's a doctor and a patient, and the do and the only the only communication is through cards. So, the doctor will like give the patient two cards, and then the third card is randomly, uh, inserted off of like a deck and shuffled in, and the patient receives all three. >> So, it's like the patient might be schizophrenic and imagining things and they like get whatever the doctor's saying, but they also get like other random things as noise. So, so as a mechanic that will be um man I that's hard to describe two the idea that you will be adding a randomized >> so you get information that is both what the other person played and something random and you can't distinguish which is which >> so you have a communication channel and you're handing random noise. >> Yeah. And what is not? Yeah, I am running out of space. So, it's okay. >> Any other That's creepy. >> Anyone else? One concept I thought was interesting that I'm not really sure how you turn into a game immediately is the idea of the patient and bically the doctor or the rest of the world having to at the moment irreconcilable irreconcilable narratives >> and the goal of bringing those into some type of medium in which the patient can you know comfortably exist with this narrative that's in with the rest of the world, >> right? >> So the the idea again of that narrative disruption is kind of why people get violent in the first place and so maybe even taking out the question entirely of what makes is this person going to act violently, but can you even work together with somebody to change how they see the world until it makes sense on both on both sides? Yeah. >> Yeah. So that would something I can't like actually that you would gain for now be something like okay so you have the patient's trying to tell this patient and do doctor patient and doctor and one person trying to portray a message that one person the other person trying to portray to the other but there's like some something in the middle that's changing everything >> and so it's just trying to reconcile that difference pretty much >> figure out the connection like the communication between each other >> so so you kind of have a situation where you actually have three people playing And it's just some one person who's changing information on >> either predict unpredictable unpredictable way >> like maybe they they have their own objective in mind. >> So what they're trying the two people in the end are trying to like figure out what the other one's saying and then one person in the middle is trying to has their has their own agenda. >> That's like representing schizophrenia. So, so, so that there's a noisy communications channel with an agenda. I like that. >> Yeah. I mean, that that could be a algorithm that could be a person. Uh, it could be a person running an algorithm in their head. So, yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, the noisy communication channel could represent the actual state of mind of the the patient. That is the point, right? But I mean and then depending upon again they're like the level of arousal that could change like how everything gets streamed into being like very combative. And so like everything the doctor says is sort of taken as being somehow >> Yeah. >> Yeah. some sort of some sort of variable that's actually going to affect how they're going to >> Okay. Um, this meant well, this would probably only work once the first time you play through, but again, what you've concealed from the players or certain players themselves that uh what their goals are or what they believe to be true about the game state is in fact a delusion or not true. So you might you might tell them that it's about this is a game set in 2100 when you've been wrongly imprisoned in a psychiatric ward and you must fight your way out or something like that and there's a you know voice will guide you you know whatever and then and then but you don't you don't tell you don't tell that player that they're in fact playing a player who believes you know these things and you and then maybe you do some sort of live action role playing or not I'm not exactly sure but a game which otherwise are forces with this other guy who's convinced that this is what the game is about. So it's like an unreliable Yeah, I'm going to write an unreliable scenario. Uh I know the players don't know that going in, but uh if folks have seen the film The Cabinet of of Dr. Kagari, it's an old Germanic specialist uh white film and I could spoil it. Does anyone care? It's the old 1920s. >> Unspoilers. I think you're fine. Uh but but the basic idea comes down to the hero of this sort of horror story is actually just a patient in the in psychiatric war and everybody who he believes is part of this story that he's uh conquering is somebody else in psychiatric war. The big villain is actually the person running. >> Is that like Shutter? >> Yeah. Yeah. It's like Shutter. >> Yeah. Yeah. not not not not entirely unlike a lot of different stories. But similarity idea of the you know maybe maybe the information we've been given is not that they need to be trusting something that go like that would be I guess a game mechanic part of that would be everyone's assigned a different role and one of those roles is patient and so you don't know if you're the patient or not and so you're trying to do your objectives and then as you play along you realize you may or start to realize things aren't actually as what they seem. So eventually you may figure out I'm actually the patient here. >> Right. Right. Who's trying to train who? And they're almost like fighting for authority in that sense possibly. Okay. >> Going along with that. Uh I think an interesting mechanic would be like the battle star black sylons method where you the person knows that they're Sylon, but they can infiltrate by doing that voting system at the end. What is that? It's the with the destiny part. >> So you know that someone's trying to sabotage you but you don't know who, >> right? So gosh, how um patient. >> So that's kind of who's the patient from a different way, right? It's like one is you know player knows >> who you know at least at least one person knows >> and then the other one is uh player needs to figure out whether they are it. >> This is just an interesting mechanic thing. So there was this again RPG called Brea the Oblivion that had this really interesting mechanic for handling the dark side that each player had which might be kind of relevant in this situation. Essentially, you had a different person who was also playing another protagonist also play your antagonist. >> And so they would either talk to you and tell you things or they would just directly control your character like if you kind of fail the compos the composure role. And taking the adversarial side of your character away from your control kind of um it it means that you your character is more likely to behave in a really disruptive way rather than just a controllably disruptive way how it would be if you were had a best interest in your character. >> So open takes control of your character. >> Yeah. Uh and and that might work really well with some of the ideas of I did a good cop bad cop ide. Okay. >> So, um actually going off of the uh the like the audio idea of like someone is is actually hearing voices and this whole um who was the patient thing, you could actually have things where you have uh one player is actually playing a patient who is schizophrenic >> and another player is playing the voices in his head. So you you but like they don't really know that like they they're playing this scenario where you know they they have some delusion that they're crafted or whatever. Um >> Oh. >> So like like having having like just have a person actually being the like like as you were saying like have an actual person be the dark side of of the patient. >> Um so but neither of them know who's the dark side. Well, I mean the the patient Yeah. I mean you could have >> one way you could arbitrate this is you could say that the the patient player is able to just basically do as they please but >> with there are rules which govern whether the dark side character can take over. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Or >> so and that means that means that the patient is kind of genuinely driven to try and reach a compromise but they can just be overruled by dark side. Yeah. >> So, >> and there could also be things where like it's it could be like more of a strong role playinging thing where the voice is actually just trying to convince him that yes, this delusion is real. >> So, but you still think you have a recorded thing or actually two different >> You could actually have two people just actually standing there talking to each other. >> Okay. So, two uh people playing one character. >> Yeah. >> It it would potentially require a lot of suspension of disbelief on the part of the uh person playing the psychiatrist. It might be one of those things that's easier to um mediate by having people uh talk through a screen or something like that, you know, uh or even a microphone and a speaker kind of thing. Could be a game where you can play on a phone. >> Uh that would be >> I've not seen many games that are designed specifically to be played on phones, but function. I definitely like that idea and I think it could work well with a card game as well if you have two players sharing the same hand and the player who actually gets to play the cards from the hand is whoever is in control of the patient and so as things uh diff as the state basically changes depending on what the doctor does uh different players become in control of the patient's hand. >> So so it seems like we actually have a lot of different options on how we could mechanic uh somebody who's mentally unstable. uh and um and a bunch of also a bunch of ideas of how how that state switch could happen uh or what rules make up. Uh so that's pretty cool and that that's not uh and that's not mutually exclusive from any other ideas specifically about a patient and a doctor, right? So all we're talking about what happens to the patient. Uh these are the rules that a patient could be operating under. The doctor could have a different set of rules, all rules. >> I was reading about this and I think that it turns out most violence in psychiatric wards happens uh to the patients themselves or to other patients by patients much more than it actually happens to towards practitioners. >> And I'm just noticing that I don't think any of our ideas addressed any of those issues. board management maybe gets a little closer. >> Yeah, people start turning on themselves. >> So, I was I was just thinking so another possible way that you could apply all this a lot of these role playing multiple role or auditory mechanics is to a situation. we should we we should probably do research in what situations lead to patients coming in contact with each other and then the encounter turning violent. And then perhaps just having all players be patients that have various different mental disorders. And then and just to help you understand in the as a patient what what kinds of behaviors and situations would lead you to uh going violent on someone else. >> Just sort of one of those like be in someone else's shoes helps you understand the situation better, >> right? So just putting them in uh in a situ uh putting them in an environment where everything that is necessary for your charact for a certain character to become upset environment and then just seeing how that naturally occurs without necessarily saying and now you >> okay a game of persuasion that's a cross between like BS and Uno. So, you have two doctors who are trying to get rid of cards in their hand. Um, and then the patient wants a certain set of cards and he's saying, "I'm looking for John." And the two doctors pull out a card, they say, "Oh, this is John." Or they can be like, "This isn't John, but I can help you out later." >> Oh, so this is a this is that almost seems like an educate um intended to teach people not to. >> So, um so I'm going to say fish. >> Yeah. Honest honesty. So, we got a pretty good pile here. Um, a lot of these uh can obviously be combined and there's no reason why multiple groups couldn't attempt to do similar topics. Uh, in fact, you could take exactly the same set and I'm pretty sure two different groups are going to come in the same way. So, that's fine. Uh, again, a lot of live of things that could probably be easier done live action or at least easier to prototype live action. the um the the the folks who were here on Monday um they are actually uh focused mostly on trying to see what could be moved out to more people uh more resident trainee uh in uh in the future. Your games don't necessarily need to do that but uh but you might want want to keep that this this assignment is game for a client after all. And you know, if you manage to address that need of the, you know, here's something that doesn't require one person from the original GMT to do it. And you can imagine like you know the acting exercise that that that that they ran through you know Dion's particularly talented uh at improvising to speak but you know requires requires uh you know people requires resources that not necessarily um every every training environment is going to have something that can be turned into a fairly understandable set set of rules or use or using technologies that are fairly accessible. um you know, if you're going to play your voice in someone's ear, it's going to be a lot easier if that was using uh something recorded or something like a phone as opposed to that if it was if it was a phone conversation actually going like so it's live and people are in different rooms and actually talking to each other over the phone over Skype or something like that. But but you're talking to someone, you have a phone up so then the other person can hear what you're saying and be the evil voice >> like you know. >> Yeah. such a thing that you don't even need to do on Skype, right? You just get two cell phones to hit with with handsree sets and and now the technology just becomes that much easier for for users to two phones and two two headsets. It's almost >> I mean or you could make it that like for some game that two people are playing that like two groups are playing the same game but they both hear the other group like this group would hear the other groups playing the game. So, it's not even just like a random conversation. It's like they're playing the same game you're playing, but you're hearing the other group playing the game. So, you get to >> Wow. >> Uh deep. >> I would say two groups uh you drop in the same game. So, I just wanted to say that I think the thing which is really hard if you don't if you're working with people who like don't really want to do a role playing thing >> is like building a level of emotional intensity and the fear of violence. Um, which is kind of the point of the training like you want to be able to deal with that kind of emotional stress on your feet. >> Yeah. Um, so I was just wondering because I don't have any good ideas if anyone could think of something which which works out >> which can like genuinely create a situation where a monkey would be afraid of violence. >> Yeah. >> Without actually without somebody having to threaten another person. I don't think he's going to be able to color on >> well well if one player's role is actually not to understand but to provide the experience for the other >> and they're hearing a recording that is giving them cues as to what to do and one of their cues is eventually like and no player is not brief this and one of their cues is like and now you know grabbing the player by the shoulders and like shake them violently and say you know say something you could you could possibly create a situ situation where you're like, whoa, you know, buddy, >> but the problem is you have to be able to get somebody who can do that without like cracking up in the middle of it because like people do that when they're nervous and uncomfortable. Like you so you pretty much be reduced to finding professional actors and that's a limited resource that like limit puts a limitation on on how widespread your game >> even people will take things seriously resource you have. >> I have a thought where you have like it's a patient patient interaction. So you have two people in different rooms on the phone with each other trying to negotiate something. I don't know what what it would be and have two other people in each of in each of their rooms that are like talking in their ear and trying to distract them from the conversation. >> Okay. So so patient talking to patient uh maybe can like medicine uh with uh voices in person. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Uh there is a specifically an article on that I think. So actually Patrick. >> Um so I was thinking something along the lines of of like battleship if you have um like a doctor player and patient player and they're both looking at this um their own version of the same board >> and if the uh the patient wants to get from one end to the other um and the doctor has to allow whether or not they can make their move but on the doctor's board they have like different obstacles and so then um like the patient will say I want to move from here to here and the doctor says I can't let you do that I can let you go from here to here um it'd be a game about a compromise >> okay so sort of uh okay um doctor mediated movement okay forward movement >> and and the battleship analogy is good to help us remember. >> Yeah. Uh to address something that Owen said about the trying to simulate u fear. Uh I mean if you can add time pressure to any game then I think that that strong of a stress situation it could kind of almost be fear. It could be a spider >> because what what you're really going for is stress you're going to make decision >> falling creating. >> Yeah. >> Anyways, >> uh >> um so kind of like an idea of how to take the the doctor mediated board and move it into the real world is that you could have we're talking about these like phoneto phone conversations. You could have the patient is like um in a room but he's blindfolded >> and like he's trying to like move through the room like towards an exit in the room or something and the doctor has like some limited information about the room and has to like help him like navigate through the room and he'll say like I want to move you know forward and he's like well you yeah you I can't really let you do that because there's a pit of spikes in front of you. So you wouldn't necessarily actually have a real pitull of spikes in front of them, but like that that kind of thing where you're trying to like gather information and and help them through this and it you can like even put time pressure on it and say like, well, you know, I have to make a decision now because he wants to move now, >> but I might like accidentally move him into an obstacle and like how to deal with that. that or you could have a thing where no or you can combine it with some things that there are things that the that the patient needs to do that the patient can talk about. >> Uh and you know it might be something like the patient has to move every 10 seconds and only the patient knows this. The doctor doesn't >> the patient has a fear of moving to the left >> or something like that. Things like that patient has moved left. And I think it it also emphasizes the thing that um they were talking about on Monday in that you are both trying to to not like if if a it gets to the escalates to the point where violence happens, >> you're both trying to not let yourself get hurt, but you're also trying to not hurt them as well. >> And I think incorporating that some way would be cool. >> Definitely a lot of these ideas and sort of like mechanicking the patients limitations are really really cool. uh but again remember the audience is the resident. So understanding what what what what patient going through is useful but also understanding thinking of rules that help uh resident understand what they can do uh is also really important. So don't don't don't just think about throwing tons of limitations on them without also giving them abilities uh you know things that they can actively do that you can actually carry out. So ripping off the time pressure thing, I think that it might make sense for these kinds of escalation negotiation type situations for the um for the person who is controlling the patient to kind of know what their triggers are and every time like a bad thing is said then the they just reduce the amount of time that the doctor has to deal with them >> and like and they say that okay they just say like minus 10 seconds and like and the they have a timer and ticks down to reach the conclusion, getting the the doctor, getting them to where they want to be. >> Um, and and so rather than like raising their voice or being physically in some way, they just like adjust a timer and when it gets down to zero. So, >> yeah, I can see that I wrote equals reduce time variable actually equals. >> Okay. Um, just to say that way you can make your players feel pressure is to give them a really flat goal hierarchy, right? So, a good example is missile command. Does everyone know that game? So, missile command is you have like six cities and there's missiles coming and you have to shoot them all down and each city is equally valuable. So, if you lose one, you're in drastically reduced position. Um whereas games that tend to have like a more structured goal hierarchy will have like basically means you can afford a loss, right? So like chess is a good example. You say, "Okay, I can afford to lose this." Whereas a missile command, you can't afford to lose anything. So by really capping, you know, what the player has and what they're what they can afford to lose. And then making sure that, you know, all of their goals are equal value, that means that every loss and every failure is felt much more strongly. And I I felt like at least Dion when you were doing your the role play um there was this sense especially coming from Caesar that you know any one thing that goes wrong is really bad. There's like a really thin line there. >> I mean that's especially applicable when you're talking about the doctor's goals, not necessarily the patient's goals. >> Yeah. Yeah. From I mean from the doctor's position, right? There's you can't really afford a lot of mistakes in these situations. Um, I'm kind of the guest, but I was listening to what you're saying and um, I've had a thought on how you could combine lots of these different ideas. Um, I'm envisioning a game where there would be two types of players like you were mentioning, um, doctors and patients. And there would be one doctor and multiple patients. It would be a turn-based game where you'd go around, give each person a turn. and the doctor would always be in a relationship with each individual one and um limited vocabulary I thought was important. Um taking that from a couple of the ideas, the patient and the doctor each have their own set of vocabularies and the clash of that would introduce some um a mechanic there where the patient has um their own vocabulary describing to the doctor what they like, what they don't like. Um they know what they like, they don't like. you you could abstract it to um describe uh maybe anything that the doctor would have in their vocabulary. So, uh as one example, the doctor could give the patient a card with a shape or um some item on it and the item has attributes like color, shape, something that um somebody could like or dislike in their list. um they would look at this and see um one of these things clashes with something in my list of dislikes. I don't like that card. I'm going to escalate my um my anger, my uh displeasure with the situation. And so the doctor has a limited amount of time to deal with each patient. Um as the patient's escalation increases, they have less and less time to be dealt with. After a certain point, the doctor loses that patient. So you have that loss brought in. Um and then after all the patients have been lost, the the game is over. The way that it would be won is that the doctor is discovering the profile of each patient because they are trying to um like in a normal setting in a in a real life setting, you're trying to discover the the profile that allows the doctor to um deal with the patient in the best possible way so that they aren't violent. Um and yeah, so so so that that seems to play off the um the patient and doctor have different ro rules and goals and triggers. You know, you've got a situation where in in uh in what he was suggesting, you have one doctor to multiple patients. Um which is which is accurate. I'm not quite sure that that they'd be dealing with them simultaneously, but that might not matter for the purposes of strategy. Uh and uh and and yeah, it might be it might be kind of like those like those improv things where if you manage to figure out uh if you manage to figure out before time runs out what a person's profile is, that could be the win condition. So it's equal win uh if you manage to succeed is an equal loss if you don't manage to get it by time. combine it with something like the uh give a trigger and reduce the amount of time that you have available. Number of turns available for doesn't have to be real time. Um so yeah so so that so you can present with multiple patients. >> So like that doesn't even necessarily have to deal with uh actual talking about actual psychiatric warrant situations. That could be something like, you know, objects and colors, right? You know, it's more of a guessing game, but uh that might be too abstract possibly because because in the end, you kind of still want people to be able to tie it back to the experience of uh like to be able to make make an easy connection with uh what it's like to be a resident or what's going to be like to be a resident. Um so, uh this is where the theme needs to be pretty clear. Um but then like Clara, you know, is not meeting. The meeting has also done tied pretty well with young mechanics. Um so uh that's just something to keep in mind. Um okay. Um so we've got about another half an hour plus. Uh I think the plan was just to let everyone kind of like figure out what teams you wanted to be in. you know, this is kind of pre-class time to talk uh to talk with each other and um see if there's stuff in here that people were really psyched about. Is there is there anyone in this class that's already like, you know, this is something I really want to do? Um >> well, my preference is towards the management. >> Okay. So, what award management. So yeah, just one. >> Yeah, I don't really have any plans for this. >> I'd be interested in in uh in voices and hidden information. So fooling players in in and that results in them behaving in erratic ways as from the point of view of other players and then from the point of view the player who's behaving radically other players behaving erratically because it's not fitting with what they think is actually going on >> or voices or both or something like that. >> So that's that's kind of the general territory that you're interested in anyone who wants to >> I'm very interested in the escalation deescalation by hidden keywords. I like uh I like basically hidden rules, goals, and keywords and two different players uh playing the same character. Two mechanics I really like. Okay, we we have a couple of seeds out there and uh you know the caffeine helps us a bunch in the um what do we have on Friday? >> Um Friday we mostly just have brainstorming and team building schedule. I mean I think that time is pretty flexible. >> So what I can do maybe if folks can plan to come into Wednesday with the team then what I might do is I might move my my >> Friday. Friday. Yeah. Then um then I will I'll move my live action talk up till Friday instead. >> So So Wednesday we can just follow. It seems like a lot of people are going in that direction. Yeah. Okay. You don't have to do a live action game, but it's one of my favorite games. So