Okay. Well, we can get started. So, in the first class, we talked about like what what is a projection estimate and what is projection theory and tried to give a little bit of motivation for it. Um, and today we'll start getting our hands on things and looking at examples and proving theorems. Um now the the uh cleanest setting in which to get started is finite fields. Um and although most of our class will be working in RN um I'm going to start there because the uh proofs are very clean and the examples are very clean and it's also it is also interesting in itself. Okay. Okay. So here's our setup. So I'll have fq the finite field with q elements. Um and then uh theta will so then I'll I'll have a map pi sub theta from fq^2 to fq. These will like be our different projections from fq ^2 to fq. And it's defined by pi theta of x1 x2 is x1 * theta or x1 + x2 * theta. Okay. So here theta is also in f. Um so now our setup is that we'll have a set of points x in the plane fq ^2 and we'll think about projecting this set of points in a bunch of different directions. So then we'll have a set of directions which is called d. So d is a subset of fq and think of it as a set of directions. I'm going to imagine taking this at X and projecting it in all of these different directions that are in D. And we'll see um how big the different projections are. And um the the thing I'll measure, I'll call it S, which depends on X and D, is the size of the biggest projection. So it's the maximum theta in D of the size of pi theta of X. Okay. So, so one thing we study in projection theory is we like to understand for different sizes of X and D, what can we say about S. So, let's look at a couple of examples and then after that I'll put I'll tell you some theorems what we know and some conjecture what we think might be true based on the examples. Um so the first example is a square grid or integer maybe it's good to say integer grid. Um so for this example let's suppose that Q is actually prime. Um you could do similar things if if Q is not prime. It's just easier to write it down. Okay, so our set X is going to be the set X1 X2 where X1 and X2 go between one and M. So even though we're over a finite field, you can think of this as a square Okay. And then we were saying last time that if you take this a square grid, an integer grid, and you do a projection in a direction that's kind of a rational angle, um then you get a small projection. So that's what our set of directions is going to be. Our set of directions is going to be the set of a1 over a2 where a1 and a2 go from one up to some a. So n and a are parameters that we can play with. There are many square grids many choices. All right. So now let's figure out what is s of xd. So what happens when I perform a projection of of uh uh of x at one of these angles? So if theta is in d and I take pi and if I if x is in x um so if I take pi theta of uh of x1 x2 then I get um x1 plus a1 over a2 x2 and I'm going to put it over a common denominator. So it's a2 x1 + a1 x2 over a2. All right. Now in this situation, we're imagining that theta is fixed and we're varying little x and big x. So we're going to try to see how big is pi theta of big x. So I want to see if a is fixed and I vary x1 and x2, how many different numbers do I have here? So the denominator isn't important because it's not changing. And I want to know how many different numerators I have. And the numerator is going to be an integer. And it has size a * n at most plus a * n. So it basically has size a * n. So we see that the size of the projection of x is at most a * n. So this less than with a squiggle here means there's a constant factor that I left out. Here it's a factor of two, but in general squiggle just means there's some constant factor left out. Uh okay. And S is the biggest of these. So S uh of XD is around a * M. Okay. Um so then uh you could do a little algebra to see how S and X and D relate to each other. Um and if you do that you see that uh d is around s^2x. Okay. So that's how it works in an integer grid. And there's one more example um that that I thought I would mention which we also mentioned last time. It's an example that comes from sub fields. So if Q is not prime um then FP is an interesting subset of FQ and FP squ is an interesting subset of FQ q^2. So this is called the subfield example. So let's say that Q is P ^2. There are similar phenomenon if Q is a higher power of P but the um the the computations are a bit different. Um so if Q is P^ squ um our set X is going to be FP^2 sitting in FQ ^2. So the size of X is P ^2 which is Q and our set of directions is going to be FP which is sitting in FQ. So the size of our set of directions is P which is Q to the 12. Um and then if theta is in D then X1 and X2 are in X then pi X1 X2 is in X. Pi theta of X1 X2 is X1 + X2 theta. All those things are in the sub field FP. So this is in FP. Um so therefore the size of pi theta of x is at most p in fact exactly p. Um and so that's our s. Okay. Um and this example coming from subfields is more extreme than the example coming from grips. Um so if you were to take this value of x and this value of s and plug them in here uh to make a sort of a fair comparison in the grids we would have only one direction if we did that. But here we have many directions. So this thing um has very small projections in many different directions even more so than a square grid. Okay. So those are a few examples and and based on that I can tell you a conjecture that we stated also last time and also I can tell you some of the things we know about this conjecture some of the main results. Um okay so first I'll say the conjecture. So if uh Q= P which is prime um and we're in this setup and S is smaller than around X over two. um then we can't do better than the Okay, so let's explain all the hypotheses in this conjecture. Um so why do we have this? Well, if you take any set D, S of XD is is obviously smaller than the size of X. So if s was allowed to be the size of x, then d could be everything and there would be no no meaningful upper bound on d. So we have to insist that it's somewhat smaller than that. Um you you could ask about the range in between here and x but there's something to say but it's I think not not super interesting. Um so we look at this regime. Okay. Um okay and we have this setup and why do we also add here that Q is a prime? Well, we have to add that because of example two. If Q is not a prime, you have that example. And we just saw that this is false. And this conjecture is plausible in the sense that there's no counter example that you no one has found an example that beats the square grid. And basically, no one has found an example that even is well. Okay. There are very few examples that are competitive with the square grid. And they're all small variations of it. Um, okay. You also might wonder uh what happens if Q is not a prime. And I haven't seen anyone write down a conjecture for that. Um, I think roughly speaking what people believe is that the all of the interesting examples should be of this type or that type or maybe you can combine them a little bit by taking sort of a grid of sub fields. Um so it would be a reasonable little project if anyone is interested to try to write down the known examples and and make a conjecture about what happens. All right. Now this conjecture is open um but let's start to talk about what we know. We'll we'll we'll I'm going to state some theorems for you and we'll prove the theorems and uh maybe more importantly we'll introduce some of the basic techniques in in projection theory. Okay. So we're going to talk about two techniques today. One of them is a double counting argument that has a combinatorics flavor and the other is a for analytic argument that's based on orthogonality and this is what they give. So theorem one which is based on double counting says if uh we're in this setup and s is smaller than x over two um then the number of directions is smaller than around pass. Okay. Um, now if S is around X over two, this is actually sharp. Um, hold on, let me look at my notes for a second. Okay, actually I wrote that in my notes, but I'm not quite sure it's true. Let's just go on and I'll tell you theorem two. Um so theorem two is based on what I'll call a forier method or orthogonality or something like that says if we have the setup and this time if we suppose that s is smaller than q / 2 then d is smaller than s * qx. Okay so let's digest this statement a little bit. um uh so the projection is always a subset of fq. So s is always smaller than or equal to q. So this hypothesis says that it's it's it's significantly smaller than that. The projection is significantly smaller than the whole space. Okay. And then we get this bound. Um and this bound is most interesting in the case that s was actually close to q over two because in that case this q and this s are about the same size. So this is around s^2x which matches the grid example. So this is actually um sharp if s is around q2. Okay, I find that quite striking and impressive. This is a great example. Has an interesting intricate structure and we're wondering whether it was sharp. And at least in this one regime uh this theorem is shows that it actually is sharp. Okay. On the other hand, S could be a lot smaller than Q. Then we get some bound here and we don't have any example that that matches that bound. Um I guess no I should also say this works over any field. So if you plug in example two, it's actually also sharp. Um and so it's also sharp in example two. Um, all right. But there are a bunch of there are a bunch of choices of the parameter you could make where it's not clear that this is sharp. Okay. So, the big goal of the class is to introduce these two techniques really and we'll use them to prove these two theorems. But maybe it's a good place to pause and check if people have questions or comments. Yeah, >> it's um in the first theorem, are you assuming that it's prime? >> We are not assuming that it's prime. Um right. So that's right. We're not assuming it's prime in either theorem. And so where it says setup, it means we're assuming this. Yeah, that's right. Um okay. And so that raises a point that it appears that the true answer to this question uh depends on whether Q is prime or not prime. But neither of these techniques depend on that. they work for all Q and they're sort of not able to notice whether Q is prime or not prime. That will eventually be a big theme. We won't get to it today, but eventually we'll try to find some techniques that do notice whether Q is prime or not. >> Yeah. >> Um for the premise S is less than or equal to size of X / 2, how easy is it to construct some other examples that satisfy that element of the grid? >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is um uh you know can can we find how how many examples can we find which obey the hypothesis so that this theorem says anything about them? Um well I think it's not super hard because we're allowed to take D to be small. Um so uh um so you know if D is just one direction then you could easily arrange the points so that their projection in one direction is quite small and you have a lot more flexibility than a grid and if you'd like the projection to be small in two directions um then you would want some kind of cartisian product but it wouldn't have there's still a lot more cartisian products than integer grids. And then as you add more directions, it gets more rigid and and and we we can start to think about it. We can think about it uh later on. It's it's a neat question how many examples we can come up with. Yeah. Okay. Other questions. In example one, you said Q = P prime. Um, can Q be a prime power? >> Yes. Right. Right. So, okay. Yeah. So, the question was up in example one, we assume that Q is prime. Um, are there examples similar to that if Q is not prime? Um, so okay, so if N and A are smaller, if Q is P to the R and you choose N and A smaller than P, you can just use what's on the board for Bane. Um, if you wanted to choose N and A bigger than P, it doesn't really make sense in FQ. Um, so I think that there's a fix for that, but I didn't have time to think through the details before class. Um yeah. So homework for one of us. Okay. Okay. So let's start proving some things. Um so first we'll do the double counter. Okay. So suppose that pi we just look at one direction where this projection is small. If s is a lot smaller than x, it will look something like this. Um so here's the space we're projecting onto and we'll have some points. Uh and this is our projection map. So here we have x and this arrow is the projection map pi theta. Um and then and then down here we have pi theta of x. Okay. And you'll notice that for each point in the projection or at least for most points in the projection uh we'll have many points of x that are going on top of it. So, so we're going to pay attention to that. Um and the first thing we'll say is that um if s is smaller than x over two then we have a lot of points going on top of each other. Um uh so for every theta in our set of directions, the number of pairs x1 and x2 and x that got projected to the same point that should be at least around um s * x / s^ squ. Okay, so let's digest that. First of all, I'll warn you that I changed notation. So x1 and x2 are each points in x. Those are not the components of anything. Um, okay. And so why is this? Well, imagine first that these uh each that each point in the projection has the same number of pre-im images. So each of these points has about x over s points of x sitting above it. And then the number of ways to choose two of them um would be x over s^2. And that would be true for each of these s points. So that would give us uh this. Actually, let me add here that I'm interested in two different points that got projected to the same point. So this is still true, but because I put two different points here, that's where I needed to use uh this hypothesis. Okay, so that was some intuition why it might be true. Um, then you might wonder, well, maybe they're not evenly distributed. Maybe some of these points have more pre-im images than others. It turns out that that only helps you. I'm going to make it an exercise. It's kind of a standard combinatorics exercise. So, it's exercise on your first problem set uh using Koshy Schwarz to Okay, cool. So, there are a lot of points getting collapsed together in these different projections and we're going to put it all together. So the key object that we're going to count is the number of directions theta and distinct points in x uh so that they have the same projection. Okay? And they have to be a lot of those because for every direction there are a lot of them. So the number of these is at least x^2 s inverse number of directions. The x^2 s inverse is just that simplified and that was how many there are in each direction and there are d directions. Okay. So now the point is that it's hard to have this many collapses um because if you take any two pairs of points in X there's only one direction in which they get mapped on top of each other. So that gives us an upper bound on on this star. So but for any points x1 not equal to x2 the number of theta so that pi theta of x1 = p theta of x2 there's at most one and that gives us an upper bound for star is upperbounded by x2 once you choose x1 and x2 there's only one choice of theta Okay. Um so this key quantity is sandwiched in between here and here. We have x^2 s inverse d is less than star is less than x^2. And you simplify this a little bit and we get that d is less than s. That's the proof. Let me summarize it without the equations. The key object is this object star. U let's call let's call this the set of coincidences. A coincidence is when you have two points in X that get mapped to the same point in by pi theta. And if many projections are small, there must be many coincidences. But there can't be that many because if you take two points X1 and X2, there's only one direction that makes a coincidence. And that's what we're using. Okay. Any questions or comments about double counting? Okay, let me show you the second approach which is based on uh I called it a forier approach or based on orthogonality or based on cancellation. So this approach begins with an image that uh that that I want you to have in mind and that you know we could try to work on this image in many ways. Uh so it's the overlapping lines image. Okay. So suppose I have a bunch of points that have small projections in many directions. Okay. So if I project this down it has a small projection And if I look at the so maybe I'll call this pi theta 1. If I look at the pre-im images of these I'll get some lines in uh in a certain direction that corresponds to theta 1. And so I've covered my set with uh not too many lines. So down here there are at most s points. So over here we have at most s lines. And I'll call this set of lines L theta 1. Okay. So to summarize uh if pi I guess pi theta of x is less than or equal to s then I get a set called l theta uh is a set of at most s lines uh that are that are I guess perpendicular to theta. Um and that they cover my set X. So now if I have many small projections, I can do this in many directions. And so I'll have sets of lines in different directions and I'll cover X many times. So I can do this for every theta in my set of directions. Okay. So I'll do one more. I was meaning to bring some colored chalk, but I didn't I don't have colored chalk today. So I'll do my best. Uh so let's say this is a dotted direction and when I project in the theta 2 direction this so this is um uh so this would be l theta 2 in in dotted lines. Okay, I'm not going to add any more directions to the picture, but in your imagination, imagine that this set of points there are lines going many different ways that are uh covering the set of points. Okay, so in our second method and maybe in a lot of things that we do, we're going to imagine these lines and work with these lines as a way of understanding the projection estimates. Okay. So, let me add a little vocabulary about this. So, we've defined L theta. L our whole set of lines is the union over all the different directions of the lines L theta. So, that's a set of lines. And um so if L is a line, I'm going to write L of X as an abbreviation for the characteristic function of that line 1 sub L of X. And think about what happens when we add up all these characteristic functions. So f ofx is the sum over all the lines in my set of lines of L of X. Okay, so take a moment to visualize that I have lines going in different directions. Imagine their characteristic functions and add them all up. So when I add them all up at any given point, it will tell me how many different lines to my set of lines went through that point. Um, and so if if x is in my set of points, then f ofx is the number of directions. If I take a point in my set, this point is going to lie in one line in every direction. If I take a point that's not in my set, uh, it's not very clear what's going to happen. It won't necess not obvious it will be in any lines, but it might be in some lines. We don't know much about how what f is doing at those points that are not in my set x. Okay, great. Um, okay. So, we're going to get at projection theory by trying to study this function and in particular trying to uh study the set where the function is big. That's going to be our second approach. Um, and we're going to study the set where this function is big using for a analysis or andor using orthogonality. Okay. So orthogonal. Okay. So um so L L of X remember is the characteristic function of a line and I'm going to decompose it into pieces. So um okay so there are Q points in a line and there are Q squared points in my whole plate. And so the average value of L of X is 1 / Q. So I'm going to separate that out. That's 1 / Q plus a piece that I'll call L sub high of X. That H is for high. We'll talk about that name more in a sec. So this is the average value of our function. And therefore the leftover piece has mean zero has value zero and not value zero it has average value zero as mean zero. Okay. Um and I also will think of this as the zero frequency piece and the high frequency piece in terms of fora analysis. We can make that precise. We'll do that a little bit later. But as a depending how much for analysis you do, you may or may not like this intuition. But this is a constant part and this is like a higher frequency oscillating part. Okay, those are just words. So we decompose it like this. Now the key observation is that um well oversimplifying just a little bit. these high high frequency parts are orthogonal to each other. So here's a precise statement. So if L1 uh not equal to L2 are lines, so I have two different lines, then the sum over all of the points in the plane of L1 H of X, L2, H of X is less than or equal to zero. Okay. Now when when we prove this lema in a little bit we will see that it's almost always equal to zero. So these functions are almost always orthogonal. Once in a while they're not orthogonal but then it's negative. That that part isn't that important anyway. So so roughly speaking these functions L1H and L2 are orthogonal. Okay. Now how does that help us? Well, let's think about f ofx. f ofx, remember, is the sum uh over all the lines in our set of lines of L of X. And so, we can break it up this way also. When we add up the constant parts, well, we'll just see what we get. We get the number of lines divided by Q. And then we have to add up all the high frequency parts. So plus the sum l in our set of lines of lh x. So this thing here is the high frequency part of f. I'll call it f subh of x. For now you can think of that as just a name. Okay. So this part we understand quite well. Know exactly what it is. And so as understanding this function boils down to understanding this part. And for understanding this part, we can use this orthogonality. We've written it as a sum of pieces that are each pretty simple and they're orthogonal to each other. And so that lets us figure out or estimate quite well the L2 norm of this FH. So after the key lema, I guess there's the L2 estimate. It says the sum x in fq ^2 of fh of x^2. Well, um that's the sum l1 l2 in l of the sum x and f2 l1 h of x l2 h of x And because of my orthogonality in the key lema, almost all of these terms are less than or equal to zero. Namely, if L1 is different from L2, then this sum is less than or equal to zero. So then I'll just keep this the terms where they're equal to each other. Now, this sum here is easy to do uh because I just have to think one line at a time and all the lines will be equivalent to each other. So, it's just the number of lines times whatever this is. This thing also is not very hard to compute. Um, but let me say that this is actually smaller than if I uh did the whole L of x squ. I mean, you could you could just compute it and write down what happens though. But anyway, but um if you take a function and you subtract off its mean, then the L2 norm is smaller than for the original function. So anyway, so we could write this and then we can compute this even in our heads. So L of X is one at Q points and otherwise it's zero. So this thing here is Q. So we get the number of lines times Q. So that's our L2 estimate. Okay. So now let's finish um the proof of theorem 2. There's theorem two up there. Um, we have this hypothesis that S is a lot smaller than Q. How does that matter? That controls this term, right? So, you know, if D was only as big as L over Q, uh, then um, this complicated thing wouldn't come into play and and F could be that big everywhere. Um, okay. So, let's see how that works. So the number of lines in my set of lines is s * d because I have d directions and I have s lines in each direction. So this uh l over q is uh s * d / q and I have a hypothesis that s is at most q over two. So that implies that when I take this ratio um L / Q is less than half of D. >> Yeah. >> Um equality L equals S * D. Does does that assume that every uh so set of lines has the same like every L is the same size because I thought that they could be different sizes. >> Yes. Right. That's okay. That's a good technical catch. So um Right. Right. So in each direction I have at most S lines. Um but it might be okay to work with that but I find it slightly confusing to keep track of and you can always add some extra lines and the lines will still cover the set X. Um and so so I don't know I don't know that this is crucial but the what I like to do is to say that there are equal to s lines and they cover x and and we can say that and then it makes this computation clean. Okay. Um okay so this l over q is less than half of d. Now remember that at each point uh in x f ofx is d and f ofx breaks up as l over q plus the high frequency part and the the what we just saw is the l over q is less than half of d. So the high frequency part is the majority uh of of f at those points. Okay. So we conclude that for every x and x um the high frequency part of x is at least half of d. I'll just write greater subd. Okay. And now we can comp compare this with our L2 bound there. Right? So um so we can say that the sum over all of the that the sum over all the points of fh of x squared. Well that should be at least as big as the points at x times the number of directions squared. So in this sum some of these points are in my set x and at each of those points this has size around d. So that contributes this much. Plus there are other points which I really don't know what they're doing. Okay. And then we have the upper bound the L2 estimate that we just proved over there that is upper bounded by the number of lines time q which is s * d * q. Okay. And now we just rearrange this and it will give us some information about s and d and x and q. Um, so I'm going to get the D by itself. So I divide by that and I divide by that. I'm left with D is bounded by S * Q /X. There it is. Yeah, >> just going back and forth between analysis. The mean value here is taking over like talking about the mean over the sex. >> Yeah. So when we say the word mean, yeah, when I say the word mean, okay, so the question was when we said mean value, the mean over what? Um, so let me put that up here. So if I have a function g fub^2 c then when I say the mean value of g what I mean is um 1 over q ^2 sum in x and f q ^2 of g of x. So it's the mean over the whole vector space. Other questions or comments about the proof? Okay. So, so I am also working on digesting the proof. Um, so the proof is all about breaking up f as this constant part plus this high frequency part. And the proof is saying that in a certain sense the high frequency part is actually kind of small compared to the constant part. So, I wanted to draw that out because I feel like it helps my intuition about what the what the proof is saying. Um, so, so let's look at this L2 estimate. So, our L2 estimate was that um the sum f ofx^2 x in the whole plane was bounded by the number of lines times Q. Um, so I want to think about what this means and uh, it helps me a little bit to replace the sum by an average. So I'm going to divide both sides by Q ^2. So if I take 1 / q ^2 some x and f q^2 f h of x^2 then that's bounded by the number of lines divided by q. Okay, so this is an L2 version of an average and by Koshy Schwarz that controls uh let's see yeah so then so so the if I took a square root to get an L2 norm I would have a square root over here and by Koshy Schwarz I would get that the L1 average um has a bound and the bound is now the square root of number of lines over Q. Does that look right to everybody? Okay. And so a bit informally, you know, there might be some points X that are different, but on average for a typical point X, the high frequency part only has the size square root of L over Q. Whereas the low frequency part, the constant part has size L over Q at every point. Here let's call let's call this constant part fnot that's your frequency part right so for comparison the size of fnot of x is always number of lines over q so the conclusion is that if the number of lines is uh much bigger than q then this is way bigger than Um so then the high frequency part is much smaller than the constant part on average. So it's telling us that whenever I add up a lot of lines has to be significantly more than Q lines then that sum is pretty close to being a constant function. At a typical point, the difference from being constant is extremely small. And there may be a few points where the difference from being constant is bigger, but but there's a pretty strong bound on them. Okay. Any questions or comments about this? um orthogonality proof. >> Yeah. >> The inequality fater. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, so to recap a little bit, we have these lines going in each direction and we have d directions and we add up all the characteristic functions of the lines. So that's called f and each point of x is in all is in the line in every direction. So f ofx is d. Now we broke up f into two pieces. The constant piece which was number of lines over q and then the mean zero piece or high frequency piece. Um, and I claim that the constant piece is small. The constant piece is less than half of D. And that would mean that the high frequency part should be more than half of D. And why is the constant piece small? Well, this L is the number of directions times S. Um, and we plugged it in and we used the fact that S is at most Q over2. It's one of our hypotheses. That's what fell out. Okay. Um, okay. Now, I called this early on the Forier method. We didn't actually mention the Forier transform or for a series of anything. We didn't have to. Um, we did use orthogonality crucially, which is an idea that I first saw in 4A analysis. Um, but it is possible to rewrite this proof using the the 4A transform. um and um it is uh I think it's worth doing even though we didn't need the for transform this as we keep going and do more sophisticated things in this spirit it helps to have the 4 transfer okay um I guess the other thing is we didn't prove the key lema okay actually why don't we let's so I'm going to uh prove the key lema And I'll show you two proofs. One of them is sort of direct and the other one is based on the uh for a transform. Okay. Um so I think we can erase this board here. We're just going to talk about the key lema. Okay. Um so I'll call this the direct proof of the key lama and then we'll also have a forier proof. Um okay so actually two cases in the lema. So the main case is that L1 and L2 are not parallel. Okay. And in this case the the high frequency parts are orthogonal. So sum of x L1 H of X L2 H of X in this case is exactly zero. The the less than zero comes from the parallel keys. Okay. Now there's a lot of symmetry in this problem. And so we have the two lines that intersect. We can make a linear change of variables and a translation so that one of them is the x1 axis and the other one is the x2 axis. So after change of variables, L1 is the actually I'm going to say L1 is the X2 axis and L2 is the X1 axis. I know that looks a little silly. Um but yeah, somewhere there's going to be a any is that a point? So So over here is L2 and over here is L1. All right. Now and we do that if I take L1 high of a point X1 X2 um it only depends okay so okay so the function L1 of X only depends upon X1 if X1 is zero L1 is one if X1 is not zero we get zero then we're subtracting a constant function from that so it still only depends on X1 so This is a function g of x1 and its mean zero. So the sum over x1 and fq of g of x1 is zero. Okay. Similarly l2 high of x1 x2 only depends upon x2 and it's g of x2. This is the trickiest bit. Let me make sure that looks okay. So remember L L1 is one if X1 is zero and it's zero otherwise. And then we're subtract. So that's a function that only depends on X1. We subtract off its mean. We get a a new function that only depends on X1. I guess it's 1 - 1 over Q. If X1 is zero and it's minus one over Q if X1 is not zero. That's what G is. Okay. So now when we sum L1H of X1 X2 L2 H of X1 X2 well it's the sum over X1 X2 of G of X1 G of X2. And now we can just break up this sum. It's the sum on x1 of g of x1 times the sum on x2 of g of x2 0 * 0. Okay. Does that look okay to people? Okay. Then there's the minor case that they're parallel and um okay, I don't have anything super instructive to say about this case. They might as well both be p parallel to the x2 axis. It's not hard to compute it by hand. and and you'll see that it's negative. So I I'm going to not do it on the board because I think it's not very illuminating. Okay, so that's one way to prove the key lema. Uh but the key lema also the whole setup also has a nice relationship to for a analysis and and you can use we can also use for a analysis to to prove the key lema and if we do it that way we can sort of justify in a precise way saying that something is the zero frequency part or the high frequency part. Okay. Okay. So let me remind everybody how fora analysis works over finite fields. Okay. So um I have a for analysis based on having some like group homorphism from your group into C star. So I'm going to call it E. So E is a map from FQ to C star. Think of it as FQ with addition. So this is a grouping group. That's an aelion group. Complex numbers with multiplication. This is a homorphism and I want it to be non-trivial. does not send does not just send everything to one. Okay. So for example, if Q= P is prime, then it would be E of X is E 2I I X over P. And if Q is not prime, it takes a little bit more doing to write down a homorphism, but there but there is one that's not true. Okay. Um so now suppose I have a function on fq to the d. It has a fora transform. Um so the for transform of c is defined to be sum over q and fq to the d f ofx d ofx c. So this x c this is a dotproduct. It's just x1 c1 plus x2 c2 and so on. So that's the 4 a transform and it looks more or less uh like how you know how it looks in uklidian space. So this c also lives in um inf. There are two main really fundamental theorems about transform. One of them is forier inversion and the other one is planer theorem as orthogonality and in the finite field setting they work out in the following way. So theorem one um for a inversion f ofx is the sum c in fq to the d and here we need to take an average f of c e of x dot c. So it looks like 4A inversion in uklitian space although there's this average here maybe worth saying that there are several reasonable conventions that you might put about you know somewhere in this setup we need to divide something by some powers of Q and and you see different conventions in different places um but anyway this is one that I picked um and I I never remember it so I always take the function one and comput it for a transform and check that this works and that tells May I have this factor? Okay. And theorem two is planer. So that says that if I take the sum over fq to the d of f ofx g of xar then that's equivalent to a sum on the 4 a side. And there's also a normalization. So that's 1 / q to the d sum x and sum c and f q to the d f of c g hat of c bar. So again if you compute a simple example you'll see that this is the right normalization. Okay. So now if you take the characteristic function of a line you can take its fora transform and something interesting happens that represents uh important connection between I don't know between lines and the 4A transform and and therefore between projection theory and the 4A transform. So okay so here's what happens. So suppose L is an athine line in FQ ^2 or or really the characteristic function of the alpha. Okay. So then it has a perp so L perp is the set of C. So that um c do x1 - x2 is zero for any x1 x2 in the line. So in uklitian space this would look like this. So so here's my line l uh this is x space and then over here in c space I would have l. Notice that L perp always goes through zero. So here's here's my X1 and X2. So this direction here is a tangent direction to L and then these are the perpendicular directions. All right. So proposition if you take L hat of C and you take its absolute value there are two cases one of them is that you get Q and that's if C is in LP and the other one is you get zero and that's if C is not in LP. So the for transform of a line first of all has is very sparse. It's zero almost everywhere. The only places where it's not zero are on this perpendicular line. Okay. So, um I think it is a good experience to uh compute this out and check that it happens. When you write down this sum, the sum will reduce to a geometric series and then you can sum the geometric series and you can see exactly what happens. So this is an exercise on the homework. Okay. And now um okay so we also do this thing of subtracting off the mean and and that has a very natural interpretation in for analysis. Um let's erase this. Okay. So, so if you have a function g from f q to the d goes to c, then we can write g as 1 / q to the d sum over c g hat of c e of x c. And one of these frequencies is often very special, namely the frequency zero. So I'm just going to break up this sum. It's 1 / q to the d g hat of zero plus um the sum over the nonzero c 1 / q to the d g had x c e of x. All right. So if you think about what this is, ghat of 0 is just the sum of the values of g and then I divide by that I get this formula here. That's the mean value of G. So this is G knot and it's the mean value of G. And this thing here we'll call G high. G high is G minus its mean value. So it has mean zero. Okay. So that's what we did with our lens. This is the zero frequency part of L and this is the nonzero frequency or I called it high frequency part of L. So from from from the for analysis point of view that that's what that's what these things precisely mean. Okay. Now we can put this together to give a a new explanation of the key orthogonality lama. Um where should I put it? Yeah. So we we gave one proof of the key lama over here. We can do now another one. All right. So let's give the forier proof of the key lama. uh we'll still do the main case which is that L1 and L2 are not parallel and that's where we get literal orthogonality then we get that the sum of L1H of X L2 H of X is Z how will we do it we'll evaluate it with planer Wrap. Okay. So that's planer theorem 2. And now I have the high part here. What does the high part mean? The high part means I crossed out the zero frequency. So this is 1 over Q ^2 times the sum on nonzero C L1 hat of C L2 hat. So if if you compare the for transform of L1 and L1 high, the only difference is the zero frequency. I take I take the zero frequency here and I throw it out. All the other ones are the same. So this is the same as this. Okay. Now I'll make a picture. Um so here in in X space I have a line um I have a line L1 and I have a line L2. What happens in for space C space? Well, there's uh L1 per and then there's L2 per and L1 P and L2 per intersect only at zero. So here I'm summing over nonzero frequencies. So if C is non zero then C is not so either C is not in L1 per or C is not in L2 per because those two those two purps they only intersect at the origin. Okay. But this function is only supported when C is in L1 per and this one is only supported when C is in L2 perp. So at every C in this sum, one of these guys is zero. So this is or to put it a little bit differently, uh these two functions have disjoint for a support. So they are orthogonal. Okay, so those are these are the two main classical techniques of projection theory. The double counting argument and the forthagonality argument. Um they're each not that difficult. Um, but it actually is really pretty hard to go beyond them even though there's a lot of situations where they're they're not sharp. That's a that's a theme that we'll get to. Um, but before we get to that theme, we'll explore these for a while. Um, and we'll see that uh a bunch of people have used them in fact in different areas of math to do some different different things that things that I think are interesting. Um, so the next thing that we'll do is the the more analytic setting of working in R2 instead of over a finite field and having balls instead of points. And I I sort of waved my hands about it uh last class about exactly what we would try to prove. Um and um uh so in our in our last 10 minutes I'll introduce the setup with balls and I'll tell you what are the analog of theorem one and theorem two and this conjecture. Um okay and then we'll see we'll see the proofs of all that next class and we'll see the proofs are morally the same as these proofs in finite fields but with a little bit of extra technical issues from uh from working in uklitian space. Okay. Um. All right. So, let's do a setup with balls. Setup in R2 with balls. All right. So, our set X is going to be a set of disjoint unit balls in a large ball. And then D, our set of directions. I'll think of it as a subset of S1. So, this is a set of directions that we'll do projections in. and they will also be disjoint and what I'm going to put here is that they're 1 / r separated. So you take so these these um you can think of d as a set of angles and any two angles are at least 1 / r apart from each other. The reason for that is if they were closer together than that the two projections would basically be the same in terms of how they what they do to a set of unit balls in in a ball of radius r. Okay. So that's x and d. And then our s s of xd is the maximum over any direction in our set of directions of the size of the projection of x in that direction. So this is a one-dimensional set. It's basically a set of unit intervals. And and this this absolute value is its length. All right. So, we could ask just in terms of the size of X and the size of D, what can you say about S and how does it compare to the finite field case? And we saw last time that it's rather different from um the finite field case because of an example where X is very clumped together. Um okay, so let me put up here a couple of examples in our new geometric setup. Okay. So, example one is a square grid that's spaced out. Okay. So, it looks like this. It's going to be an n byn grid. And um I'm going to it's inside of an R ball, but I'm going to make it as spread out as possible. And so the distance here is about r. So that's my sax. Okay. And d could be the same as before. It could be the directions with slope um a1 over a2 where a1 and a2 are integers going from one up to a. Okay. And if you if you compute how big the projection is, it's the same as before. A * n the same that's the same thing we got before at the beginning of class. except that the projection is never bigger than r. You know, you project a whole ball of radius r, you get an interval of length r. So, it's never bigger than that. So, I'll put the minimum the same. Okay, there was one scenario. This is an integer grid, which was an important example before. But another thing you can do is you can take these points and clump them way together. So example two is a clump. So I take a ball of radius n and I fill it with unit balls. So we still have the number of balls is around n^ squ but they're much more clumped together. And when you do that, pi theta of x is only around n. You know, you project this set x in any direction, it'll be an interval of length n. And so that's true for everything. And if you compare these examples, you'll see that this one uh has has a much smaller has much bigger s than uh sorry, much smaller s's than than this one. This example is much more extreme than the grid. Okay, so it turns out that just asking the question, if you know the cardality of X and you know the cardality of D, um what can you say about S? Uh we we'll answer that question. That's a somewhat interesting question and and we'll answer it. Um but it's not the most interesting question. the the phenomenon there's a phenomenon that's more interesting which is that as the points get spread out you get stronger estimates. Okay. So what does it mean that the points get spread out? We need to have some rules about it or you know how do we make that precise that they're spread out. Um so being clumped together means there are a lot of points in a small ball and we can quantify that in the following way. N subx of R is the maximum over any choice of center of the size of X in the ball around center C with radius R. So you can see that this quantity would be quite large in this example especially if you took little r to be n and it would be a lot smaller in this example. So that point is more spread out. Okay. And it turns out it doesn't just matter how our set of points is spaced. It also matters how our set of directions is spaced. So we'll talk about that also. So n subd of r is the maximum um over any actually I'll give this another letter. I'll call it row. Any arc um of length row in s1. So we have the directions as a subset of S1 of the number of the directions in the arc. So for you pick a particular parameters a size row and you ask how many uh directions are there in in an arc of size row. So that's this thing. Okay. Um so you could describe the our goal in projection theory in uklidian space in the following way. Given some information about this thing and that thing try to estimate um uh s and d and x. Um you can phrase it that way. Um and then there's a whole world of questions because there's a lot of different things you could assume about nx and n uh d. There's one particular scenario uh one particular set of assumptions that has been investigated a lot and it seems it's not the only interesting one but it seems to be uh important and and uh a good thing to focus on. So we could say that X is a alpha dimensional set of balls. F the total number of balls is around R to the alpha and N sub R of X is less than little R to the alpha. This numerology is sort of consistent with how fractals behave. Okay. And there's a and then you can make a similar definition for D. Maybe people feel it's not so I know people might feel it's not so clear why to focus on this particular set of conditions. We can talk about it. Uh okay. Anyway, so so the final thing is that if you take this set of conditions, then we can do a version in uklidian space of the conjecture and theorem one and theorem 2 and all the numbers match up and we can prove a version of theorem one that looks just like that with this double counting and we can prove a version of theorem two that looks just like that with for analysis and we have a conjecture that looks just like that. Um and um the the big recent result that I hinted at in the first class is that that that the analog of that conjecture is proven. Okay. So at the beginning of class on Tuesday, I will write all those things down and then we'll um and then we'll do analysis in R2 and we'll and we'll prove theorem one. Theorem one prime and theorem two prime. Okay, great. We'll stop there. Have a great weekend and I will see you next week.