All right, we'll get started. Um, we're going to continue our discussion of principal components analysis. And what I want to uh emphasize with principal components is that we're dealing with a random vector x that's in m dimensional space and it has an expected value of alpha say and it has a covariance matrix given by sigma which is m by m. Okay, this kind of setup uh can be used for modeling returns on stocks or assets that may have a mean return over some holding period and a variance covariance matrix. And so um in working with financial data, principal components analysis can be quite useful. Um essentially what principal components does is it transforms our x vector to a p vector of principal component variables. And the definitions of these is we subtract from X the mean vector and then we rotate the coordinate axes of this M vector by this gamma uh transpose uh matrix. And so um this gamma transpose can equal gamma 1 transpose gamma 2 transpose down to gamma m transpose. And so the first component um P1 down to PM the first component corresponds to using this uh gamma vector which happens to be an igen vector of the covariance matrix corresponding to where with associated igen value lambda I and in this representation. Um we uh basically have sigma gamma i is equal to lambda i gamma i. Uh and we can order our ien values from largest to smallest. And the first principal component variable corresponds to lining up or looking at a coordinate system where we're looking along the dimension of greatest variability in the data. So um so this sort of covariant structure it's actually useful to think of a special example which is the multivariant normal distribution in m dimensions with mean vector alpha and covariance matrix sigma. And so if we think of X1 and X2, we'll just consider a two-dimensional case as an example. There could be an alpha one, alpha 2 here for the mean of X1, first component mean of X2. And with a bariate normal distribution the uh we basically will have contours of the density the joint density of x1 and x2 that are given by ellipses centered at the mean vector and the degree to which the components are highly correlated ated. If it's a positive correlation, then we have ellipses that are tilted up. If it's a negative correlation, it would be tilted down. Now, um what principal components analysis does is it basically this step here corresponds to shifting the coordinate axes to say x1 star and x2 star. So we reenter our space at the point with the origin being at the mean point of the outcomes. And then we consider rotating these axes in such a way that the first principal component axis with the largest corresponding to the largest value. Um it will orient along the principal axis of the ellipse. And the second principal component axis will be orthogonal to the first and it will um well in two dimensions it will you know have variability along that dimension that's that's smaller than P1 when we extend from a two-dimensional case to an M dimensional case. So suppose we have 500 stocks or a thousand um then if we apply a multinnormal model to those to that case then our principal components will be identifying uh coordinates basically coordinate um system variables that line up with different orthogonal dimensions of variability. And so what's ends up being very useful is that um at least when we look at a market of stocks or asset returns um some of those may be highly correlated with each other. Others may be in a sense orthogonal or uncorrelated with each other. And with principal components analysis, we can actually identify uh we can identify different directions in the space which uh basically have decreasing levels of variability but that are also orthogonal to each other or uncorrelated with each other. So when we want to specify factors underlying factors say in joint distributions of returns and markets principal components can be very helpful and trying to identify those and later on we'll talk about factor modeling and see how uh close or how effective principal components can be. um and uh but there are also general factor models that that we'll introduce later. So with these transformations as noted here um these principal component variables have basically a mean that's zero and a co-variance matrix that's diagonal. So these principal component variables are uncorrelated with each other. And if we order the igen values from largest to smallest, the first principal component uh variable will be the uh sort of axis with the greatest variability. Now what's interesting to highlight is that in the transformation from the original x's to the principal component variables the only thing we've done is shift the origin and then rotated the coordinate axes in an orthogonal way. So we're maintaining right angles between coordinate axes and that's all we've done. So, so if we have outcomes of X, so if we have X is a random variable, but then we may have realizations realization say X I don't know a XB. I don't want to have integers uh referring to these because I don't want to confuse the components. But we could have different realizations for different days or different analysis periods and we would get different points of realizations of the outcomes of this vector. And so principal components allows us just to view the data in a way that hasn't um transformed the data in an unusual way. basically the configuration of points is the same before and after uh the construction of these uh PC variables. So um let's see okay there's uh this sort of version of principal components where we consider splitting the first k principal components into uh sort of a gamma one matrix and uh the remaining ones into a gamma 2 uh portion. And so one can then think of there being a linear model for our outcome X variable which might be simplified to just a mean vector plus a matrix times the first K principal component variables plus error. Um, if this in fact were sort of an effective model, um, you know, it might be the case that the last M minus K principal component variables essentially have no important information in them. And so this could be a very simple model for our uh, X variable. And importantly the if this were the mo an appropriate model for an M vector X then the co-variance matrix of the uh the coariance matrix of X um is just given by uh or or let's see or the yeah the the coariance matrix of X in terms of the off diagonal entries which represent the correlations are all due to common loadings on these different principal component variables in P1. So the interesting question to uh think about is you know how can we model uh random vectors with some covariance matrix and are there simple structures to the covariance matrix that explain all of the intercorrelations. Uh now when we uh perform empirical principal components analysis then what we do is we say we have an x uh matrix which has columns x1 through x sub capital t that are all m vectors. Then we compute the row means um we subtract those row means from uh the uh from the matrix row by row and then with this xstar matrix that's the demeaned matrix that matrix times its transpose divided by the number of columns in X capital T that is an estimate of the coariance matrix essentially the sample coariance matrix and we then can perform an Igen value vector decomposition of this coariance matrix and then use these results to define um the empirical principal component uh coordinates of our data and it corresponds responds to just taking our estimate of the gamma matrix transpose the demean matrix. So this is very simple to implement um and let's see there the singular value decomposition um is also uh a way of obtaining these principal uh component uh transformations. If we look at v durpose being the singular value decomposition of our xstar demeaned matrix. Then um we have our lambda estimate just being the square of the d diagonal matrix divided by t. The estimate of the gamma matrix is simply the v. and our principal component variables or our data transformed to principal component coordinates is simply given by d u prime. So um principal components analysis is very easy to implement and the lecture that was originally scheduled for today uh Stefan Andrev um he's going to go through a number of examples of applying principal components in uh equity markets and in uh bond markets. What's really useful to anticipate is that um well one of the examples that he's used in the past is where the X vector corresponds to index returns in different European markets on a daily basis and attempting to understand sort of the joint variability across all of the markets. markets, but also to understand where there are sort of different geographical um clusters of uh countries like northern European versus southern European those tend to uh be separately highly correlated with each other. Um another example of principal components analysis is looking at interest rates in uh the fixed income market. Uh it turns out that for different maturities of bonds ranging from say one month, three month a year to uh five years, 10 years, 20 years, 30 years. The interest rates can be uh uh measured in terms of their yields and the yield curve will vary day by day. And it turns out that uh the principal components analysis of yields um is uh has a very strong uh structure to it. um the uh so uh I'll let him introduce those when he when he comes in a couple of weeks. All right. Well, um with principal component variables, it's important to understand uh that there are alternative ways of deriving or defining principal component variables. One is to define the first principal component variable to be the linear combination defined by weights W1 through WM that maximize the variance of that weighted sum subject to the sum of squares of the weights equaling one. So we're looking at a unit vector W and trying to find the vector W that maximizes the u variance of the linear combination in that direction. So um when we get to sort of the transformation of the data u or the random variable by demeaning it then if we look at w vectors that are unit vectors in this space then we're looking at which sort of w vector is pointing in the direction of maximum variability. ability. Then the second principal component variable is defined as the next W vector now V which maximizes the variance subject to having length one but being orthogonal to the first. So you know it's a rather nice way of uh characterizing principal component variables. Now, um, with principal components analysis, one of the really neat things is that, let's see, we often focus on the first few principal component variables because they explain most of the variability. But the last principal component variable is defines the linear combination of the components that has the smallest variance. And sometimes that smallest variance can be zero in which case we're identifying sort of a linear dependence in the uh in the return. So um let's see my first sort of example uh of this case was uh before the euro existed. So I'm really dating myself. U but the uh German uh Deutsch mark and the French Frank were very very highly correlated uh before the euro came out and in looking at currency returns um the principal components analysis actually sort of identified that empirically in a nice way. All right. Um let's see. Okay. Mathematically with um principal components analysis we can talk about a decomposition of the total variance. So if we have this covariance matrix sigma we could talk about the total variance is equal to the sum one to m of sigma i jj. So the J diagonal entry of the coariance matrix is the variance of the J component and the sum of that is the trace of sigma. um we can decompose that total variance as the sum of the igen values. And so uh principal components analysis provides a decomposition of variability and we can see sort of what proportion of variability is explained by the first or the first few principal component variables. All right. Um these lecture notes uh finish with just reminding you of some important statistic or dist important probability distributions in statistics. Um the ki squared distribution arises again and again and the ki squared distribution with one degree of freedom is equal in distribution to the square of a standard normal distribution. So this is a useful thing to remember um in different cases. Um and uh let's see if we uh well here's its density function. Um it turns out to be a special case of the gamma distribution and uh here's this moment generating function. It turns out that if we um take independent normal 01 random variables, square them and sum them, then the sum of n independent ones is a kai squared with n degrees of freedom and we can prove these results uh using moment generating functions and get densities for those. Um importantly, uh t distributions often are um uh let's see arise especially in the study of a regression models and the significance of regression parameter estimates. Um but basically with a t distribution um if we take a standard normal and then divide it by the square root of a ki^ 2 divided by its degrees of freedom where the ki squared variable u is independent then this will give us a t distribution with our degrees of freedom. And so uh let's see with t distributions um t distributions are examples of distributions that are heavier tailed than a normal distribution. And so if you think of taking a normal Z variable and dividing by this ki squared distribution divided by its degree of freedom and square root we're basically dividing a random normal by something that's random but around one. and uh the randomness of that factor leads to greater variability than the normal. So it's sort of obvious that that could be the case and it's u indeed uh true. Um and uh let's see uh the F distribution turns out to be the ratio of two kaiquare distributions each divided by their respective degrees of freedom. And in uh classical statistics, we often are interested in measuring variability of data and variability due to different driving factors. And so F distributions arise commonly when we have estimates of variance um given by a ki squar divided by a degree of freedom. And if we have two different estimates of variability, um then uh if those distributions sort of have common variances, then the uh F distribution applies. Um some of you may have heard of uh analysis of variance in statistics. Anyway, the analysis of variance methods work with studying uh f statistic distributions. Yeah. >> Are nonentral distributions used a lot? Or is that are they mainly just like the centered ones? Well, the uh non-entrality um or when you have null hypotheses in analysis of variance that are true then the F statistics will sort of be be fs with zero non-entrality and if the null hypothesis is false then um you'll have a F distribution with a non-entrality parameter. So the non-entrality uh parameter comes into specifying the distribution of the test statistic when the null hypothesis is false. So >> is that used sometimes then like when when the ho is false? >> Yes. Um the uh actually uh the next two lectures after today will be on regression analysis and testing in regression and so we'll see those come into play there. >> Yeah. Um all right. Um what else? Oh, okay. Just the weak law of large numbers and the central limit theorem are the remaining topics here. Um if we have sample data um realizations of say n um or n realizations of a random variable and here we say iid for independent and identically distributed. um if those random variables have mean, meu and variance sigma squared, then the sample mean xbar will converge in probability to that mean. So the larger the sample size in the mean, the closer the sample mean will be to the uh true mew parameter. But what we what's important from probability theory is how do we characterize convergence of random variables. And so the convergence in probability to a constant means that the probability that the deviation the absolute deviation from mu exceeding epsilon that that goes to zero. And um this theorem or this result can be proven with chbbyev's inequality. And uh it's sort of a neat example um where if we want to look at the variance of xar n which is equal to what the expected value of xar n minus mu uh squared. Then if we were to draw sort of xar n and here's mu and then have the graph of xar n minus mu If we were to transform our scale to xar n minus mu, then this mu value goes to zero. And if we were to look at um the epsilon value for xar n minus mu um we can consider a function other than this parabola which is zero up to this epsilon away from mu point and then is simply equal to epsilon squared beyond and do the same at minus epsilon. So zero up to there and the variance which is the probability weighted average of the parabola over the distribution has to be greater than epsilon squar times the probability of exceeding of being further away from u than epsilon. So the fact that this function um is greater than or equal to epsilon^ 2 times probability that xar n minus mu is greater than epsilon. This gives us uh the result and um we basically have um that we're basically giving a positive bound for for this uh or we have an upper bound that decreases with n for this uh probability. So that gives us our nice result. Um let's see if you really like probability theory um one can actually extend this result to the case where um we don't have a variance existing we just have a mean existing and that's a rather strong result that's uh that's neat um at least it's neat in terms of how the mathematics can uh handle um more complex cases. Now finally we have the central limit theorem which uh tells us what the asmtoic distribution is of a sum of independent and identically distributed random variables is. And so if we have variables x1 to xn that are mean zero variance sigma squared, it turns out that the sum of the x i divided by the square root of the sample size uh converges to a normal distribution with mean zero and variance sigma squared. So um so we have what zn equaling 1 / roo n sum 1 to n of the x size converges to a normal mean zero and variance sigma squared. And if we were to think of um xbar which is equal to 1 / n * zn this basically is converging in some sense to a normal with mean zero and variance sigma squar over n. Now, I put quotes around this arrow here because it's not really legitimate to talk about a limiting distribution that depends on n. But this is sort of the way the um this is the way we approximate the distributions of sample means. basically they converge to the mean of the distribution in this case zero and the variance is sigma squar over n. Now what's neat in this proof is just to highlight the use of moment generating functions. And so if we say let's calculate the moment generating function of ZN, we're going to show that the moment generating function of ZN converges to this moment generating function, which in fact is the normal with mean zero and variance sigma squared. So the theorem that says moment generating functions are sort of unique and if the limit of moment generating functions um exists and equals some function we can identify the distribution by that limiting moment generating function. Well, if we calculate just the moment generating function of ZN, we just plug in ZN within the expectation. Then noting that the X's are independent of each other. We basically are taking the expectation of a product of independent terms. And so that expectation of a product is the product of the expectations. So we have the product of the expected value of x i * t over root n. And this expectation here is actually the moment generating function of x evaluated at t over root n. So it's the nth power of that when we take the product of all n of those. Now this is where it gets interesting. If we look at our moment generating function of t over root n, well we don't really know much about the distribution of the x's. We know it has a mean. We know it has a variance. The mean is zero. The variance is sigma squared. If we expand the moment generating function into a tailaylor series, then we get 1 + the expected value of x * t / roo n plus the expected value of x^2 time / 2 * t / roo n^2 + an order term that is given by the third power of the argument. And so as n gets large these higher order terms are of smaller order. And so we finally have that this in the limit is 1 + this multiple over n plus a small o of t ^2 / n. And if we take this expression to the nth power, then it converges to the exponent of the argument sigma^ 2 t ^2 / 2. So um let's see if we have 1 + r let's see 1 + r / n to the n power um this converges to e to the r and villi used this argument uh in the first lecture to talk about sort of continuous compounding and what the limiting value is of uh continuous compounding at some interest rate. Anyway, that same exponential result is true here. So this actually proves the central limit theorem using uh the identity theorem for MGFS. Yeah. >> Is is CLT actually used in practice because obviously And like in finance, nothing's going to be IID or at least they're not going to be independent. So like is it actually still useful in a practical setting? >> It it can be very useful in a practical setting and it right now it's specified in terms of identically distributed X's. um it actually generalizes to um x's that are uh independent but with um different uh distributions as well. So, um, also, uh, what's, I guess, really important is that if a variable we're working with corresponds to the sum of independent or uncorrelated uh terms, the sum can approach a normal distribution well. And um if one uh looks at I guess linear sort of projections of uh multi-dimensional vectors x's um if you had sort of a random direction in the mdimensional space the projection onto that random direction will correspond respond to sums of close to sort of identically distributed random variables but we'll very likely have a uh a Gaussian distribution as well. Um the uh I this will come up when we talk about regression modeling. Um but um when we look at sort of the error vector from a regression the um feasibility of the error vector being close to Gaussian is uh plausible and reasonable given the way it's constructed sometimes. Okay. Well, let's uh move on then to this note on probability theory for asset pricing. What's really neat about this uh note is that we're going to introduce you just with basic probability theory to one of the more important models in uh quantitative finance or at least in early quantitative finance which is the capital asset pricing model. And so um let's consider a simple uh context where we have one risky asset like a stock and we have a one period model where we have uh the beginning of the period is t not and the end of the period is t1 I guess. Um and so and there's this risky asset A. So there's a risky asset A. Um, and we'll consider a market agent having QA shares of the asset just Q units of a risk-free asset. Now, the risk-free asset is like putting money in the bank and being confident that you'll get it back with interest. Um, and uh we'll assume that the risk-free asset costs uh a dollar. So, a dollar per unit. and the uh risky asset will be of price pa per share. So this market agent has a wealth at time zero. So W0 is going to be equal to Q A PA plus Q times$1. Um and okay so maybe we'll put an F here just to indicate that it's sort of the risk-free asset. Um now at time t1 um so this is the uh the t not prices are given here at t1 the risk-free asset is going to be worth 1 + r f and the price of the risky asset. We'll assume that it's a random variable given by f tilda. And um for simplicity, we'll assume that it has some mean mu and variance sigma squared. Well, now right away this is maybe a bad assumption to make because Gaussian or normal distributions can be arbitrarily large negative but we'll assume that the likelihood of impossible values is very close to zero. So that this is a useful model. Um all right. So this is the time t1 uh state of the uh market which has sort of certainty for the uh risk-free investment but uncertain outcome for the risky asset. Well, um, one could consider the agent being able to buy X units of the risky asset at the initial time point T0 and then have end of period wealth that reflects that trade of buying X units at t not. So at the end of the period T1 time there will be QA plus X shares with value F tilda and the X shares will have been bought by paying PA the T0 price at time zero. And so there will be money invested in the risk-free asset earning uh the interest rate or at the absolute return of 1 plus RF. Now what we want to do is consider what is the optimal choice of X the number of shares to buy for this agent. And in order to make that choice, one can apply um sort of the uh decision theory under uncertainty um and associate a utility of the end period wealth given by some utility function U. And we can choose the x value to maximize the expected utility of wealth. So importantly um if we have u of w as a function of w and there's basically a um w0 value here um utility of w0 there are some standard assumptions one makes as to what the utility function is like. Um, and we might assume that the first derivative and second derivative exist. So we'll assume that these exist. And so well the first derivative is likely to be positive. More wealth is preferred to less. So we sort of have a a better direction being up and to the right. And the second derivative, this actually could be less than zero if there's a decreasing marginal utility to more wealth. So this function might go and look like this with a u prime greater than zero and u doublep prime less than zero. Um so these kinds of assumptions are reasonable to assume and the theory of sort of decision rational decision making under uncertainty. If this is indeed your utility function is to find the action X that maximizes this. And if we are lucky, we might be able to solve for X by satisfying the first order condition, the derivative of the expected utility equaling zero at the maximum value. And uh yeah, >> why would you use anything other than the identity function for you? Because surely you just want to maximize your end period as well. Um the uh let's see if you use the identity um uh then there's sort of well it it will turn out there's no penalty for risk that you're undertaking. And so with this decreasing marginal utility of wealth, you end up having a penalty for taking risks. And so um the uh yeah um okay so I'll I'll leave it there, but it's a very good question. Um and uh let's see there there's actually some well there's some really interesting discussions and uh about how to optimally uh sort of invest um as as this case and uh there was a controversy between Claude Shannon and uh um I think it was I think it was Milton Freriedman. um about uh sort of maximizing um the exponential or the the the expected log return of investments uh just period and that being optimal. So anyway, we'll return to that discussion later as well, but for now, let's just assume that this is a reasonable thing to do. And um in order to solve this problem, we're actually going to use a lema called Stein's lema, which is a curious mathematical result dealing with normally distributed y variable and uh yar, they're jointly distributed with each other and Gaussian. If we look at the expected value of g of y times y minus mu and u the expected value of g prime of y if both of those exist then we get these simple formulas for essentially the covariance between g of y and y and the covariance of g and y and y star. So the this is a mathematical theorem that is sort of abstract as it's stated but it ends up being applicable in our problem. Um so if we define our wealth at the end of the period at time t1 to be given by this w tilda vector. Um then if the outcome of the asset price filda if this is Gaussian then uh this wealth at time t1 will also be Gaussian because we're just taking a multiple of that plus a constant. So that note is simple. Um then if we look at the expected utility and try to take the derivative of that with respect to x. Then under certain conditions we can take the expectation of the derivative with respect to x of the u integrant with the expectation. Now under what conditions is it feasible to differentiate sort of underneath the integral sign when you're doing computations in calculus I mean I mean basically what we want to do is take the expected value of U of um W tilda plus delta and subtract the expectation of U of W tilda and divide by delta and take the limit as this goes to zero. So that's sort of the formula for computing the derivative. It turns out we can do that if the first derivative of u is bounded or has bounded expectation. And so if that's possible to do then we can take the derivative underneath the integral sign and we have basically the derivative of u multiplied by the chain rule the derivative of w tilda with respect to x. So if we take the derivative of w tilda with respect to x we get f tilda minus p a * 1 + rf. So this is just the chain rule of differentiation there. Now um with this expression in black um we can use the uh well let's see we we can express this as the expected product of two random variables is equal to the co-variance plus the product of the expectations. So here we have U prime and F tilda minus PA1 plus RF the co-variance between those two plus the product of their expectations is equal to that expected product then um by Stein's lema one actually can simplify or reexpress this covariance as the expected second derivative of u times the co-variance of w and f. And so we can then substitute this expression into this last expression here and get zero equals that co-variance plus the product of the first expectations there. And um so we're substituting in this expected second derivative of u times the co-variance in that formula. Now with this um expression here um we have this co-variance of w and f. Well, the coariance between W and F is simply the co-variance of U f with a multiple of F. So it equals that multiple times the variance of F. And so we plug that in to this coariance term. And what's curious and sort of is the punchline is that this final equation gives us a formula for um how we uh solve for um how we solve for x. And so the value of x that we should choose um will basically satisfy this equation. Um and uh so our x value will depend upon what the price of the asset is. And um it actually is equal to a discounted value of the expected price plus this other term here. And this other term here, the second derivative is negative. First derivative is positive. So this is actually a negative factor here. And so we end up getting that um we have a formula that sort of depends upon that ratio of second derivative expectation to first derivative expectation of the uh utility function. Now in economics classes maybe some of you have come across the constant absolute risk aversion utility function. Has anybody come across that in an economics class? Maybe maybe not. Um but that function which is a constant minus a constant minus e to the minus a uh w. Um this is the constant And so it basically um you know has has the right shape um for u in terms of marginal utilities decreasing and utilities always uh increasing. And so with this particular utility function we have the up prime / u prime um those actually uh giving us just the factor a here. So we have our price of the asset should equal the discounted expected cash flow minus a risk adjustment. Um and so and the risk adjustment in the price that's like the fair price for the asset um varies depending upon what the risk aversion coefficient is of the agent and uh also the magnitude of the shares of the risky asset that are obtained and the variance of the uh of the price outcome. So, so the fair price for um the market agent basically is balancing all of these factors. And uh let's see if um okay um well with this result for a single asset what's really neat is that we can um generalize from one asset to many and set up the whole problem with almost the same notation. So we consider defining a Q vector of shares of assets one through N A1 through A N and QF units of the risk-free asset and we can go through the same logic of the initial wealth being the Q shares per asset times the price at time z t0 of the assets plus the value of the risk-free investment. And we can assume that the random prices at time t1 are jointly normally distributed. Um and so we then can think of the market agent uh basically adjusting the initial shares Q by the X vector and choosing the X vector to maximize expected utility. And we can uh just plug everything in now with vectors instead of scalers and the same arguments apply. And we end up getting at the end of the day different sort of equilibrium prices for the different assets that are sort of discounted expected values of the price plus a penalty depending upon the sort of risk aversion of the agent. Um and so uh we end up getting this uh final result here. Now, um what's particularly interesting um from this uh setup is to then say well what uh prices should be holding if this um market model is in equilibrium. And so if the market is in equilibrium, then we should have expected returns of risky assets that satisfy um this formula here. if we look at a an initial endowment sort of of no shares at all and define the X allocation to be an equilibrium investment in the market portfolio. Then our market portfolio defined by X will have a market value of F tilda M. The sum of the X size shares times F tilda I. The price initially of the market portfolio will be just the sum of the XI shares times the initial prices P AI. And the return of the market portfolio um will just be the change in value divided by the initial value which corresponds to a weighted sum of the asset changes or percentage returns. So the percentage return R tilda M is simply the weighted returns of the individual assets and this is our expected return of the market portfolio when the underlying assets satisfy these uh pricing conditions. Now um if we expand this expected market return uh expression, we can successively derive that it equals the risk-free rate plus this blue factor times the co-variance of the initial uh sort of W vector with RM. And uh this blue expression can be solved for as the sort of excess return of the market portfolio divided by the co-variance term here. And so we end up getting that this co-variance of W and RM end up being simply uh PM times the co-variance of RM or the variance of RM. And plugging this in, we finally get that the expected returns of different assets are simply a beta factor times the excess return expected return of the market portfolio over the risk-free rate. And so this expression is actually the expression for what's called the security market line where we have the expected return of asset I is the risk-free rate plus a beta factor times the excess return of the market over the risk-free rate. And this beta factor is the ratio of the co-variance of asset I and the market portfolio divided by the variance of the market portfolio. And so this beta I is equivalent to the regression coefficient of the excess return of stocks regressed on the excess return of the market. So in this model um we end up having that different assets will have different returns and those returns are sort of bounded below sort of by RF but then are increased by having a higher beta factor multip multiplying the excess return of the market. So you may be familiar with um issues of betas in equity markets and there being low betas or high beta uh stocks. Um in this model we have that the way you get higher expected return is to have a higher beta. And uh so um so this um also just uh leads to understanding sort of what the equilibrium prices are of individual assets. If we take those expressions for returns and then uh reverse them into expressions for the equilibrium prices, we have that the equilibrium prices are sort of the expected terminal price divided by a discount factor that discounts by the discount rate of the risk-free investment. but adding to that um a uh penalty based on the level of risk that's being taken. And here are just some uh references on this topic that you may want to uh check out. Um the uh the development here was actually uh taken from the first reference by Frank De Jang and Barbara Rindy. Um there are other important citations. One of them that's of interest is uh John Lintner the valuation of risky assets. Um the capital asset pricing model was actually um uh formulated by John Lintner and William Sharp uh back in the early 60s and I distributed one of the articles of Lintner um in the Canvas site and it's actually nice to be able to read a very technical paper um in an accessible way. And so I think that you'll enjoy checking that paper out. Um okay. Um well, let me turn then to the sort of main topic in our syllabus for today, but uh it's sort of the tail end of today. um to talk about uh stochastic processes uh concepts and one of the most important concepts in stochcastic processes is the u concept of a martingale process. And so if we have a stochcastic process given by a sequence of random variables xn, we can define a related process mn which is defined as functions of the first n x's for each n. So if we have uh mn depending only on the first n x's in some well- definfined way given by a function fn then we will say that this mn sequence which is random because of its dependence on the x's it will be a martingale if the expected value of the nth m given the first n minus one x's is simply equal to the n minus1 first value of m and we also are going to require that the magnitude of the mns as has a finite expectation for all n2 now um let's consider perhaps the simplest example of a martingale which is basically ally a random walk. Suppose the XN sequence is just independent random variables that each has mean zero and Sn is the sum of the first n X's. Then this SN is a random walk with steps given by X. and it's going to be a martingale with respect to the original process of XNs. Now, we can make this example even simpler by assuming that the X's are independent and identically distributed and maybe that they're discreet with just a plus one or minus one step increment with equal probability. So these X's have expectation equal to zero and variance equal to one and the process SN has expectation zero the sum of the expectations and the variance of SN it's the variance of a sum of independent steps increments and so it's just the sum of the variances so that's in. Well, here's a random walk realization of this model with a 100 steps. And so it basically starts at zero at time zero and then as steps occur increments up or down uh plus or minus one. If we increase from a 100 steps to a thousand, this is what a realization uh looks like. And then here's an extension from 1,000 steps to 10,000 steps. And what's rather significant is the general shape of this random walk process. As we increase the number of steps, it becomes this very sort of jagged uh path and it actually corresponds to brownie and motion models that we'll come across. Now, if we were to realize 10 different paths of length 10,000, here are examples of that. And so one can see that for low number of steps there's not very much variability. It increases as we increase the number of steps. And here we're just drawing bands at plus or minus multiples of the standard deviation of the random walk value. And so um these standard deviation levels uh basically apply just through you know the mathematics of uh calculating uh one or two standard deviations of the sum. And what you know we know from uh our central limit theorem is that the sort of distribution of possible values at any given time step will be closely modeled by a Gaussian distribution because of the central limit theorem. There we have a stop. Okay, I'm going to take two more minutes just to show you a more not a more interesting but a related but very interesting uh martingale. Suppose that once we've calculated the random walk SN, we look at the square of Sn and subtract N sigma squared. It turns out that this is a martingale as well. And here's one realization over 10,000 steps. And here are 10 realizations. Um, and so these look very very different from the simple random walk. But these as well are martingales. And so one of the uh what we'll see next time is how martinales have very special uh properties which can be used to solve challenging uh probability problems. And just as a closing remark um does anyone here know uh where the term martingale comes from? Do we have any uh equestrians? There's a bridal in a horse called a martingale bridal that keeps the horse straight looking straight. So it sort of is a a bridal that sort of has pressure on both sides of the mouth to keep the horse looking straight. And what's true about a martingale is that the expected value in the future is always a constant level equal to the last level of the series. So that that property will end up being very very convenient and we'll see examples of that uh next time.