So today is the last day of our additive combinotauric section of the class. Um and we get to prove one of the core theorems of the additive combinotaurics the balag sami gowish theorem and I think it's a wonderful thing and I will I will try to do it justice. I'm learning myself also. Um, okay. So, first let me remind everybody what it says. All right. So if a and b are in an aelion group and let's say they have size at most n and we have a subset of a cross b. So have a subset of pairs little a little b uh and it's pretty big. So x is bigger than k inverse n^2. So k is a parameter here but you should think of k as being significantly smaller than n is that's the regime where there's a meaningful conclusion. Okay. Um and pi1 of x is at most k. So we remember that pi 1 of x is the set of a + b where a and b a comma b is an x. Okay. So this is surprisingly small given how large x is and it means that in in this set um there are many pairs a a1 b1 and a2 b2 that that add up to the same number. So there are a lot of additive coincidences happening when we add up the pairs in x. Then the conclusion is that there is uh a subset a prime in a and a subset b prime in b which are pretty big. So the way we'll say that they're pretty big. So we we we could say the following is true that a and b are each uh you know at least some power of k * n. So they're each pretty big. But actually we'll say something slightly fancier which is what we really used in applications. Namely if x prime is defined to be the part of x in prime um then x prime is pretty big. Okay. And also when you look take sums of a prime and b prime not just the ones in x prime but all of them those are all pretty small. So um a prime plus b prime is less than k to the big o of 1 * okay so I guess la last time we introduced this and talked about examples a little bit but let me just repeat the example because it helps a lot to digest the statement. So, here's one example. Um, A and B are both the numbers up to N with some garbage. And, uh, um, um, okay. And then x could be any subset of n cross n which is pretty big. Um and so now it's not true that a + b is small but it is true that uh a good maybe union a little bit Okay. So, pi1 of x is small because most of it is contained in most of x is contained in here and and pi one of that is small. Um, so a + b might be large. Um, but pi1 of x is small. And the only way this can happen is that uh in this case a big chunk of x most of x is contained in a product that actually has a small subset. So a prime = b prime. Okay. Does the statement make sense? All right. All right. Cool. Um cool. So uh yeah I tell you a little bit of history of this theorem. So Balog and some Ready were the first people to think about this and they proved a version of this theorem. But uh in Balag and Sam's theorem this k the minus bigo of one was much worse. So here there was some um so in baletti there was like one over some function of k and over here in balog saretti there was some function of k and this function of k was really terrible. It was worse than like a it was worse than a tower of exponentials. um and it followed from something called sretd's regularity lema which is a really important um qualitative fact in graph theory in combinotaurics which has many consequences but it's well known that the bounds in somebody's regularity lema are really terrible and that's where these really terrible bounds come from now in someday's regularity lema those really terrible bounds are the best thing that's true more or less um but in some of the applications they're not and Gers revisited this and he proved this thing with the polinomial dependence. Okay. Okay. So, the proof that I'm going to show you is from the 1990s. So, it's really not that old. Um, it's been very influential and it's not that complicated. it's clever, but it's something that we can do in a class and that um you know that this is a significant thing and I hope you know that it's it's I think it's something worth seeing and worth knowing about. All right. So yeah, so any questions or comments before we start the proof? Okay, so X is a subset of A cross B and we're going to visualize it as a bipartite graph. I'm going to visualize x which is a subset of a cross b. So over here I have a which I'll visualize as a bunch of dots. Over here I'll have b which I'll visualize as a bunch of dots. And um if a comma b is an x then I will visualize that by drawing an edge from a to b. So the set x will look something like this. So in this picture, a comma b is an x if and only if I have an edge. Um and now there turns out to be a nice connection between the um some graph theory things you can see in this graph and the additive combinatorics of of A and B. Um so let me make a definition that P subk of A to B is the number of paths that have length K and they go from A to B, right? And they're paths in this graph in the graph X. Um, so I had to take P3 of A, B is going to be very important in our story. How many ways are there to get from A to B in three steps? So there's uh there may not be any in the picture right now. Let me add an edge. So there's one way to get from A to B in three steps. And uh here's another way to get from A to B in three steps. P3 of AB is counting how many ways there are to do that. All right. So, here's a lama. Um, uh, okay. >> Question. >> Yeah. >> Are the paths allowed to repeat nodes? >> They are allowed to repeat nodes. Yeah, you're right. So, they might have been some I didn't count before. So, that is also a path of length three from A to B. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Um, so if I have a prime in A and B prime in B, right? Right. So if you, okay, if you look where we where we want to go, we'd like to eventually prove that for some sets that we haven't found yet, uh, that A prime plus B prime is small. So how are we going to prove that? Um, A prime plus B prime, the size of A prime plus B prime is going to be related to the paths of length three in this graph. So if if I have this and if for every pair a and b a and a prime and b and b prime there are lots of pads between them then a prime plus b prime isn't very big. It's less than pi 1 at x cubed over p. Okay. So let's let's prove this lema. All right. So let's visualize a path of length three from A to B. So it looks like this. There's your path of length three. And what is this telling us? Well, this edge tells me that a comma b1 is in x, right? And therefore a + b1 is in pi 1 of x. And this edge tells me similarly that a1 + b1 is in pi 1 of x. And this edge tells me similarly that a1 + b is in pi 1 of x. Okay. Now I'm interested in a plus b and a plus b is kind of related to these guys. And so we can write a + b as uh a + b1 minus a1 + b1 plus uh a1 + b. Did I do this right? A plus b. The a1's cancel and the b1's cancel. And these three characters are they correspond to these three edges. So let's call this Z1, Z2 and Z3. Okay. So we have seen that the uh number of triples Z1, Z2, Z3 and P1 of X cubed. So that uh a + b is z1 minus z2 + z3. That number of triples is at least um p3 a to b. Okay. So if there are a lot of paths from A to B of length three, then there are a lot of ways of writing A plus B by combining guys in pi 1 of X. All right. Um okay. And we're supposing that P3 of AB is always at least P. So we have this Okay. And then we can conclude from this that the size of a + b time p is at most pi 1 and x cubed. Because for every sum in a plus b, I can write this sum as z1 minus z2 plus z3 at least p different ways. And for each Z1, Z2, and Z3, this is only going to give me one number when I do it. A prime, B, >> those are A prime and B prime, right? Okay. So, I'm digesting along with all of you and as I've been reading the proof, I've been trying to figure out how did people think to do this and do these different things. Um, all right. So let's try to give some uh big picture strategy why we might look at this. So pi 1 of x is small. That tells us that there are a lot of coincidences where you can write a a number as a plus b in a lot of different ways. And how might that be helpful? Um um what and then we are uh okay and so the fact that pi 1 of x is small that tells us that there are going to be a lot of edges. What do I say? Okay. Um so so okay sorry by assumption there are a lot of edges in this graph. Um that's one of our hypotheses that X is big. So there are a lot of edges in this graph and therefore there are pro there are lots of lengths of path three in this paths of length three in this graph. We'll figure that out later. Um and when there are many different paths of length three between two these two guys then it means that there are lots of ways of representing a plus b combining guys in pi 1 of x. And on the other hand, if pi 1 of x is small, then that that should make this not too large. Okay, I don't know if that I I don't think that really explained how somebody might have thought to do this, but it's fairly short, so I hope it Let's take a second and see uh let you digest a little bit and see if if people have anything to add. Yeah. uh the kind of idea of sort of the paths of sort of three different things looks kind of like you're taking like a minus a plus a and sort of it's being similar to the kind of contentious structure idea like is there kind of a link to to those those >> Yeah. So so the question is it this felt a little bit like like Plunka and is there a link to the Plunka inequality? Um maybe. >> Yeah. >> Is there something special about paths of length three? Like it seems like this should work for any odd number of >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is why did we pick paths of length three? There's really nothing special about paths of length three. Um there we would be some similar estimate for any length. Um and um three is the length where where the later part of the proof we managed to get it to work. Okay. All right. Cool. So next let's um let's think a bit about how many edges there are in this graph and how many paths there are of length two and how many paths there are of length three and stuff like that. Let's just sort of orient ourselves to this graph. Uh so okay, I'll call this uh some basic estimates about PK PK of AB. Ah okay. No actually let me let me frame it this way. Let me state a lema about paths of length three and then we'll start to to to do some things about that. So to finish the proof of balac summar there's a key lema and it's just a lema in graph theory. So there's so all of the additive structure went into like writing this and noticing that things cancel. And now we have a graph theory lema about paths of length three in a graph. So the main lema says that if x is in a cross b and x is bigger than k inverse times the size of a time the size of b um then there are big sets with lots of uh with lots of pads between them. Okay. So then there exists a prime and a and b prime and b. So that if we define x prime is the part of x and a prime cross b prime then x prime is pretty big. And for every A and A prime and B and B prime um the number of length three paths from A to B is at least K to the minus O of 1 AB. Okay. So if you combine this lema and this key lema and just put them together, you get the balm gore. And the the the reason that three appears here is it's the smallest number where this key lema is true. Okay? So I'll let you in your mind just fill in this is our P and fill it in for P over here and you do a little algebra and that's the B summary G there. Okay. So, if it's okay with everybody, I'm going to erase this and the rest of the class we just focus on proving this lema from graph theory or the rest of the proof of BSG locked. So let's orient ourselves a little bit um about how many paths there are in this graph between different points and and prove some simple things first before we prove this. So I'll call this uh simple bounds about PK. All right. Um All right. So first let's think about um how many edges there are in this graph. So um the number of edges is the size of X which is at least K inverse A. And then let's think about how many paths there are of different lengths. So if I write PK without an A or B, this is the number of paths of length K. And they could start or end anywhere. But I I will just make the restriction that they start in A. Turns out it's in a bipartite graph. It's helpful. It's sort of simpler to count things like this. Okay. So P1 is just the number of edges in the graph. Passive length one are just individual edges. So this is the size of X which is at least K inverse 8. Okay. Now a helpful thing to talk about is if if you um is the the neighborhood of any vertex. So if I have a vertex A over here, this is A and this is B and I have a vertex A over here. There are some edges coming out of it. And this set here is called the neighborhood. And you can do it in the other direction also. So neighborhood. different up here, right? >> There are two different K's. Yeah, there are two different K's. I apologize. >> Yeah. Yeah. Here, let's do this. Okay. So P2 actually before we um so that's the size of P1 and then if I were to take the average A and A of P1 of A to anywhere that would be P1 divided by the size of A and so that would be at least K inverse times the size of B. So this is the average degree of one of these vertices on the left and it's at least a decent fraction of all the vertices on the right. All right. Now let's think about paths of length two. So P2 path a path of length two um looks like this. So there's some guy B that it goes through here and then there there has to do somebody who goes to B and somebody who comes from B. So this is the sum over B of the size of neighborhood of B squ. Okay. Well, if I just were to take the sum over B of the size of neighborhood of B, that would count the edges. So whenever I'm interested in the sum of somebody squared and I have a nice formula for the sum of somebody then it makes sense to apply Koshy Schwarz. If you apply Koshy Schwarz here, you get the sum of N of B quantity squared over the size of B. So that's at least K inverse size of A size of B all squared over the size of B. Um, and that works out to k the minus 2 a a^ 2 b. Okay, now that kind of makes sense. So for reference, if we had the complete graph with all the edges, the number of paths of length two would be a^2 b. You pick somebody in a, you pick somebody in b, you pick somebody in a. And so this says that the fraction of them is at least k to the minus2. And that kind of makes sense because the fraction of edges is k the minus1 and we want two different edges to both be in our path. So that that makes k the minus2 a good reference point and it's not necessarily equal to that. It's greater than or equal to that. And the reason is our edges may not be distributed evenly. So if if some vertices have way more edges than others that will cause the number of paths of length two to go up. Okay. And again we can take the average. So if I were to take the average over a1 and a2 of the number of paths from a1 to a2 that would be at least I would divide by a^ 2 so k -2 * b okay and as an exercise you can keep going to uh to longer lengths so exercise is that p3 is at least k the minus3 a^2 B^2 A^2 B^2 would be the number of pads of length 3 in the complete graph and at least a K to the minus3 fraction of them are pads in our smaller graph. Um, and that means that if I take the average on A and B of the number of paths of length three from A to B, that's at least kus 3 * A * B. So if I pick two two random vertices and I count the number of paths of length three on average it's at least this big. All right. Now let's compare that to the key lema. Kil lama says that I can find sub substantial substantial subsets so that um within these substantial subsets the number of paths of length three is always say k to the minus 100 size of a size of b right so so this number here is like a small fraction of the average. I'm looking for pairs where the number of paths of length three is at least a small fraction of the average. Okay. Um but the thing that makes this tricky is I don't want just like some A's and B's or most of the A's and B's to be at least a small fraction of the average. I want actually for every A and B in our in our subset. I want them to be at least some fraction of the of the average. Okay, cool. So now um we're eventually going to go up to paths of length three. Yeah, >> for we don't need them to be all of them, right? Like if if 80% of uh a price had a lot of paths between them, then could we still not have this long hole or just like a worse bound? Ah, great. Okay. So the question is in this lema as written we have assumed that for every a and b in a prime and b prime we have a lot of paths which then matches the the key lema. But the question is did we really need that in this lema or could we have relaxed a little bit over here. Um, so suppose instead of this lema that we only had this for most A's and B's. So let's do a little experiment. So in blue I'll I'll put an experiment. Okay. Okay. And the experiment is that instead of this I'm going to say for 90% of of pairs a prime b prime and a prime cross b. Okay. So now let's see what would happen. Okay. So if I take an element of this sum um before I knew that so that let's say a prime plus b prime is in this sum and then I can say that then then I'm going to use this thing Now if I knew that 99% of the guys in this sum could be represented by a good pair a prime b prime I would be happy. But that's not what I have written in my experiment. So my anxiety is 90% of the a primes and b primes are good. They have lots of paths. 10% of them are bad. But then I take the sum set and the 90% produce a few sums but the 10% produce a ton of sums. I'll make a picture. So here's a prime cross b prime. Um this part of it is good. Good means that. And this here's the 10% that's bad. Then I take the sum operation and but now life changes. So so pi one of good is tiny pi one of bad is huge. All right. And now I go down here and for for each of these sums uh if the sums are good they they get counted many times. If sums are bad they don't. Um but this this isn't going to work. uh if pi one of bad >> thought if instead of assuming for 90% if we just if we assume that the average is bigger than p then at this step if we added together every p3 a then would we get the same like it would be the sum of 3 a over each a would be less than the guys in pi 1 of x cubed and then the sum of them will be the number times the average >> yeah so because there's another suggestion but I think it's sort of similar. Um the other suggestion was instead of a 90% we could take the average over a prime b prime. Yeah. But the so okay so but the issue is that when we we look sometimes at a prime cross b prime and sometimes we look at a prime plus b prime and the their notions of average may be very different from each other because there may be a big chunk of a prime cross b prime which is compressed a lot when you add and another chunk which is not. So um so we need to know that even when you look at a so when you look at a prime plus b prime we don't need every sum to uh have a lot of representatives we just need most of them but it's hard to keep track of the way a prime cross b prime is related to a prime plus b prime and it seems to be the case that the easiest way to know that most of the sums are good is to actually know that all of a prime cross b prime is good. Yeah. >> Okay. Great questions. Yeah. >> Could you get around this issue by requiring that kind of the bad subset is small that it display the size as one over the square root of the size of a because that way when you project down we'll square it but it will still be relatively small. >> Right. Right. Okay. So the the comment was that if we were to replace 90% by 1 minus epsilon and if we tuned epsilon to be really really small eventually this would work. Um and that sounds right to me. Um we'll keep our eye out for the rest of the proof. Uh perhaps that will allow us to simplify things but but it might not. Yeah. Okay. Great. All right, so let's remember where we are. We're trying to prove the key lema that I can choose big subsets so that for every pair A and B, there are lots of length three paths between them. And for every maybe we could relax to like almost almost every but anyway, it's not it's not that hard. It's actually not that hard to prove this just a little. Uh okay. So so the reason we use three here is that um I well I think that this is false with two if you replaced it with two. I don't quite have a counter example, but um uh anyway, but so but still we're going to warm up by talking about paths of length two because they're simpler than paths of length three and we'll prove some kind of weaker version for paths of length two that we'll use as a stepping stone. Okay. All right. So, paths of length two All right. So, lama. So, x is a subset of a cross b and it's pretty big and we have a parameter epsilon bigger than zero. Then I can choose subsets. Um there's actually just one subset just subset a prime. Um so that a prime is and um p2 of a1 a2 is at least epsilon k the minus2 * b. Um now not for every pair a1 a2. We're going to weaken that a little bit, but for with an exceptional set of only about an epsilon fraction. So actually the people who set this up had a thought that was similar to yours which is that let's allow an epsilon fraction of of of bad pairs and we'll make that a parameter and then we'll see what we can do. Um and actually we put an epsilon in two different places and um so okay. All right. So let's let's process this first. Um remember that the average number of paths from A1 to A2 if we average over all the choices A1 A2 is at least this big. So we're going to be at least an epsilon fraction of the average. And um we're going that's going to be true not all the time but except for about an epsilon fraction of pairs. Okay. And a prime is a decent decent size M. All right. So before we try to prove this, let me ask a question to people. So question um can we just take a prime to be all of a right. So then we would just keep this part like is it plausible that um the number of paths is at least an epsilon fraction of the average most of the time. Doesn't sound so crazy. Is it possible that that's always true? Yeah. So there's a question, what's the maximum that this could be? The maximum it could be is B because there are paths that'll start at A1, they'll go across to somebody in B, they'll come back to A2. So there are at most B of them. So there's, you know, a decent amount of range there. And that is important. Yeah. Oh, the answer to this question is no. And here's a here's an example. Yeah. Was there a comment? >> I was thinking, could you maybe have two points in A and connect them by every point in B and then every other point in A is not very connected. >> Yeah. Okay. So, our suggestion was I take two points in A and I connect them to all the points in B. Right? Um and then the rest of them are not very connected. Now two of them might not be enough but it will we'll take a few of them. There's B. Here's A. This is a small piece. I guess this could be small part of a. And then over here there are no edges going out of there at all. Right. Um so how big would this have to be? Well, we need a fraction 1 over k of all the edges in our graph. Um so this small part of a would have size 1 over k times all of a. And now I have a one over k fraction of all the edges. Okay. So if I pick A1 and A2 in here, I have a ton of paths between them. But if either one of them is out here, there are no paths between them. And um you know this this set is actually much bigger than that set. So for almost all the pairs in A, there are no paths between them. So this is a counter example. Good. Good. Okay. And there's a second counter example which is uh so in this counter example the suspicious feature is that these vertices have way fewer edges than those vertices. Could I also make a counter example where every vertex on both sides has the same degree? Yes, you can. And it works by dividing into clumps. So I have a first clump. I have all the edges in here. And then I have a second clump and I have all the edges here and so on. So if you do this and you have k clumps of the same size then you'll see you have about one overk of all the edges. And then if you pick a1 and a2 if you pick them in different clumps then there are no paths between them. If you pick them in the same clump there are lots of paths. So because of these two examples we cannot just take a prime to be a all right and these so okay so so we so we have to understand we need to pick a prime and now let's think about how are we going to pick a prime um and in both these examples the way to find a plausible A prime is to pick some B and then look at its neighborhood. So here I pick some B and I look at its neighborhood. That's the set I this is. So this should be A prime, right? And here I pick some B anywhere and I look at its neighborhood and this is a reasonable choice for A prime. Okay. So so we will take a prime to be the neighborhood of B for some B. All right. So now, okay. So let me make a definition. I'll say a pair a1 a2 is called epsilon bad if the number of paths from a1 to a2 of length 2 is smaller than our threshold there. All right. So the main thing we have to think about is uh I'm going to pick different bees and look at their neighborhoods. And for each neighborhood I want to count how many bad pairs there are. BP epsilon of B is the number of pairs A1 A2 that are in that are both in the neighborhood of B. So that A1 A2 is epsilon bad. All right. So we'd like to know how big that about how big that is. And the easiest thing to compute is its expectation. So lamma expectation over b of the size of this thing um is not too crazy. So let's see what what that means. Okay. So this is at most epsilon fraction k the minus 2 a^2. All right. So let's let's digest this. So wait so we'll prove this of course but let's let's digest the right hand side. Um so these bad pairs they're sitting in just the set of all pairs. So for reference we should think about you know how big is the set of all pairs. Um, so take the expected value over B of just the size of its neighborhood squared. That's at least kus 2 a^ 2. This has an easy proof that we'll do in a second. All right. So if you compare these, you see that the fraction of epsilon bad pairs is at most is a small fraction of the of the total pairs. Fraction of epsilon by bad pairs is at most epsilon on average. Okay. And that's good. That's the sort of thing we we want to prove. We want to prove there's only about an epsilon fraction of bad pairs. Okay. So, um, so let's call this lama p1 and lama p2. This one is is real easy. So, I can I can keep it on this board. And then we'll prove lama p1, which is the most important thing. Okay. So, lama p2 proof. Um if I take the sum on B of N of B ^2 um when you see this what does it make you want to do? Actually we already did it short. So this is the sum on B n of B quantity squared over the size of B. That's at least k inverse a b all squared over the size of b. That's at least k to the minus 2 a^ 2 b. And to turn the sum into an average, we divide by b by size of b and that's all right. Actually, we could say an even e even simpler thing. The so what's the average size of just n of b? U the average size of n is exactly k inverse times the size of a and so well okay by koshy schwarz then if you square it it's at least that okay great so the heart of the matter for for this lema is that the x the expected number of bad pairs is a lot less than the expected number of total pairs so let's prove this lema All right. So proof of lema P1. Okay. So again let's think about the sum on B of the size of BPs of B. All right. So this is a set of pairs A1 A2. So this is a number of things. This is a double counting argument. It's a number of a1, a2 and b. So that a few things hold. Um so first of all we have this connection pattern. And also a1 and a2 are bad which means the number of paths from a1 to a2 is at most epsilon k theus 2b. All right. So how should we count this? Initially we put the b on the outside. But to count this quantity, it's a lot easier to pick A1 and A2 first because then after we fix A1 and A2, we're counting how many B's we can put there. And this hypothesis is just a bound on the number of B's that go there. So this is less than a squ. Pick any A1 and A2. And then if A1 and A2 obey this condition, there are at most this many choices for B. Okay. Uh, and that's it. I now I should convert this sum to an average by dividing by b. And what's left is epsilon kus 2 a^ 2. Okay. Okay, great. So, we are now almost done proving this lema about paths of length two and I can fit the rest of it in the little space under the statement of the lab. Okay. Um okay so on average n of b is pretty big by lama p2 on average n of b is is bigger than this. So proof a prime is going to be n of b for some b and on average um this is kind of true because of lambda p1. So we just need to be a little careful about how exactly to combine these two things. Um, and the way to do it is to look at the average value of n of b^2 minus 1 / 2 epsilon times the number of bad uh pairs. Okay. So, so why do we combine things by taking a linear combination? We do that because that's nice because of linearity of expectation. I can compute this directly from the two lamas computing these things individually. So that's why we'd want to add them. And what do we get? Well, just plugging in the balance from lama p1 and lama p2, we get that this is at least 12 kus 2 a^ 2. Okay. So now I I uh I choose B so that N of B ^ 2 - 1 / 2 epsilon BPs of B is greater than or equal to its mean and I set a prime to be this. All right. And then I claim we can read off the two things we care about. The first thing we care about is that n of b is pretty big. So we can ignore this negative thing. n of b ^2 is at least this big. And so n of b is at least around k inverse a. That is bullet point one. And bullet point two is that there are only a small fraction of bad pairs a1 a2. Well for this thing is positive. So one over this one I'll write down. So we get the number of bad pairs is at most bring this over here and multiply 2 epsilon times the number of totals total pairs only a two epsilon fraction of the total pairs are bad. That's the state. Okay. Any questions or comments about about this lema? >> So in the end like all the A's we choose are the neighbors of one B. >> Yeah, that's right. So our set A prime is just the set of neighbors of one B. That's right. Um yeah you know if you look if maybe at the end we'll sort of try to look back over the balac summary dearish theorem and balar theorems the conclusion is there exists a prime and b prime so that a prime plus b prime is small and it's a natural question like who are a prime plus b prime how do we find them um this one I actually probably should have named something different this is not the final a prime in the in the end of balex it's a stepping stone Uh but we can we keep track of it along the way and see you know how do we find a prime and b yeah okay so here most of the pairs are good and we're going to upgrade that in a trivial way. If you fix A1, we could ask whether most of the A2 are good. And that's not necessarily going to work. There could be a few bad A1's where most where many A2s are bad, but we just cross them out and make a prime a bit smaller. And and then we could say for every A1, most of the A2s are good. So let me write that down. So I think this is the best thing that I know how to say about paths of length two. Okay. So let me call this lema 2 for positive length two. So if x is in a cross b size of x is at least k inverse a b and epsilon is bigger than zero um then there exists a2 in a so that it's pretty big not quite as big as before but I don't know quarter k inverse a and for every A and A2 um a fraction of 1 minus well it won't be 1 - 2 epsilon but maybe 1 - 10 epsilon time A2 uh of A2 uh or let me let me say it this way at most tan epsilon times the size of a2 little a2 and a2 there are at most theirs So that the pair little a1 a2 is epsilon bad. Okay. So um proof sketch is just uh use the previous lema and a2 is a prime take away the a's that are that that have too many bad neighbors. Yeah, actually let me write this in a better way and then I can draw the picture of it. So for every A in our set, we can break up the set as a bad part, giving me a good part. Um, and what's good what what's the feature of each of these? The bad part is small. And what the what's good about the good part the good part there are many paths from A to A2 in the good part. >> Yeah. >> A2 is a comma a2. Correct. Okay. Okay. So, this is our the final word uh in today's story about what we can say about paths of length two. And now we're going to bootstrap that and say something even better about paths of length three, which is the main one. All right. Now we can prove the key lema. Okay. There's a little bit at the at the beginning. You know there was one example that was mentioned earlier that there might be a few elements of a that are in no edges or in very few edges and it's helpful to just eliminate them from the beginning. It's easy to reduce to the case that that doesn't happen. So step one um so a1 is defined to be the set of a and a so that um the uh the number of edges from a a to b let me see how I wrote that oh yeah that's just the size of the neighborhood of a the size of the neighborhood of a is at least a small fraction of the typical This is the this is the average value of the size of the neighborhood. We get rid of the of the guys who have way below average number of neighbors. Okay. And then it's straightforward to check that. So, so if I write X of A prime B prime, that's defined to be the set of pairs AB in A prime cross B prime and in X. So if I take the edges X from A1 to B, um that is still most of the edges And um also since I removed a1 comma b since I removed low density edges now the typical density has gone up. So this is still true. Right? So basically without loss of generality I can assume that all the edges have a decent success. All right. So next I use lema 2 and it tells me that I have this set uh a2 in a that has this this good property and a prime is just going to be this a2. All right. So here's my a2. This is a2. And maybe there's some more of a up here. Um, and if I pick a particular A in here, then I can break this up into a small bad part and a big good part. Um, the bad part is small and for the good part there are lots of edges to the good part which I'll sort of illustrate like this. Okay, cool. So now I would like to choose uh B. I'd like to choose B prime and B. There's some more vertices here. So over here is B. Who shall I include in B prime? And I want to know that I if I start in any A, I have many paths of length three to everybody in B prime. Okay. Now, one thing that's a bit tricky is that as I vary A, G of A and B of A aren't going to change. And I don't know much about that. Um, but it seems like a good idea to take vertices B that have a lot of edges to A2. Um, and if vertex B has no edges to A2, I'm this is not going to be helpful. So that's how we're going to define B prime. B prime is the set of B and B with the property that um the number of edges from B to A prime is at least 20 epsilon times the size of A. Okay. Now let's compare that with what we know about here. We know that the bad set of a is at most 10 epsilon times the size of a prime. So the that this was selected to be bigger than that. Okay. So now I can say for every A and A prime or B and B prime the number of paths of length three from A to B is at least okay I start in A then uh for every every good AI can have a lot of paths to that good A. So it's at least um that was epsilon k the minus 2 b that's how many paths I have to a to a good a times the size of n of b intersected with the good a's the guys who are good for a so if I have if I look at the guys that are good for a and they neighbor b. So here's B. This is good for A and they neighbor B. Actually, let me do this. See, this is B. These guys here are good for A and they neighbor B. And there are pretty many paths to each die. That's good. And then from here I can get to B. Okay, good. And then this is bigger than epsilon k the minus 2b times um well there are at least 20 epsilon a prime guys in n of b intersected a let's do this one n of b intersected a prime minus uh the number of bags and then this whole thing is at least 10 epsilon the size Okay, so the key point is that I'm looking at B's that have a lot of edges to A prime, many more than the size of the bad set. So there are still lots of edges that go to the good set. Okay. Um, so I put this together. This is like epsilon^ 2 k the minus2 a. So a a prime is also about the size of a. A prime is greater than k inverse a something like this. Okay. So um we're we are not done yet. Uh because we haven't proven that b prime uh we haven't proven that it's not empty. We need to prove that it's pretty big. Um but um uh but okay but for each a and a prime and b and b prime we do have a lot of edges. We do have the right number of edges. We also have to choose epsilon but as long as I choose epsilon to be one over a power of k that will be uh that will fit the bill of of what we're trying to prove. Okay, so the last thing is to check that B prime is pretty big or a little more carefully to check that there are still a lot of edges between A prime and B prime. All right. Okay. Okay. So last step we have to check that the number of edges from A prime to B prime is at least K the minus O1* the original number of edges. Or you could put times AB but those are the same. All right. So remember we proved earlier that a prime is at least around 1 / k * a um and um right and we also know so why did we do this pruning at the beginning? Um a prime is contained in a1. We did this initial pruning. So n a is greater than um is greater than 110th k inverse b for every a in a prime which is an animal. They're all pretty big. So there are lots of edges that leave a prime. So the number of edges between a prime and all of b that's at least k the minus2 a. Okay. Now to make b prime b prime are the guys that have pretty many edges to a prime. So we're going to cross out the guys that have very few edges to a prime. So if I count edges from A prime to B take away B prime. So these each one of these has only 20 epsilon edges to A prime. So that's at most 20 epsilon sorry 20 epsilon A prime edges time B time B. So that's less than 20 epsilon A. Okay, now we have paused about when to choose epsilon. We need it to be at least some small power some kus of 1. But we can make it small enough that this is way bigger than this. So we choose we now choose epsilon to be say 1 million * kus 2. And what that tells us is that the number of edges from a prime to the complement of b prime is way smaller than the number of edges from a a prime to b. So the conclusion is that the number of edges from a prime to b prime is about the same as the number of edges from a prime to b which is at least k the minus o of 1 a. So we have checked the last thing. We still have a lot of edges. Okay. Do people have any uh last questions or comments about this proof? Okay. I have some last picture questions or comments about this proof. Um, uh, okay. So, this proof is not that hard, but it you're not that long, but it's clever, and it came as I I think it came as a surprise to people, and it certainly is surprising to me. Um, so first of all, we have this problem about additive combinotaurics. Um and there are different tools like like like for analysis is very well suited to additive combinotaurics. So it's sort of it's sort of something about you can think of it as something about convolutions. Um and um for analysis doesn't seem to help much to prove this thing and um okay and then we have this graph you know this graph is like you you think of it as an adjacy matrix and if you want to count paths from a1 to a2 you've taken um uh so the adjacy matrix is a we took a a star if you want to take paths of length three it's A a star A. So this is a theorem about powers of a matrix. So you might think that linear algebra would be helpful to prove this theorem. I thought about that. I couldn't figure it as far as I could totally be missing something, but as far as I can see, linear algebra is not helpful to prove this theorem about the powers of a matrix. Um and on the other hand this uh sort of elementary double counting clever but elementary double counting and graph theory uh really makes it you know works. So that's something that I find rather surprising. Okay. Um I mentioned last time that this this theorem is really used a lot is worth knowing about um uh is is important and um so hopefully you've seen a little bit of that but as the class goes on actually we might have some more time to comment on how this bal theorem when I first saw it it seemed a little bit technical like there's like two very s two ra at first rather similar sounding ways of a set of having additive structure and they're related to each other um but Um uh but this is this is extremely useful uh and important thing and um yeah I well we talked about it but we'll we'll keep talking about it.