So I I decided to teach 18156 this semester about something called projection theory. Um I think that projection theory although it's not usually highlighted in graduate real analysis is a fairly fundamental thing in analysis a little bit like like the isoparametric inequality or the solef inequality. maybe not quite that fundamental, but uh but a a fairly basic thing that comes up in a lot of different places. Um and um I was excited to teach you about it this semester for a few reasons. Um uh so one is that some some of the like core basic question one of the core basic questions in projection theory was just figured out in the last couple years and it's something that I'm excited about learning about. Um so I wanted to so for so that was one reason I was excited to teach about it and the other reason is that I have gradually seen it appearing in more and more different places. Um and so I wanted to sort of highlight the way it comes up in a bunch of different parts of math. Um so today in the first class I'm going to tell you do like an overview of projection theory. I'm going to tell you what like what it is um what the questions are and um about some of the different applications and maybe a little bit about some of the different ways we think about it. Okay. I guess it's a little crowded in the back. Uh are we I guess the seats are full. I'm going to start slowly. So if you want if you want to grab a chair or anything, feel free. So, okay. So, the setup is that we are in RD or maybe also a vector space over another field later and then we have orthogonal projections. So V in RD is a subspace and pi subv is the orthogonal projection. Okay. Um and so so what we're going to do is we're going to consider some set X and RD and then you can take the orthogonal projection of X in many different directions for many different V um and we sort of study how that all fits together X and this guy for many different So a slightly corny metaphor for what we're doing is we're studying some set and you can kind of look at the set from many different directions. Um and we want to uh sort of uh put together the information from these different points of view. All right. So let me make a picture um red. So we'll come back to this picture a bunch. So maybe X is a set of red dots. Okay. And then we can take the projection of this set X onto different planes. So if I draw sort of AI'll draw one plane over here. And if I project X onto this plane. Okay. Then I will get this. So there is pi V1 of X. Okay. But I have rigged this. So if I project it onto a different plane, something uh a bit interesting will happen. Okay. So here is a a different plane V2. And if I project my set onto V2, all of those points will kind of line up on top of each other. And all of those points will kind of line up on top of each other. And all of these points kind of line up So here are my observations about this situation. So x itself is eight dots. And when I projected X onto V1, it was still eight dots. But when I projected it onto V2, there were only three dots because there were a lot of coincidences where dots got pushed on top of each other. Okay. Now uh intuitively v2 is kind of special and v_sub_1 is more typical. So most most of the v's will be like v1 but there'll be a few exceptional ones that are like v2. So intuition is that uh v2 uh type situation is rare and one of our goals is to make that precise make a precise question and and say precisely how rare is that sort of behavior. Okay. So, so informally if the set X is kind of spread out, most of its projections will also be kind of spread out. There could be a few projections where X gets kind of squished together. And a projection estimate means we'll try to quantify how often that happens and show that it's rare. Okay. So we will u make this precise in a bunch of different ways. Um and um I think the the most uh simple to ask question is when the set x is a finite set. So um so now let's suppose that X is a finite set. Okay. And I'm going to use a notation that absolute value of X is the cardality of X. Okay. Um All right. So here's my setup. I'm going to take X in R2 and E subs of X is going to be the set of V. Oh, let me actually let me mention another piece of notation. So, you know, we're going to talk about all these different subspaces V. So, there's a name for the family of all subspaces. It's called the Grossmanian. Um so another piece of grossman is notation is that the grossmanian of k planes in RD this is the set of uh v and rd where v is a kdimensional subspace. Okay, so E subs of X is the set of V. These are going to be one-dimensional subspaces in R2 with the property that the cardality of pi V of X is at most S. Okay, so going back to our basic picture, if these red dots were just points, um then this v2 would be in e sub3 of x because pi v2 is only three points. Okay, so the first question if you like of projection theory would be estimate how many of these directions there are. the size of E S of X in terms of S and the size of X. Okay. So, what would be an interesting set X to consider? What would be a set x of of points or red dots that in many different directions things would get squished a lot. Do people have any thoughts what would be an interesting x to look at? >> Grid. >> A grid. Yeah. Okay. So, as an example, let's look at a square grid. So x is going to be the set of pairs a b where a and b are integers and they go from one up to n. Okay. Good. So, this set has small projections in a bunch of different directions. Make a little bit bigger. Um, okay. So, so X has n squared points, 16 points in my picture. If I project it down, I only get four points. If I project it to the side, I only get four Um, if I project it at 45 degrees, I also get rather few points. Um, I project it at 45 degrees, the fibers of the projection will look like this. And they'll each have many points. And so the projection itself will be pretty small. Are there other angles as well where I could project it? and uh it would be pretty small. >> Yeah, some rational angles. Yes. Okay. So, if we project x at a rational angle um then uh high v of x would be small. I'll draw one more um which I think is enough to get the to get the idea. I remember when I first saw it I I could see the 45 degrees and the vertical and the horizontal. Um so if I project it perpendicular to these orange lines where it has slope like left one and up two. um uh all of those fibers will will also be large and so that projection will also be small. Right? Okay. Um cool. So we will compute it tomorrow in the overview class. I'm not going to do computations with you. But if you do that you will find the following thing that ES of X is around S^2 over the size of X for a big range of of values of S. So in between x to the half and say half of x >> yeah for the grid. Okay. Um did basically this computation in the 1960s and he made a conjecture that the grid is the shape that makes these the biggest. he said a slightly different language but his conjecture implied that the grid is the configuration that makes these sets the largest. Um and that turned out to be true and it was proven in the early 80s by Samarian and Troder. So they proved that if X is in R2 and S is at most size of X over two um then the size of ES of X is at most is at most 1 plus a constant times what you see for the grid. Okay, so this can be considered in a way one of the fundamental theorems of projection theory. Um and I'll mention a couple interesting things about the the proof. Um okay so one so one thing is the background of these people Erid Sami and Troder um the these are people who come from combinotaurics. So this theorem represents a connection between combinotaurics and and projection theory and we'll talk about some other aspects as we go along. Um however this proof is is not a at least at the time was not a traditional combinatorial proof. So they first played around with a lot of cominatorial things double counting and things like that and they couldn't prove it. Um and then the proof eventually uses in a crucial way the topology of R2 a sort of interesting uh connection between um topology and and and this stuff. Um so I I'll just put here proof based on topology. Okay. So this story uh is one important story in projection theory but it's a very discreet story about finite sets and there's another more continuous more analytic story which will be important in our class um where instead of taking a finite set and projecting it we take a function which you can think of as like a density function before I transition there actually let me pause here and see if there are there any questions or comments so far. >> Yeah. >> Um so for that theorem that grid is kind of the maximizes ES of X like is is that like kind of the the only example or a kind of big class of other examples that also reach that bound. >> Okay, cool. So the question is um is the grid the only example that's kind of tight for this theorem or are there lots of other examples? Yeah, so another actually a third thing I like about projection theory is that it's it's full of open questions. So it is a long-standing open question whether the grid is basically the only example or whether there are lots of others. Um in terms of other examples that we know about there are a few but I would describe them all as very minor variations on the grid and we can meet them as we go along. Um but in terms of a theorem in the other direction we know very little. So it could it may or may not be the case that there are many more examples out there. Nice. Um, other questions? Okay, great. So, okay. So, now let me describe a much more analytic framework that also involves projections and and we'll see that it's sort of related that it's related to this. Okay. So now instead of having a set suppose I have a function on R and D say complex value um and um I'd like you to visualize this as a density function. Um, so actually a good a good thing to picture is a cat scan. So inside of your body there's something that they'd like to scan uh where are the bones or something and um uh and so there's a like some density of that thing. Um and then the cat scan will shoot rays through your bodies in different in different directions and it will integral of that function along the ray. Um and um uh so if you you know if you stand in front of a screen maybe you just have an X-ray X-rays go through and what you see on the screen is the amount of stuff that that that that X-ray went through. Okay. So that's what we'd like to do with this function. Um all right. So suppose here is our subspace V and if I have a point in it Y um then the orthogonal projection maps this fiber onto Y. So that there is pi V inverse of Y. So pi v inverse of y will be an aphine subspace and it has a volume measure which I'm going to call dv volume um subf the letter f stands for fiber it's just to distinguish it from dv volume which might mean the volume on the whole space okay so then the way I will define the projection of the function of y is I will integrate over the fiber f ofx d volume of the fiber. So another way to think about this uh projection of the function um is that if I were to integrate the projection of f um on some set u in the in the fiber. So maybe over here I have a subset u in my fiber. >> Um yeah, it's a dv volume of the fiber of y. Yeah, this thing you could call dy. Uh is that okay? Then this would be equal to the integral over the pre-image of u of f ofx dx d oh I'm sorry you are right that should not be d volume of the fiber yeah thanks l so yeah this is just dy or if you wanted to put dv volume of something it should be dv volume in the space v of y but not in the fire that's absolutely right what I wrote made no sense Yeah. So if you if you integrate uh the projection of f over this region u that's the integral of f over the the whole parameter. Okay. So do you feel like you have a a an image of what this means? Okay. Okay. So now we can play the same game. We start with a function and then you can consider many different projections of this function. Um and there's a phenomenon which is similar to this phenomenon. Um but the way it plays out in this setting of functions is that most of the projections are smoother than the original function. And I'll illustrate that with a proposition. So proposition um if f is just an L2 function in R seven um then for almost every V which is a onedimensional subspace in R seven if you look at the projection of F on to V uh it is a C2 function. So this function on R seven is an L2. It doesn't have to be continuous anywhere. Certainly doesn't have to be differentiable. You project it onto various one-dimensional subspaces. Now not everyone there are there are some bad ones where it's only L2 or maybe even worse. Um but for most of them the projection is C2 and if you play around with these numbers if you make this bigger you can make it even smoother. Okay so I want to try to Yeah. >> What's special about our seven here that makes this true? >> Uh seven is not that special but increasing this number uh makes it smoother. >> Yeah. So it's I mean there are similar theorems in any dimension. Yeah. Um, okay. So, so let me try to give some intuition about why that is and uh to try to convince you that that is a closely related phenomenon to the phenomenon that we started with that that appears in the semary trarthur. Okay. So, what's um what's the intuition about this? So I have this highdimensional function which is quite irregular and um because it's quite irregular you could picture it having many peaks and valleys being very jagged. But then when you integrate it over the fibers if you integrate both a peak and a valley they cancel each other out. So a lot of those peaks and valleys cancel each other out and you could hope to be left with something smoother. All right, let's try to make a a picture. I got a picture. I'm going to erase this, but I'm going to draw a very similar picture. All right. So, in my picture, my f is going to have it's going to have uh peaks on the red dots just to help me visualize. So this function doesn't exactly have valleys. It's like to picture a flat landscape but with lots of little peaks. Um and so here are some red dots to make them a little bit fatter. Okay. So I think I'm not going to try to draw the function, but if what I want you to visualize is like there's the plane of the blackboard and then there's like a peak coming out over each of these things. Okay. Now let's try to visualize what happens when I project onto this space V. And in yellow I'm going to draw um the function pi V of F. Okay. So um to help myself draw put some little guidelines. Okay. So out here pi V of F is just zero because there were no peaks. And then it's going to go up as I see this peak. And then as I get here, there there are two peaks. So that's even taller. And then here a little shorter. Here a little taller. A little shorter. Looks something like that. You might notice already that this is not as jagged as the original thing. Actually, probably it would be better if I did something like this. And because of sort of the law of averages, if I stick these around or if I stick them around randomly, then because of the law of averages, this will be pretty steady. And even if I don't pick them randomly, if I choose V randomly, there's a certain amount of the law of averages, and this is going to look relatively steady. Okay. Um, cool. Okay. So qualitatively this is kind of similar to the sum trotto theorem. It says that uh there are only a few bad directions and except for those bad directions when I project this down I will see um I will see things kind of averaging out. Okay. Um, and this this proposition is one way to make it precise, but actually we'll spend some time thinking together about various ways to make this precise questions or comments. >> Yeah. >> Is it possible to prove statements like this based on the versions? Yeah, good question. Okay, so the question is um can we go back and forth between these two worlds? Can we take say the summer troder theorem or something like that and use it to prove some continuous estimates or vice versa? Can we take some continuous estimates and use it to prove things like this? Yeah. Um okay. So both of those things are sometimes possible. Um but both of those things have some difficulties. And in particular, there's a big story in the in the field in the class um that people spent a lot of energy trying to translate this into the continuous setting um and um and the the original proof doesn't definitely doesn't work and and and and we had to think a lot. So, um, maybe we'll come back to that a little later in the class, but there's a a story I want to share with you about how it's difficult to get from this discrete setting to the continuous setting. Yeah. Okay. Um, actually, let me say a little bit more. So you know th this example is really pretty typical. So you you can suppose that your function is a sum of bumps on different little balls. And so it is just a question about how how these different balls small balls are projecting down. And it sounds at first very similar to have like a bunch of delta balls and project them down to have like a bunch of points and project them down. But the thickness of the balls is really important and it makes it it it it um um it makes it makes things different in ways that we'll talk about. >> Sorry, but you might say a bit more about So if I understand correctly, you're saying in the typical case in continuous setting you have some in the typical case in the discrete setting you recover all the points. Could you say a bit more? >> Yeah. Okay. Great. Great. Okay. So the question is so the observation is that um in the discrete setting we had a theorem that says in for most directions of projections the images of the points are uh different from each other. They they stay spread out and in the continuous case we said something else that if you have a bunch of these of these peaks then in most directions when you project things kind of average out and are spaced evenly. And how are those two things connected to each other? Yeah, that's a great a great question. Um, uh, okay. So, so one part of it I think is kind of clear. One part of it I I can explain easily and then this won't be everything. But if my if my balls were arranged in such a way that when I projected um, they went on top of each other. So right then the projection of my function would be really big here and then it would be zero and it would be really big here and it would be zero and then it would be really big there. So that would not be smooth. It would be oscillating violently. So if you have a direction which is bad in the sense that these balls are landing on top of each other then it will be bad for this analysis problem. Okay. But um uh but a set could be bad for this analysis problem in another way that you know there could be like two balls over here and one ball over there and two balls over here and one ball over there and then the density would still be oscillating a lot but the image wouldn't be particularly small. Um so okay so that that will require some additional ideas. Uh but it still turns out to be the case that trying to prove stuff about this um the ideas the ideas from ruling out this case are are are related. >> Yeah >> probably relates exactly to the problem relating these two. But is there an analog for distributions? Um yeah um yes there's an analog for distributions. Um so okay so the question is what if f was a distribution instead of a function? Maybe it was something messier than being an L2. Um so uh yeah you you could still say things. Um um I wasn't planning so um so I I think all of those questions you can reduce to something about how how balls get projected and then if you if you want to you can say something about distributions. Okay. Okay. So the next character in the story I wanted to mention to you is the Forier transform that in this continuous setup there's a very close connection between this projection operation and the forier transform. Um and that that brings fora analysis into projection theory. All right. Okay. Um so the connection with the fora transform is the following lama. Well, actually, let me make a Yeah. Um, okay. So, here's our space RD, and in there we have our subspace V. So, our function F lives on R to the D and and the projection of F lives on V. Now, how does the for a transform work? Um, so here's for a space. So, for a space is also R R to the T. So f hat will live on r to the d and um the forier transform of something on v liv lives on on v as well. So in this r to the d I'll draw here I'll call it v hat. Guess if we wanted to we could call this r to the d hat. Okay. So if I have this function RD to C, then F hat is a function R to the D hat goes to C. The projection of F is a function from V to C. And the projection of F hat is a function from V hat to C. And then the lema about how they are related is that if you take the projection for a transform of XC, it's just fhat xc for any c in v. Okay. So, let me write down the sketch the proof of this lema. Um, it has a simple explanation. Um, so pi vf hat of c is the integral over v Pi VF of Y E minus I C do Y dy. Now what is pi V of F? Well, it's the integral over the fiber. So integral over v integral over pi inverse of y fx d volume of the fiber e the minus i c doy d y. Okay. And now notice that we have a double integral. We're integrating over the fiber and over y. So if you put those together you just get a dx. Um now what happens to this e to the minus i c doy? Um so remark that since um x is in pi v inverse of y. That tells us that x minus y is perpendicular to v. on the pie goes on the pie. Thanks. So, so over here is Y. Here's the fiber and in our fiber we have X. So, X minus Y is perpendicular to V. On the other hand, we also know that the frequency C is in V. C is in this copy of V over here. So X - Y is perpendicular to C. X - Y X - Y dot C is zero. Okay, so that means I can change this C doy for XC dox and I put these volume forms together. I have the integral of f(x) eus i cx dx which is f of c. Okay. Okay. Cool. So that's an interesting connection between projections and for analysis and it was used classically to solve the problem of recovering a density from the cat scan. So mathematically the problem would be you're given pi v of f for every v and you want to recover f and the way you can do it is because of this formula you can recover if you're given if you know all the pi v of fs then you can compute their for transforms so you can compute fhat of c for all the c and v hat but you have all the different v's so you put it together now you have computed fhat so you can find f Oh um cool but this connection with the forier transform also can be used to study this continuous projection theory problem and it's used to prove this proposition here. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So the question is uh what's the difference between v hat and p? Um I'm not sure it was helpful to put the hats. It might be clear if we remove the hats. So here's another copy of R to the D where the variable C lives. And here's the same space V. And um maybe it's clear to remove all these hats. Yeah. Okay. Um, okay. So, we mentioned before that this continuous problem has something to do with what happens when you take balls and you project the balls instead of projecting points. And it's a little tricky to formulate exactly what the question should be about projecting balls. I want to take you through the first steps um and just see why it's a little bit tricky and what direction we're going to go in. Okay. So I have projection theory for unit balls. maybe first steps or something like that. All right. So, let's say that X is a set of disjoint unit balls in a big ball of radius R and R2. Okay. So then um uh so we could consider the projection in different directions and we'll have sets of unit intervals more or less. Um and we could ask for like the number of directions where something or another happens. Actually let's step back a little bit. So okay, so we have a set of unit balls. um in in this context I'm going to use the absolute value of x to denote the area of x or volume in whatever dimension and um hopefully that will be helpful and not confusing compared with before. If you have a bunch of unit balls its area is more or less the same as the number of unit balls. Okay. Um so then if we look at pi v of x that would be the length of p of x. All right. So now I want to make a a a question like the summar troder question. So I could look at the set of directions where the projection has length less than s maybe um maybe I'll I'll do that. So x might be set of v GR12 so that um pi v of x has length at most s okay but it would now be silly to ask for the number of elements of this thing this thing is very likely infinite if it's not empty if you make a tiny perturbation in v it will have a tiny effect on pi v of x um so there's a natural sort of discretetization so we note that if the angle between v_sub_1 and v2 is less than 1 / r, then um pi v1 ofx and pi v2 of x are basically the same as each other and so it doesn't make a lot of sense to count them separately. Um so um if we want to count something, one trick we could make is we could have this fancy V be uh a um be a set of R uh V's in grass one two that are evenly spaced. So I just I just draw sorry our different lines through the origin evenly spaced at an angle about 1 / r. Okay. And then my new question will be um uh if X is a set of disjoint unit balls in the ball of radius R and R2. Um then estimate. Yeah. So actually let's let's um change this definition. We're not going to count all of the V's, but we're going to count the ones in this set V. And that's see like a more fair comparison to before. So, we're going to estimate the size of the S of X in terms of S and the size of X and we can compare it to the semi. Okay. So we could ask is it still always true that this is bounded by that expression there? I'll write that down. So is it true that es of x is bounded by 1 + s^2x. Okay. And this is not true. There's a configuration of unit balls where e s of x is much bigger than this. Um what can we do with unit balls that sort of wasn't relevant before when we had perfect points? What other example might we look at? >> Um, yeah. What do you think? >> Integrate functions over them. >> We could. Yeah, we So, we can integrate functions over them. Um, yeah. Okay. So, here's a configuration of unit balls that kind of doesn't have an analog when you're just looking at points. What we're going to do is we're just going to pack them into a larger ball. So here's the example. So here's our big ball and then inside of it I have a smaller ball and I pack the smaller ball full of unit balls. So that's X. All right. So the area of X or the number of unit balls is around n^2. And no matter what direction I project this thing in, it's going to kind of fill in an interval of length n about n. So for every v, I'm going to have pi v of x around n, which is x to the 12. Right. So if I make s equal to uh x to the 12 or a bit less um then e s of x is the whole thing every direction. And so the size of es of x is r. It's all of them. It's as big as it could possibly be. Whereas if you plug in S is the square root of X here, you would get one. So it's sort of actually sort of as bad as possible. The prediction of some readyated trottery is one. And the truth is everything. Okay. Um right. Okay. So these small balls are not really behaving like points uh because of the fact that they've been packed so densely into a big ball. And um so if we if we so okay it is perfectly reasonable to analyze this situation and answer this question. We will do that in this class. There is an answer to it and it's worth knowing. Um however as you insist that these small balls are spread a apart farther and farther then they start to behave more and more like ideal points and eventually this is true. Um, so a a goal of this part is to add hypothesis that the set of balls is spread out and then get stronger conclusions. And probably next class we will play around with how to state some precise hypotheses and what kind of conclusions we might expect. Um but the big the big progress that I referred to at the beginning of the class in the field is that in the in the last couple years people proved um let's say the main conjecture about this question for unit balls in R2. Um, and we'll try to flesh it out because you could imagine many different hypotheses, but I think the theory gives a fairly complete picture of how this works for balls in R2. Different hypotheses about how spread out they are and what you can conclude about how often the projections uh have things piled on top of each other. Okay, cool. Um, okay. Now, there there are many variations on these on these questions. And because this one is a little bit difficult to state, I thought I'd mention one other which is a beautiful open problem and it's pretty clean to state. Um, and well, let me explain one of the key difficulties. Um, okay. So, so these questions make sense over any field. I started with the real numbers because I was kind of used to it because I'm an analyst. Uh, but you could ask about about about any field, any vector space. Um, and actually a very interesting case is finite fields. Okay. So, cousin problems. All right. So, let's say FQ is the finite field with Q elements. Okay. And if I write FP that will mean P is a prime. So it's FP of a field with a prime number of elements. And FQ is a general finite field. Q will be some prime val. Okay. Um so here's our question. Oh, okay. So now I should say what is an orthogonal projection? Um so it's not hard to say what a subspace is over finite fields. We don't have obviously a notion of orthogonality. Um, but orthogonality isn't really isn't really the crucial thing. The crucial thing is just that we have a lot of linear maps from our vector space to a lower dimensional vector space. We're really looking at all the possible linear maps. So in terms of what are the possible projections, I can um parameterize them just like this. So if t is in fq, pi t would be a map from fq ^2 to fq. and pi t of x1 x2 is just x1 + t * x2. Okay, so those are a bunch of linear maps. Okay, and you know, actually you might say, why don't I write all the linear maps? I could have t1 x1 plus t2x2. Those are all the linear maps. Um but if you multiply t1 and t2 by the same factor then you've just uh taken a linear map and then composed with a linear map from fp to itself. So those are all going to be sort of equivalent for us. And so that's why we just we just set this to be one and let this be t. Okay. So now let's say X is in FQ ^2 and E s of X is the set of T. So the T just live in FQ with the property that pi t of x is at most s. And now we can ask the same question. Um question estimate the size of ES of X um in terms of uh S and X ideally and I guess maybe Q. All right. Now, an integer grid still makes sense over a finite field. Um, and um, and so and it works the same way as in summary and troder and over the prime fields. That's the best example that we know. So there is a conjecture if x is in fp^2 and p is always prime but it's important here. So I will sort of add it. Um then the size of ES of X is bounded by 1 + S^2X. Okay, matching that. But this is not true uh in fq ^2 q is not prime. Okay. So let me show you an example. And this example uh plays a big role in the theory. Um okay so here's the example. Suppose that q is p ^2. There are similar examples for higher powers but this is a simple concrete Um so FP is a subset of FQ. It's a sub field of FQ. And our set X is going to be FP^2 which is a subset of FQ^2. Cardality of X is P ^2 which is Q. Okay. So now notice that if t is also in f and x is an x then pi t of x which is x1 + t * x2. Well all of these characters I've assumed to be an fp and fp is a field so it's closed under addition closed under multiplication. So this is an FP. So that tells me that if T is in FP, pi T of X is is FP is contained in FP. It's actually all of it. And so the size of pi T of X is at most P which is Q to the half which is much smaller than the size of X. Okay. So we conclude that the size of uh e p of x is at least p. So there are p traces t that all lie in e of x and that's uh that's much bigger than the bound in the conjecture for what should happen over primes. Yeah. So if we were to plug in these numbers up here, S would be P which is the square root of Q and X would be Q. So this would be one. Over prime fields, this should be order of one. But over this not prime field, it's much bigger. so this shows that projection theory is also connected to some I don't know algebra algebraic structure questions of of whether fields have sub fields um and this issue which is uh okay so so this is an open conjecture and it's hard for two reasons um the first reason is well you look at it you say okay it's like some trotder but over a prime field. So I should try to take the proof of try and that proof completely breaks down. Um that proof was based on the topology of R. We'll go through it but the topology of R and the topology of FP are very different and it just doesn't work at all. The second reason is that uh the statement of the conjecture really requires this to be prime. And so it's not true for any field. It's only true for prime fields. And so you have to wonder how are we going to use that in the proof. Um and a lot of methods uh a lot of methods have don't distinguish between prime fields and not prime fields and therefore they can't prove the whole thing. Okay. And in in in the real analysis setting actually there's the same issue. So these um theorems that I wasn't able to state precisely for you today they are true over R2 but they are false in C2 because the complex numbers have a sub field R. So um so the complex numbers play the role of like FQ where Q is P ^2 and so over here also we need to do something to distinguish between the complex numbers and the real numbers. um and many many techniques don't do that. So a bit surprisingly these these real analysis problems that eventually get used in in um uh in like estimates and for a analysis with integral operators that really look like analysis. They take something from these questions over finite fields. These are these are more closely related to each other than either one of them is to that first semired trotder theorem. All right. So at the beginning of the class I will teach you some classical techniques, some double counting techniques, some for analysis techniques. Hold on a second. Um and they prove interesting things and they work over here and they work over here but they don't distinguish between the prime fields and the not prime fields. >> Okay. Yeah. Was there a question? Yeah. Does the fact that the wheels have the rationals as a sub field matter for this or does kind of the topology argument? >> Ah okay. So the question is so the observation is I said that the situation for f q when q is p ^2 is kind of complicated because fq has a sub field namely fp and then I tried to say there was something similar going on with the complex numbers and the real numbers. All right. Now, the observation is the real numbers have many proper sub fields. One of them is the rational numbers. You could there are many more number fields. Um, and doesn't doesn't that matter? Yeah, that's a good thing for us to reflect on. It turns out not to matter that much. And it's because those sub fields are so small. Um, the the real numbers are an infinite order extension of the rational numbers. I think even an uncountable order extension of the rational numbers. Um whereas FQ is a degree 2 extension at FP. Um right so one way people talk about it is in in terms of housed dorf dimension. So the the real numbers have sub fields but their house dwarf dimension is either zero or one if it's if it's the whole real numbers and not in the middle. Anyway, we'll we'll have a look at it. Yeah. >> Do you have any intuition about why these types of things are for small fields? >> Uh why why you can't do something with small bad with small fields >> or Yeah. If I understand the intuition correctly like the real numbers are fine because they're large enough extension over the rationals but so I don't know. I'm just wondering if you have about the size of this. >> Correct. Right. Yeah. Okay. So, here's an analogy for you. Uh, so what if we didn't have P^ squ? What if we had P to the 17th? Okay. Now, at FQ still has a sub field FP, but it's kind of a small sub field. We could do this same computation. We would see that this doesn't fully hold. Um but for sets that are pretty large, for sets that are a lot larger than that, um we would still we might still hope for pretty good bounds. And I think that I think that the situation for the small sub fields of R is similar to that. >> So is this conjunction known for any prime number or is it for every prime number? See, so I want to prove this conjunction for okay. >> Um, right. Right. So, okay. So, we stick this tilda here, which means there's a missing constant factor. We do that to be safe. I guess it probably is true with a small constant factor, but strictly speaking, you can't falsify it with one prime number. Okay. But that that's not the that's not the real reason. Then you might say, you know, if you take a medium prime number like 101, could you check it numerically? Maybe for 10. Well, even for 101, you know, I don't have any wisdom about how to do this. And if you literally did it by brute force, um, and checked all the possibilities X, you really couldn't go very far. Um and um I'm not sure if we'll address this but that there is a computational question like you know maybe I can't prove this conjecture but do I understand it well enough that I could prove it for a particular P faster than brute force um I don't and so we're not able to have much numerical evidence. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it could be worth looking for counter example on the computer. The evidence is not that strong in favor of this conjecture. Okay, cool. Okay, in the last 15 minutes, I wanted to mention to you some other parts of math that this connects to. Um uh okay. Um so one connection is to a part of combinatorial number theory called sum product theory which we'll see it sort of fits in naturally with this issue. Um yeah so it turn so in this in this example this set that we're worried about is closely connected to the fact that that fq has a interesting sub field interesting subset that's closed under addition and multiplication and the field the the the sum product theory and combinatorial number theory is about what happens to a set under um so initially it's over r over the reals but then we can ask Okay. So let's say that R is a ring. So we can define sums and products. And A is a subset of R. So A plus A is all of the sums you can make. Two elements of A. So it's the set of all the A1 plus A2 where A1 and A2 are in A. And the product set A times A is similar. It's the set of all the products. All right. Um, okay. So, actually motivating this from before, what what was so bad about this set FP as a subset of FQ? The problem was just that um well, if if these three guys are in FP, then X1 plus T * X2 is still in FP. So, the problem was that FP is closed under sums and under products. so it raises the question are there other sets that are maybe not exactly closed but roughly closed under sums and products. okay so so the idea of some product theory is take a subset A and R. Um could it happen that both A plus A and A * A are pretty small? Um okay so let me mention a few examples. So if a is a subset of the real numbers which is generic then a + a and a * a would both be around the size of a squ generically there would be no coincidences in the sums or in the brackets. Um okay but it could happen that a plus a is quite is not very big. Um so if a is an arithmetic progression then the size of a plus a is only around two times the size of a but in this case a time a would be very big. Um on the other hand if a is a geometric progression then the size of a time a would be around two times the size of a but if a is a geometric progression then a plus a would be very big. Okay so based on these few examples um and saretti conjectured that always one of these guys is big. So here's their conjecture uh as is still an open problem. Um if a is a finite subset of the wheels, then the maximum of a + a and a * a is at least c epsilon a 2us epsilon. So for every so at the beginning I should put for every epsilon bigger than zero. Okay, so it's not quite a squ that example comes from taking the numbers 1 to n. Then a plus a is clearly quite small. A times a is many of the integers from 1 to n^ squ. Uh but not all of them. Some of them have a prime factor that's bigger than n. So they're not in the list. And computed that carefully. So he said you need the epsilon. Okay. Um so so this type of problem is connected to progress to projection theory because of this type of example. Um and the connection goes in both directions. so in one direction uh there's a okay there's a theorem of alakish about the sum product theorem um so we can't prove this but um any exponent here that's bigger than one would be non-trivial and we can prove it with exponents that are bigger than one and um historically there was a big jump in the quality of the exponent when all proved this theorem So he proved a is a subset of r which is finite then the maximum of a + a and a * a is at least a to the five quarters. Um and the key ingredient in the proof was some ready trial. uh that's not the whole proof but the the uh proof uses summar and and not much else it's quite short and so if you know something about projection theory you can say something about some product theory um but later things went in the other direction um so there's a theorem of Borgan cats and toao which says that not only a prime field does not have any sub fields which we knew but it doesn't have anything that's even close to being a subre. So P is prime and A is a subset of FP and um A is not too big. So it's not super important what this number is but A is significantly smaller than the whole uh field. Um then the maximum of a + a and a * a um is at least the size of a to the 1 plus epsilon where epsilon is a small but explicit number I think something like 1 over 20. Um this theorem is actually more accessible than projection theory in general. Having these sums and products gives you a little bit more structure. Turns out to be important but it shows that in FP over FP there's no example which is too much like this example. You can't just choose a subset of FP which is almost closed under sums and products and then mimic this argument. Um, and it's not immediate, but this is used to to improve the projection theory in FP squared. And something similar will also happen for problems about balls in R2. Okay, I wanted to mention some other applications, but I don't want to cram things in too much in the last five minutes. I'll just say a few words and then I'll pause for final questions. Um so one one application or story is um from civ theory in number theory. So in civ theory you have a set of integers instead of a set of points in a vector space. And when in civ theory we study what happens if you take the set of integers and you reduce it mod p or mod q for many different numbers q. Um, and there are some questions about general sets like could it happen that you have a set of integers and whenever you reduce it mod q for any q you you always get something small. What could you say about your set of integers? So an interesting example of that are the square numbers. If you take the squares and you reduce it mod p for any prime start with primes you get the quadratic residues which is only half of the residue classes. So whenever you reduce it mod p you only get half of the residue classes. How many other sets of integers can you think of that? Whenever you reduce the mod p you only get half of the residue classes. How big could such a set of integers be? How you know how what fraction of all the integers and so on. So there's one one set of questions about this. Um, and there's another set of questions where you take a particular set of integers that you might be interested in, of which the most famous is the primes, and you think about what happens when you reduce the set the primes mod q for many different q. So it appears to be the case that the prime numbers are evenly distributed mod q for every q. Um, actually depending on how you quantify it, that's a that's a theorem. Um, so if you fix a Q and you take the primes mod Q and you take primes up to X where X is much much much bigger than Q, they will be evenly distributed among the residue classes mod Q that are possible, the ones that have no common factor with Q. But you could ask you you might also want to know uh if you take the primes up to some fixed X and you reduce the mod Q for many different Q. Um, it it still appears it appears that those are evenly distributed for quite big q. even Q Q's that are only slightly less than than X. Um, okay, we can't prove anything like that. Um, but there's a line of thought that maybe we could relax what we're trying to prove a little bit and try instead of trying to prove it for every Q, we could try to prove it for most of the Q. And now we're in this setting uh uh where we have one fixed set and we're looking at how it reduces mod Q for many different Q and and that problem is very similar to the projection theory problem. Okay. So anyway, so we'll so we'll teach some core techniques of projection theory that were developed by people in geometric measure theory in the 60s7s and 80s. And those are almost those are very closely parallel to the classic techniques of civ theory that were developed by people in the 40s 50s 60s. Um and so okay so interesting connections there and in civ theory there are lots of uh lots of open problems. So that's one set of applications if you like or connections. Um and the other one I wanted to mention is to dynamical systems. Um so Elon Alon Linden Strauss last year gave the Simon's lectures and one of the things was about taking orbits in homogeneous spaces uniport so I don't have time to say what all the things are but you take unipotent orbits in homogeneous spaces then they distribute very evenly um and um so there are some classical important theorems about that and the recent thing he and Amir Mohammadi were trying to make it more quantitative and a new idea a in their proof is they brought in projection theory. Um so so anyway so I will tell you the story I'll slowly first of all what is the question and then what does it have to do with projection theory. So those are some some applications I was thinking that it would that I'd like to to talk about with you. >> Okay. Um any last questions or comments? >> Yeah. here. >> Right. So the question is the the summary trider theorem is usually said in a different way actually a more general way where you have a set of lines and you look at the points that have many lines going through them. Um and we'll see that this is a corlary or special case of that. like they are quite different. Yeah, let's talk about that after class. >> Okay, good. Let's stop there for today. Um, and I will see you on Thursday.