Today we are going [clears throat] to turn from talking about healthcare to talking about inequality and government transfer programs. And uh I want to start start [snorts] this chapter with um a fact that I I may have referenced already in this class, but it's one of I think the most striking facts that's emerged in public policy debates in the last several decades, which is what which is the the um comparison that was brought to light by the Freddy Ray Freddy Gay riots in Baltimore. In 2015, uh, a young black man, Freddy Gray, was arrested and killed in a police vehicle, uh, leading to a number of riots. And, uh, as people looked at the data for Baltimore, they noticed something really striking, which is shown in figure 17, uh, figure 171, the first page of the handout. This shows neighborhoods in the city of Baltimore. Okay. Um, Sandtown Winchester is where Freddy Gay lived. 3 miles away is the neighborhood of Roland Park. Okay, the average life expectancy in Roland Park is 84. That's above the US average. As you can see, the US average is about almost 79 years at this point. The average life expectancy in Sant Winchester, which was three miles apart, was 67, which was below US life expectancy at the end of World War II and below where North Korea is today. And these are three miles apart with a 17-year difference in how long you expect to live. This is reflected in lots of statistics. For example, the average income in Sandtown is $24,000 a year, whereas in Roland Park, it's $107,000 a year. In Roland Park, um uh uh 2.5% of the children live below the federal poverty line. In Sand Town, uh in Sand Town, it's 50%. So there's enormous disparities only three miles apart. And to me that was just an incredibly striking illustration of the incredible amount of disparity we have in the US and illustrating it really in such an incredibly local context was powerful. Now um this is important to us in public finance because we part of the rationale for government intervention remember I talked in the first lecture with the sort of why should the government intervene or when should the government intervene was one was for efficiency purpose and that's we focused on throughout the semester is the impact of government intervention on efficiency the other is for redistributive purposes that if you go back to 1401 to chapter two of the book we have a social welfare function that social welfare function functions where we aggregate individuals into a social measure of well-being. Most social welfare functions are implicitly redistributive. Okay, the vast majority of social welfare functions are implicitly redistributive and that's because we have a diminishing margin utility of consumption. So that means that the next dollar to Bill Gates means less the next dollar to you. Okay? Because he is at he is at a at vastly diminished marginal rate of cons of consumption than you are. Okay? So as a result, most models would imply that, but redistribution is a classic public good. Okay? Unless individuals are perfectly altruistic or have a strong warm glow, there's privately they will not redistribute. Their redistribution has to be mandated publicly. Privately will get too little of it by definition like with any other public good because redistributing is helping everyone. And so we have the classic classic free rider problem redistribution which is that basically we'd like other people to redistribute uh not us. Okay. So and I'm not going to spend a lot more time on sort of motivating why we want to redistribute in the US. I think you can go back and look at chapter 2 or you can go back and look at 1401 notes. I think we take it as a given that for most people's preferences, not everyone, but for most people preferences, there's a feeling that there is some role to play in redistributing the resources in society from the wealthiest to the least wealthy. I think that's a fairly common view uh uh let me phrase that. There's a fairly common view that it is unfair that the wealthy have so much more than the less wealthy. whether the government should do something about it is more controversial. But it's a fairly common view that that's unfair. So, but to inform that view, we need data. We can't just have one comparison of two neighborhoods. We need data on comparing how unequal our society is. And so, we do in this lecture is start with some of that data. So, let's go to table 171. Table 171 shows the distribution of income in our society. So for example in n and it shows it shows it by income quintile. The way to read this table is if we had a perfectly equal society all those numbers would be 20. Each row is 20% of the population. So it's the poorest 20% the next 20% etc all up to the richest 20%. So if society is perfectly equal all those numbers would be 20. If you look at 1967 that wasn't true. The 20% of the poorest people in society had only 4% of the income. whereas the richest 20% had 10 times as much. That those numbers that gap shrunk initially before rising dramatically again to the point where today the poorest have much less they did in 1967 and the richest control more than half the resources. So now instead of that ratio being 10, it's more like 16 or 17. Okay? So basically we've become much more unequal as society over time. One of the other striking ways to illustrate that is to look at figure 172 which highlights that much of the growth of inequality is at the very very top. This shows the share of income going to the top 1% of Americans. Okay. Today one in every four dollars goes to the 1% richest Americans which was also true at the beginning of the 20th century actually somewhat lower. It then fell in the middle of the 20th century before uh before rising again in the 21st century in the end of the 20th century 21st century to be much higher levels. Yeah. >> Much more skewed. Uh the rich would have a larger share. So the rich is 1% have about 25% of the income. They have probably at least 50% of the wealth. Um and we'll talk about why that is. The bottom line is because wealthier people save more. The wealthier you are, the more you can save. Um, so basically there's enormous inequality. Um, you can actually look at us compared to other countries because what's unequal? What defines it? Well, when we just look at other countries, look at table 172. This shows slightly different numbers. This shows different parts of the income distribution. So the bottom 10% all the way up to the top 10% and the middle and the middle as well uh across developed countries. And what you see is the US has the lowest share of its population in the bottom 10% of any other developed country on this list. And it has the US has I think it's the second highest share of its income in the top uh 10% other than Mexico. So Mexico so no country has a lower share of its income going to the poor and only one country has a higher share of its income going to the wealthy than does the US. who are unequal both historically and relative to the rest of the world. We have extreme inequality and that's what motivates the notion that we need to take some action to address that inequality. Motivates the notion that we have it's unfair that societ societies distribute its resources this way and that there may be a role for the government maybe a role for the government in addressing that inequality. Now, that is one way to think about society's inequality. But another way is say, "Wait a second. Why do I care? Maybe all I care about is not this relative measure, but a measure of absolute deprivation." That is, imagine a world where everyone had enough to eat, housing, clothes, whatever. And in that world, someone got really rich. Would we care so much? I mean, as long as everyone's doing okay, why do I really care how rich how much money rich people have? That is, why do we care about the relative? It really is sort of the absolute that matters. It's making sure that everyone can leave a decent standard of living that really matters. And that's led to a focus instead of on instead of relative measures of inequality, on absolute measures of inequality. And the most famous of those is the poverty line. This is a great story actually for those who believe in uh in in the power of government bureaucrats to do good and powerful things. Uh there's a woman named Molly Oshansky who was working in the division of health and human services in 1964. Uh it's actually called department of health education and welfare then and she was charged with the exercise of figuring out what it means to be poor in America. So she said well she went to the said people in America on average at that point spend a third of their budget on food. So she said,"Well, what does it cost to have a minimally nutritionally adequate diet?" She calculated that. She multiplied it by three and said, "This is what it cost to live in America." That calculation is today the basis for trillions of dollars of redistribution. We've taken Molly Oansy's calculation and just updated it by inflation ever since. And the poverty line, which I've already mentioned number of times without defining it, is the basis for trillions of dollars of the redistribution we do in our society. Okay? So the poverty line is our classic absolute deprivation measure. You can see what the poverty line looks like in table 173. I've been highlighting this. I've been talking about this before. Basically the way this works is it doesn't go up multiplicatively with family size. We assume that there's economies of scale of people living together. So the poverty line for one individual is $13,000. for two people it's not twice as much because we think there's econ you can share the rent you can share food you can share cleaning etc so basically the poverty line for a family of four is about twice the poverty line for an individual okay so that's those are the poverty lines now you can look at those numbers and make them what you will if you're from an affleent part of the country be like oh my god how can anyone live on anything near this from a less affluent part of the country maybe those don't look so crazy to you okay but that's our measure of the minimum you need to survive Now what's happened to that measure is quite different than inequality. If you look at figure 173, you see a somewhat different pattern that we saw for inequality, which is if you look at everyone, all people, that's the red line, you see a dramatic decline in poverty during the 1960s, and it's basically been flat since. Now, what's interesting about the decline, it really was driven by the elderly. If you look at if you look at the uh 65 and over, that's the blue line. they had the dramatic reduction in poverty whereas those for example for kids the poverty reduction wasn't so dramatic but the key thing is if you look over the last few decades it's pretty flat. You don't notice we saw this enormous increase in in income inequality right you don't see enormous increase in poverty it looks pretty flat so that says that basically how you feel about what's happening to resource in society and the sharing the pie depends on how you think about what the right measure is. Okay. Now, with that in mind, there are two problems there. There are a few problems with relying in this absolute measure. The first problem is you have to decide what the level is. And while Molly Oansky did an admirable job, her answer is increasingly wrong. It's increasingly wrong for a number of reasons. First of all, food is no longer about onethird of the typical household's budget. It's now 13% of the typical household's budget. And inflation in food has been much lower than inflation in other goods and particularly housing and medical care which have grown to be a much larger share of a person's budget. So in fact living at the same level as 1964 has gotten much harder because the price of things that are bigger and bigger share of our budget are the ones that are rising the fastest. That's one problem. The second problem with the poverty line is it's one national line whereas we know the cost of living differs enormously around the country. Okay. Okay, so that's another problem with this is you'd really like some which which varies locally. And then the third conceptual problem is a very incomplete measure of income. For example, this is people's cash income. If you get Medicaid, it doesn't count as a resource for you. So if I take two people, if a Met and I have the same cash income, but a Met gets Medicaid and I don't, we're considered equally poor. Well, no, but a Met's got something I don't have. He has Medicaid. That's not counted. It's pre-tax. So if I pay bigger taxes than I met so therefore I have fewer resources that's not counted. So a number of incomplete features of this system. Now this has been known for a long time and there was an effort to try to revise the poverty line. So let me tell you one of the most interesting things that happened to me in Washington. I had a terrific secretary who was like great she took care of everything. She knew all the meetings. Said go to that one that's a big meeting that's not a good one. Whatever. One day she comes to me. says, "John, this has never happened before, but they they have a meeting on your books and they won't tell me where it is and what it's for." She has never happened before in 30 years in government. She said, "I don't know if we're at war or what the hell's going on, but there's a meeting in an hour and they won't tell me what it's about or where it is. Someone's going to come get you and bring you there." I'm like, "Wow, this could be pretty serious." So, they come get me, they bring me down to this like soundproof room and we sit there and they say, "We're thinking about revising the poverty line." And I'm like, "I'm sorry." And they said, "Well, as long as the poverty line won't revise it, we're thinking about it." Why the secret room? Well, because revising the poverty line is politically nightmarish because, for example, if you revise the poverty line to include benefits, that's going to make a lot of black people seem less poor and white people seem more poor. So, it's going to be a big redistribution of wealth. We give money based on the poverty line. If we revis include benefits, suddenly we'll be shifting a bunch of money from black people to white people. We're shifting a ton of money from Mississippi to New York because people in New York who are at the poverty line are way poorer. effectively people of Mississippi the political implications would have been a nightmare and that's why I had to keep it super secret and decided never to do it. There is something called the supplemental poverty measure which was then introduced which you can track and is a better measure of poverty but it's never been adopted official government policy because it's too controversial. Yeah. >> No, it's just cost of living. Cost of living one poverty line. So you're saying every below the poverty line got money. Well [\h__\h] that was half the people in Mississippi and like 10% of people in New York. So if you had a poverty line that reflected cost of living, you'd be giving a lot less to Mississippi, a lot more to New York. That was politically problematic. So So one problem is you've got to define it. And that's incredibly hard. The second problem is that um what it is, not only to define technically, but what does even mean to live minimally adequately in society. So in 1950 you didn't have to have a car to live middle society. Today you do. So just even what it means is really hard. You you really have to it's like the inflation debate you've talked about in macro. You have to really sort of define this redefine this over time. So that's one problem. The other problem we face is that it may be that actually relative income inequality actually matters. It may be that it turns out that actually we care not just about how much the poor have but how much the rich have as well. Okay. And this comes from basic biology. So they ran an experiment with a set of monkeys and the monkeys were trained to hand over pebbles in exchange for cucumber slices which they liked. Okay. But then one monkey was offered a offered a better deal. If he gave a pebble he didn't get a cucumber slice. He got a grape which the monkeys liked even more. But then the second monkey was then offered the same deal as before and it revolted. It said, "Wait a second, that's crazy. That monkey got offered a grape. I'm just getting computer slice." And you know, you couldn't reason with the monkey, but you'd like to say, "Well, look, it's the same deal you had before. What's the problem?" The problem was someone else was getting a better deal. Okay? And that's actually the way utility functions operate. If you think about it, if we define our happiness and our sense of well-being, it's all relative. Okay? I mean, they talk about how in fact people in very poor societies are equally half people in rich societies. It's not quite true, but it's closer than you might think because everyone around them is poor. And in fact, there's lots of evidence that basically people's well-being is about relative income, not absolute income. So, for example, um if you look at people's reported self, if you look at people's reported self-being, it depends more on their neighbors income than their income. Okay? If you look at um uh they did a cash transfer program in Kenya where they gave people money. People got the money were happier. People whose neighbors got the money were sadder. Okay? Regardless of whether they got the money or not. Okay. And then one of my favorite um uh studies of this um is that basically lottery winners in Canada um uh that when someone won the lottery in Canada, their neighbors were more likely to go bankrupt. Think about that for a second. When somebody won the lottery, their neighbors were more likely to go bankrupt because they suddenly had to spend more to keep up with their friends. Their friend won the lottery, so they like, "Oh, he's got a nice car. I got a nice car." So basically the point is we all derive our sense of what's fair and what's just the relevant inequality. So it's not obvious the relevant inequality is the wrong measure to look at. But it's a very deep and hard debate which is should we care how much Elon Musk has to put a evil evil name to the story. Okay. Should we really care how much he has? At one level we shouldn't. I mean he's invented some incredibly cool [\h__\h] right? Let him as much money as he wants. Okay. as long as the rest of us have enough to get by. Another level, if our utility is really about relative inequality and the role the governments to maximize social welfare, then we shouldn't care. And that's that's the real challenge. Okay. Questions about that. Okay. So regardless of what the right measure is, the bottom line is people care about unfairness. And then the question is, well, what can the government do? So the first question was should the government do something about it? Right. And the answer is well there's an obvious theoretical justification which is redistribution is a public good. The private sector will not do I mean there's charity but the private sector will not do the right amount of redistribution. It's a public good. So what should the government do? Well what the government does is a number of what we call transfer programs. And these transfer programs are distinguished in two very important ways that we're going to have to keep in mind. This is not like level Medicare Medicaid level but you gota you got to know this. Okay. The first way they're distinguished is categorical versus means tested. What does that mean? A categorical welfare program is one that you get based on your characteristics like being blind, being a single mother. Means tested is something you get purely on your income. Okay. And welfare programs sometimes could be one, sometimes the other, sometimes both. So that's the first distinction. The second distinction is cash versus inind, which is are you giving people money or are you giving them goods? And these are two important distinctions that want to keep in mind as we talk about different welfare programs. So let's start by talking about our big cash. Oh, and by the way, the term welfare gets hard to think about here because we typically in the US when we say welfare, we don't mean the concept of economic well-being. We mean cash transfers to poor people. So the term welfare is thrown around political debates. It's not term welfare as we've used it so far in this semester. It means redistribution. So there's two big cash transfer programs. Okay. The first is called TANIF, temporary assistance to needy families. Okay. Um, Tannif is is a pro is a program that started actually started in the Great Depression. It was originally called aid to families of dependent children. It was actually a program for widows whose husband had died in World War I and they couldn't support their kids. Over time, it became a program which was really focused on single mothers, either mothers, women who are single, you know, sometimes through widthood, but mostly through divorce or just out of marriage, childbearing. Um, and it remains a program which is focused on that population. Technically, two parent families can get it as well, but they're a very small share of the of the enrollment. It's focused it's a program basically focused on single moms. Okay. Um, how does it work? Basically, the way it works is this is a it's a classic cash welfare scheme. You get some benefit guarantee. So, the benefits you get are some guarantee G some amount. Okay? And that guarantee um is for example $200 a month in Arkansas all the way up to $1,000 a month in New Hampshire. So say $200 to $1,000. Okay. Minus okay you get a guarantee minus a tax rate on your income. So in other words, if your income's zero, you get G. I should rewrite this. B equals let me rewrite this. B equals the max of zero comma b minus g minus tall y because it can't go negative. Okay. So what you do is you get a guarantee but as you earn income they reduce how much you get. So if y is zero you get g. But if to for example's one as it typically is once your income gets to g you get no more. So the idea is it's a transfer but it's a meansetested transfer. The higher your means as measured by your income, the less money you get from the program. Okay? So it's a means-ested transfer. Okay. Um this so that's our major that's one of our major cash transfer programs that goes to single moms. So it's means tested and categorical. The second big cash transfer program, actually much bigger, is supplemental security income, SSI. Supplemental security income, um, is, uh, basically money for those who are disabled but don't qualify for DI. We talked about DI in chapter 14, but DI is for people who've worked for a while, but many, many disabled people never were able to work or didn't work enough to qualify. So SSI is a me is categorical. You have to be disabled and it's means tested. You have to be poor and not have enough resources to qualify for SSDI. Okay. So this is a categorical means program. Now the debate about welfare in the US is focused on this program on TANNIF. SSI is four times as big as TANF. It's a much much bigger program. This is about a$ 15 billion program. there's about a $60 billion program in normal times. So, interestingly, most of our distribution actually goes to disabled people, not to the very poor single moms, but that's sort of been the focus of the of the welfare debate. Okay, so that's our two big cash programs. Those are dominated by our inind programs. We spend much more money in the US on inind programs of which we have a wide variety. The first we have SNAP supplemental nutrition assistance program. When I growing up there was called food stamps. This is a program which if you're poor, think of it as roughly going to people below the poverty line. If you live below the poverty line, you get a debit card that you can use to buy food. Okay? That you can use. So, basically what it does is it says that um uh essentially you don't we're not just going to give you cash. We're going to restrict you to using that card to buy food. And we talked about we talked before about why governments may want to do this because they're concerned that that money might get spent on something else. So, it's paternalistically they might want to force people to use it on food. Okay? It used to literally be stamps. Now, it's a debit card that you can only use on food. Okay? This is a very big program. This is a program for it costs about 60 $60 billion a year comparable to the biggest cash benefit program. Okay. Now, to get this, you have to be you have to either show that you're unable to work or that you're looking for work and haven't been able to find it. You can't just qualify for this. It's somewhat categorical. You used to be purely means tested. Anyone who was poor got it. Now you have to be poor, but you have to show um that you're registered for work and looking for work. So, you know, we'll talk about why they added that condition. Okay, that's SNAP. Of course, the monster in all this thing is Medicaid. Medicaid, which is about $700 billion a year, dominates everything else. Everything else combined, is half the size of Medicaid. That's the biggest transfer program in the country. Okay, we've talked extensively on Medicaid. We don't need to talk more about that. The third is public housing. Now public housing comes in two forms. The first form is what was colloially called the projects which are big buildings where we literally give you an apartment. Okay? That's been replaced over time with what's called section 8 vouchers, which are basically coupons that you can take to rent an apartment. So the way it works is essentially public housing works is you have to be um low income. Typically it's um you typically have to have income below half of the area incomes. This one is area adjusted. The other ones are not. This one is area adjusted. So your income has to be below half of the typical area income. If your income's below half the typical area income, you can either qualify for an apartment or qualify for a voucher. The way the apartments work is you get it, you pay 30% of your income towards the apartment and the government pays the rest. So it's means tested. So essentially the way it works is we say we're going to give you an apartment, you have to contribute 30% of your income. So if your income's zero, you contribute nothing. If your income is very high, you're not qualifying for the program and then the government will pay the rest. Section 8 vouchers are different. They're kind of interesting. Section 8 vouchers are we give you a piece of paper you can take to your landlord. It says to the landlord, the government will pay any amount of the rent above 30% of this person's income. So you have section 8 f you go to your landlord, the landlord collects 30% of your income as rent from you and the rest from the government. This is increasingly what we're doing with public housing. We're increasingly moving away from projects towards that. Um and this is about a $30 billion a year program. Okay. Then the last category which is a big one is a whole set of nutritional nutritional programs. Um this includes things like free or reduced price school meals, school breakfast and lunch. Okay, which is a major source of restriction in our country. Um we spend about uh 20 billion dollars a year on these in in a typical year about 22 million people get free or reduced price lunches and about 13 million get free or reduced price breakfasts. So it's a major program there's been about $20 billion a year on there's also something called the wick program which for women infants and children which gives them the actual food. It's like food stamps but instead of giving you a debit they literally give out milk, cheese and other healthy products for uh women, infants and children. Okay. The bottom line is actually the vast majority distribution we do is in kind. Okay. Even the very biggest cash program is smaller than a lot of these inind programs. Okay. So the interesting question we'll come to is why? And we'll come back we'll come to that later this lecture. Okay. So that's the way attribution works in a nutshell. Yeah. Excellent. The voucher is set equal to the maximum of the rent or the I think it's like 40 the 40th percentile of the housing cost distribution in the city. They cap it so you can't charge anything. They give you a voucher. You have to find an apartment which is up to the 40th percentile and then you get a voucher. >> Yeah. say it's also what? >> Yeah. So, basically, how do they allocate these vouchers? They do it by lottery. Yeah. They basically have a waiting list. You lottery to get onto a waiting list and they pull you off the waiting list as units become available. Okay. So um with that as background let's talk about how we think about the optimal determination of transfer programs. Let's say we've decided we want to transfer money. How do we think about the efficiency consequences of a transfer program? And here we come to the core of thinking about equity redistribution economics which is the efficiency equity trade-off. And so we're going to embody the efficiency equity trade-off. And the best way to think about that, one of my favorite constant economics, I talked about this in 1401, is the concept of Oaken's leaky bucket. Arthur Oaken's a famous economist. Arthur Oaken said, "Think about transferring money for rich person or a poor person as if a government bureaucrat goes and collects the money from the rich person, carries in a bucket and dumps it out in front of the poor person." So the reason that's useful is then you could say, well, imagine that imagine that for every dollar he took from the rich person, he bought a dollar to the poor person. Would you agree with that? And most people would say, "Yeah, if you can take a dollar from rich person, give it to a poor person, that's probably worth doing." He said, "But what if there was a leak in the bucket? What if every dollar in the rich person only 80 cents got to the poor person because 20 cents leaked along the way?" Might say, "Well, that's okay. 70 cents, 50 cents, 10 cents, zero." Some people might say it's okay at zero. If you think relative income inequality is what matters, it's okay to literally just destroy wealth at the top. Which is sort of why people are queasy about endorsing relative income inequality as a concept. Okay. But basically what Oaken said is your taste for redistribution can be summarized at how much leak you're willing to put up with in the bucket. The more leak you're willing to put up with, the more you care about the poor relative to the rich, getting money from the rich to the poor. Okay? Some people would say don't even do it with no leak. Some people would say do it with 100% leak and others will land in between. That's just a great concept for thinking about it. And what it does, it highlights what is the problem distribution. It's the leak in the bucket. And where does the leak in the bucket come from? Well, leak in the bucket comes from three sources. The first and smallest source, you got to hire someone to carry the bucket. If you're distribute, there's got to be a redistributive administrative mechanism that costs money. Turns out that's not a big deal, but it's something. Okay. The second source of leak in the bucket we'll talk about starting starting a couple lectures from now, which is to raise the money, you have to tax people. You have to tax the rich. And when you tax the rich, that can have distortionary consequences for efficiency. And we'll come to that in a couple of lectures. What I focus on now is the third source of leak in the bucket, which is that if you transfer to the poor, that could cause them to reduce their economic activity. So to see this, let's talk about a pure means-ested transfer program. Okay, a pure means tested transfer like Tannif. Okay, let's talk about a program like TANF. Okay, where the government's going to come to you and say and let's set to equal to one. Okay, so the government's coming to you and saying I'm going to give you money as long as your income is below G, you're going to get money and that money is going to depend on your income. For every dollar of income, I give you one less dollar in rent. Let's think about how that impact le first of all that is actually an easy to understand and relatively attractive system. It turns out under this system if I took everyone in the US who lives below poverty and implemented this system at their income today I could end poverty in the US for less than $200 billion. We could have no more poor people in the US according to the poverty line for $180 billion. That's pretty good. I mean every year but you know we spent more than that on other things. Okay that's not a crazy number. Okay the problem with that number is it misses the moral hazard consequence of actually doing that transfer and that's illustrated well in figure 174. Okay here we have an individual's decision how hard to work they're doing the standard leisure consumption trade-off. On the x- axis you have hours of leisure per year. On the y- axis you have dollars of consumption. And imagine they earn 15 bucks an hour. And imagine they have 2,000 hours a year to work. So their budget constraint, which runs from A to C, says that they could either have $30,000 of consumption, no leisure, or 2,000 hours of leisure and no consumption or some combination in between with a margin of transformation of 15 bucks an hour. Okay. Now imagine we come into that world and we put in the following system. We say we're going to put in this system and we're going to set G equal to the poverty line which is 12760. Let's just think about individuals here. So we're going to implement this system with G equal to and to equal to one. What would that do to the budget constraint? What it would do is it would add a flat segment running. So the new bud tree from A to B would be unchanged. But at point B, you'd have a flat segment over to D and then down to C. Why? Because once your income is below 12,760 hour or alternatively, once you're taking more than 1,149 hours of leisure, each additional dollar of earnings does nothing for you. Why? Because the government just taxes it away. So it doesn't matter if I work 1600 hours or if I take 1600 hours of leisure or 1,149 hours of leisure, I get the same thing. I get 12,760. So budget train becomes flat at that point. Okay, questions about that. Now think about what that does to labor supply. Let's start with person X. Person X was making only $6,000 and working only 400 hours a year, 1,600 hours of leisure. Person X unambiguously will move to point D. That is a that has that's an a dominant strategy for them. They get more leisure and more consumption. So unambiguously the move to point D. Okay. On the other hand, now let's take someone like person Z. Person Z will not be affected by this welfare program. Why? Because they like consumption so much that a program which leaves them with 12,7760 of income is irrelevant. They're not willing to live at that level. They'd rather just go out and work and have their $22,000 of consumption. What about person Y? Well, person Y is purposely and painstakingly drawn. So their indifference curve it, you know, it's sort of a it's not really a very good curve. It's sort of hard to draw it this way, but basically the point is it's tangent at y. They originally they originally took 1,67 hours of leisure and consumed 14,000, but their indifference curve cuts below the horizontal line from B to D. As a result, moving to point D gives them a higher level of utility. Okay, you can see that since their indifference curve cuts from above that flat line from B to D that at point D they have a higher utility. So they will quit they will be willing to consume somewhat less to get a lot more leisure. Just like the peltzman diagram for for education crowd out it's a similar sort of crowed argument here more than 100% crowd out. You'll literally create you'll literally take away all their all their labor supply and not just you not just take away the labor supply you're taking from X you'll take even more than that because they'll drop down their consumption a bit to qualify for this program okay questions about that think about what this does to our estimate of the cost of the program if we just consider people like X and realize that people below the poverty line aren't aren't going to we aren't going to give them this. We're just going to give them G because they're all going to quit. The cost doubles. If we consider people like Y and let's say that 25% of the people let's say people living 25% above the poverty line react that way. That adds another 50% to the cost. So now you're talking about a really expensive program through these moral hazard effects. The point is that these moral hazard effects make redistribution a lot more costly than you would think in their absence. Okay. And that's that's the standard moral hazard problem or the official or the leak in Oaken's bucket that comes from moral hazard of poor people um lowering their resources to qualify for a program. Okay. Now, it seems there's a simple answer to this problem, which is well, the problem is this, right? Why make money with 100% tax rate? we just lower the tax rate. So it's an incentive to work. We should distribute but let's have an incentive to work. Indeed, what if we change this one to 0.5? Well, then we would get a figure like figure 175. Figure 175 says that for incomes of for consumption above 2552 or leisure of less than 299 hours a year, the budget rate hasn't changed. Starting at that point, the budget rate is now has a slope that's half as steep. Why half as steep? Because essentially there's A-50% tax on your wage. Essentially for every hour you work, you take home 750 instead of 15. Why? because you give up that government that government transfer. It's an implicit tax of 50%. So you have the line which intersects at B2 that is a slope that's 50% as steep, $7.50 all the way to point D. Okay, what does that do to people's decisions? Well, for person X, they work more, right? Or they might they might work more because now you've lowered the tax rate. for person Y, they might work work more as well because you lower the tax rate. So if you stop there, you say, "Well, this is not ambiguously a better system." The problem is now Z's in the game. Now Z who wasn't on welfare before suddenly says, "Well, I want to be on welfare now, too." Why? Because I don't have to give up that much consumption and I can get a lot more leisure. I can move from Z1 to Z2. I don't have to give up that much consumption. I get a lot more leisure. So the problem is yes you save money in X and Y but you spent money on Z. You've brought more people into the program and whether on net you save money or not depends on the relative size of these reactions. This is what we call the iron law of welfare policy which is that fundamentally the iron the iron triangle I'm sorry of fundamentally we want to try to the iron triangle of welfare policy. We fundamentally want to want to try to accomplish three things. We want to if I reform my welfare system, I have existing welf. I'm trying to accomplish three things simultaneously. I want to encourage work that has reduced the moral hazard costs. Okay. I want to encourage work. I want to redistribute income and I want to lower government costs. So I have three goals I'm trying to achieve, but I only have two instruments, the tax rate and G. So I'm trying to accomplish three goals with two instruments, and I can't do it. In other words, if I gave up on one of these goals, I could do it. Okay, if I for example said I don't care about redistributing, well, I could encourage work and save the government money by just having a lower G. If I had a lower G, I would encourage work and I save the government money, but I but I redistribute less income. And you can see how you could use G and T to solve any two of these three problems. But you can't solve all three simultaneously. And that is the fundamental challenge of welfare policy. a standard cash this iron triangle problem which a standard cash welfare program cannot solve. Okay, questions about that. So that is what motivates the really interesting work. I mean there's a lot of interesting work of course in thinking about how bad this moral hazard problem is, but other than that it's sort of a pretty simple concept. The more interesting thing is how do we get around it? Yeah. I'll come back to UBI to next lecture. So how do we get around this? Well, one way is to move towards categorical welfare. And that's moneyed by by the following thought experiment. At the end of the day, there's two reasons why my income might differ from Valerie's. One is because I'm more skilled and two is because I work harder. In some sense, if we think skill is something you're born with, we kind of want to redistribute from the high skill to the low skill. It's basically luck. If you're born lucky that you're high-killed person, I'm born like a high skilled person. Poor Valerie is a low skilled person. She's born unlucky. We like to redistribute from me to her. But if it's that I'm working hard and she's lazy, we maybe don't want to restrict from me to her. That's moral hazard. So in sense the problem we have here is we're trying to distribute on a concept income which embodies two different things. The thing we care about which is sort of who has who has the ability and who doesn't and the thing we sort of don't want to distort which is how hard people work. Well imagine a world where everyone was born with an indelible tattoo on their forehead that said high ability low ability and there was no way to scrub it off. No way to change it. Well then we could solve the moral hazard problem. We'd say, "Hey, you've got a low ability thing for it. Here's some money. You've got high ability, you get no money." That solves the problem because if you redistribute on something people If you redistribute on something people can't change, then there's no moral hazard. Moral hazard arises from changing your behavior to take advantage of a government program. But if I redistribute on something you can't change, there'll be no moral hazard. So, so it's a simple answer. So for example, what if we said we're going to for sure give big benefits to people who are blind, who have lost an arm, ignoring my nub city horrible example from the previous lecture. Okay, in that case, you might think, look, that is beyond people's control. They're not blinding themselves or cutting off their arms to get benefits. So that's an okay way to distribute. I'm not worried about moral hazard. So you might think that basically an advantage that a third tool besides G and TA is using categorical restrictions as a way of distributing. So what makes a good so basically this comes the idea of targeting the idea is by targeting our dollars we can spend them more effectively to meet these goals. So what would make a good targeting device? Well, it's two things. First of all, it's something you can't change and second of all, it's something that's correlated with being poor. Let's not forget the second one. For example, if I said I'm going to set up a new program that is going to give a million dollars to everyone who was a Fortune 500 CEO last year, that would meet the first condition. They can't change that, right? Wouldn't be the second condition. You wouldn't want that wouldn't be a very good transfer program. So you need both something you can't change but also it's correlated with earnings ability with w withi with with earnings ability that's your sort of ultimate that's something like blindness might work or disability or other things okay now the major targeting mechanism used by the US government for cash transfers for many decades was single motherhood the idea was single motherhood for sure met the second condition which is that single mothers are much much poorer the poverty Uh the poverty rate for single female head of families with children is almost 30%. Which is more than double the poverty rate is about triple the poverty rate for two-headed families with children. Okay. So they're certainly poor. The question is is it something you can change? Well, clearly you can, right? Clearly you can. You're not in innately a single mom. That's result of some choices and some other things. Okay. So the question is how big is the moral hazard from targeting single motherhood? And this is what's here's what's really fascinating about this. Think about it. On the one hand, you gain efficiency by giving the money to people who you know are poor regardless of how hard they work or not. On the other hand, you create a new problem which is creating potentially single mothers. And that's a new co it's a cost of targeting. If you change behavior to meet the target, there's a new distortion on the our economy. And there's lots of evidence that growing up in a single parent household is bad for you. Not that there aren't success stories, but on average, people grow up in single parent households do less well than people who grew up with two parents. So if we're suddenly creating all these single parent households, that would be bad. And this is what led to one of the most fundamental debates in welfare reform policy dominated the period when I was a student, which is a famous conservative sociologist called Charles Murray. And Charles Murray went to the data and noticed the following trend. He noticed that until well actually you can you can do this. You got to be honest. Take figure and hold your hand cut it off at like or 1982 or something like that. Okay. The red line is the size of government transfers. The green line is single motherhood rate. What you see is as government transfers fail, single motherhood as government transfers a as government transfers um actually no it doesn't even work there. It's not even very good. You can't even I think you got a Yeah, you can't even see it in this graph. The bottom line is for some period of time he argued that as government transfers rose, single motherhood rose and it was true over some small period of time. Okay, so basically he was arguing that more transfers were causing more single motherhood. Of course, you can see the time series looks like, if anything, the opposite. And in fact, there's now been hundreds of studies which have shown that single motherhood does not respond to the generosity of cash welfare benefits. Now, if you ask many politicians, they'll claim it's like a law of nature that if you give cash back to single moms, you create more single moms. But in fact, that's an empirical question. the answers we've answered it which is giving cash tying cash benefit to single motherhood does not induce more single motherhood. Okay. So it seems like single motherhood's actually a uh a pretty good targeting device. It doesn't really respond to being targeted and it identifies those who are low income. Okay. So that's an example of how we think about using categorical uh benefits. So basically a very popular decision was at one point as I said people can actually get tanniff even if they're married. Very few people do but you can. That was very popular. Oh we'll stop creating all these single mothers by giving it. What they didn't realize is they didn't stop creating single mothers. They just gave out a lot more cash. And so it's sort of like moving to lowering that tax rate. You didn't achieve all your goals. Okay. Questions about that? All right. So that is one way you can lower the moral hazard. One way to solve this iron triangle problem. The second way is moving from cash to inind transfers. Moving from cash to incind transfers also helps you solve this problem in a more indirect way. With categorical welfare we do targeting. We find those who really need help and give money to them. Within kind benefits, we do what we call self- selection, which is we get those who need the benefits to identify themselves. And why is that true? That's because everyone wants cash, but not everyone wants to go to a soup kitchen. That if I give away cash, everyone's going to claim it. They're going to pretend they're poor and get it. But if I'm giving away a shitty public apartment or waiting outside in the rain for a soup kitchen, only people who are really poor are going to actually do that. And that's a way to get them to reveal their true underlying ability even though it's not stamped on their forehead. Okay? So this means basically the idea is once again we have two types of people. Those that are innately skilled and those that those if you look at poor people, we have two types of poor people. innately skilled lazy people, innately unskilled hardworking people. The government like to differentiate them by giving cash. You can't differentiate them because everyone wants cash. But if you give them something which people really would would only value if they had to have it. Only people who only the people who are really unskilled of a choice will take that. It's called an ordeal mechanism. So self- selection through an ordeal mechanism. Let me I'm going to illustrate this. This is sort of a hard concept because what it basically says is you can make people better off by making them worse off. Okay? You make people better off by making them worse off. Let me explain what I mean. We'll do a simple example. Okay? Imagine that um the government wants to set up a soup kitchen and it has to decide how much to spend on hiring workers to staff the soup kitchen. And the more workers it hires, the shorter the wait to get in and get soup. Okay. So, right now the government's got this big line outside the soup kitchen and it's got to decide is that a good thing or a bad thing. Well, it's a bad thing. People are waiting in the rain for their soup. But it has an advantage that's important to recognize. So, imagine that there's two types of people, low potential earnings and high potential earnings. The utility function for a low potential earnings person, U subL, is 240. uh the for u u subl is 240 s minus w where s is the number of bowls of soup and w is the amount of minutes they wait for soup. The utility of a high potential earnings person is 120s minus 2 w. Why does it make sense? Why do these two differences make sense in this equation? First of all, why would a hypotheian person have a lower weight on the amount of soup they get? What is this showing? What is illustrating? Why is that? Yeah. Well, they have a lower they have a lower margin utility of consumption because they they can always get more food if they want. They're high ability. So, they don't need the soup as much. Why is there why why do we subtract two times the number of minutes and only one times 100 minutes for that person? Enopportunity cost. If you're high skilled, you have a higher opportunity cost waiting around outside the soup kitchen. Okay, so this is a totally plausible comparison of two types. Okay, the type that really needs the soup but doesn't mind waiting type doesn't need the soup as much and and minds waiting more. And imagine that we're going to find social welfare as simply the sum of these. Adding those up is social welfare. We're just going to we're not going to put more weight on the poor than the rich. We're just going to say we're going to add them together. Okay. Now imagine that the government implements a system with no waiting. W equals zero. And imagine system with no waiting. To make life easy, imagine that each group gets the same amount of soup with no waiting. Just imagine it's split. It's just allocated randomly. Okay. Well, with W equals 0, U subL is 240 because they get one soup. Let's say there's two bowls of soup. They get one soup and U subh is 120 for total social welfare of 360. Okay? So if there's no waiting time, they each get a bowl of soup and social welfare is 360. Okay? Because this term drops out because there's no waiting. Now imagine the government instead said, "I'm not going to hire so many workers and I'm going to make people wait outside for 61 minutes before they get sued. I'm going to literally mandate I'm going be so mean. I'm literally mandate you have to stand out even if there's no one inside to stand outside in the [\h__\h] rain for 61 minutes and wait to get your soup. Awful, right? Except think about what it does. And with a 61 minute wait, the high billy person no longer wants soup. The utility goes negative. They're not going to wait. So with a 61 minute wait, U subh equals zero. What's U subL? Well, now they get two bowls of soup. So they get minus 61, which equals 419. So total social welfare has risen from 360 to 419. We've made poor people better off by making them worse off. It's a bizarre concept, but really, really interesting. Okay, why is that? What's the key here? It's because we have a fixed government budget. With the infinite budget, it wouldn't matter. The fixed government budget, the more you can target to those who really need it, the more efficient. We could target it by having something stand on people's heads or single motherhood or we could target it by letting people reveal whether they need it or not. And the reason we one of the reasons we have inkind benefits is to reveal to let people reveal how much they value the good. Okay. So that's so for example there's a really cool study I talk about in the book which is what happened when a state r the government ran an experiment. It was about taking care of old people in their homes and the government ran an experiment. They either gave people cash or they gave them a worker to work in their home. Okay? And what they found was when they gave people the worker to work in their home, it cost a ton less. And the people who used it were people who are really sick. They cash everyone used it. It cost a ton more. That it was much better targeted when they actually said, "Well, you got to have the worker." People didn't really need like, "Well, I'm not going to do that. I want someone in my house." Where you gave them cash like, "Sure, I'll take that cash." Okay. So, it's basically people were self self- selecting in a way that allowed them to target the money. Okay. Questions about that? Yeah. >> Well, once again, it's not saying we I'm not saying all soup kitcheners America should have a line. I'm saying this is the tradeoff and you want to evaluate that. It may be that what you're saying is maybe there's a big weight on W for these people because they can't get there. Well, then that would change the answer. If this was 2W, you wouldn't like this new policy. You'd be worse off the new policy. So, that's basically, but the point is to illustrate the trade-off and you're saying that's another issue of the trade-off. Yeah. Yeah. So, so basically the let me rephrase your question a little bit. The bottom line is that we talked about impart only partial takeup. Some people don't take up benefits. That could be good. That could be a way of illustrating who really needs it. In fact, my some grad student MIT have a really cool new study where they look across seven different transfer programs. All the programs target you based on what your income is today. But of course, people's income today could be very different. their income over their life. We really want to care about people who are so like a student has low income. Student MIT might have low income day. We don't really want to attribute to them. Sorry guys, you're going to be fine. What they find is the people who take up at any given point at a given at any given point in time are the same people who end up with lower lifetime income. The people you want to take the program are the ones who choose to take it. The ones who don't take it are the ones who are just their income's temporarily low but actually income's going to be higher later. So that's a reason why in some sense incomplete take up might be good. Okay, that's that's another argument for inind transfers. Yeah, >> why doesn't the government not make it as hard as possible to get these programs just like increasingly >> because of what uh Sophia, right? Because of what Sophia pointed out, which is that basically there's a cost that ordeal mechanism has a cost. They got to wait in the rain. That sucks. So you've got to trade off how bad the cost is against the targeting benefit. And the sweet spot is one where it's a which it's a pain. It's enough of a pain to deter the high ability, but it's still very valuable for low ability as in this example. But like I said, if you change this to 2W or change this to 120, it doesn't work. So really, that's the trade-off is the cost of the ordeal versus the benefit of targeting to the group that really needs it. And that's that's the trade-off here. Yeah. >> Yes. >> That's an awesome question. It's an awesome question. >> I mean, basically, there's the fundamental challenge. We Here's the problem with that with that whole study. It comes back to poverty line measurement, which is let's go back to the poverty line measurement debate. Ideally, we measure poverty, we'd include what you're getting, Medicaid. But then I have to ask what it's worth to you to get Medicaid. I want a dollar metric, right? Well, how the hell do I know what it's worth to you to get Medicaid? I mean, you could use the average cost of Medicaid, but it's worth a lot more to a sick person than a healthy person. It's the same thing here, which is in some sense to really do this, right? We should not only know what the weight on W's to things like wheelchair bound, we need to know how much they actually value this relative to cash. And this will come back to the UBI debate we'll talk about next time, which is an assumption. We may be outsmarting ourselves doing all this in kind benefits because the truth is it's just better to give people cash and let them figure out what they want to spend it on. Now that said, there are a number of other advantages of inind programs. Okay. Another advantage is a really interesting one is that it affects the market. So this cool project in Mexico where they give some people cash, some communities got a cash transfer and some communities got an inind transfer of food. What they found was the communities that got the incind transfer the same size were better off. Why? Because the market for food when you gave people here's the market for food quantity and price. You got some initial equilibrium. Okay. When you gave people cash, what did that do? er raised the demand for food. So demand shifted uh it raised the demand. Demand shifted out that led to a higher price for food. More quantity of food but a higher price. When you give them in kind, what does it do? It lowers it raises the supply. When you raise the supply, when you lower supply, you also get more but at a lower price. Why does that matter? Because some people aren't getting crash transfers. So in kind had the benefit that only redistributed it lowered the price for everyone else which is kind of a cool feature of it. So that's another interesting feature of ink kind is that it can have this market adjustment effect. Yeah. um based well no you're right because there's also an effect on the producers themselves and that's but gen you know so you'd have to consider this general equilibrium where you consider the producers themselves this is a this a diagram that works with the food all comes from other people once in the community you then have to wait in the for effect on the producers in the community and then basically the other thing that might be good about inind transfers is that sometimes cash can't buy things. So, for example, let's say let's think about giving you health insurance versus giving you say $10,000. Well, especially let's think before the ACA. Before the ACA, if I gave a sick person $10,000, they couldn't do anything with it. They couldn't get the health insurance because they could be discriminated against. If I gave them health insurance, they got it. So, the other thing is there may be situations where the government is essentially fixing a market failure by redistributing in kind rather than with cash. So that's another argument for inkind. Okay. And then the final argument for inkind is the one that dominates all of them. I hate it, but it's just politics. It's just that politicians are more sympathetic about giving people food and medical care than cash. That's the main reason why we give most of the money in kind. I'm sorry to say all the fun economics is just fun economics. But the truth is from a chapter nine perspective, the main reason politicians get benefits in kind is because they don't trust people with the cash. Yeah. >> A reimbursement be the same as >> a reimbursement program. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that would be that's sort of like actually let's go back to chapter 10. That'd be like a matching grant. You can either give a block grant which is just give them cash. You matching grant say we're going to give you we're going to rebate you as you buy it. That would be sort of a middle ground. Um but that wouldn't have the sort of a deal benefit of actually increasing this of of actually tying it to it. Okay. So fundamentally we have this. Yeah. >> Great question. I think that basically and actually there's enormous disagreement in the economics profession including between myself and my colleagues. So my colleague Amy Finkelestein believes we should stock people health insurance to give them cash. I disagree. I think that basically there's enough imperfections in the health insurance decision. Her view is in a world where fully informed individuals, they'd rather have the cash. I think there's enough behavioral problems, we should give them health insurance instead. But she's smarter than I am and kind of that's an honest debate we're having. And so basically, I think there's a real debate. I think that the view, if I had to summarize the consensus, and you know, I wouldn't want to be quizzed by my Nobel Prize winning colleagues Esther Duplo and Abby Benery on this. They're the experts. But my guess is where the consensus is today is that in developing countries it's better to just give cash that we we don't really they know people know so much more about there's different market failures and things that make it hard to that that make it hard for the government to figure out exactly how to give them the goods in developed countries. I think there's more of an open debate. All right. Okay. So um that's sort of where we are in terms of so that's the second mechanicism. So once again, let's go back. We're trying to ground this iron triangle. One mechanism is trying to tie it to the people who really need it, like blind people and single mothers. The other is to give it in kind so people really reveal themselves when they need it. And then there's finally the easiest answer of all, which is let's just increase people's options so they don't need it. Let's increase people's outside options. So for example, go to figure uh 178. We have our old style welfare program where people, you know, person X jumped on and person Z does. I'm showing person Y here and person Y went to point D. That's the blue line. What if I raised your wage? What if people's wages increased from $15 an hour to $17.50? What does that do to the budget constraint? Well, it pivots it up. And now look, person-wise indifference curve no longer crosses under that horizontal segment. So they don't want to be in welfare anymore. So by increasing outside opportunities, we've actually lowered our redistribution spending. It's sort of simple, right? Make people well off so they don't need welfare. It's a fancy diagram for a pretty simple concept, which is make people better off so need welfare. So the question is, how do you do that? How do you increase people's outside options so that they're less reliant on the welfare system? And there's a number of a number of mechanisms that we use to increase outside options and I'm going to go through them now. I probably I might not get through them today. I'll finish it up next time if not. So how do we people increase people's outside options? Okay, the first way we do the classic way is through training. That is let's say we said to you look if you get welfare you have to if you're on the welfare you have to enter a training program so that you can increase your skills and basically work your way off welfare. Okay. So that's the classic sort of you know this group we called the New Democrats in the 80s and 90s which are sort of the Bill Clinton more centrist wing of the Democratic party that sort of took over and their view was like yeah we want to help poor people but we don't want but we really we understand economics and we think moral hazard is a problem so we're going to do is try to get people to work their way up for through training them. Um there's been an enormous amount of studies actually ran a huge amount of randomized trials of training programs across states and the evidence is meh. Basically training works a bit. Essentially if you train people you get a few of them off welfare. It roughly pays for itself in terms of how much welfare spending you get reduced but it doesn't transform. It's not transformative. It doesn't really get a whole lot of people off welfare. It kind of works but not incredibly well. So that was the first approach. Yeah. >> Pay the government budget. That's the first approach. The second approach is let's raise the minimum wage. Okay. If people earn more in the labor market, they won't need welfare. And in fact, there's studies that show with a higher minimum wage, fewer people are getting government transfers. It's sort of mechanical, right? If people are earning more. Now the trick of course is it's not mechanical. Let me back up. It's not mechanical because we have the standard problem with the minimum wage. This is in a labor economics class. How many people took 1403? David Otter. You say David Otter. So he talks a lot about this. He's done a lot of work. I I mentioned it in 1401. The bottom line, the question of the minimum wage in a standard economic model is by raising the wage floor, you interfere with the free labor market and you could cause people to lose their jobs. But in fact, there's now been decades of evidence which suggests that's not really true. That in fact, we live in a world of imperfect labor markets where where employers have monopsony power and are therefore and in that world you can actually raise the minimum wage without creating unemployment. And at least in the range where we've changed the minimum wage, that seems to be largely true. I think the consensity evidence is in the range of kind of 10, you know, five to 10 bucks an hour where we've kind of changed the minimum wage. It looks like change in the minimum wage does not really cause unemployment. Of course, now the minimum wage is much higher um uh than it than it was. [snorts] It's now going to about 15 bucks an hour. The evidence that that level is a little more mixed. So, there is some point at which that even the best advocates to raise the minimum wage would agree that there is some point at which raising the minimum wage will cause unemployment. It's clearly a point above 10 bucks an hour. And remember, a federal minimum wage today is $7.25 an hour. So, it's clearly higher than where the minimum wage is today. Whether it's as high as where the minimum wage is in places like Massachusetts, where it's 15 bucks an hour, I think it's likely the answer is yes, that you can do that without causing unemployment, but I'll say the evidence still a little more mixed uh on that. Okay. You have a question on that. I think they even have like >> the displacement effects. >> Yeah. But that's I mean that's their estimates and they do as well as they can with that. But I think the bottom line is you can only live you can only live what the weight of the evidence is. Okay. The way the evidence that we don't have that many experiments at 15 bucks an hour. So you don't can't and we think we think it could matter. This isn't linear. Clearly raising the minimum wage from a dollar to $2 will have no effect on employment because everybody already makes more than $2. From making the minimum wage to $100 clearly would cause massive unemployment because most people don't make $100 an hour. So the question is where you know how that function looks and there may be estimates but they're still not really well identified. So we could uh we could raise the minimum wage but we certainly know whether or not that cause unemployment. There's clear evidence that raising minimum wage leads to less spending on government transfers. So the so the studies are that basically um uh there's a study that finds that for every $1 increase in the minimum wage um uh government expenditures decrease by 4%. Okay, so that basically clearly another way to reduce government expenditures to raise the minimum wage. That's another way to increase outside options. Okay, uh and um with the potential controversy of whether it causes unemployment. Okay, a third approach that's a little more subtle and interesting is labor market subsidies, which is what if you actually paid people to work? What if instead of tax people's work, you actually paid them to work? So, for example, we'll talk about this much more in chapter 21. We have a program in the US called the earn income tax credit, and we'll talk a lot more in chapter 21. So just go briefly through that here. It's actually the government's largest cash redistribution program. The way the EITC works is for people who are poor, for every dollar you earn, instead of paying taxes, you get 40 cents from the government. So it's a subsidy to work. For every dollar you earn, you actually get 40 cents more from the government rather than paying tax on up to a certain level. Then you start to pay tax again. Okay? And the idea is that basically by doing that you will get people to go to work and get off welfare. The problem is that's incredibly expensive. And if you think about that we spend 15$15 billion a year on cash welfare and the ITC is like 80 billion a year. That can't really be a good enough justification for the ITC. And that's why other people have suggested a much more targeted form of this which is take people who are on welfare today and pay them to get off. So basically the best evidence of the program in Canada which was the SSP what did that stand for? SSP self-sufficiency project. What they did is they say it was a random experiment and they went to uh Canadian welfare recipients who've been receiving welfare for more than one year and they said if you find a full-time job we will for every dollar you earn we will give you another dollar. We'll literally double your earnings. And they randomly said that to some people on welfare and some people they didn't say that. And what they found was an enormous response. They found um that basically there was almost A-50% increase in the employment rate of the treatment group. There was a huge increase in employment rate of the treatment group. And in fact, they increased the earnings so much that the program paid for itself. If you looked at how much less the government spent on welfare and how much the government ultimately collected in taxes, the program paid for itself. The problem was once the program ended, the effect went away. So the hope was you'd get people used to working and then you could pull the program away. It would still work. It didn't. That didn't happen. So it looks like to make this program work, it's got to keep going. Okay. Now, that would be um so basically that leads to the really interesting tradeoff between general wage subsidies and targeted wage subsidies, which is the general wage subsidy is way more expensive. That's the disadvantage. The targeted is cheaper, but what about the person who didn't get welfare? What if I'm just a person who felt like I shouldn't take a hand out from the government? Then I don't benefit from this. That seems a bit unfair. So let's say Paul and I are equally poor. I'm someone who's not embarrassed by taking a check from the government. He is. Then suddenly I get this huge benefit and he doesn't. That seems kind of unfair. Moreover, what pernicious effect could it have? What could be the pernicious effect if I said that once you're on welfare, you get this program. If you're not, you don't. Yeah, people could join welfare. is what's called the entry effect that basically you could actually end up creating a whole new class of people on welfare because they joined to qualify for the program. Now it turned out with the SSP that didn't happen because with the SSP you had to be on welfare for a whole year to qualify and there weren't many people who wanted to wait a whole year to get this subsidy. So even though it's a big subsidy they weren't willing to go on welfare for a year to get it. But by making it wait a year, you once you get lots of people who deserved it, who maybe dropped off after six months and didn't get it. So that's the trade-off. The more you target it, the more targeted it is, the less money you spend, but there are people you're not helping. The ITC helps everyone. Everyone who's low income benefits from it, but it costs a ton more money. That's why we have social welfare functions. as alluded in 1401. Essentially, you want to ask yourself what is the benefit of this bigger program in terms of the moral hazard it costs and the benefit it gives. It turns out, we'll show you in chapter 21, there is no trade-off for the EITC. The ITC actually is a state is a patch to the bucket that it redistributes and makes money for the government. And we'll talk about that next time or chapter 21. All right, let's stop there.