But yeah, we are very glad to have John Hull with us here. So, John, please. >> Well, thanks very much. It's a real pleasure to be here. Um, let me just say a little bit by way of introduction. I I I've probably got a similar background to many of you. Math was always my my best subject at high school. That was uh that was in the UK and um I not surprisingly ended up doing a math undergraduate at Cambridge. Um and you know after graduating I decided that I wanted to apply my math in business. So I did a master's in operational research which was a fairly new thing in those days. Um but uh and then an amusing little factoid, I I I worked for two years after graduating with my masters. I worked for two years for a shoe retailer. Everybody sort of bursts out laughing when they hear this. Actually, it was a large shoe retailer in the UK. It had 2,000 outlets. And actually, it was a pretty interesting job. I mean it was all about deciding which outlets should stock which shoes in which sizes and so on and then you know which outlets should be closed and where we should look for new outlets and that sort of thing. So there's lots of interesting stuff but um after two years I with this company I sort of moved back into the academic world. I I I won't uh I won't bore you with all the details, but uh I wound up I got got my PhD and ended up teaching here at University of Toronto in what we call the Joseph L. Rottman School of Management. And I've been been at University of Toronto for about 30 years now. probably um probably I'm best known for my work on derivatives which I understand you guys have had quite a bit of instruction in but um and you know most of my 30 years has been spent doing research in derivatives but about I guess it was about seven eight years ago I began to see that uh you machine learning and AI were becoming really important to our students. And so I sort of switched my focus and in fact all of my teaching is now in the machine learning area and pretty much every so let me advance slide. pretty much every um course that we offer at Rottman actually has either a compulsory course or an elective in machine learning. So it's not just me that teaches machine learning. Now got quite a few colleagues who who who do so as well. I I wrote a book which is now in its third edition um machine learning in business an introduction to the world of data science and um you can you can find out more information on the book from my website but I'm not saying you should buy the book now um in fact re the reverse is true because the fourth edition will be coming out in probably about two months. The fourth edition is going to be with three co-authors who are actually the other people who teach uh teach machine learning here at Robman. So, you know, the fourth edition is going to deal with um you know, I mean, third edition came out in I think it was 2021. And since then, of course, we've had a lot of things happen in uh natural language processing, large language models, that sort of thing. So I wanted to you know bring the book up to date and my colleagues have helped me do that. So um you know I'm going really today's presentations in three parts. I'm going to talk about the nature of machine learning. Um then I'm going to move on to talk about applications of neural networks and finally what I've been working on quite a lot over the last little while applications of re reinforcement learning. Okay. Um, I don't know whether there's any easy way you can interrupt me to ask questions, but I'm I'm happy to be interrupted with any questions you have as we go along. Is is it possible for them to interrupt me with questions? >> I will I will hear them. >> Yes, I think you will. >> Good. Good. Okay. No, I don't mind being interrupted at all. Okay. So uh next slide please. So what is machine learning? It's uh it's a branch of AI and the idea underlying machine learning is is that we give a computer access to lots of data and just learn let it learn learn about the relationships between variables and make predictions. Some of the techniques of machine learning date back to quite a long way. The key thing that's different today is that computers are really fast. So we had all these techniques for doing what we call machine learning quite some time ago, but really computers weren't fast enough to make them a practical tool. We're now reaching the stage where all of these ideas suddenly become practical tools because of the speed of the machines. Okay. I think you know it's important to distinguish between machine learning and all the automation that's gone on before it. I mean computers have been used for many years to automate many business decisions, payroll, sending out invoices, so on. This is what we could call the third industrial revolution. Okay. And uh machine learning is central to the fourth industrial revolution. You want a bit of background here. The first industrial revolution was steam and water power which was uh about 1760 to 1840. The second industrial revolution was electricity and mass production. This is gen this is this is not me. This is what's generally considered to be the case and this was 1840 to 1920. Then basically computers and digitization were the third industrial revolution and we've really had you know we now know how to use computers to automate things that human beings do. Um and uh I say we can call that computers and digitization. And that you we could say that went from maybe 1950 to the year 2000. And then we're now living through the fourth industrial revolution and we'll be living through it for quite some time which is really you know AI machine learning and everything we're going to be talking about today. Okay ne next slide please. So if you want to let's go back to six slide six. Um if you want to sort of distinguish between um the third and the fourth industrial revolution um one example I use is with loan applications. I mean let's suppose we've got loan officers in a company and there are certain rules they use to decide whether a loan should be accepted or not. and um those those rules have been worked out, then we could automate their activities and that would just be the third industrial revolution. If we didn't know the rules, we could actually use machine learning to determine the rules. We'd collect a lot of lots and lots of data on loans that came before the loan officers and the decisions that were made and it would be an application of machine learning. We could go one step further though and we could also say well let's try and improve on the rules. So then we could collect lots of data on decisions that were made by the loan officers and how those decisions worked out and u try and improve the rules for accepting or rejecting loans. So the first bullet point here is the third industrial revolution digitization fairly straightforward and then the last two would be applications of machine learning. Okay, next slide. So uh I'm sure you've all been trained in statistics and we all know that what we're supposed to do in statistics is sit down comfortable chair not look at any data and develop a hypothesis. Then we collect data and test the hypothesis. That's the sort of standard way of doing things in statistics. Machine learning is different. What we do, we don't develop any hypotheses in machine learning. We go out and we collect the data and we try and explain the data. We try different models and we find patterns in the data or try and develop predictive tool or something like that. The key difference between machine learning and the traditional statistics um statistical approach is that in machine learning we collect the data first where in statistics you're not supposed to collect the data first. You're supposed to develop the hypothesis before you've even looked at the data. Okay. Um uh next slide. So there's various types of machine learning algorithms. Unsupervised learning which is basically just looking for patterns in the data or clusters in the data. Um supervised learning which is where we're trying to predict something or classify the data in some way. And then reinforcement learning which is multi-stage decision making which we'll be talking a bit about later on. And there's you know there's other ways of subdividing the algorithms but um you know this is this you know this is one quick classification if you like. Machine learning has its own terminology. Um and actually this when I first got into machine learning as I say it was something like seven or eight years ago I was pretty confused because the terminology is different from statistics you know in um statistics for example we talk about dependent variables independent variables and so on. uh whereas uh in machine learning we talk about features and targets. Targets as its name implies is the thing you're trying to predict perhaps and features are the independent variables you're trying to predict from. You know think things like labels, activation functions and so on. In fact, when I when I wrote my book, which I showed you earlier, I have a whole section, I think it's about 10 pages long, showing all the terminology which uh you know, which machine learning uses um some of which is quite different from the terminology that statistics uses and and other branches. It's uh It's one of the things that you know just takes a bit of getting used to. Um and you know these this terminology unsupervised learning supervised learning for example I mean where does that come from? Unsupervised learning well with unsupervised learning you're just looking for patterns in the data. So you could say, you know, you don't really need to you don't really need any supervision because all you're doing is just looking for patterns. And so you just all you need to do is to throw the data at the at the software and the software will find patterns for you. Whereas supervised learning, you've got to do a bit of supervision because you got to tell you got to tell the computer what you want it to do with the data. You want it to predict something, classify data in some way and so on. So okay, sorry uh next slide. So just you you one slide on unsupervised learning then. So in a typical application what you're asking you know you you give the software data and you ask it to divide the data into clusters so that observations in the same cluster have similar feature values. Okay. So a typical application would be a company wants to understand its customers better. So it collects attributes of its customers. There may be you know 10 10 different attributes that it collects you know like how much the customer spends every year um how many different products the customer buys where the customer is located and so on and so on. basically you you give the uh software a list of your customers with those sort of attributes and it will classify them or cluster them. So you say, "Oh yeah, we've got customers that look like this. We've got customers that look like this. We've got customers and and and so on." And I'm told that, you know, this is actually quite a powerful tool because sometimes you get to find cluster clusters of customers that you never really thought of as being a cluster of your customers before, but you know, this tool has actually enabled you to sort of find find the clusters. Okay, next next slide. So supervised learning is where you are you're not just trying to understand the data and create clusters from your data. You're actually trying to predict something typically. And what you do is you divide your data into three sets. Training set, a validation set, and a test set. Because remember what we're doing here is not we haven't got a hypothesis. you've just got a lot of data. And so you typically you put about 60% of your data into the training set, 20% into the validation set, and 20% into the test set. And hopefully you've got quite a lot of data. Okay? So you develop different models using the training set. So you try out different models and we'll see some examples of this in a moment and you compare those models using validation set say well this model seems to do better than this other model when test when tested on you know the parameters of the model are determined using the training set and then you can see how well the models work on the validation set and uh decide which seems to be the best model for explaining the data. Typically, you know, you can find a really complex model sometimes anyway that will explain the data in the training set, but then it does not do well on the validation set. So, the model can be too complex as we'll see. So you you want to typically you want to a rule of thumb is you want to increase model complexity until the model starts to perform worse on the validation set. So once you've chosen a particular model, you can increase its complexity and the parameters and so on, but as soon as it starts to perform worse on the validation set, you know, you've overfitted the training set and then the test set is sort of kept to one one side and it's, you know, it's not being involved in the selection of the model or anything like that. And so it provides a good final out of sample indication as to how well the chosen model works. Yeah, next slide please. Thanks. So this is this is an example that I use in the book. It's a pretty uh trivial example in a way, but it's for predicting salaries for people in a certain profession in a certain area as a function of age and we try out different models um didn't have a huge amount of data for this particular one. We try out different models which are just polomials polomials of the person age. So the first the extreme left model is a fifth order polomial and it fits it fits the data pretty well. But actually what it what is fitting is the um first 60% of data that you use to compare your models. Okay, it doesn't fit the validation set well. So it's overfitting. You find the linear model is underfitting and the best model actually for the data that I used was um was a quadratic model. So salary increases and then sort of slightly tails off as you get older. So it's an example of you know if you just it depends how much data you've got of course for um for comparing your models but it you know but it it quite often happens that you wind up overfitting a model and maybe we just go back a slide or to uh yeah so training sorry so the training so you use the training set but it's you know you find that you have actually fitted the training set really well but the model doesn't extend well to the validation set so you then say you've overfitted the training set okay so that's example of what I'm talking about increased model complexity until the model starts to perform worse on the validation set. Thanks, Peter. Let's uh let's move on. Neural networks. Well, maybe I I'll just stop there. Are there any questions that uh anybody really wants to ask or points anybody wants to make before we move on? Okay. If not, um, okay, let's move on to the next slide. And the next slide. So, we're now going to talk about neural networks. And here's a picture of an artificial neural network. It's abbreviated ANN. So basically what we're trying to do is to in this example predict something from certain variables. So the input layer would be the variables that we know. Okay. And the output layer are the one or more things we're trying to predict. Now I know I've got multiple variables in the output layer here. Typically though in many applications there's only one thing you're trying to predict. So let's think in ter I mean if there's multiple things you're trying to predict then obviously you've got to in terms of your objective you've got to wait how important is it to predict this one how important is it to predict that one and so on. So let you know let's just for the moment assume there's only one variable in the output layer. The models that you're most familiar with are models that predict the output from the input in one go as it were. Linear regression uh would be a classic example. Um but you know any any more complicated model is is also likely to you know predict the output directly from the input. The key thing that we're doing with an artificial neural network is we're not doing it all in one go. We're get we're using the input layer, the variables that we know to predict these variables in the first hidden layer. V11, V12, V13 and so on. And then we use those variables in the first hidden layer to predict variables in the second hidden layer. V21, V22, V23 and so on. And then the third hidden layer. So the key thing is about a neural network is that you're going through a number of stages in predicting the output from the input. It's not all done in one go. So we're not we're not writing down a nice neat equation for the relationship between the output and the input and predict predicting the parameters of that equation. We're saying there's a number of stages we go through in getting from the input to the output and um that makes the model of course a lot more flexible. Uh next slide. So what's the relationship between the values in one layer and the values in the previous layer? Well, what we're doing is we're relating the values at one neuron to a linear combination of values in the previous layer. And we're using these things called activation functions to do it. Maybe we go back a slide. Uh now, Peter, if we could. And so if we look here, V11 is related to the variables in the input layer, the variables we know, V 01, V 02, V 03. And what we do, what we do is we apply weights to those variables. So we have a weight times v 01 plus a weight time v 02 plus a weight time v 03 and so on. And then once we got this weighted average of the v 01, v 02, v 03, we apply a function to it to get v11. And then we do the same thing for v12. We take a, you know, a weighted average of V 01, V 02, V 03 and so on different weighted average and apply a function to it to get V12 and so on. And then to go from the V1s, V12s, V13s to V21, V22, V23, we do the same thing. So V21 for example, we take a weighted average of V11, V12, V13, V14 and so on and apply a function to it this activation function to get V21. Okay. And then so what are the thing is what are the parameters of this model? the parameters of the weights. What weights what weights do we apply to the V's in going from one layer to the next layer. Okay? And you know there's a lot of weights in this example that you got in front of you there because when we're determining V11, we've got a weight associated with V01, V 02, V 03, and so on. But if even if there are only three inputs, that's three weights. And then V12 is another three weights. V13 is another three weights and so on. So you can wind up with a lot of weights. But those are the variables that uh those are are the variables you're trying to determine. And then the activation function is something you apply after you've applied the weights. Okay. So, can we move on to the next slide now? So, you see a number of different activation functions that you could use. FY fy equals y means that you've just applied weights to the variables in the previous layer and then you've just haven't done anything else to them. You've just said that that's going to give you the value in the new layer. Now if throughout the whole neural network you just use the identity if you think about it you would just have a linear model. Okay. So if uh you know the variables in the first layer were a linear function of the input layer, the variables in the second layer were a line were linear functions of the variables in the first layer and so on and you went all the way through then it would just be a linear model and that wouldn't be very interesting because if we want to have a linear model we don't have to go through all this. However, as we'll see, you often use the identity just for the final layer. You see, sigmoid is a a popular um activation function. So sing the so once you've uh determined the uh weighted average of the variables in the previous layer you you take one 1 - 1 + e to the minus that to get the value at the new node and so on. hyperbolic tangent ru and so on lots of different activation functions. So you get the idea you've you're really saying that the relationship with between the output and the input is a kind of a convolution of a lot of these activation functions applied to weighted averages. Okay, next. Um so uh how do we actually solve the model? Well, basically you've got lot typically in in these in models you've got lots of parameter values all the different weights that you're applying and uh you say well you start off by assuming some values for the weights probably not very good values but you assume some values and then you calculate gradients you say Well, we're perhaps we're trying to minimize some value or or minimize a function. So, we're trying to determine the input values that will minimize some function. So, we calculate gradients to determine the direction in which the parameter values should be changed to improve things to actually make the function smaller. And then you take a step and then do the whole thing again. Calculate the gradients and move the parameter values again in a certain direction and so on. So it's it's it's a case of Phoenix somebody trying to call me. Um, so basically what you need is you're trying to minimize some function. What you need is the partial derivative of that function with respect to all these parameters, all these weights that define your model. Now that seems a pretty tricky task, but actually um there was I mean clever maybe you could say almost obvious way of doing this is to say what we're really talking about with this model is the final thing that we're interested in being a function of a function of a function. In other words, if you know, we're we're a function of the final weights and those final weights are a function of the weights that come immediately before the final weights and then those final weights, you know, so each weight and of course in in calculus we know how to calculate the gradient of a function. of a function of a function. So there are some clever shortcuts or um you know for calculating these gradients that you need to to sort of move the parameters in the right direction. Okay, you're not starting from scratch in terms of calculating each gradient. Uh next next slide please. So this is a very simple example but it illustrates the nature of what you're doing. I mean let's suppose you wanted to calculate the value of x that minimizes this function y = x^2 - 8x + 20. Of course you know we could all do this with calculus very quickly and x= 4 is the answer. But suppose we we were doing it in the way that I just described. Then we'd start with some estimate of x. It might be x= 1. Not a very good estimate. And then we'd look at the gradient of um of this when x= 1. And what is it? It's you know 2x minus 8. So it's the gradient is minus 6. So we move you know you know we move the value that we're looking at in the direction which um y which you know the gradient was minus 6. So we take the negative of the gradient because we're trying to minimize something and move it in the direction indicated by the gradient by a certain amount and we see that we're then at a little bit more than two. Then we calculate the gradient again. Move again. Calate gradient again. So you can see how this method would work in this very simple example where there's when there's only one thing that we we're having to estimate. Okay. And obviously when there's many things we want to estimate um it's the same basic principle except we're we're working in many dimensions. Okay. Uh next slide please. So we continue training the model until the results for the validation set diverge from those for the training set. We don't want to overtrain. Choosing the learning rate is important. The learning rate is how far we move. Once we've once we've estimated the gradient, we have we have to uh decide how far we want to move in the direction indicated by the gradient. And um that's uh well there are you know there are some clever ways of determining the the learning rate as it's called but clearly if we could just go back to the previous slide a moment um you can I think you can see here if you choose a really small learning rate then I mean the gradient at one would be the same but you'd move only very short amounts and then you calculate the gradient again and move a very short amount and so on. You'd never actually reach the bottom of the you never in a reasonable time reach the bottom of the curve. If you made the learning rate too small because the learning rate is just is determining how far you move once you've determined the gradient. On the other hand, if the learning rate is too big, you could oscillate and sort of move from above the minimum to below the minimum to above the minimum to to below the minimum and so on. So determining the learning rate is important and some you know you can do it by trial and error as I say there's some clever ways of of doing it as well. Okay. Um next slide please. Um it's also turns out to be best to scale the variables. When you're doing all of this and back propagation is used to calculate the partial derivatives that that's what I mentioned before, which is really just saying the partial derivatives, you're talking about taking the partial derivative of something which is a function of a function. We've known how to do that in calculus for quite a long time. Okay. Uh next slide, please. So here's, you know, one application that we've used it for. We may may seem a little artificial, but actually it's not as I'll explain in a minute. But basically, I generated 10,000 call option prices using the black shells model and added a normally distributed error. So I I generated a lot of data. I said that you know the asset price S the strike price K the risk-free rate um the volatility sigma and the time to maturity uh you you can see in the second bullet point there what I chose as the um as the ranges there. So we we we we sampled parameters randomly and then added a normally distributed error term to the black shells model and then said you know let's see how well the model can actually determine what the function is and actually use three hidden layers 20 neurons per layer and sigmoid activation function except the final layer and this is a point if I'd used the sigmoid activation function everywhere it wouldn't have worked because sigmoid activation function gives you a value between zero and one and of course the black shells m price is not between zero and one so I I I used the um identity activation function for the final layer. And that's not uncommon to use the identity activation function for the final layer because the activation functions you're using for earlier layers may be constraining the answer you get. And you know divided the observation between the training set validation set and the test set in the way that we were discussing earlier. 6,000 for the training set, 2,000 for the validation set, 2,000 for the test set. Uh we have the next slide please, Peter. So you can see um what happens the epoch of the training set is increased which just basically means you know we continue to try and match the training set data as closely as possible. It imp improves things for the validation set up to a certain point and then starts to get worse. See what's go going on better. Um, next slide we can sort of take a moving average. And this is so you can see what's going on here. We uh keep trying to improve the model but we stop after 2575 epochs. Just think about the epoch as a trial. Okay. So you can see that things improve for the validation set up to a certain point and then they then they seem to get worse. So it's best to stop. So the model that we actually wound up with was the model after 25 75 epochs. Um, next slide, please. So we only had 10,000 observations, but we found that the neural network actually imitated the black shells mer. In other words, the random noise that we added to the black shells mer prices didn't, you know, it managed to overcome that random noise pretty well. Okay, there more details about that in my book. So, the next slide. Now, you may say, well, that's a pretty artificial example. We don't need a model to you know we don't need to use neural networks to determine the black shells model um because we have a formula but it turns out that actually derivatives companies are are using neural networks to value exotic derivatives. There are some derivatives which can only be valued using Monte Carlo simulation and Monte Carlo simulation is slow. It can take, you know, three or four minutes to come up with a price. And if you've got, you know, if you got a client on the end of the end of the line, that may not be very good. So basically, instead of doing this for the blacksholes model, you could do it for some exotic derivatives model. I mean you run your multiolor simulation many many times to create data which relates the price to the inputs and then you create a neural network to replicate the prices as closely as possible and then after you've done that you have a really fast way I mean obviously you don't you know if you're doing this in the way that I'm describing you wouldn't actually add an to it. You You just want to create the prices as accurately as possible. And once you've got a neural network that will actually create these exotic option prices, you can then very very quickly calculate any new price you want to because all you're doing to work to calculate a new price is working forward through the neural network. you know instead of being three or four minutes it's uh you know almost instantaneous because you work as I say you work forward through the neural network to obtain the price and this this can also be useful for scenario analysis because scenario analysis can be very slow if you're having to calculate this exotic option over and over again using Monte Carlo simulation. But if you can if you've constructed a neural network to produce a price then it's you know much faster and scenario analysis is is perfectly feasible. Um can we have the the next slide please? Another thing we've looked at as part of our research is we've looked at uh the relationship between volatilities and um how volatilities change as the uh return on the asset changes. If you know this the standard way of doing hedging of course is to say well I mean let's talk about delta hedging but it applies to other hedging as well. With delta hedging you say well how does the price of the option change when the price of the underlying asset changes? And we'll assume that the implied volatility remains the same. That's the standard assumption. Implied volatility remains the same. And you you just calculate delta as the rate of change of the option price with respect to the asset price. Um but perhaps there's a tendency for the volatility to change as the um asset price changes. In other words, if there's a positive return on the asset, so the asset price goes up, there's less o overall the company is less highly levered. At least in the market value sense, the company is less highly levered and so maybe the implied volatility goes down. Whereas if the return on the asset goes down, company becomes more highly levered and therefore there's a tendency for the volatility to goes up. So maybe we should take this into account when calculating delta. So can I have the the next slide please, Peter? So we uh calculated um the neural network to investigate this and to see what's the relationship between the daily asset price return and the change in the implied volatility. And um so input layer had money time to maturity daily asset price return and the output layer had change in implied volatility. Next next slide please. Um these were all the um all the details. In the interest of time let's move on. Next slide please. We can see that you know we actually in this particular case found that uh validation set started to get worse after 5,826 epochs. You kind of see that see that a little bit in this diagram. So we stopped the training after 5,826 epochs. Next slide. It wasn't you know at first at first we're pretty disappointed with the result of this research because the um the test set which is final result it actually only gave an 11% improvement over a simpler analytic model that uh my colleague Alan White and I had worked on in 2017. So you know it didn't give a hugely better relationship between the return on the asset and the volatility. However, we played around with it a bit and when the VIX index was used as a feature, there was a further improvement of 60%. And what we found was that the behavior of the volatility surface was different in high and low volatility environments. In other words, if you want to predict what's going to happen to the volatility surface, so you know how to change the implied volatility when you change the underlying asset price, you really want to know whether you're in a high volatility environment or a low volatility environment. So that this actually gave kind of an interesting result which you'd be unlikely to get just playing around with the data. Uh, next slide, please. Okay, so um, we've got 20 minutes left, so let's use the last 20 minutes to talk about reinforcement learning, which has been a subject of quite a lot of my work over the last little while. Uh, next slide, please. So, what is reinforcement learning? is concerned with finding a strategy for taking a series of decisions rather than just one. So you're you're in some sort of an environment is changing in an unpredictable way and you have to decide well you've had to decide what decision you're going to take today. But you know you're going to have to take another decision tomorrow and another the next day. you know, you're going to be taking a series of decisions, not a single one. And uh this has actually been a hugely successful. It's a it's kind of like a trial and error kind of approach to this, but it's been hugely successful. I'm sure many of you have heard of um the success that software has had in playing games like chess and go that actually we've developed software that can be the best human players of chess and go. I used to play a lot of chess when I was younger and uh in a way it's disappointing but you know computers can now do this so much better than human beings. Uh next slide please. So the general model is you have actions, states and rewards. So you take an action um you start with a certain state which I call S0. You take a certain action time zero and that moves you to a new state and maybe you get a reward. Then you take another action which will move you to yet another state perhaps give you a reward and so on. So you got to look ahead and think of all the actions you're going to have to take not just at time zero but at future times and the states at future times are somewhat uncertain. Uh next slide please. So one of the fundamental I mean this is really a trial and error sort of process but um if you and obviously you you don't you don't know anything when you start. So you're going to sort of be choosing some sort of a random strategy and and then slowly over time you learn that you know doing this in this situation works out well whereas doing something else in that situation works out badly. And this is where exploration versus exploitation comes in. At any given time, there's a certain probability that you'll randomly choose a decision. Okay? And that's referred to as exploration. And there's a certain probability that you'll assume you'll choose the decisions that's actually worked out best so far, which is called exploitation. So, initially the probability of exploration is one because you don't know it. So you're going to randomly choose a decision and then over time you'll slowly reduce the probability of exploration and increase the probability of exploitation. And after a sufficient number of trials, you know, you'll probably decide that actually the probability of exploitation should be one. In other words, you've pretty much decided that you know you know what the best decision is in all different situations. So I don't know whether any of you have come across this game Nim okay but uh it's a it's a very simple game but uh it's a good game for illustrating uh how reinforcement learning works. So suppose we got two two players and you know so I'm playing against you and there's a pile of matches on the table and we take turns. Each each of us can pick up one, two or three matches and you lose the game if you have to pick up the last match. Okay. So part of matches take turns picking up one, two, or three matches and the person who has to pick up the last match loses. Well, if you are being good mathematicians, you'd work out how to play this game very quickly. Um, basically, I mean, let's suppose there are only five matches on the table and it's your goal. There are five matches on the table and it's your go, I'm going to win because if you pick up one match, I'll pick up three matches and you have to pick up the last match. If you know if you pick up two matches, I'll pick up two matches and you have to pick up the last match and so on. So if I can leave you with five matches on the table, I win. Then we can go one stage beyond that. Let's suppose I can leave you with nine on the table. then I can make sure I leave you with five matches next time because you know again there are nine matches on the table. You pick up one, I pick up three, you're then left with five matches on the table. Okay? You pick up two, I pick up two, you're left with five matches. And very quickly you decide that actually the way to win this game is to always leave your opponent if you can with four n + one matches. Okay. So I mean you know suppose uh n is five 4n + one is 21. So, if I can leave you with 21 matches, I will win because I'll leave you with 21 matches, then whatever you do next time round, I'll leave you with 17 matches and then the next time round I'll leave you with 13 matches and so on. So, okay. However, let's see how well the machine does at u working out this best strategy. And I'm going to assume there's only eight matches initially on the table, although you'll find on my on my website you can find some uh software for seeing how well the machine does in a lot of other situations. But um we'll assume that there's the reward is plus one from winning and minus one from losing and the your opponent behaves randomly. I can u change things so the opponent learns as well if I want to. But okay. So basically we start with this state action table. Okay. State is the number of matches to little left one to eight and the action is the number picked up. Next slide please. So basically as I say it's trial and error. So let's suppose I mean you don't know anything. So randomly you choose to pick up one match. Randomly your opponent picks up three matches. Randomly you choose to pick up one match. Randomly your opponent picks up three matches, you win. Okay, so we can update Q81. 8 being the number of matches on the table and the one being the number picked up. So the first argument is the number of matches on the table. The second is the number picked up. So we know from that that we have a trial where we win Q81 leads to a win and Q41 leads to a win. So we update Q81 and Q41. Okay. And we have to have a par an updating parameter. the formula formula for updating is is is there and we say well okay we don't want to update too much we'll give it 5% weight so we have the old Q SA plus 5% of the gain minus the old QSA and can we have the next slide On each trial, we observe certain states, take action in those states, and the gain used in updating the cues can be either the final reward referred to as the Monte Carlo method, or it can be the value at the next state, assuming the best decision is taken. So, you know, if I pick up You know if I pick up one match and you pick up one match then the value and there are six matches on the table and in terms of updating instead of waiting to see whether I win or lose I could just say how good is it for me if there are just six matches left on the table and that would be you know the way we would do the updating. So we start with the Q's all zero and then we update them in the way that I was describing. Um, next slide please. And uh, with the Monte Carlo method, which is where we wait and see whether we win or not, you can see I mean we all know that with eight matches on the table, if it's our go, we pick up three and leave our opponent with five matches on the table. That's the best decision. After a thousand trials, it hasn't really found the best decision. It still looks as though picking up one match is marginally better. The Q value is 0.562 as opposed to 522. After 5,000 trials, it's definitely beginning to look that it's best to pick up three matches and after 10,000 trials for sure. So, you see what's happening here. We're just doing more and more trials. And uh what what we did here was we had this epsilon parameter which is determines you know whether you behave randomly or you use the best decision that seems to have worked out so far. We have epsilon starting at one and having this decay factor of.9995. So it it it does appear that uh reinforcement learning finds the best decision. Uh next slide please. And if in fact it finds it even more quickly with temporal difference learning. This is where you look to see you know how much is it how much does it turn out to be worth to be in the next situation that you're in after you've taken the first decision. And it turns out that as often is the case, temporal difference learning works better than the raw Monte Carlo simulation. But it's definitely, you know, worked out that uh you know, it's best it's best to pick up uh three matches. It's not and it doesn't look so bad to pick up two matches or one match because remember your opponent's behaving randomly. So you and when you've learned a lot, you can behave much better than your opponent. I've done I've done other tests where the opponent is learning as well, in which case you you know picking up two matches or one match is going to allow your opponent to win. Um and so you have you know negative numbers opposite the two and the one. Uh next slide please. So so this is you know this this NIM game illustrates admittedly in a fairly simple situation how reinforcement learning works. Um, very often you've got a much more complex um, state action table to be sort of filled in. And uh, you have to sort of combine uh, reinforcement learning with artificial neural networks because you got this state action table. You're able to fill in some of the some of the numbers in the state action table but not all of them. But you you know there's some nonlinear general nonlinear function which is describing the whole table and you have to do the best you can with the numbers that you do have in the table. Uh next slide please. Okay so five minutes left. Um what I've been spending a lot of my time in the last uh little while on is saying you know can we use reinforcement learning for hedging derivatives. The traditional approach to hedging is of course Greek letters where you know you calculate delta, gamma, vega and so on and you're really you're really looking a very short period of time ahead because you're saying what's the uh partial derivative of the value of my portfolio with respect to whatever it is the underlying asset price volatility or whatever. um reinforcement learning sort of has has a different approach. It says let's take let's look several periods ahead and try and take a decision which will work well over our over our time horizon. So what have we found? Um next slide. This is my last slide. Um, so what we found is that, you know, we've found that, you know, in some situations using reinforcement learning for hedging, in other words, looking several periods ahead and seeing which strategies will work out best is um can be useful for vanilla options. It um it does about the overall it does about the same as the Greek letter hedging but it does save transaction costs and actually saves significant amounts of transaction costs because you can think about it this way you know you're hedging a vanilla option I mean let's just talk in terms of delta I mean you know let's suppose delta is 0.5 right now and delta goes up to 7 but maybe there's A-50% chance that at your next hedging date delta will go back down to 0.5. So the question is should you should you uh change you know should you do your hedging to reflect delta going from 0.5 to 7 even though you know there's A-50% chance it'll go back down to 0.5 or is it better to wait and see what happens over perhaps two time periods and the answer is if there's a lot of transaction costs it's better to wait. So we find reinforcement learning can save quite a lot of transaction costs even though we when you don't take account of transaction costs there's not a huge saving for for options typically okay and of course transaction costs are really important when it comes to vega and gamma hedging as well as some exotic options such as barrier options we find reinforcement learning produces superior results even when there are no transaction costs. And one of the nice things about using reinforcement learning is that you can choose your objective function. Okay? Whereas of course you can't do that with Greek letter hedging. So um you know we've experimented with you know looking at the tail of the distribution and var 95 is a shortand for you want the 95th percentile point of the loss distribution to be as high as possible or C bar 95 is where you want the conditional value of risk which is the average beyond on the 95th percentile of the loss distribution to be as low as possible. So, you know, you can have an objective function that focuses on the um things you're most concerned about, which is the perhaps the tail of the distribution. We find it's robust, gives good results during stress periods. And it's interesting JP Morgan is you know our main comp competitor in terms of doing this research is JP Morgan. JP Morgan's been doing a lot of um work looking at reinforcement learning for hedging. Of course the disadvantage of reinforcement learning is that it's much more computationally demanding than traditional approaches. you you've got to run these trial and error programs which you know can take a few minutes but they're getting faster. So whereas it it takes no time at all to calculate a brief letter. It it will take you a little while to calculate the best strategy for doing reinforcement learning hedging. But I think come back to my earlier point that computers are now sufficiently fast that um you know that that it's becoming a feasible tool. So uh brings me to my last slide. Um we're one minute over the four o'clock mark, but if anybody wants to ask any questions, I'd be happy to to answer them. Well, I have a question for you uh John. Um about the choice of activation functions um you know have you found as you did in this case that I guess it was was it the sigmoid function was uh was applied in your example or was it the reu? Yeah, we've we've had a lot of success with the sigmoid function. Um that may be just chance chance events or maybe there's something um special about the sigmoid function, you know. I mean, of course, there's nothing to stop you trying several different activation functions and seeing which works out best in a particular situation. Um and we did that in uh you know in our implied volatility research and we concluded that the sigmoid function works worked out best as a matter of fact but we we tried several different activation functions. So, but >> I think I if I remember correctly, all the activation functions we tried were pretty close to each other in terms of how well they worked out. >> So, I think choosing the activation function may not be in many situations anyway may not be a big deal. What you also have to think is you know how many you know how big do you want the models to be you know how many neurons per step how many steps in total and that sort of thing I think that's typ typically what happens you you know you're going to benefit from uh sort of building the neural network with say two layers and then use the results of that to add a third layer or is the three layer neural network just built independently? >> That's a good question. As far as I know, you've got to start from scratch when you go from say two layers to three layers. Uh you can't you can't use what you've done with two layers as a shortcut to doing three layers. I may be wrong there, but I don't think the same way. >> Right. >> Actually, for the class's benefit, um I checked your references um and uh on your uh Toronto uh website, you actually have material like uh the Python code for various examples in your book. So, I think students might find that very accessible and useful. Yeah. Yeah. There's very I should have mentioned this. Yeah. There's a lot on my website, you know, I think lots of uh lots of different things we've done at different times on um you know, on this sort of machine learning research. So, if you want to if you want to read more about it, um certainly my website would be a good place to go. Um how do you uh choose the objective functions in your examples? Was there um is some issues involved with choosing those specifically >> and what and what was and what was the difference between them? Uh yeah, I think I think every situation is different as far as that's concerned and you've got to you've got to think, you know, what what objective function fits in with with what I'm trying to do um in in in the particular situation that you're working on. Okay. I mean, if you're I mean, if you're if you got some exotic option and you're trying to match the price as closely as possible, then obviously it's the difference between the price you're trying to match and the price given by the neural network is going to be most, you know, there going to be an objective that you're trying to minimize.