Okay. So, so today we want to talk a little bit more about sequences and how sequence connect to um to um uh a function being continuous. And then the second thing we will talk about is metric spaces. So let me just remind you first uh that if you take a subset here say of r and you have a function on a into r then uh f is set to be continuous. Uh if for all x0 in a uh uh um the function is continuous is continuous at x0 and and it is the function is continuous. uh at x0. If um for all if for all epsilon greater than zero there exist delta greater than zero such that if the two points so x0 and this other point X they deviate at most by delta then their images deviate at most by epsilon and in general right this delta here depends not only on x0 but also on on epsilon. So delta would in general be expected to depend on both of these things. Okay, so this is what so we talked about this a number of times and we will also generalize this later in the lecture. So this is what it means to be continuous that it needs to be continuous at all points and this is what it means need what it means to be continuous at a point. Now, two things we talked about before is the extreme value theorem and the intermediate value. And I want to think about these two theorems in terms of sequences. And so this is and and and that's often a really useful way of thinking about it. So the extreme value theorem is that we have a function. So the extreme value theorem abbreviated like this. Um that's the theorem that say that if you take a function on some interval from a to b a and b are both included into r and this function is continuous then the claim is that then there exist then they exist. So one way I formulated it is that then there exist x m capital m this is something in that interval. So there exist some point that we call x capital m and and x little m also in the interval. And the first one has a property that for all x in x in the interval you have that f ofx is less or equal to the value at xm. So you have this and you also have that f ofx at this here is bigger equal to the value at this other point. Right? So this means in particular that the maximum and the minimum is achieved. It also means that the function is actually bounded on that interval. So that's a extreme value theorem and we talked about that before but I want to think about it in terms of sequences. So and the other thing I want to think about in terms of sequences is the inter the uh intermediate value theorem. So the intermediate values theorem say that um that all values let me just formulate it loosely all values between so sorry uh f here is as above. So f is again so you have again a function from there into r like this into r and this is is continuous. So you have this continuous function and then the intermediate value theorem. So a loosely formulated is say that all values f of a and f of b are achieved. So this means that if you take a function so you have a function it's it's this here is the value at the end point this here is here you have the value in the beginning then it's say that everything in between these two these here is the image of something right that's what the inter uh the intermediate I'm Okay. And I want to prove these two using uh sequences. And so in order to do that and we need the following lema which is which is often so again this here is like the definition of being continuous right but often you uh often when you're proving that something is continuous you would instead use this lema here. So if it's really an if and only if statement but I will just uh prove the if statement. So if f is continuous. So the it's only the if statement I need in this case here. But in other cases you it would it's useful to have the if and only if statement. So if f is continuous uh and xn so it's continuous um it's continuous let me just say where the function is defined so in this case it's just defined on some subset of r. If this is continuous and xn is a sequence in a and xn converge to x and x is also in a then then the claim is that then this sequence here converge to to this And sometimes remember that if this here is the case then we write this here as x is the limit of xn as n go to infinity. This statement here can be written as that f ofx is the limit as n goes to infinity of um of of this thing here. And so if you combine these two things, if you fill in x is equal to that, then this here can also be written as that f of the limit of x n as n goes to infinity. This is this right filling in this and then equal to the limit. So in a way if you want to think about it like it's something about that if it's continuous you can exchange the order of taking limits right okay so but but you yeah but that's like a more formal way in a way but I I always just think about like this okay so we want to prove this lema and so then we want to use this lema to prove these two theorems Okay. So now let's prove this lema. So uh so I want to show that that this so I want to show so we want to show that f of xn converts to f ofx. So I'm first going to use that f. So use first that uh f is continuous at this point x. So this is some point in a. So this means that given epsilon therefore given given epsilon greater than zero there exist delta greater than zero such that if x minus uh so any other element y if this thing here is less than delta then their images deviate at most epsilon right this is just using the definition that x here x here is now thought about as being some fixed point right a fixed point and then y is like any other point right okay so we have that but then we second we use second use that the sequence xn converts to x. So this means that now thinking about this delta here that this epsilon is spitting out. So this means that uh for this delta for delta there exist capital n. So that such that if little n is bigger than the capital n then actually x n minus x is smaller than delta right but you see that so now combining this so combining this uh So maybe I'll go over here. So combining this uh combining this then we get that if n here is bigger than capital n then x n minus x is smaller than delta. But this means that now if if they are smaller than delta then the first part say that their images so this means that f of xn minus f ofx is smaller than epsilon right and that's exactly what we wanted to prove to show that this that if you are sufficiently far out then these two things are very close together right so that was quite easy right Now I want to use this but this is like you know like you use this sort of thing to you know for continuity this is like a standard thing to use it's kind of used implicitly and again there's this one has a converse and the converse is also very useful. So now let's come back to the extreme value theorem and the intermediate value theorem. So now let's try to prove. So using the lema. So, so, so using the lema the lema uh we'll prove we'll show the extreme value theorem uh and the intermediate value theorem. Okay. And so now first to prove the extreme value theorem. So prove of the extreme value. I'm first going to prove that the image so first show that the image of this interval here is bounded. Okay. So this is what I first want to show and so I suppose not. So suppose not this means that um that um if I for each n for each n which is a integer let's say that it's not bounded from above right to show that it's not bounded from below is similar. So I'm just going to prove that is is bounded from above but but the proof that it is uh bounded from below is is similar with obvious modifications. So suppose it's not bounded from below above then for each integer there exist there must exist x in this interval so that such that f ofx is bigger equal to n right because otherwise n would have been an upper bound right and so I can So I just pick such a n. So pick such n x and and let's call it xn. Right? So for each n you now have xn and it has a property that f of xn is bigger equal to n. Okay. Now you have that that this gives you a sequence. So you have that xn here is a sequence. It's a sequence in sorry it's not in this interval here. But this means that it's so it's a bounded sequence. It's a bounded sequence. So that by the vias theorem theorem. So by the bolano vasium um it has a convergent subsequent X and K right so you have that X and K so this is this sequence subsequence and it converts to some X right but this means that but now this means that there are by the lema over there you have that this sequence this sequence then because the function was continuous converts to this right but on the other hand this here x n k is a subsequence of xn but this means that this number here remember that a subsequence just means that this here I mean it means in particular that this here would be further out than n. So, so you have that f of x n k is supposed to be bigger equal to n k but this is supposed to be bigger than n right? So, so these guys here, this here goes to these here goes to, you know, these here are are unbounded, right? But this on the other hand, we're saying that this sequence converts to this sequence. So any convergence sequence is bounded. So that's a contradiction, right? Okay. So that's that's so this is like proving first using the lema we have now that the image here is bounded from above the almost exact same proof with obvious modification give that is bounded from below. So now you have that the image of this is actually bounded from both above and below. And and now so now um so now this means that if you're looking at the image here you uh this here is a bounded subset. So this is is a bounded substance and so you can look at the soup of this set. You can look at the soup of the set. And I'm going to take the soup. I'm going to call this capital M. And now for each for each little n the n is an integer. Then I can look at m minus 1 / n. Right? So this is obviously strictly smaller than capital m. So it's not an upper bound. Right? So this means that for little n this here is not an upper bound for this set. So this means that there must exist a x. So so that you have this for some x in this interval here. Right? Because this here is not an upper bound. This means that there must be something larger than that. Right? And now so you just pick for each little n you just pick such a x and we call this xn. So we have that so xn is in the interval and we have that m -1 / little n is strictly less than f of xn. Remember that this thing here is of course obviously less than the soup over all images. So you even have that. Okay. Now, but now you see that now you have a sequence here. So now you have a sequence and so you have a sequence XN and so by the bulani. So by the bosani by the person why um this sequence here has a convergent subsequence. Right? This is because this is a sequence. The xn lie in this bounded interval. So it's a bounded sequence, right? So it has a convergent subsequence and this convergence subsequence I call xn k like that. So this is converging to some something and that something I'm going to call xm. Right? Okay. and I then will prove that this has the property that I wanted. Okay. So I have that and so I have because f was continuous then I have that the images converge to the image of this right this is by continuity of f right and the and by the continuity of f and the little lema we proved before mine so So you have that but now we have you see that this here tells us this here right we have this inequality here but this is just saying that as as n go to infinity this sequence here converge to m right so we also have that this sequence here converts to m this is just because it's squeezed It's squeezed here in this interval and this here is going this lower bound is going to the upper bound. Right? But but so if you have that this here is converging then any subsequence would also converge to the same thing. Right? So this imply that for the sub this here that is a subsequence of these but this is then converging to the same thing. So now you see that we have that this is converging to that but it's also converging to this by uniqueness of limits we have by uniqueness of limits. Then we have that f of x m is equal to this right and and capital m again was the soup. So this means that the soup is actually achieved. You found a point where the soup was achieved right. Okay. So that proves the extreme value theorem. It proves by one of the two parts of the extreme value theorem. It proved that the soup was achieved and the proof that the inf is achieved is is is almost identical with some obvious changes. Now for the intermediate value theorem, so let's try to prove that. So how do we prove the intermediate value theorem? and so so proof of intermediate values and I'm going to prove but it's not really I mean it is it's uh the general case follow uh easily from this so I'm going to make an assumption I'm going to assume that the value at A is strictly less than zero and the value of B is strictly bigger than zero. And then I want to show that zero is achieved as the image of something. Right? You can say that sounds like a special case. It is a special case. But once you can prove this, it's easy to uh get this the general case. You can either get it directly from this by modifying the function by or you can once you see how the proof of this go then it's easy to to prove it to set up the you know what are the different possible cases right and then prove the them using the same sort of argument as we do here. Okay. So, so this is what I'm going to show want to show that there exist x between a and b such that f ofx is equal to uh zero. So this is what we want to show. Now and again of of course the function f is obviously continuous. So now okay so now let me define a inter set. It's actually an interval. So I define E here to be the sets of uh of X between uh let's call this here. So I want to show that exists some um X let's call it X0 just to have something to refer to just it's I call it X0 because the value is going to be zero. So I define a set a a x e sorry e and this is the x in the interval but I'm now requiring that that f of y is lesser equal to zero for all y for all y which is between A and X. Okay. Now E here is not empty. E is not empty. E here is not the empty set. Why? Because actually a here this is since A here is in E. Why? Because if you take a then the value is actually strictly less than zero right and and and everything that lies in here but lies to the left of a well that's only a right so this is kind of trivial statement so this is not zero so now you can take the soup of this right so maybe I should make one more remark that of course not only is it not the triv the empty set but E here is bounded so the soup of E is less or equal to B right because E all of the elements in E are in this set so they're trivally bounded by B right so I now can look at the soup so the soup soup here is is a nice number and I can look at the soup and I claim so the claim here is that uh that so claim that if set or maybe maybe let me just first say set x0 equal to that soup V and then the claim is that f of x0 is actually zero. Okay. And so now you see that If you take um right. So now take uh look at the soup. So like so so for each for each n say integer if you're looking at x0 minus 1 / n right this is not the soup of e so this means that there exist an element uh that is there exist an element For for each n there exist an element which are called xn and this xn here and it's larger than this and the xn is in in e right but you see that that's for it to be an E then in fact this element has to be the value has to be less or equal to zero. So f of xn has to be lesser equal to zero right because since it's an e right so since it's in e then we have that right but now of course the xns the xns they converge this it's bigger than this but they're less than right the soup of all such guys. Right? So this means that the xn so the xn converge to x0 and so this means that f of xn converge to f of x0 right now this means that this here is so and these here are all non negative numbers. This means that this number here must be non- negative, right? If it's actually zero, then that's what we wanted, right? So, so we're done. If f ofx0 is actually zero. So we will assume so assume that f of x0 is then strictly less than zero. Right? But if the value here is strictly less than zero. If the value is strictly if this is the case then there exist then if you take so if you take so here you have here you have um here you have zero here you have f of x0. You can then take a little interval around it. And now so now take so take uh take epsilon bigger than zero. So that uh such that if um uh by such that um this thing here such plus epsilon this is still negative right so now I'm looking at so I'm going to look at so here I have f of x0 zero this is actually negative and I'm taking a interval around it so this is like a interval here we have f of x0 plus epsilon and here we have f of x0 minus epsilon right so I'm looking at this little interval here around f of x0 and here I have here I have x0 but now I I know that there is because the function is continuous. I know that there exist an interval. So there exists some delta. There exist delta delta bigger than zero. So that if I'm in this little interval, this is the interval from x0 minus delta x0 plus delta. If I'm looking at this little integ right so I have in other words I have that if x minus x0 is less than delta then uh f of x minus f of x0 is less than epsilon. But everything that is in this interim here is still strictly negative. So this means that in fact I have that f ofx uh is actually in particular this implied that such a f ofx is actually negative right and so now you see that that so now I want to get a contradiction because I know so I have now so now I have this picture Here I have my I have my X0 here. The X0 was supposed to be the the soup of the set A, right? And then I know that so I know that actually on a little interval around this Xure everything is T the if I take anything in a little interval around this x0 then the values of f under is are actually but you see that this x0 was was limits of points where everything to the left was was non-positive but so it means that everything to the left was nonpositive but then even a little bit further was still non positive, right? But then it wasn't like the soup, right? Because you could actually any here would be larger and it still would have the property that everything to the left was was uh under f was non negative. Okay, so that's like the proof of the extreme value theorem and intermediate value theorem using this using sequences and using that little lema from before. Okay. So now the next thing I want to talk about is another really important concept and that's a generalization to some extent it's a generalization of things we know from the real numbers. Um and so this is this concept of a metric space and so let me just give you a definition and then I'll give you a bunch of examples. So a metric space it's a set X. So this is the set and then it's a map for each pair of points. So let me explain what this what I mean by this. So whenever you have x in in x and and another element in this space then when you have any such pair then d x comma y this is should be this gives you a real number. Okay and so this here is what you usually call the distance between X and Y. Okay, that's the distance between X and Y. Now, what property should this have? It's just it's not just any any map from the space the space cross itself into R. It has three properties. The first is that the distance between parent points I mean and then there are generalization of this but but anyway so I'll talk about it that's generalization like if you're working with like general relativity then you would actually not quite work with this definition you work with some generalization of this but so what property should this distance have it should have three properties The first is that for any x and y the distance between any two points should always give you a non- negative number. Right? So this here should be non- negative. And if the distance between two points is zero then those two points should be the same. So in fact the distance here is equal to zero if and only if x is equal to y. Okay. So that's the first property. And the second property is so just that distances are non- negative if you will. The second property is that if you looking at what is the distance from X to Y, the distance from X to Y should be the same as the distance from Y to X. So this is so this is this and this is sometimes referred to that is symmetric. It doesn't matter whether you first you begin at X and go to Y or you begin at Y and go to X. And then the third thing which is kind of like the non-trivial part of it and the thing that makes it really useful which is called the triangle inequality that if you have three points X Y and Z in this space and you're looking at the distance from X to C. So if you imagine that you take you have three points X Y and then you have another point C sorry no it's not so X you have three point X Y and Z but you think about that you're looking at the Well instead of going kind of directly from X to C. If you went over y then this distance here should be longer than if you went directly. So this thing here should be less or equal to the distance from x to y plus the distance from y to c. And this here is like the non-trivial part of it. And this is called the triangular. Now what are some examples of this? And then let's look at a bunch of examples. The first example is the first example is just is just where x is r and so you have two points in x in r and now the distance between them is simply x minus one right this is obviously non- negative if It's zero that means that x is equal to y. It's obviously also symmetric. And the triangle inequality is this inequality that we're using all the time. Right? Another example uh is uh if you're looking at where x here is r squ say and then you're looking at you're thinking about x and y you may think about it as vector or whatever you want to think about it. So this means that X here has coordinates X1 and X2 and Y has coordinates Y1 and Y2. And now the distance between these two points is just the square root of x1 - y1 squared plus x2 - uh y2 squared. That's the distance. And this here is often referred to as a uking distance. Right. So this is this distance that you know this is like the distance is given by pagas here. Right. And so that is so it's clear the first two property but those are always clear and the triangle inequality that's the one that sometimes is tricky to prove. Okay. So that's another example of AI want to give you a few more examples. Uh and so another example is like where you do this in R3 and so you have instead of points having two coordinates they now have three coordinates and you do the same sort of thing but now there would be a third term in under the square root sign which be the square of the difference between the third coordinates. Right? Okay. Uh then then let me give you a few more examples. Uh there's a one that is to some extent simpler than this one here and it's sometimes useful but it's not as useful as the as the ukian distances. And again these sort of things are generalized there are you know example of something much more general like this here is what's called a helper space example of a helper space the next is some something which is example of something called a bar space but so the next example I will look at is what is sometimes called the box distance and so if space in this case is is R2. I mean you could do it in R3 also if you wanted and you take two points here X and Y in R2 and so so X this here underline X has coordinates X1 and X2 and now the distance between these two points would be uh would be you didn't do this fancy thing with square root but you did the more trivial thing where you're just adding right so you're taking two points here in R2 this is maybe x1 comma x2 this is y1 y1 comma y2 the ukian distance is simply this distance here the box distance is where you take this distance here and you add in this distance here so this is this here plus uh x2 2 minus Y2. That's a box distance. And obviously this is a non- negative. It gives you for any pair. It's non- negative. It's obviously symmetric. It doesn't matter the ordering of these two, right? It's just switching the order, but you're taking absolute value sign anyway. So it doesn't matter. And it's also clear that it's zero if and only if these two points. It means that the coordinates are are the same, right? So and and then in this case the triangle inequality is not very hard to establish, right? I mean proving the trigon even just for the ukleian are non-trivial thing. Okay. Now so that's another example and I want to give you a few more examples. Here's a sort of interesting um example. that if you take suppose you take a interval let's just make the interval from 0 to one so suppose you're looking at the interval from 0 to one and now looking at so this here this is now your space x and so this means by that I mean that that x x consist of so x there consists of. So an an element in X is an element in X an element in X is a continuous function on the interval from 0 to one. So this means that if you take two elements So if you take one continuous function on the interval from 0 to one and another continuous function what should be the distance between two continuous functions right well the distance here so this here is defined to be the maximum of so if you're looking at the if you're looking at f minus g if f is continuous. G is continuous. This here is continuous. Right? So this means that and now this is a continuous function defined on this interval. So the extreme value theorem say that the maximum in so this here is continuous and in fact even this here is continuous. So the maximum of this here is achieved. So this is the maximum where x is in 0 to one. So this is achieved right and this is clearly again symmetric because of the absolute value sign is clearly symmetric uh in terms of f and g. It's also clear that it's non- negative and it's also clear that it's zero if and only if the two functions are the same. And in this case it's quite easy to prove that uh that this is a um a metric. Okay. So maybe I'll just leave that. Okay. Now I want to give you a couple of more examples and then then I'll stop with examples and talk about I want to give you a couple of more examples. And the the two next examples are one is um one I mean so and the reason why I want to give you two other examples is that it's the I mean just so you know a lot of things about distances already and this give you excellent intuition to proving many things but you should just keep in mind that a metric space could be very wild. Okay, so I give you an example of some strange and directly wild metric spaces. So the first one is kind of a strange and then I'll give you another example which is which is wild. to the strange one to a strange example. And so this is like if you're looking at the integers. So the space is now the integers. And so you want to look at what is the distance between two integers. Right? Now of course your sort of intuition would say that if one dis one integer is really large and the other one is not very large you would think that the distance was large right but it doesn't have to be large so I defined this distance to be 1 / n minus one / m this here gives you so the absolute value of the difference of one over each of Um this here gives you a distance and and in particular um you see that if both N and M are really large then they are in this metric they're very close together right it looks like that the distance is very small now instead of actually proving that this thing here is so you could try to prove so I mean The as usual to prove that this is a metric the first and second property the property that is non- negative that's obvious. It's also obvious that is zero if and only if n and m are the same. It's also obvious that it's symmetric right the triangle equality might be not quite as obvious. It's not very hard in this case, but it actually is a triviality because you could think about this one here as a map. Suppose you take a map from the integers into the real numbers and the map is just that you take a the image of a integer. It's just one over it. If you think about the usual distance over here, right? And so the usual distance by that I mean that the distance between X and Y is just this, right? If you think about this but now thinking about that sinks here that's that's and so you think about the usual distance but you're now restricted to everything not just all real numbers but just things that are one over integers right on that space it gives you a a metric okay and but then you can just think about that this gives you another way of labeling things. And so it's kind of a triviality that it is a metric space. But it but distances looks a little counterintuitive because right if you have two very large numbers then actually the distance between them is small even though those two large number could be very far apart. Okay. So the other thing the the last example I want to give you that's a kind of example of a wild metric and so this is this is one vitamin and so essentially all of these occur naturally um and so this example is what's called the French well metric right? Which is maybe not a super flattering name uh but probably accurate. So the thing is that if you travel in France, if you travel, so if you imagine that this sort of as France here, here you have Paris and if you want to go to the French Riviera, which is maybe down here. So, two cities on the French Riviera that are incredibly close together is K uh and Nice. This is Can and here you have Nice. They're very very close together. But if you were going to go with the French railroad, then you would have to go to Paris first. I mean, so this here would take you maybe 20 minutes uh by train if there was a train, but you have to go to Paris first. And that's really far, right? I mean, the good thing is that the French have this TGB, which is this incredible fast train, but it still would take him many hours. Okay. And so that's the idea of the French railway metric that the space here is is R2. And if you take two points X and Y in R2. Now if then what is the distance between this this pair? So the distance between the pair is uh the distance here is distance between x and y is um if um if x and y lie on the same. So imagine that this here is Paris and so just think about Paris as being the origin. So if X and Y lie on the same line, so lying on the same line just means that X here is equal to some constant, right? If this has Y, then X is like a constant times Y. Or you could have I mean if one of them was zero then you could have that y is equal to constant times x. So this just means that these x and y lie on the same line. Okay. So if they lie on the same line. So if x here is equal to c * y or y is equal to c * x for some uh real number. If that's the case then it's just the the distance between them. It's just like this usual distance here right between them. But if they don't lie on the same line, they may lie on two lines that are very very close together. Then the distance here would be the sum of these two otherwise. Okay. So that's a French word mic if I didn't have some sort of strange properties some somewhat counterintuitive properties. Um the next thing I want to talk about is um is convergence in a metric space. So a lot of the things we have done generalizes to uh general metric spaces. So first let's talk about what is a sequence in a metric space. So now you have a metric space here. So this is a metric space and a sequence xn is a sequence. So if you have a maybe I should say like before that if you take a map from the integers into X. This is is a sequence and as before the image of a integer you would usually denote it like this. Right? So this is the same definition that we use for the wheel. So this is a sequence a subsequence a subsequence of a given sequence. Well, then then you have another map another map G from the integers into the integers and it's supposed to be strictly increasing. And then you're looking at f of g of n. And you think about this, you will typically write it like this. f of g of k say and you would typically write this as n k right this is a subsequences right right so it's just exactly like the way we define it for for the real numbers okay now that a sequence is converging in a metric space that makes also sense So suppose that you have suppose that you now have a general metric space and xn is a sequence in x then we say that we say that that xn converts to x. So, so x here is another element in x. If for all uh epsilon greater than zero, there exist there exist a capital n. So that if little n is bigger equal to capital n uh then the distance between xn and x is smaller than epsilon. This is what it means to converge. Now similarly the concept of big accusence this also extends to metric spaces. So accus the following. So it's a sequence. So, so a cruise sequence let's call it xn it's the following that for all for all epsilon greater than zero there capital n such that if uh little m and little n are bigger than this capital n then the distance between them is smaller than epsilon. This is what it means to be a sequence. Okay. Now we have a theorem that is like the same theorem. The proof is like the same proof but we'll just go over it. So we have a theorem let's say that if you have a this theorem is the following that so again x comma d is a metric space and if XN is a convergent sequence in X then XN is a cushy sequence is also accus C sequence. Okay. Now, how do we prove this? So, the proof really is kind of the same as we did before. So, prove so we have that xn converge. Let's say that the limit is x. So this means that given given epsilon greater than zero there exist if little n is bigger equal to capital n then the distance here and I'm using now in a definition of convergence I'm using not epsilon But epsilon / two, right? So I have that, right? But this means that if you take therefore if little M and little M if they're both bigger than capital N and you're now looking at the distance from X M to XN. Well, by the triangle inequality, this thing here, it's it's worse or it's certainly not better if you go over this other point. But you see this one here and this one each of them is smaller than epsilon over two. So this thing here is so the difference here is bounded by epsilon as it should be. So this proved that if you take a convergence sequence then it is a cushy sequence. Remember that cushi convergence theorem was saying that in Rh if you have a cushi sequence then it was also convergent right but that actually fails this is not true and it's like some important property of a metric space if it has the cush convergence property so let me give you a very simple example so suppose that your metric space. So the space here, let's just take the interval from 0 to one. And what is the distance between two elements? So x and y are in this interval from 0 to one. What is the distance? I just take the usual distance, right? But now if I'm looking at this sequence here xn which is 1 / n right this thing here is a cushy sequence. It is a cushy sequence. Right. Right. Because when n and n are really large then both of them is close to this end point right but they don't converge because they in the larger space are they converge to zero but zero is not part of the space so they don't converge to anything in this space right so this is an example so this is an example so so it's a sequence but XN does not converge in x zero. This is because zero is not part of this interval, right? And zero would have to be the limit. Yeah. Is that the only >> No, no, this but this is this does provide an important example of counter examples because then it becomes like a question can you make the space cushy complete okay and sometimes you can sometimes you can't so but it's that's a good question and and but it is I mean it seems utterly trivial example but it's not I mean it is kind of I mean it does show you this sort of important part that you uh that is useful. It's often useful to have the kushik convergence property and so can you enlarge the space to to get that property. Um okay uh let's talk about uh what it means for a function to be continuous also. So uh and now so now I want to now I want to think about so I have a so I want to think about continuity for general metric spaces and one can do this even more generally but let me settle on something sort of in between something more general and and what we already have. So I have a metric space here and I'm thinking about that I have a map from this space into R and then I I want to and so what does it mean for this function here to be continuous? So f is continuous at some point x0 in this space. If for all epsilon greater than zero they exist. They're also greater than zero. So that if the distance between X and this X0 is smaller than delta then their images is epsilon close together. Okay. So you see this is kind of like you know this is like a kind of obvious generalization of how we defined continuity at a point for when x was part of r. And so of course the function is so this is a continuous in a point and so f is set to be continuous if it is continuous uh at all points. Okay. So this is what it means for a function to be continuous. Um okay. Now uh let's just let me just give you an example of something like this. So remember before we looked at the continuous functions. So we looked at where the space was the continuous function on the interval from 0 to one and we said that the distance between two continuous functions defined on the interval this thing here is um is the max of the differences here like that. And that was that's quite easy to see, but it's a good exercise to do. It's quite easy to see that this is a metric. Now I can so I have so this is a metric space. So now I can think about so now here's an example of a function. This is a function that is like evaluating. So, so now you see this getting a little bit abstract because now I'm thinking about a function on so I now looking at the function so from x into r but in this case x here is a space of continuous function on the interval. Okay. So what should be my So my is now supposed to be defined on a continuous function, right? And I just take it to be equal to the value of this continuous function at the initial end point initial point in the interval. Okay. And I claim that this function here so so the claim is that this capital f is continuous. So, so again it's it's it's it's like continuous in this sense that you have this general metric space and this here is sort of just so that it lines up with with u with the example. So we have this general metric space and we have now a map from this general metric space into R. This is definitely a map from this general metric space into R. Right? And I claim that this is continuous in this sense here. Okay. And uh and that's also quite easy to prove. And let me just give you uh so let me just make one observation. that if I'm looking at this thing here, so this is the image or under this map in one continuous function and then I subtract the image in another continuous function and now I'm looking at this difference here. But this thing here is nothing but f of zero and this is nothing but g of zero. Right? But you see that this is obviously less or equal to the maximum of all x in this interval of f ofx minus g of x. Right? Like that. But that is the distance between these two elements of this general metric space. Right? And so you see that you see that this here is an example with that if you so for given epsilon I'm going to pick delta equal to that epsilon because if these guys here are now epsilon close by this inequality their images is also epsilon close right so so this map is clearly continuous okay so I'll stop here so there's a little lema in the note that we didn't go through and that lema is just the lema that I had over here that if I had a a continuous function and I have a sequence that converge to a limit then I could exchange the order of limits and the same proof works in a general metric space. Okay. >> Okay. Great. >> Yep. >> What kind of properties do you need to kind of like space like some kind of like closure under >> Yeah. Yeah. Right. That's right. I mean, so addition, right, is something about a field, right? And so in for these spaces, I mean, you know, most of the things I looked at here, I mean, some of it does. I mean, like the continuous function has some structure. The space of continuous function has some structure. It's not exactly a field, but it has some of those properties, some of these algebra. It's like a a important example of something called a sea star of algebra. So it's have this algebraic structure. Um but but it's not the algebraic structure you need in order to be completeness, right? It's not that. Yeah. And and it's like but it and and yeah um I think it's sort of taken us a little bit far field but it's the same. You see this sort of property also in uh in you see it so the these are prop you know like metric space is extremely useful you see it all over the place I mean like one of many places where you see it is also in general reactivity and in general reactivativity the space you looking at are typically not complete okay so so that you know there's something about that is you know that you reach something in finite time you reach it you you're going this is like the same thing that you reach like the end of things anyway but yeah but it's not the algebraic property that is is used for