Okay. So, right let me just so let me just quickly review some what we have done so far in the class. So we talked about first we talked about R as a ordered set and field. Then we have talked about sequences and limits. Uh and then we talked about series and then finally we have talked about and this is where we will continue today. we talked about metric spaces and so the the idea here is that uh we want to there's a lot of things that from the from R that actually generalize uh and make sense um and some of those are sequences and limits so they generalize from R to metric spaces there other things that don't generalize like it's not a order a general metric space is not a it doesn't necessarily come with a ordering and it's not like a field uh and uh in particular you can't typically you can't sum elements so a series doesn't make sense either right but but these things here make sense in a metric space and so let me just remind you what is a metric space. So a metric space uh is uh a set. So x is a set and then there is a distance function. So this is a map from x cross x into r. And for each two pair of elements uh uh x and y in x you have that let me make it a capital like x like this for every two elements in in this set the distance between them should be positive and it should be non- negative and uh n equal to to zero. The distance between two points should be zero if and only if this points are the same. Right? And then it should be symmetric. So two property two is that it should be metric. So it doesn't matter whether you go from x to y or from y to x the distance is the same. then and the third which is like the most non-trivial part is the triangle inequality. So this here is symmetric. And the third property is that if you're looking at X, Y, and C, so you have three points and you go from from X to C, then it's certainly not further than if you first go to from X to Y and then go from Y to C. Right? So this should be less or equal to the distance from X to Y plus the distance from Y to C. And so this third property here is is what's called the triangle inequality. So this is the triangle inequality. Okay. Now, so that's that's what a metric space is. And again, the the the sort of canonical example. So the canonical example of a metric space is where you're taking x equal to the real numbers. And then for two real numbers, the distance between them is just where you're looking at the norm of the difference. Right? So this here is a nice distance, right? It's clearly non- negative. It's clearly equal to zero if and only if x is equal to y. It's clearly symmetric. And the triangle inequality is this inequality that we've used all the time, right? The same. So this here is um slightly more fancy version of the same is where you're looking at uh R2 So the X here is is R2 or it could even be a general Rn. And then if you think about two elements in Rn and you think about say X here as it's written as X1 comma X2 up to XN where each of these X's are in R and they are in many of them and likewise for Y and then the distance here, the natural distance is where you're taking uh this is what's called the ukidian distance. It's given by pagras. And so it's the square root of the sum of the squares. So x1 - y1^ 2 + x2 - y2 plus and then all the way up to xn - y squ and so you see that if n here is equal to one well then each element is just a single element in R and so then this thing here is really the same as that right because it's a square of X - Y it's a square of this distance and then you take the square root so it's the norm okay so this these here are both of these is called the ukian usually referred to as a ukian distance So we looked at a few other example and and I won't look at all of them again but just two more. One is this with a box distance and let me state it only in R2 but you could just like this you state it in any RN. So the spaces are two and um and the the distance between two elements. So again we write it like this and we think about x as being x1 comma x2 where these are real numbers y = y1 comma y2 and then this distance here is the sum of the of the of these distances these. So this a plus x2 minus y2 like that right and this is clearly again symmetric it's clearly non negative it's clearly equal to zero if and only if x and y are the same and the triangle inequality well that just follow quite easily from the triangle inequality for this distance okay then there is one more example I mean there's There's other you know uh but there's one or more example that is often useful to keep in mind and this is uh the last one I will review and so this is the uh the continuous function. So if you take a interval a and b are real numbers and you're looking at the interval from a to b where both end points are included and then you look at the continuous function on this interval and then if you have two elements f and g so these are continuous each of them are continuous functions. Then the distance between these two continuous functions is equal to the max over x and then f ofx minus g of x. Right? And so x here is in the integral from a to b. Right? And so this thing here so this here was on the midterm this particular example and uh this thing here that the max is achieved is just like if you're looking at these two functions then this is the difference between these two functions. So this is also continuous and this means that the maximum at the minimum by the extreme value theorem is achieved on an interval of this form. Right? So this thing here is really achieved and it's clearly non- negative and it's easy to see that it has the other property of a metric space. Okay, so these are just the examples that we talked about. Uh and I just wanted to remind you uh and so then the question is what generalizes what generalizes from uh R. So, so right. So, we started with a class uh talking about R and uh you know right so it was order field but but a lot of the things we talked about for R these subsequent things we talked about sequences and limits they as we will see make total sense uh in in a general metric space and has important consequences uh including to solve differential equation equations and or solving all kind of equations including differential equations. Okay. So now let me remind you also. So we talked about that if we have h if this here is a metric space then a sequence in a metric space. This is just a map is is a map from the natural numbers into x. So a sequence is like a map like this. And so usually the image of the n element this we will typically denote again like this xn. So this is what a sequence is. Uh a subsequence. This is a this is defined very similar to what we did on the real line. So a subsequence is the composition of f with an increasing strictly increasing map. Uh G from the natural numbers into in and then the sequence is then uh where you looking where you apply first G and then you apply uh F right so this gives you when you first apply G then it gives you another natural number and so this thing here the image of this is then a element in X right so that's a subsequence and again this will strictly increasing guarantee you that the elements appear in the same order. You're picking a selection of them, but they appear in the same order as in the original sequence. Okay. So, so sequences and subsequences make sense. Um, we can then also talk about and I know we talked about but I just want to because of the break I just want to review quickly uh a few of the things we talked about right before the break. So one is that so uh a convergent sequence in a metric space. So if you take uh if this here is a matrix space and xn is a sequence in x xn xd sorry um then um then we say that we say that xn converge 2x. If the following hold that for all for all um for all uh epsilon greater than zero there exist capital n such that if little n is bigger equal to capital n then uh x n the distance between xn and this limit should be less than epsilon right so that's exact parallel to how we defined the limit of a sequence or that a sequence is converging if it was a sequence in r and likewise we can define a cruise sequence in a metric space. So we define a C sequence a C in a matrix space XD. So this is a sequence. So that for all since is a sequence xn such that for all epsilon greater than zero there exist uh capital n such that if little n m and little n are bigger equal to capital n. Right? So remember that a crique sequence mean that the tail is bunching together. This means that if you're sufficiently far out then these elements xn and xm are epsilon close together. So this is what it means for a sequence to be a cy sequence. And so now we have this theorem and I think I mentioned it before the break but let's just quickly run through it. It's very short. So uh if you have um so if this is a metric space then the theorem is that any any uh convergent sequence is also accuracy sequence and the proof is like this. So given given epsilon uh since since xn is a convergence sequence so you assume that xn is a convergence sequence that's called the limit x. Since xn converts to to x, this means that there exist there exist uh capital n such that if little n is bigger equal to capital n, then the distance between little x, little n and uh nx here, this distance here is less than and then I use epsilon / two. And so this means that therefore if little m and little n are both bigger than than capital n then the distance between the two distance between this these two elements here. Well, by the triangle inequality, we have that this distance is less than if you go over the point x. So if you go from xn to x and then from x to xm like that, right? But each of these because both of these uh both little n and little little m and little n are bigger than capital n then both of these distances are bounded by epsilon / two. And so you see that this thing here is smaller than epsilon. Right? So this proved that in a metric space any convergent sequence is also a cush sequence. And we we saw that. So we know that if we if the metric space is R with the usual ukian distance then actually uh you also and that was the cush convergence. So the cushy convergence. So cushive convergence. It said that in if x comma d is r with the ukian distance. So I denote the ukian distance like this. Uh then then we also have then we have the converse so i.e uh i.e that any cushy sequence this uh is also convergent. Okay. Now we looked at a very simple example and and if I have time I will talk about a a little bit more interesting example uh otherwise I'll talk about that next time. So if uh so so if the metric space was was uh was r with a ukian distance by then we had a converse but if the metric space was say so we looked at where the metric space was so where x here the set was the interval from 0 to one and the distance here was just the usual ukian distance right so then if you Looking at the sequence xn one / n. This one here. This is a sequence in this space. It's a cusy sequence but it doesn't converge in this space because zero is not part of the space. Right? So it so so this here is a cis. So this you may say this is rather trivial uh example. not very interesting. Um, I'll show you another example a little bit later or next time uh that is more interesting but in a in in in some sense has some of the same feature that the space is just not quite large enough. Okay, but it will seem more interesting. So this here is a CI sequence that is not convergent. Okay. Right. So, so again you know the cushy uh bite. Yeah. So this leads to the following this leads to the following notion here that um that so this is the following definition. of being cushy complete. So a space a metric space x comma d is cushy complete. If uh every cushy sequence is uh convergent. Okay. So now uh let me define some uh some so if let me begin with extending some notions from uh from R. So the first one I want to extend is what it means in a metric space what what is a ball. So, so we have here so a metric or so we have a metric space we have a point in the metric space we have some r which is a real number positive real number and then we define uh p r of x Here this here is the set uh y in x so that the distance from x to y is less than r strictly less than r. Okay. Uh and so this here is called this here is called the metric ball. This set here it's called a metric ball or just a ball uh uh with radius R and center uh X. Okay. Now um let me just sort of illustrate it. So if you so a lot of the intuitions about metric spaces but you have to be careful because sometimes that intuition fools you just because metric spaces are allowed to be very general but a lot of the intuition about metric spaces come from just thinking about things in ukian space. So now when I'm talking about ukarian space I'm thinking about mostly about it could be on the line. So in the case where x's are or it could be in a plane where x's are two or it could be where x is three. And so in either of those three cases the distance is the distance that you're used to which is the ukidian distance we talked about. And so you if in that case if you take a point here so just thinking about the example where let's think about the example where x is two then a ball here well a usual ball is really just everything that is the distance r from x right so this is kind of what I defined over here right there's another thing you could also look at some other sets. So imagine that you take a line in the plane and you could look at or maybe this could even be it would look more interesting if I'm thinking about a line in R3. So imagine that this is now sort of this is supposed to look like in our tree and then you could look at a line and you could look at instead of looking at a metric ball you could look at a tupler neighborhood. So suppose you're looking that that's very similar to a ball. So tubular neighborhoods let's say our tubular neighborhoods this is where you know you have some positive number R and you're looking at everything that is that has distance at most or let's say strictly less than R from this line. So if you do that that would look like a cylinder where the boundary of the cylinder is not included because I require things to have distance strictly less than R. Right? This is like this here would be a R2 neighborhood of a line. So this is just to say that this sort of notion here of a ball you could even have something more general and both of these things right that you know well from ukian space they make sense in just a general metric space right you know line maybe doesn't make sense right sometime often it does actually but it's uh but that's something more complicated but you could just think about it as a subset and then things that have distance strictly less than r to that subset. Okay. Okay. So, uh right. So, this is what it means for a uh this is what a a ball is metric ball. Then there's a the notion of a subset of a metric space being bounded. So, a bounded subset So this is another definition bounded subset uh of a metric space. So we have a matrix space here and we have a is a subset and we say that a is bounded. Uh if there exist um if there exist uh x an element in this metric space and d is some d is some positive real number such that a here is contained in the all of radius D center at X right now with this. So there's a few things like this that we'll see uh you know for for these things the empty set right the if you take X and you take the subset that has no elements that's the empty set then it's it's you know the empty set is is contained in everything right so actually the empty set would be bounded okay um but it's not a particular interesting example of a bounded Right? And it may be that the whole metric space right it's possible that the whole metric space is bounded right if it was like a interval right if it was just a interval where both in in so first you have some interval from a to b then this thing here is uh if you think about the usual distance on that interval then that's a boundary set the whole the whole set x is bounded so in particular any subset would also be bound. Okay. So now uh let me just prove one theorem uh one little lema that is another thing that generalizes from R and that is that if you take a cushy sequence so any cushy sequence is bounded. So let's throw this So, so we have again a metric space. Uh, XN is a C sequence and then we think about the set XN, right? So this is this subset of X and I claim that this subset here this subset here. So A here uh is bounded. Okay. Now why is that the case? So since Xn is a cruisy sequence if I choose epsilon with so with epsilon say equal to one you have that there exist capital n. So that if little n and s just then if little n and little m bigger than capital n then the distance between the two smaller than one right this is just using that is sequence and just pick using one particular epsilon namely uh taking epsilon to be equal one. So now of course this means and now you don't need this event for all of these. You don't need it like this. You just need so in particular therefore uh as long as n is bigger than capital n. Well you can use one of you can use m here. You can use capital n for m. So then this here say therefore for little end bigger than this we have that this in here the distance to this is smaller than one right and so now so now you have that if you if you now set r equal to uh 1 plus the maximum of the distance from uh uh x n x capital n to x i where i here is runs from one up to capital n minus one. So there are n minus one of these right that you take the maximum over right. So if you define little r to be like this then obviously little r is some positive number it's finite right uh and and you have that and and now I claim that our set a here is contained in this ball here around xn. So I claim I claim this thing here. Now let's see. So why is this the case? So if we have if x here if capital so we need to prove that we need to show that for all and you have that the distance here is less and not right if that's the case then the whole set here would lie in in in in this board right but you see that if n here well if n is bigger equal to capital n but this remember that then we have then we have So this is uh right. So we need to show this in here. If little n is bigger than capital n then we have that the distance from this little end to this one here. Right? The tail tail was less than one. Right? But this thing here is actually right by this is actually less or equal to r because it was one plus this maximum and then this is maximum over non- negative numbers. Right? So you see that for the whole tail we have this property but for all the other ones right for n less or equal less than n minus one right these are the the remaining ones well there the distance from x n to x capital n Uh it's this is one of these guys, right? So it's clearly this one here is clearly less than capital, right? And it's really strictly less than because that's this one also, right? Yeah. >> Does it have to be one plus the max or could it be the max of one for all those elements in the sequence? >> Uh I wanted it's this one here to be strict. It's just a silly thing, but that's why I took it like that. Yeah, because otherwise this would be sweet. But it's just a a trivial thing. Uh, and it doesn't matter very much. If at this stage it makes no difference actually, but it was just to use this. We'll talk a little bit more about the balls because there is another way, you know, you could define the ball. Maybe I'll say a few words about that now. Okay. So, this here. So, so what this prove again is that in any metric space a a cruise sequence is automatically bounded right and so remember in any metric space a convergence sequence is a cushy sequence so a convergence sequence is also bounded right and now you now there's this question which is a natural question and this is connected to the definition of ball so the way we define and it's actually worthwhile emphasizing because it's useful in the next uh thing that we want to get to. And so when I define a ball, I assumed so the definition of the ball, let me just write it up again here. Uh so the definition of a ball in a metric space, these are the y in this set. So that the distance to the center is strictly less than right. You could of course have defined it differently. You could define it that this is strictly le or instead of strictly less less or equal to. Right? I I want to use strictly less here. Yeah. But sometimes if I want to be very clear I will talk about open and closed ball. And this is what we're getting to next, right? And so when I talking about open ball, but I I'll try not to use that term here. Uh but but open would always mean this. Closed ball will mean that it's less or equal to. Sorry. >> You were talking about like example. >> Yeah. >> Like is that referred to like is X in that case like a subset of >> Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Exactly. That's right. And so so now uh and and I didn't you know this I I didn't actually in the I already posted the lecture notes and so in the lecture notes I didn't actually talk about tupa neighborhood but it's it is it it maybe is worth thinking about. So you could you could look at as so you again you have a metric space here and you could have a subset A here is a subset any subset of the metric space and you could define the tupler neighborhood of a subset and so you could do this similarly. So this would be the y in x. So that the distance from y to um to uh x x here is strictly less than r for some x in it. You see what I mean? So this here is like this is how so again if you take if you think about our tree you take some I mean maybe we shouldn't talk about maybe we should draw it more crazy like some curve maybe and if you're looking at the set that are have distance and most this is like some sort of tube like this right this is like uh this here would be the sinks and then here at the end you know it look like a cap like this, right? This here would be like a tubular neighborhood of this curve. Yeah. Okay. And and so as you saying that in the case where a here is just a point then those two coincides. Okay. So now like one of the key things uh one of the key things when you're thinking about convergence in in R remember that this stuff and we use this time and time again that it was often you know we saw this for series that it was often difficult to determine the exact limit of a series right but the question was always does it converge right and so if it converge If it converts then often often you know you I mean also if you were have using this in some sort of application it's it's often in all kind of fields that it comes up that things are written in terms of a series and it's it's not clear what is converting to but you want to know whether it's converting and then you also want to so you want to estimate what is the limit within a certain error term. Right? And you can use some of these comparison tests to to to determine to to to estimate how close you are to the actual limit. Okay. But in any case, right, the thing is it's very useful to have a criteria that say that is easy to work with and that uh say that it's converging without having to be able to find the limits, right? And like the cus sequence, this was like a notion of that, right? And so so the again the and the key on on R the key for using that was the Banano bio theorem. So this was the one that was the key for using to to get the cush convergence theorem. So the pulsano vas are simil. So remember that this was this is four R and it say that any any any bounded sequence has a convergent subsequence Right. That was what I assume in a general metric space. This, you know, it it makes sense to talk about a bounded uh sequence, right? uh but it's not it's not always the case that a bounded sequence has a convergent subsequence. So it does not hold the bolano does not hold. So, so, so warning um uh balsana vas does not hold in a general metric space. And in fact, of course, you know, the example that we looked at with um with where the example was x here like this and where we're looking at that sequence, this is a bounded sequence, but it's uh it's bounded, but it doesn't have a convergent subsequence, right? It's a actually sequence, but it doesn't have, right? So, it doesn't hold in a general metric space, but it does hold It does hold if the metric space is compact. And so that's what I want to talk about next. But in order to talk about uh what it means for metric space to be compact then I need to to talk about uh I need to define what it means for a set to be open. Okay. So so so we need the notion We need the notion of an open set, an open subset of a metric space. Okay, so we have a metric space again. And so A here is set to be let's call it O for open. O is set to be an open subset if for all uh X in O. So the idea is that you have here this here is this here is O. So O is this is maybe O. And so the idea is that for each element there exists some ball centered at that point. So for each x for all x in O there they exist r greater than zero. It may be incredible small so that not just x but the whole board around x is contained in the open set. So you see that not just this point here but the whole ball here would have to be contained in O right. So in this picture here my when I'm illustrating this I'm thinking about excis being R2 and I'm thinking about the distance being the usual ukian distance right and then but then actually if this is open it means that you cannot include these points here on this curve right they would not be included in the set because if you take any point on this boundary here so to then a ball part of it would be outside the set. Right? So, so if this hair really was open, then this curve here was not included. And you see that as you're getting closer and closer to that curve, you know, you can still have a little ball that is inside the set, but as you're getting closer, the radius of this little ball have to be smaller. But that's fine. Okay. So this is what it means for a subsets to be open. And the first the first thing uh that you observe that with this definition there are always two open subsets. So so again this thing here. So note that the empty set but there's no condition if there was a empty set it say for all element in the set but there is no element so there's nothing to to to be satisfied so the empty set and all of x are open subset okay so So, so do note that, right? So, in particular, if if like so, so if you take if X here was not the whole real line, but it was just an interval from 0 to one and then the distance between elements was the usual distance. Then actually even the closed interval which is the whole set would be open right. So so you just should be careful with you know what the set is right with what the set is. Uh okay. Um so so now right so now the key here is that that so if you have an open set you know how do you kind of construct um well maybe the first thing I should do is I should prove a lema that is the following and then then after that we will talk about how to get lots of uh open sets. So let me so we have two example at the moment we have two examples of so so right by so if you take a metric space at the moment we know that there's always two subsets that are open the empty set and and and x but they're not very interesting so a more interesting example is that if you take a metric space and you take a ball and now it's crucial how we define the ball and so it's crucial that that it this inequality is strict. Okay. So for a metric space X here is in X it could be it's it could be any element in in in X this thing here R here is positive strictly positive it it's also has to be strictly positive then this thing here is open any metric ball like this is is is an open subset okay let's try to prove that And again when you're proving things like this for a metric space the only non-trivial thing is a triangle inequality. So this is relying on the triangle inequality. And so for a lot of things when you're proving things about a metric space it's often quite helpful to draw a little picture. So, but of course you had to be careful with again that then the intuition comes from you know RN or and uh and sometimes the metric is a little bit more complicated than that. So this here imagine that this is the ball of radius R. Here you have some X. Now take a element Y. So suppose that y here is now in this ball here. Then we want to show want to show that there exist that for some s bigger than zero the ball here of radius s around y is now contained in this ball here. So here you have y and we want to prove that there's some little ball around y that is contained in the original ball. Right? And so again this is going to rely on the triangle inequality. So you take you have y here. y was supposed to be in this ball here. This means that the distance from X to Y is strictly less than R. Right? You take now S here to be R minus this distance here. Okay. Why do I do this again in my picture here? I have here X. I have here Y. And our intuition is that if we kind of go from X and we go through Y and then we go straight to the boundary then this thing here is D X comma Y and this one here is R minus D X right this is the remaining this whole here is R. This here is DX Y. So this here must be be this here, right? And so if you're setting this equal to S and now you imagine taking a ball here, well then at least on the picture this whole ball is contained in the original ball, right? So so let's try to see if that works, right? If that works, then it really only used the triangle. So we're setting S equal to this and then we're looking at this ball here around S and we take an element here in this ball and we now need to prove so we need to show we want to prove that this whole ball is contained in the original B. So this means that we need to prove that for any such element set here is in this thing here right that's what we need to prove and so now you see uh so we take um right so we take C so we're now looking at So we're going to look at this distance, right? In order to prove this, we need to prove that the distance from C to X is strictly less than R. So let's examine that distance. Triangle inequalities say that this is is bounded by the distance from X to Y plus the distance from Y to C. This one here from Y to C. C lie in the ball of radius S around Y. So this means that this this thing here this thing here is lesser is strictly less than S. Right? And so you see that this thing here is now uh less than uh d x y uh + s. Now you fill in what S is. This here S was equal to R minus DX Y. That was the definition of S. And so now you see that this thing here is R, right? Because those two cancel out. And you see that this here I guarantee you that the inequality was strict, right? And so right so it really is that that whole ball was. So we conclude that this whole ball here uh was contained in in the original ball right and and again again the proof of it was just from this picture right that you make kind of rigorous and the only non-trivial things at the moment we really have in a metric space is a triangle in quantum right because we haven't built up a lot of stuff okay so so So, so actually so this as you see this immediately gave you a lot of example of um of open subsets of a general metric space and if we had looked at exactly the same stuff this with tupal neighborhood we we would find that those are also open subsets. Are we also going to look at subsets or are those like common value >> close? Yeah, very much so. Uh but we haven't defined what it means to be close. Uh but you you're right that and we'll do this uh you're right that uh but we so at the moment we don't know what a closed thing is you know uh and maybe I will just define it and then then then we can so okay so let's define so I but I'll talk more about this next time but now when you're asking So again, so we have X here is is a metric space again and then C here it's a subset of X is set to be closed and then now it's may may seems almost cheating. said to be closed if the complement. So this means that the complement of of C. So the complement of C. So the complement of C the complement of C. Right? This is these are all the these are the x all the x in x so that x is not in c. Okay. So the complement of a set is everything in x that is not in that set. Okay. And a set is set to be closed if the complement is open. Okay. And so now once you have this definition and I'll prove this next time that uh that if you're looking at what I denote like this so this is the elements where the distance to uh x is less or equal to. So this here is not any more strict right this thing here is then a closed set. Okay. >> Could you also define it by like the way we define an open subset but saying that arc instead of being strictly >> No. No. I couldn't define it like that. Yeah. Right. But so I mean you could define it other ways. There's another standard where we talk about there's another equivalent to say that if you take but I don't want to get into that because you know but but there's another way. We'll get to this in in in just but but uh and and close sets we really mostly talk about next time. It was just because you're asking um but let me just talk about so this here's one but I'll just repeat this in just a second. So in order to produce more sets. So so we start with um so by so now so by actually I should just note although you know just now when I talk about clo you know just the definition I should just immediately note that there are always two closed sets because you see the empty set was always open and the full set was always open. Right? And so the complement of the empty set that's everything. So that's closed. And the complement of everything is nothing. It's empty sets. Right? So that's also closed. So those two sets are always closed. But let me just talk about so I want to think about you know how do you produce uh open sets? So how do you know that that there are a lot of open sets? And so if you take sets, if you take so this is like operations on sets on on on subsets of a given set. So here I'm thinking about just X as being a set. It's it does not need to be a metric space. So if I take a set then and I take two elements two subsets. So these are two subsets. Then I can form the union of these two. This here is the union and the union here of two sets. So the union and again I denote it like this cup like this. These are the elements in X such that X is in U1 or X is in U2 or both. What's right? And so you often illustrate this with like if you have this here is X, this here is U1, this here is U2, U1 and U2. Then this thing here is the union and likewise the intersection the intersections that is lying in both sets. Right? So the intersection the intersection. So this is again you have these two sets and this is the intersection. So and you denote it like this and this is the x so that x is in u1 and uh x's in the two that's intersection of these two set okay and then um then there is a third and then let me talk immediately about generalization of this so there's a a third and this is this with a complement but let me also introduce the notation so if you take this subset of X than the complement and and people there are sort of slightly different ways of doing it of defining it uh or not defining it but of notation for it and I always use this one because I think that's the clearest one. So this is like x take away u and this is totally standard. There's another one that's often used where you have C that's slightly less standard than this one and sometimes it can be confusing. This one can never be confusing. And so this thing here is a complement and so this means that it's the X such that X does not belong to you. Okay. And so now uh okay so that's like standard operation of sets but there is a generalization of this of this union here where instead of just two sets you could take potentially infinitely many sets. So if you take a family of subsets. So if you alpha here is a family of subsets then you could look at the union of the u alpha. This is like denoted like this. And this is the x in in x such that x is in u alpha for some uh alpha. I mean it could be in many of the u alphas but it has to be at least one. Right? So this is the union of a family and likewise the intersection of a family is the x and then it has to now lie in all of them right it's x in x where x is in u alpha for all alpha okay that's a union and the intersections family Okay. Uh and so now um let me look at some example. uh in particular uh let me look at the uh an example of this uh and then let me prove something about uh open sets. So let me look at an example here. Suppose that u alpha or u n I'm just going to look at is going to be now a family of subsets of the real line and they're going to be indexed by the natural number. So this thing here is going to be minus one / n to 1 / n. And if I'm looking at the union of these guys, but you see this is this is a a this is a sequence of of um of uh of open sets, right? I mean it's like for each n you have a open set, but they are as n get larger they're smaller. The first one is the biggest one. So if you take the union of these guys that just gives you the the first one you started with. So this is the union of these right? If you take the intersection of them well the only thing that is in all of these sets that's actually this zero right. Okay. Now um now we need some we need some stuff about uh operations of sets and so how does uh things and so there's some standard operations uh and my recommendation is that not try to remember this uh I don't remember it myself so I always have to kind of run through but the once you have done it once or twice the proof is so trivial that it's not worth remembering and and I think if the danger if you try to remember these things you may remember it wrong and that's much worse than just running through the proof so so you have so you have the following lema here so you have a set and then you have subsets uh um uh let's call it a b and then and then a family uh of subsets and the thing is the first one is that if you take the complement of the complement so if you take a and you take everything that is not in a right so just think about it that if you take so here you have x here you have A, this is A. If everything that is not in A, that's over here, right? But then if it's not over here, then it's A. So the first one, it's just that, right? And actually, we sort of just because we're also running out of time, right? We really prove this, right? I mean, so if you have something that is not in A, then it's lie here. But if it's not lie here, then it lie there. That's that statement. Okay. The second one is that if you take the complement of that it's in the union of these guys. So if it's not this just means that it's not in any of these guys. Right? This here is the set. Imagine that you have something that looks like you have a bunch of sets like this. These are the the this is supposed to illustrate the a alphas and if it's not this say that if it's not in any of these well then the claim is that then it's it's it's in the intersection of that it's not in this one. It's not in this one and it's not in this one and it's not in that one. Right? So that's also clear enough. Right? So this is the second one. Again I I actually wrote out the proof uh in the notes um um so you you can check that out. And the third operation, the third operation is that if you take uh if you take uh x and you are removing the intersection of this family. So this means that it is not so this means that the intersection of the family this in this picture here would be this thing here and so it's not right there everything else is allowed right but that's the same you see that's the same as the union of x take away right this here is this here is the element that is in not in one of that that there's at least one of the u alpha a alpha where it's not in right and so that's the same so this is this is uh the same as this okay again um I wrote it out in in the notes the proof actually right of these things right okay and let me just say Maybe we can't quite uh I mean we'll pick up in the notes where uh the other stuff but let me just say that uh when you prove this sort of thing and and we even did this here when in in this when I'm just illustrating it with a picture. So um so we prove it using the following sort of trivial lema and I wrote that out as a lema in the notes that if you are trying to prove that two sets are equal right so suppose you're trying to prove that two sets are equal then in a way it's natural to divide this into two parts. So this is the same as proving that A is contained in B and B is contained in A. Right? So if you're trying to prove that two sets are equal, then you would prove that for any elements in A, it's also at B. This is this thing. And you prove that for any element B, it's also an A, right? And so that's that's you know when I wrote out the proof of this these three things, then I wrote it out like each of them has two parts, right? That you prove that this set is contained in that and you prove that this is contained in that. Okay? Now, uh right, we're almost actually there. Um so so now let me um let me just say that so that's actually in in one of the one of the pets problem but that's no pet it's uh you have a little break now for pet sets uh because I want to make sure that that there is no pet in material we haven't yet covered in class so that's why there's a and and and anyway the all of the pieet at this point I actually posted. So the the last one I think is due I forget whether it's the 8th of May or something like that and there's again there's five left you've already done fine. Okay. So now uh if you take uh if you take if X here B is a metric space then you have the following lema that if O alpha are open subsets then the union of the O alpha is also open right And this is actually but this is quite trivial as you see I'll just indicate why but it's actually left on a pie set. So the proof here but I will just illustrate it anyway that if you take a element here in the union. Well, this means that this means that there exist you this means that that x is in alpha for some alpha, right? For some alpha but this means that there is a ball around it because this here is open. It means that there's a little ball around it that is contained in in this, right? But therefore, it's also contained in the union of these guys, right? And so this this is really just a proof that the union of open sets are open. And next time, so we're out of time now, but next time we'll talk about why if you take finally many sets, why the intersection of finitely many sets of finite many open sets, why that is also open. But for intersection of open set, you have to be careful because for union, you can take the union of any number of open sets. It's always open. But for for if you take intersection you it's in general it's only true that finite intersections are open and the example is one of the examples we looked at before where you take these sets here they are these sets are open subsets but if you take the intersection of all of them then you just get zero and that's not a open subset. Okay. So, okay. So, we're we're done.