Okay. So remember that projection theory works differently over uh if you look in finite fields it works differently over a prime field or a notp prime field. And here was the key example. Um, so we're going to do projection theory in FQ and Q is P ^2 and our set of points is going to be FP^2 which is a subset of FQ ^2 and our set of directions is going to be FP which is a subset of FQ. So remember that uh if theta is in fq then pi theta is going to be a projection a linear map from fq ^2 to fq which is given by pi theta of x1 x2 is x1 + theta x2. So this is our set of directions and then s which is the maximum size of the projection of x over all these directions um is uh is is p um because pi theta of x is just fp uh for theta and d. Okay. So if you uh just write down the sizes of all the things in this important example, x is p ^2 which is q and s and d are p which is q to the half. So in in particular notice that the size of each projection is the square root of the size of the set. Okay. Um so so nothing like this is supposed to happen over FP and there's a hard open conjecture that um that gives bounds that are much stronger than this example. Um but the techniques that we've talked about for most of the class do not depend on the field. So the double counting does not distinguish prime fields from not prime fields and the 4A method does not distinguish prime fields from not prime fields. Um the summer ready trotder theorem proves that this numerology cannot happen for a set of points in R2. Um but the proof has the proof is very important but it has some limitations in how it could apply. It certainly won't apply over FP. Um and it also doesn't seem to help very much from the point of view of uh sets of balls in R2 with some kind of spacing condition. It depends what spacing condition but for the most interesting spacing condition it doesn't help very much. Okay. Nevertheless, we know that this cannot happen over finite fields and the main theorem that we'll so this week we will prove a theorem that says that this cannot happen. So this is the theorem of Ban Kats and Tao. So again cat's tow projection theorem. Okay it says the following thing. So if we have x in fp^2 and let's say that the size of x is p to the s where s is uh somewhere between zero and two. Okay. And then we have a set of directions in FP and the set of directions will be p to the t and t is uh bigger than zero. Okay. So then if you look at the maximum size of a projection, it's significantly bigger than half of the the square root of the of the size of of X. So this is bigger than P to the S over 2 plus epsilon where this epsilon only depends on S and T. It's bigger than zero. Okay. Um, so some remarks about the epsilon. It's it's an explicit function. I just don't write it down because it's a little bit messy. For example, it's continuous. It's not that hard to write it down, but it is also pretty small. Pretty disappointingly small. Okay. Um there's also something called Bans's projection theorem which is what publish MKin is going to talk about today which is the analog of this over the in the setting of the real of balls in R2. Um so there's an analog of this example using C2 instead of R2 and then BN's projection theorem is the analog of this theorem that rules out that example. So this is an analogous theorem for balls and art. Okay. And these two theorems in spite of the fact that this epsilon is very small are very important sort of landmark results in the field of projection theory and they play a key role in many applications. Um uh this ban projection theorem it plays a key role in getting the sharp projection estimates in R2 the recent work uh that publish mkin and others were involved in. Um this banan projection theorem also plays an important role in the solution of the ka problem. Um and this finite field projection theorem as well as this one have some have a important role in some interesting applications about um how fast different processes mix. Like if you take some generators of a finite group like SL2 over FP um and then they make a random walk. How fast does this random walk become evenly distributed in SL2FP? This is an important ingredient in studying that. Okay. Um so okay. So in spite of the fact that the epsilon is small, these theorems are are very important and they're also qualitatively different from the other theorems because they're sensitive to what kind of field we're working. Yeah. >> What is the analog of P for ball or R2? >> The analog of P. So we would have uh the setting would be you'd have unit balls and a ball of radius r and r is the analog of p. So all the sizes of things we would we could think of them as powers of r. Yeah. >> Do the proofs use kind of similar arguments or they completely >> the question is do these two proofs use similar arguments or are they completely different? Um there are multiple proofs of this um but at least one of them is very similar to this with one sort of layer of additional ideas and so yeah so my plan is that we'll we'll do this and then we'll talk about the additional ideas to do this. Okay cool. Well so the key difference between FQ and FP is that FQ has a sub field and FP has no sub field. Now, it's elementary to check that FP has no subfield, but because we're proving some kind of quantitative estimates, we need some quantitative lema that that says that FP not only has no subfield, but it doesn't have anything that's kind of approximately a sub field. Um, so the main goal for today will be to uh to to prove to develop uh lambas like that. And let me show you. So, so here's the first version of a lema like that. level one. Actually, let me do I think we need a little notation. Okay, so suppose that A is a subset of FP. If I write a + a, then that means the set of all the sums a1 plus a2 where a1 and a2 are a and we could write a * a. That's the set of all the products a1 * a2 a1 and a2 and a and so on. So there you can write a lot of similar things like this and um I think it'll be clear what they all mean but if it's not of course we we'll talk about it. Okay, so here's the lema. It's a quantitative lema that says that um that no subset behaves too much like a sub field. So it says if A is a subset of FP then either one option is that A minus A over A minus A is all the death P and the second option is that if you multiply try and add stuff in a and subtract stuff. A lot of times it will get bigger. 1 2 3 4 5 six. Six might be enough. I think it might be eight. Okay. So, one possibility is if you multiply, add and subtract elements of A lot of times, then you get a lot more stuff than just a. So this says A is not too close to a sub field. And the other options is if you do this you get all of FP. Now of course A could have been almost all of FP already. So then it is kind of almost a field. But if A was originally a lot smaller than FP then in this case this thing is a lot bigger than A. Okay. Um, cool. All right. So, here is the proof. Um, observation one. So if uh c is not in a minus a over a minus a um then a + c a has size a squ. Okay. Let me make sure it's clear what all the notation means. So if I write this thing, I have four copies of A. So you take A1, A2, A3, A4, any four guys in A and sort of plug them in for the capital A. All the things you can get. That's what this set is. And similarly over here the lowerase C is a particular element of FP and this means take any A1 and A2 and and do this. Okay. Um so the proof of observation one is quite simple. So suppose that I have two different uh ele uh elements in here but that are equal to each other. So suppose a1 + c a2 is the same as a1 prime plus c a2 prime. Well, if I do a little algebra, I can solve this for C. And I discover that C is um A1 prime minus A1 / A2 - A2 prime, which is in A minus A. So if C is not in A minus A, sorry, which is in A minus A over A minus A. So if C is not in here, then all of these different representations are actually different numbers. So the size of this set is A^ squ. Okay. Now if you want to be really careful, maybe we should worry about whether I have divided by zero. But if a2 is equal to a2 prime, then the only way that the top equation could be true is if also a1 is equal to a1 prime and then I just had the same thing. Okay. All right. Great. Okay. So, so if I can locate some C that is in um you know the ring of stuff I can make by adding and multip maybe the if I can add and subtract and multiply and divide a bunch of elements of A and I can locate some C which is not in here then I can use this observation and I can get some I can show that I can build out of A many different things. Okay, cool. Okay, now somewhere in our proof, we have to use that FP is a prime field. It wouldn't work in FQ and we haven't used it yet. Well, how are we going to use it? Well, let's just remember how we would prove that FP is a prime field. Um, sorry, how would we prove that FP has no sub fields? How are we going to prove? Well, um, if it had a sub field, it would have to contain one and then it would have to contain then it would be closed under addition. So, it would have to contain two and three and four and so on and then it would have to contain all of FP. Okay. Um, so we we're basically going to use that argument in observation two. Okay. So observation two if a minus a over a minus a is not everything um then there exists some b in a minus a over a minus a so that b + 1 is not in a minus a over a minus Right. Right. Okay. So why is it um so so zero is an a minus a over a minus a. It's a proof of observation too. zero is in there because you could choose these to be the same and you can choose those to be different. Um okay if one is not uh yeah okay so then then we just if okay either everybody in FP is in A minus A minus A minus A or somebody's not and so then we take uh B + one is the smallest number which is not an A minus A over A minus A and there we go. Okay. And the special thing that we're using about FP we've used that we have it's a prime field is just we're using that if you start at zero and you keep adding one you get all the elements. Okay. So that's the proof of observation too. Um and so now we are basically done. So now we have seen that if a minus a over a minus a is not fp then if you take a and you add this b + one. So b is an a minus a over a minus a. I'm going to add one to it. So b + one is in here. There is bigger than a square. So if I take six elements of a and I do this uh the number of different guys I will get is is really much bigger than okay and then this doesn't look exactly like my two but I just like clear the denominator and expand things out. So when I clear the denominator, I'll get a * a minus a * a from this guy. Inside of here, I'll have a minus a plus a minus a all multiplied by a. Okay, I have a bunch of stuff. Okay. So, I know so Nets Katz and I are old collaborators and I remember talking with him about this and and uh that it it took quite a while for them to figure out how to get started on this problem. Um okay, now looking back at this this this proof is really clean. this lema is perhaps not the the statement of the lema is perhaps not the nicest thing that you might like. Um and um so there are much there are kind of cleaner things like for example later today we'll show that you know just just this is significantly bigger than a um and and different variations. Um, so maybe we should mention we could ask some much simpler questions like we could just say um if you have a subset of FP called A, is it true that A plus A is always much bigger than A? That's true for most subsets, but it's not true for all of them. Um, but thinking about that much simpler question is actually uh so that that's like a a foundational question in in additive combinatorics to understand that um and and understanding that well feeds into being able to understand this this stuff better. Okay. So, let me pose this on the board and we'll start to talk about it. So my question for us is um when is a + a small? So here I have in mind that A is a subset of FP. Although we could have a very similar conversation if A was a subset of Z or A was a subset of R or dot dot dot. Okay. Can anybody think of a subset if FP or A plus A is only a tiny bit bigger than A? Yeah, >> is some set um and that includes like numbers and then the negative values of those numbers in F like only one 2 -2 or something like that. >> Yeah. Yeah. So the comment is maybe I should have some numbers and negative of those numbers. Let me ask you a more precise question. So you have to choose L numbers in FP and you want to choose them to make A plus A as small as possible. Who would you choose? >> Yeah. >> Yeah, you could choose an arithmetic progression. So example one. Um suppose A was just the numbers from one up to L. So a plus a will be the numbers from 2 to 2 l. Uh so a + a is at most 2 * a. It's tiniest bit less than that but not very important for our discussion. And this is the small this is the the smallest that a plus a could possibly be. Okay. And it doesn't have to be one up to l. It would work just as well if it was an arithmetic progression. So example one prime our set A is little a + n d where n goes from one up to l. Um and then if you think about it a little bit the size of the subset behaves just the same. Okay. Um there's another example that's a little bit more general than this. So this is an arithmetic progression where you have just one kind of difference. and you could have something uh uh so you should you could visualize it like this. And you could have a similar thing involving a two-dimensional grid or a higher dimensional grid. All right. So example two is that a is a + n1 d1 plus dot dot dot plus n r where um n i goes from one up to l i. So what happens when you take a plus a? It is contained in two little a plus n1 d1 plus dot dot dot plus nr where now the n i go in between two and 2 li. And so we see from this and I well which so it which is contained in I could put a one um so it's contained in something that is 2 to the r * bigger. So we get a + a is bounded by 2 to the r * a. So this thing here is called a generalized arithmetic progression. It has a dimension little r and it has a volume or cardality which is L1 to LR. Okay. Um can anybody think of any others? So it is hard to think of other ones and in some sense and and depending on how we quantify it a little bit um these sets or maybe these sets and their close cousins appear to be the only sets that have a really small subset and um this was investigated by framan starting in the 60s and 70s and he proved a theorem to that effect called framan's theorem Um and um uh and this was this is a a cornerstone of additive combinatorics. Um Framan's Framan's proof was was somewhat difficult to read and Rusa thought a lot about it and clarified it and so this is now called uh the Framan Rousa theory. Okay. So it says the following thing. Says that if a um so if a is in z the same thing would be true in z mod p and a + a is less than or equal to k a. Um then a is contained in a gap with dimension uh little r that only depends on k and volume at most uh v that only depends on k times the size of a. So it roughly says that if a plus a is small it is because a resembles example two which is a generalization of example one. So in some sense these are the only sets that have a really small subset. Okay. So this is an important theorem in additive combinotaurics but there are two caveats about it. So one caveat is that it's a it's a pretty deep theorem. The proof is substantial and the other caveat is that the quantitative bounds are weak. Um so in the original version r of k was quite large. So r of k was something like x of k to a power and v of k was even larger. It's like x of x of k to a power. Okay. Um now it is a trivial fact that any set A is contained in a generalized arithmetic progression of dimension equal to the size of A. So this is only interesting if R of K is smaller than the size of A. Um so this was only interesting only meaningful let's say if k was quite small. Uh there's a big in um goal in additive combinatorics to improve the quantitative bounds in framan's theorem and um one benchmark is a conjecture called the polomial frame and roua conjecture which would say something meaningful even if k was a small power of a. So there's a conjecture that they would have a meaningful bound if k is a to the delta for some small but universal delta bigger than zero. Okay. And this is still an open conjecture. So it's out of range maybe only a little out of range of of uh current techniques. Um but if k was say I don't know a to the 0.1 all this stuff about about framan's theorem uh we we are very far from being able to to deal with that. Um now if you look at framan's theorem what we're trying to do is to give a complete classification of all the sets A that do this and the complete classification is something we only understand if K is really really small. But you could also ask for something which is not as strong as a complete classification but just some kind of interesting information about sets A with small subset. Um okay so if you look at this example you'll notice that not only it has small subset but it has uh also small a bunch of other stuff like in these examples a plus a is small also a minus a is small also a plus a plus a is small um and and and those so those for those things we have much simpler proofs and the quantitative bound s are much better and they come from some lemmas that I think originally were designed as uh lemmas for this theorem but which have lots of independent applications. Okay. So this theorem we I don't plan to prove in the class but I wanted to mention it for historical context and and these lemmas are are really important and have reasonable short proofs and I think are worth for a wide range of people uh knowing about. Okay, so the first of the lemas is called the rusa triangle inequality. Okay, so it says if Z is an Aelian group and A and blast and cruise are subsets of Z, then size of A times the size of B minus C is bounded by the size of A minus B times the size of A minus C. Okay, so this might uh take a little digesting. Have all of these letters feels a little bit like alphabet soup. Um the fact that we have can put three different sets makes it a little harder to digest but it you know of course it makes it more flexible in general and by plugging in different choices for these three sets you can prove some simpler things. Let me illustrate this with an example. As a correlator of this we will see that if the if the sum set is small then the difference set is also small. So correlary if a + a is smaller than k * a a minus a is smaller than k^ 2 k^ 2 * a. So this lema is meaningful as long as k is slightly smaller than the square root of a. So in a in a much wider range than than the um uh frame and rusa theorem this is a meaningful statement. Okay. So proof um we're just going to use roua and I have to tell you who are a and blast and cruise. So A will be A and then I think B uh yeah blast and cruise are both negative A. Okay. So if you look at B minus C that's there's a lot of minus signs. This is a little bit silly looking. Um, so that's just a minus a. Okay. And a minus b or a minus c. They're the same as each other because b is the same as c. That's a minus a. So that's a plus. Okay. So now if we just plug in ra it says a * this guy a minus a is less than this guy times this guy that's a + a 2. And by hypothesis that's smaller than k 2 a 2. And if you cancel the factor of a that's it. Okay. And this has a a very simple proof that will fit on this board and which is already says something interesting and non-trivial about how sums and differences and stuff fit together. So here's the proof. uh we will construct a map fee that goes from a cross b minus c into a minus b cross a minus c which is injective. So this is the cardality of this set and this is the cardality of that set. And the reason that that this set is bigger than that set is that we have an injection from one into the other. How does the injection work? For every D in B minus C, we can choose. So by definition, this D can be written as somebody in B minus somebody in C. Let's pick them. We choose B of D and B. C of D C so that D is B of D minus C of D. Okay. Now what's our map? V takes an A and a D. A lives here and D lives there. We need to output somebody in A minus B. So we take A minus B of D and then A minus C of D. So that is a map from here to here. Why is it injective? So to to check that it's injective. So we're going to suppose that v of a d is given to us. It's xy. And then we're going to find A and D from X and Y and from this choice. So the choice we made once and for all, we used it to build the map. And now we have to prove that there's only one A and D that give a certain X and Y here. Okay. So how do we recover them? Well, if you if this is X and this is Y, we see that Y - X is B of D minus C of D, which is D. So that's how we find D. And once we find D, it's easy to find we once we find D, then we know B of D and C of D. And now it's easy to find A. Um, so uh X uh minus X plus B of D is A. It's very short. It feels a teeny bit like a magic trick to me. But so on this board and this board we have seen that if the sum set is small then the difference set is also small. Okay. Yeah. uh you like divide by * you get like something that looks exactly like a triangle way. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So the question is it's called Ruse's triangle inequality and it sort of looks like if we take the logarithm and play with this then something will look like the triangle inequality. Um and uh yeah so Russa did have that in mind when he named it that way. So he produced a pseudo distance between different sets say you know between A and B or blast and cruise or whatever. And this um this translates into saying that the rud rou pseudo distance obeys the triangle inequality. The distance from B to C is bounded by the distance from A to B plus the different distance from from B to A plus the distance from A to C. Um I'm not sure whether that is helpful or or not. Um it's his pseudo distance is a little bit funny. Like it's not true that the distance from A to itself is zero. So it's not quite like distances that I'm used to. Um so that intuition I don't know may or may not be helpful. Um I guess we will see tomorrow that sometimes you use this many times like how you know how how would you use the triangle inequality? Well the distance from A to Z is bounded by the distance from A to B plus the distance from B to C plus the distance from C to D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D and maybe each of those things is easier to understand and by the triangle inequality, we can put them together. So you can use this inequality in that way. Um, and we'll see that tomorrow. Tomorrow, Thursday. Any other questions or comments? >> Can I ask about the previous removing denominator? Just not sure how that works out. Does it require something like this? Um the question is about the removing the denominator trick. >> Um like when we had we had an a minus a in the denominator and we multiplied it out. >> So that that was just um algebra. Um it's not it's not something fancy like this. Um we'll u yeah let me bracket that we'll see a little later something else with removing denominators and and let's come back to it then do do you think did I understand your question or >> yeah I'm just not sure how that how how that was actually >> I think you only need six instead of eight Yeah, let's check in about it at the end of class. Okay, the other important um lema from from this field that went into the proof of framan's theorem is called Plunka inequality. Plunka inequality allows us to say things like if a plus a is small then a plus a plus a is small. So if A and B are subsets of Z in a billion group um and A + B is bounded by K * A then um okay let me make a little notation. So sometimes we might want to talk about b + b many times um so let's say this is n times this is sometimes written as n * b um although I feel like that is slightly confusing um so I have decided to adopt this notation b like sum n times okay so I could take b + m * - b + n * and that's bounded by k to the m + n * okay so let's do a few corlaries of this um so just by plugging in a equals b we see that if a + a is less than or equal to k a um then a minus a is less less than k^ 2 a. Uh that's actually the correlary we already proved. Um but also we could say a + a + a is bounded by k cubed a uh just plugging in a b and this is m is three and n is zero and you can see you can put higher powers here. Also another corlary we can get is we can switch the role of these guys in the first corlary. So we can say if a minus a is small then a a plus a is also small. So proof is that b is negative a. So this is a plus b and then this is basically b plus b. Okay. Okay. Um, we can also use this. So, we'll prove this. That'll be our last big goal of the class. Um but using so this rera inequality and plunic inequality have many many uses and one simple use is we can use it to sort of clean up and improve the statement of our lema that fp if that has no quantitative approximate sub fields. So let me recall what we proved so far and then we'll improve it a little bit. Um so lma one was uh if a is in fp then either um a minus a over a minus a is all of fp or uh a * a min - a * A. Okay. So now I can write this better. We have three or four of those minus three or four of those as it is. Okay. So we can improve this in a way that you don't need to have so many different expressions floating around. So we can say that if a is in fp and the size of a is p to the s where s is strictly less than one then the size of a * a minus a * a is at least p to the s plus epsilon of s. And here you could you could put either plus or minus. And this epsilon of s is bigger than zero. So again it's continuous it's explicit but it's a little bit messy and it's it's a little bit small. You take any subset which is significantly smaller than the whole field. If you do take a * a minus a * a it will be significantly bigger than you started with. So, you know, if you just took a minus a, that wouldn't be good enough because a could be an arithmetic progression. It might so that might have almost the same size as a. If you just took a time a that wouldn't be good enough because a could be a geometric progression. Two 2 1 2 the 2 up to 2 to the l. Um, but if you take both sums and products, then you have to end up with significantly more stuff than you started with. Okay, so that's why this is called sum product theory. If you have both sums and products interacting with each other, then something happens. Okay, so uh proof okay so if okay so there there are two cases case one and case two but I'm actually going to do case two first. So case okay so it could be that a * a is already much bigger than a then we just declare victory. So if a * a is bigger than a to the 1 + delta then we declare victory and here delta is going to be much smaller than epsilon um or maybe we could say okay otherwise otherwise uh otherwise a * a is basically the same size as a. Okay. Now, if a * a um plus a * a is much bigger than a, then we declare victory. Uh where is I writing? Yeah, here. I guess let's just put this and we declare victory. Um otherwise we would have a * a + a * a is smaller than k a * a where k is like uh p to the epsilon and then we can use plunker and that would tell us that a * a to a big power minus a * a to another big power here. We could put four. Um that would be bounded by k to the eth a * a. Um and so that would be bounded by maybe um a * p to the tan epsilon or something like that. And this contradicts the fact that this we know this set is bigger. Okay. And case one is similar but I think maybe I'll make that an exercise. You can just practice using pluna and rua things. Okay. And I'm going to do one more correlary. Um so suppose you you know you start with the set A and you start multiplying and adding and subtracting and see what you get and we've proven that after you do after you do this operation it gets a bit bigger but suppose you don't just yeah >> one question about this so you said that kind of the idea is that if you have sort of arithmetic progression or geometric progression it can be small but with both it has to be large. Is it possible to prove that instead of the the difference of a * a and a * a you can just say a * a is large or a plus a is large. >> Okay. Yes. Great question. Okay. So the question is so so in the theme of lema 2 is we tried to simplify as much as possible the expression that we put here and there is a suggestion um how to make it as simple as possible. Um, so let me I'm going to erase this proof and write that as a as AI'll write it as a theorem. It's a theorem. So even better there is a theorem um ban cat's towel. So if a is subset of fp uh a equ= p to the s0 less than or equal to s less than 1 then you could take um the maximum of a + a and a * a and that is bigger than p to the s plus epsilon of s. So this is better than this qualitatively. And actually the word sum product inequality it could refer to a lot of things but the the the inequality it most often refers to is this one. So either either the sums or the products grow. Yeah, that's right. Okay. So all the stuff we've seen are steps towards the proof of this theorem. But there is actually still some more ideas to get all the way down to here. And we may or may not end up doing it in the class. It's unclear to me if getting all the way down to there is actually uh important in in projection theory. Yeah. Cool. Okay. So, one goal you might have in in in simplifying and clarifying this story is to make this expression as simple as possible and get some gain. But another goal that you might have is to make this gain really large and perhaps this expression will be more complicated and you can also do that. So let me make some uh notation. Let's say poly k of a some sort of polomials of complexity k. So I take a to the k. So that's means I multiply uh k different elements of a together and then I add k things like that together and then maybe I also want some minuses right so a a to the k is a * a * a k * okay so these are polomials in A of complexity and uh another corlary which is at the same level follows easily from this one is that if we have zero less than s less than t less than one and a is in fp. So okay then there exists some k that only depends on s and t. So that for any set A in any FP where the size of A is P to the S, the size of poly K of A is at least P to the T. Okay. And the proof of this is is easy. The proof is use lema too many times. So I start with the set A. A * A minus A * A is a bit bigger. Called this B. B * B minus B * B is even a bit bigger. And if you think about what B * B minus B * B means, it would fit in like probably four again. And you keep doing this. Okay, cool. Cool. Um so these these lemas theorems and stuff they are important because um and plumac's inequality and ruse's inequality they are important um because um you so once we once we see so if we see something like a plus a is small that then that tells us that a has some structure and all these inequalities then imply that lots of other things are small. So it's sort of like a contagious structure like we start we input some structure but we find out more and more structure and that's a very useful tool and so lots of problems that we see in projection theory uh it seems to be helpful to try to phrase them in the form that some subset is small because then we can use Pluna's inequality and we can find out lots of other things. Okay. So in the last part of the class we will prove this inequality. This is the trickiest thing that we will prove today. All right. So the original proof of the pluna inequality was somewhat difficult. Um and there was a short proof that was given by Jorgus Petritus um about 10 or 15 years ago which is the one that I'll that I'll show. Okay. So it's based on a key lema. So the key lema says that if a + b is at most k * a then there's a subset x contained in a so that for any set c x + c + b divided by x + c is also at most k. So okay by the way this top inequality of course we can divide by a. The top inequality says a + b over a is bounded by k. The lema says that if this is true then it's so if it's true for the set a then it's also true for the set x plus c where x is carefully chosen. I'll explain in a bit how it's chosen but c is a totally arbitrary set. So there are many choices for C. So there are many different you know this this is many inequalities right? Okay let me um tell you who X is which is an important idea in the proof. Um so first of all so x is a subset of a that we choose in order to minimize minimize the ratio x + b / x. So let me give an example that might help to motivate why you would want to look at this x. So suppose that a is the numbers from one up to 100 which has a lot of additive structure together with some random number. So I've put a million and b is the numbers from one up to say 50. Okay. So if you add A and B together, this stuff plus this stuff is quite small. There's a lot of structure there. Then there's this stuff plus this stuff that doesn't have any particular structure, but since there's only one stray element here, that's not so many of those either. So A plus B is pretty small. Now, who would X be? X is the subset of A which is chosen to minimize this ratio. and including this guy is not so helpful. Um so x would actually be here just the numbers from one up to 100. Okay. So I think perhaps that philosophically the point of doing this is identifying the part of A that really has the additive structure and throwing away possibly some parts of A that are not not that relevant. Okay. And then once you have found the heart of the matter here um then you can you can add anything else to it and you still have that amount of structure. Okay. All right. So, let's give a name. Let's say that. So, that's who X is. And let's say x + b / x is k lower bar which is at most k. So a + b over a is at most k and x is allowed to be all of a but we might choose a smaller set if we can make this ratio even smaller. So k bar is less than or equal to k. Okay. And really the key claim is that x + c + b over x + c is at most k lower barc. Okay. So now we're going to prove the claim by induction. So we're going to prove the claim by induction on the cardality of C. And if the cardality of C is 1, then X + C + B is just X + B and X + C is just X. So if the cardality of C is one, I'm just shifting this set. and shifting that set doesn't change their cardalities. Okay. So now we can do the inductive step. All right. So let's say that C prime is C union one more guy. And by induction we know that it's true for C. So we know x + c + b is bounded by k lower bar x + c and we want to check for crop. All right. Okay. So the key character in this argument that Petrus came up with is a set y which is the set of x and x. So that x + little c + b is contained in big x plus big c plus b. Let's see how that naturally comes up. Right. So we we we're thinking about x plus c prime plus b. We want to see that it's not too big. And we're using induction. So we want to see how it changes when we added this one guy. So this is the previous guy x + c + b plus um the new ones. And I want them to be really new. So, here are some new elements that live here. And I'm going to take out any elements I've already counted, right? Sorry. Um, how, um, I don't quite understand the definition of y. How can x plus c plus b not be a subset of x plus c plus b? >> Right? So this uh so c prime is a previous set c union with some little c >> and little c is not in big c. >> Okay. Now I have to write all the little c's and big c's really carefully. But this is a little c and this is a big c. Cool. Okay. So this X is automatically in big X but in a failure of functorality of not of notation little C is not in big C. Okay. Now, one thing to note about this definition that helps to motivate it is that y + little c plus big b is contained in x plus big c plus big b because for each element of y, little y plus little c plus big b is defined to be in here. So this is at most x + c + b plus x + c + b take away y + c + b. All of these were already counted. So there are at most this many new guys. All right. And this is x + c + b + x + b - y + b because this is a subset of this and the plus c just translates things. So I have so this thing is that big and I remove from it this thing which is that big. So that's the upper bound for um the numerator. Okay. Um, so I'm I'm trying to bound this thing with a C prime. I need I want to prove an upper bound. So I need an upper bound for the numerator and a lower bound for the denominator. Okay, so the denominator is x + uh c prime and so that's x + c plus um the the set how many x and x. So that little x plus little c is not contained in big x plus big c. So it's the guys I already had and then I have guys of the format little x plus little c. And I only want the new ones, the ones that aren't already counted. That's an equality. And I'm gonna write it as x + c plus x minus the x and x. So that x + c is an x plus c. Okay. And now key observation is that these guys are all in y. This is a subset of y. Right? Because if little x plus little c is in big x plus big c. Um so if little x plus little c is in big x plus big c then I can add b to both sides and this is in there. So those are all in y. So this is a subset of y. So the size of this guy is at most the size of y. And since I'm subtracting here, I can say this is at least x + c + x minus y. So now we'll just put together everything that we know. Okay. We know that x + c + b over x + c is at most k bar. We know that by induction. We know that x + b / x is equal to k bar. We know that by definition. That's just what k bar was. And we know that y + b over y is greater than or equal to k bar. That was the definition of x. x was chosen to minimize this ratio. Y might perhaps be equal to x, but that's that's okay anyway. But it's never going to be any smaller. Okay? And so therefore by algebra by how fractions work x + c + b. Okay. So so now I can say I I want to say x + c prime + b over x + c prime. And I want an upper bound for that. Okay. So the numerator is bounded by 1. x + c + b + x + b minus y + b. And the denominator is lower bounded by part two and it's x + c + x - y. And then because each of these ratios has the correct sign, this is at most k. Yeah. So this is short. It is a little tricky and I must admit I don't quite understand how Petrus thought to do this. Um Okay. So from the key lama we can prove uh plunic's inequality and then see if anybody yeah if you have room you can turn turn over in your mind why did philosophically why did this work out so nicely. If anybody has thoughts about it I would be happy to hear. Okay. So, proof. Okay. So, say we're starting with this. so by the main the main we use our main lema. So it tells us that there exists some x and a and we have x + c + b at most k * x + c for any c. How might we use this? right. So okay, C could be empty. So we get X + B is at most K * X. C could be B. So we get X + B + B. That's at most K * X + B. And X plus B was at most K * X. So that's at most K 2 * X. Okay. And you can see where this goes. So I'll do one more. you'll get the pattern. If I add one more b, that's at most k x plus b plus b. Plug in what I already know about this. That's at most k cub * x. All right. So if I add x + m copies of b, that will be at most k * x. Okay. And then uh we'll use the roua inequality. So this is already you know if um uh this is already pretty good thing uh like if a equals b here then I could say a to the m is bounded by k to the m * a right because a to the a to the m is obviously at least as big as x plus a to the m. So I get a the m is bounded by k the m * a. That's a typical correlary of Pluner. Anyway, to get the uh advertised finale, we use Ruse's inequality. Ruser was a times there. So can plug in um uh I say so x * b + m - b + n is bounded by x + b + m x + b + n. Uh and then we plug in each of these and we get k to the m + n * x* x². Yeah, that's right. Okay. So then I uh get this by itself. So b + m - b + n is bounded by k m + n * x which is bounded by k the m + n * a because x is a subset of a Okay, so this proof is short. It is a little tricky, but I think it is well worth spending some time with uh because this inequality is really quite important. I would say that it plays really a key role in all the later developments in projection theory and the solution to the CA problem in a lot of things. Um and uh so as we keep going, you know, tomorrow, Thursday, and so on, we'll reflect more about why this is useful and important. Um and um maybe I'll try to come up with some homework to try to reflect on on uh how this proof got put together.