Okay. So last time we talked about so we had a function or sequence of function. We had a interval say I and we had a sequence of function fn and a function f all defined on this interval. And then we uh talked about uh pointwise convergence. So pointwise convergence means that for each. So this is for each uh x when you're looking at this. So this is a for each x fixed this is a sequence this is supposed to converge to f ofx. So this was pointwise convergence and then we also talked about uniform And this meant that this meant that for all for all epsilon greater than zero there exist a capital n such that if um if little n is bigger equal to this capital n then the difference between fn of x and f ofx this here is smaller than epsilon and this here have to hold for fall in 4x sorry right so uniform again refer to that is uniform in x the convergence is uniform in x then so we talked about that and then one of the theorems we proved was that if you take a sequence uh fn and these here was integraable uh And uh these converge to some function f uh then uh then then f is integral. So this here is uniform convergence. Then f here is integraable and the integral is the limit of the integrals. So the integral from a to b of fn x dx is equal is the limit here of this. So the limit exist and it is equal to the integral of f. Okay. Now so this is how uniform uh convergence and uh um and integrals interact. Uh if we take the suppose you take a sequence here. So this is a theorem that suppose you take a sequence uh fn of functions on some interval into r. you have uh x0 is uh is in this interval. And then you have the following if you have the following properties uh that one is that this sequence here converge to some number C. Um sorry this sequence here converts to some number C. two is that that these functions here fn are differentiable. So, so these are maybe I should say here differentiable and these are converge to some function g and then three is that these functions here sorry the derivative converge and the I'm also requiring that the derivative are continuous suppose we have these three So we have the sequence of differentiable functions. If you just fix this one particular point x0 then the values of these function converge and then the functions their derivatives are continuous and the derivative converge to some function and this convergence here is uniform. Then the claim is that then uh um then there exist uh f on the interval so that uh f is uh f uh is differentiable. The derivative here is continuous and uh and you have the following two properties that the function here these functions converge to f uh uniformly. I'm going to restrict my interval. I'm going to take it just to be some interval from A to B. So, and this here is a interval. I want it to be bounded like that. And uh so these here converge uniformly and true is that uh their derivative converts to the derivative of f uniformly. Okay. So we want to prove that and then so so we're going to define a function f. So G here is a proof of this. Since this sequence here since these here are continuous uh and um and these functions here converts to G Then this means that uh uh then uh uh therefore therefore g here is also continuous right. So we proved this already that if you have a sequence of continuous function that converges uniformly then the limit is also continuous. And so then we can look at so we can define we can therefore define uh f as a function on this interval here by that's the uh that's um f of X is equal to the integral from X0 uh so I'm defining it sorry to be um this C constant C plus the integral from X0 to X of G of X G of uh S DS right so I define this function like this G is continuous so this is a nice continuous function and in fact by the fundamental theorem of calculus uh theorem of calculus uh f here is differentiable uh with with the derivative equal to G. Right? We also have that um that we also have that uh if we're looking at f of x0 fn of x0 right then we know already that these convert to c. This is the assumption one up there. But this here is the value of f at x0. So we have that. I want to now prove that that not just at this point but that this sequence converts to f uniformly. Right? B here B we get for free. Right? So b follows from that this fn prime converts to g. Right? And this here is this here is the derivative of f and we have this uniformly by by assumption two. Right? So all we need to show is So we just need to show that this fn converts to f uniform. Right? We just need to show the a the property a. Right? And so we're looking at uh fn of x we have to look at this difference right and for a given epsilon we have to find a little n. So we have to find a capital n. So that if little n is bigger than this capital n then this difference here is smaller than epsilon for all x. Right? But let's try to estimate this here first. Right? So this difference here is um this difference is f uh by so we can write so so we want to estimate this difference and I can and we can use the fundamental theorem of calculus. I use the fundamentality of calc of calc to write uh fn of x. We can write this as the value at x0 plus the integral of the derivative from this point and then this should be s like this. Right? We can use the fundamental the calculus to just rewrite fn like that. And so now I want to look at this difference here. And so to look at this difference fn of x minus f ofx now I can fill in this form of it. So I have that this is fn of x0 plus the integral from x0 to x fn prime sds and then I have to subtract uh f ofx but fx was given by by this uh formula here and so so minus c plus this integral here uh g of s gs like that and so now I'm just rearranging terms so I just think about this thing here as fn n of x0 minus c. I take these two first and then plus the integral of x0 to x f prime n s ds minus this integral here like that. Right? And then I use the triangle inequality that this thing here is less than fn of x minus c sorry fn of x0 minus c absolute value like this. And then I have the second integral here. So the absolute value or the difference here if you do it slowly like this. So you have this minus this in here of g of s ds like that. Now I can think about this thing here as I can find the integral. So I can write this thing here as so this I'm just keeping this first term here. I'm just keeping and then the second here I can think about this as a integral of the difference of these function and this here was an was an in here like that. Right. And now now I can uh now I can so now I can uh here I can just take the absolute value sign. If I take the value I in under it then I get something potentially larger. Right? So this thing here is lesser equal to fn of x0 minus c. That's the first term. And now I'm replacing it by something that is bigger equal to this. So where I'm just integrating from x0 to x and then of this difference here fn prime s minus g of s gs and now I'm using that uh that's the fn so now using so since fn of y. So right so let me actually let me just uh write this thing here. So I can write this thing here. This one here I'm keeping this one here I'm keeping. So I'm writing this as lesser equal to keeping the first term and the second term you see this thing here is this difference between these two. Well, the difference is at some S is smaller than the maximum for all S, right? But the maximum for all S, that's what we call D F N prime G, right? That was the maximum over all S. And so now we just have so this this function in here is less than this. And now we are using this is where I want to use that the interval is bounded. So I just get plus b minus a. This is the length of the interval like that. Right? And so now you see that as um and now there's no reference to x on this side. Right? And so you see that as n goes to infinity well this thing here goes to zero and this thing here goes to zero right. So as this go this upper bound goes to zero and and and again note that there's no reference to x. That's a reference to x0 but that's just some fixed points right? So this is uniform in x right so this implies uniform in x convergence. Okay. So I want to I want to draw some uh consequences of this. First let me look at what will be shortly a a particular case of more general phenomena. So this is this is this example we looked at several times last time. So but it's now applied in this case here. So suppose you're looking at the function uh functions e n of x. The en is where you're summing from k = 0 to n of x ^ k / k factorial. I looked at those last time, these functions and I called we called them en. And then we also looked at the exponential function and the exponential function in terms of power series that was just this power series, right? And we have that uh we have that uh that en here. So that for for all this was we used bias stress M test to to buy bias stress M test for all L L sub positive real number we had that uh that we had that these functions converge to e uniformly on an interval like this. They don't necessarily in fact they don't but they you know um they the the claim here about uniform convergence is just on every bounded interval right so you fix a bounded interval like that interval and then you have uniform convergence it's not like uniform convergence of all of R at the same time okay you have that and now if we are looking at so Now um if we're looking at the function um if we take now the derivative of the ends. So what is the derivative of the ens? So the derivative of the en is just a polomial. So you can just differentiate each term on its own. So this here is the sum here of uh of um of k x to the power k -1 / k factorial. And here you would be summing from k= to zero to n right this is just the right and now I can write this also you see the first term because k when k is equal to zero the first term doesn't really count right so this thing here I can write as I mean by it doesn't count because it's zero right so you don't really need to write that term. So you can just write it from k = to 1 to n and then you could write it again as k * uh x ^ k -1 / k factorial. But k factorial k factorial is just is the same as k times k minus one factorial. Right? So this means that k factorial over k is just the same as k minus one factorial. Right? Or if you will, if I take the inverse of this k over k factorial, it's the same as 1 / k minus one factorial. It's just flipping the denominator and denominator. So this finite sum I can write as k = 1 to n because you see this thing here is exactly this. So we can just replace it. Can write it like that. But now this thing here I'm summing from one to n. The first term I get that is just this here by definition when k is equal to one that's zero factorial zero factorial by definition is one right. So this thing here and this thing here by definition is is also one. So this here is just one. So starting off at one when k is equal to two then this become x this become one factorial one factorial is just one so this here is x right so the this here is like this x the next one when k is equal to three then you get x squ sorry you get x squ and down here you get two factorial right and so you continue like this and The last one you get is x ^ n -1 over n minus one factorial right and so yeah let let me just say uh so so you see that this thing here is nothing but e n minus one of x right so the derivative of of the e n is the previous element en minus one. Yep. >> Okay. Okay. So now we have we have that uh like we have that dish in If I'm looking at the en is zero those the value here of these guys the only term that matters is the first term and that's one. So this here for each end. So now what you have is so now we have that you have that if you're looking at this sequence you have we have this we have that the e n prime is equal to e n minus one and we already proved that these here it doesn't matter whether you're looking at the previous one that they converge to e uniformly right this is a uniform convergence convergence on this interval here and then obviously three obviously the en prime here they're polinomial so so continuous Right. So now we have that um so we have so so therefore by the the uh the there exists some function f. So that these are converge to this uniformly. That's no great surprise. And we also have that this thing here the derivative converts to the derivative of this here uniformly. And again this is on intervals of this form. Right? Well, we already know that this that it converts uniformly, right? This is just by I mean it can only convert to one function, right? Because uniform convergence means that it's converging pointwise at each x and pointwise convergence then the limit is is is just one thing. So we already know that this here is e of x. So you see that this the conclusion here we get is now that um that these the and this here sorry is as we said e n minus one. So the conclusion that we get is that the e so this is the conclusion from the theorem up there that this e n minus one converge uniformly to the derivative of this function. Right? Like the theorem said that if you have these three condition then there exist a function f so that is differentiable and the derivative of it is continuous and you have these two properties but we already know that these converts to this so we've already identified what this function is so the theorem just give us that function must be derivative differentiable and the derivative continuous. But and now we try to figure out what that derivative is. But the derivative of these functions are the same functions we started with but just shifted one backwards. Right? So these here these here also they converge to this. That's what the theorem say. But but the but the en minus one they also converge to e right. So this means that that these two functions here this here and this here must be the same right. So this means that e is differentiable and the derivative is itself. Yeah. Um so we define this for like all n >> this here was for all this here was this here was defined for any non- negative integer right and so I mean when I'm talking about down here then I'm saying about n bigger equal to one because I didn't strictly speak define e minus one. Okay. So now I want to sort of do this more generally. So I take a power series. Also by the way the plan uh so after this lectures there's two more lectures Thursday and Tuesday next week and um and uh right and and and the my plan is uh it's I already updated the you know the course plan to reflect this. So my plan is like next time I will prove existence of uniqueness of some OD uh using things we have learned here you know about metric spaces and then Tuesday next week we'll do a review of the class so there won't be any new material on Tuesday. Okay. also for whatever it was. I decided in the end with a friend to turn in the lecture notes to to turn it into a book just because the TBB I that was like the main reference I didn't find that great anyway. It was also you know at thousand pages you know who know when I reach thousand pages right so and so the course not here is like shorter as you probably have seen and trying to focus on on the uh you know the key points. Okay. So, so eventually there will be a book. Um, okay. So now, so now, um, right. So now I want to to do this sort of more generally. So I take we take a power series. So we have a as a sequence and we're looking at a power series like this. So this is a power series and uh so just rem to remind you the radius of convergence of convergence is given as as follows. So we take um we take m and m is defined to be the lean soup as n go to infinity of the n root of absolute value of a n right and then the radius of convergence so r here is then 1 / m with this usual uh convention that if m is infinity, this here is zero. If m is zero, this here is infinity, right? And so then we have again that we have that. So we have that the the series here. So if you're looking at this k = z up to n of a n xn this here converge to this limit here uh uniformly on each interval of this form. here where where L here is strictly this and that. Okay. And this is again this here is is biocest. Now what I'm interested in is I'm interested in uh so I want to be able to calculate the derivative of this. So, so we so we define so we define a function f by that uh f ofx is equal to the sum here from k = z to infinity. So this is the power series x to k like that. And we want to uh want a formula for uh for the derivative and in fact I want a formula for any derivative of uh so say the m derivative of this function and so uh right So now I uh look at so we have take this power series and I'm looking at the power series that is given by um right so if I take so uh it's supposed to looking at the power series where for each term so you have in the original power it's a n time x to the n then I'm looking at n a n * x uh -1 like this right so and here I'm summing from um from uh from one uh I mean it doesn't matter sum from zero so zero to infinity like Yeah. Now the radius of convergence for this. So what is the radius of convergence? So of convergence. Uh the radius of convergence for this is is the nth root of n * a to the n like this. And this in here is the same as n to the power 1 / n * the nth root of a n like this. Right? Now this thing here if you're looking at n like this this here is you can write this thing here as e and then it's log n / n. This here as n goes to infinity converts to zero. So this thing here converts to to one by e to the one. And so you have that lean soup here. So the lim soup of the nth root of n * a n like this this thing here is because this here right you can write this it's the same as li soup n go to infinity n go to infinity it's the same as the n root of of this in here times the n root of like this this here converts to one. So it really just converts. So it's equal to the limb soup as n go to infinity of the nth root of a. Right? So and that was what we call m originally. So this this limb soup is the same as this limb soup. So this means that m from for this new sequence is the same as m for the old sequence. So this means that the radius convergence for the new sequence is equal to the radius of convergence from the old sequence. Right? So if you take the derivative term by term and you form this new power series then it has the same radius of convergence. That's the original passes. Okay. And so now you can iterate this. So you can iterate this. So you can take the So this is just taking the derivative term by term one time. If you now take the uh derivative suppose you're starting with this sequence here. So you're starting with with sorry with this power series and you're taking the derivative term by term then you get as we did up there you're getting this power sh now you take a derivative again term by term. So you're getting this right and the thing is that each time the radius of convergence for this same radius of convergence these two here same radius of right it's because of the same principle same radius and and and so on. And so you can continue. And if you do this um if you do this uh m time then you're getting n uh then so right. So if you right so if you do this um m times then you get that this thing here is x uh - m and you're getting a n and here you're getting uh n minus one n minus 2 up to uh n min - m + 1 right this would give you so you're getting that right so that is after this is when you do it m times and so again these here will have the same radius convergence right now yeah now this thing here right so what is So n if I want to write this a little bit more compactly if I'm thinking about this thing here n minus 2 up to n minus m + one I can write this thing here as n factorial and then uh but then I getting all these so if I wrote it as n factorial then I would also have Right? It would keep going like this and the next one here would be n minus m. Right? So if I writing so I can write this thing here times this factorial is equal to that. Right? Yeah. Sorry. >> Right. So, >> so I think you were complaining about one thing that I sort of uh pushed under the rock and that is the following that if you if you take the way we define so if you take a power series again like this and you define the radius of convergence then you define it from this n element right I think that's what you're complaining about and so you take the the coefficient to the n power that's not exactly what I did is that what you're complaining about yeah >> and and that doesn't matter right and and the thing is that so when you define the rate of convergence you took this n power like this right but this was to to this it was coicient to where this here was to the end when I'm doing it over here I there's two ways of dealing with it one is the one you suggest I mean and the other one and that was why I put it under you know I swept it under the rock is that that the way the the radius this with the radius convergence it comes from comparing it with a geometric series and then it really doesn't matter for this term in terms of x whether you have shifted it or not. Okay. But if you do it um if you do it as you suggesting which would be totally fine then let's see. So then listening here what you really should have done is that we should have thought about this n a n and then we should take the this here and we should take instead of the n root we should take the n minus one root right but that doesn't matter either right that's going to be the same also yeah so either way you can check either of these two things and I was thinking about the first and that where it's coming from Okay. So, so now um right so sorry now I lost my thread here. So I was just observing that if you write if you can write the n factorial as first taking all of these factors and then taking n minus one right so this means that that n factorial divided by n minus one sorry n minus m factorial this is equal to n -1 n -2 down to n - m + one like that right but you see that's exactly what we have down here right so this thing here so so what I conclude from this is that if I take a power series If I take a power s if I take a power series like this uh and I take the derivative term by term then and I do this k uh m times Then this is what I get is n factorial n - m factorial and then a n x m n minus m right. Okay. So the and we also so this is when we do it term by term taking the derivative and we already have that these here have the same radius of conversion. Okay. And so now so now we have a funny theorem that if you take a power series so you take a power series like this uh r is the radius of converting convergence. uh and if L here is strictly less some positive number but strictly less than the radius of convergence then uh then these guys here these guys here converge to uh right so these when you're summing when you take a finite sum sorry these here converge to to is uh uniformly. But not only these uniformly. But not only that, but you also have that more interestingly, you have that um that this sequence here uh um k minus k minus k minus uh m sorry uh k factorial divided by k minus m factorial a uh k uh x k - m that this sequence here converge uniformly to the derivative this is f ofx to the to the m derivative of x of f. So we have that these functions but that we already prove that these functions here converge and their derivative here converge uniformly like this on the same. Okay. Now why is this the case? So this here is again it's following so this follows to prove follows from the same theorem follows from the theorem we proved earlier. we showed earlier and let's just go through that. So let me go through it. So let's assume assume first that that m is equal to one. Right? So I just take one derivative. Well, then I'm looking at I'm getting I'm looking at this sequence here. Sorry. K X K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K = Z to N. I'm looking at these that converge to this infinite this this two to two to it they converge to f right f again is this infinite power s and I'm looking at the derivative of these guys so these are this and I know now that these here converge and these This here converts uniformly to the power series that is this infinite series. Right? This here was the finite part of it and this here it's like the infinite you know the whole thing right. So we have that this means in particular that so this thing here implies of course that um that when you're looking at the at at zero when you're looking at zero by if you evaluate this thing here at zero then in this one here you get in this this is the sequence of functions fn of x from before. These are the fn prime of x, right? And so now I claim that so so the theorem that we proved earlier is that if you take a sequence of functions that are differentiable and their derivative is continuous, these are all polinomial. So this is definitely the case. And we know that this that these values here fn in fact at zero they're equal to f of zero. Right? So this is like so we had three conditions. We had that the fn in some particular point that we call x0 this is now zero that this converge. We have that the fp prime was converging uniformly. Well, we know that these here converge uniformly. And then we had that the fprime should be continuous, but they were obviously continuous. They were polinomials, right? Then then we had that the derivative converge uniformly. Um and that the and that the function that they converge to the the derivative converge and also the original functions converge, right? And um and that the derivative converts uniformly to the derivative of the function that it converts to. Right? So you see that this is just checking that we have the tree property from the theorem before and then we get the two conclusion and the one conclusion that we're interested in is that this here is then the power series for the derivative of f. Okay. Now Okay. So now the so and then you can do the same thing with so let me just say that you can do the same thing if you take um if you take um if you if you are integrating so so here we proved so suppose you take a sequence theorem that is converging to f well suppose you take a power series here Suppose you take this power series uh k x k= to zero. So this is the finite this is the power series and suppose I'm interested in what is the integral from a to b of this power series f ofx dx right and here I'm assuming that a and b are in the uh are um in the interval where the power shares is converging. So you have this right? So this means of course that if you think about it that you have here zero, you have r you have here minus r and then a and b is lying and so this means that this whole interval is lying comfortably inside some interval like this. Right? Okay. And I'm asking what is a nice formula for this this integral here. And so then well uh I can use not the theorem we proved earlier but the theorem we proved last time. And so what is that? So if I define f(n) of x to be equal to the sum here from k = to zero to n of a k x k sorry x to power k. These thing here, these here converge uniformly to f ofx on any interval like this when l here is strictly less than the radius of convergence. Right? So they converge here uniformly. But the theorem we proved earlier was that if you take a uniform convergence like this and you take a and b in this integral then the integral of these guys converge to the integral like this. Right? We have this convergence here. But these here are easy to integrate right these these guys but because they're polinomial so the polomium so this means that the fn s the fns of s when you integrate this from a to b ds these guys are the sum here of A uh K sorry uh S K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K = Z to N and then the integral here D S from A to B, right fine? Because it's just that polomial. And so for polomium well we can just use that it's a sum of the of these guys a k sk k = to zero to n right and this thing here when we integrate this that's just that's just um that's just the I mean now it doesn't get much nicer unless you make one of them equal to zero. So, so you have this. So, let me say that if a here was equal to zero and and and b was equal to x. So if that's the case and you're looking at this integral from 0 to x of fn s ds, we know that this here converts to the integral right of the power series. On the other hand, this integral here, right? You know if on the other hand um on the other hand this integral here if you're looking at the sum here and then sum and now the a is zero b is x so then is this here a k x k now when we integrate this term here we're getting right so we're getting the sum here k = z to n and then this here becomes a um k + 1 um x to the power k + one Right. And so you see that if you're looking at so you see that these guys here now converge to the to the integral from zero to x of f of s gs right that's what we get from the theorem. So the conclusion here is that if you take a power series um and you're looking inside the radius of convergence then the power series is differentiable as many times as you want and the derivative is given by power series and it's just the derivative of the ter individual term by term right and likewise if you want to integrate a power series then the integral So at least when you're integrating because otherwise the formula is not quite as nice but you get a but you do get a formula but it does doesn't look so nice but the integral of a power series you can just integrate it term by term right okay so now the next thing we want to talk about um and that's I'm just trying to set up for next uh for for the next lecture and so this is we want to talk about uh differential equations and how we using some of the stuff that we proven in this class to solve differential equation and in and it's like an example where it may not be very obvious um that you could use metric spaces to solve a differential equation but but this is nevertheless the case. So, so we're looking at a differential equation. So, a differential equation is an equation is an equation in an unknown. in an unknown function uh and its derivative. So let me give you some examples of this um that you take uh you're looking at uh at a function f you're trying to find a function f so that so this is like the first example you have you're looking for a function f so that the derivative is x right well we already know that this here the solutions to This um um f ofx = to 1/2 x^2 plus some constant right constant whatever the constant when you take derivative you get zero and and the derivative of this in here gives you x right and those are the only solutions. Um, another example here is uh where you're taking something that looks like uh f prime minus f 2. So f ofx like this. And if you're looking at the function here um f ofx = 1 - 1 /x. If you take this function here and now you take the derivative. So now I'm using the chain rule. So I get 1 - one like this squared and then I take the derivative of this. So that's - x - one sorry - one. So that's -1 * -1. So this here is - 1 - x². And so you see that when you take this function here with a minus sign. Uh right. So, so when you take I think it should be a plus, right? So, when you take >> No, no, no. It should be minus. No, that's right. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. I did this one wrong. This here should have been a minus like that, right? And so, this here is now is indeed plus and then it's this equation. Okay, the next example um another so again if the equation is something that involved a fun unknown function and its derivative uh so suppose you take something that looks like f fprime fprime equal to zero if you're taking the function f= to some constant, this is a solution. And if you're taking f= to say um x or some constant times x, this is is also a solution. They're both solutions. And this is just because the second in this case, the second derivative is zero. Okay. So now what we will be interested in is uh we're going to be interested in uh what's called an ordinary differential equation. It's it's it's and we only looked at this we only looked as function of just one variable if it's so this is what the ordinary refer to. So we want to look at ordinary differential equation and an ordinary differential equation is abbreviated by OD and this is uh and if it's not an ordinary then it's usually a partial uh differential equation which involve a function that is uh that is of more than one variable. So it will involve the what's called the partial derivative of the functions. Okay. And the the so the unknown so the unknown function function uh will be denoted by y. And the equation that we're looking at is that we want some particular value at say zero. And then we want uh that the derivative satisfying an equation. And the der equation that we're looking for is that we have so we have um we have um so f here and g are given. So think about those as functions that are given. Those are two given functions but you know they may not be super nice and but you know that f is differentiable and the derivative is continuous and g here is continuous but in principle you know they're given and now you're looking for a but it might be very very complicated maybe f is sign or you know something like that. Uh and so you're looking for a a unknown function y so that the derivative so y we think about y as a function of x and the derivative of y is supposed to be equal to f but is now applied to this and then plus g of x. Right? So this here is much more tame but this is a bit complicated because it involved the unknown function. Okay. And so we want to we want to so we want to see so we are asking so question does this equation does this OD have a solution and if Um is the solution uh unique? Right? So by this we mean right? So we're looking for a function. So so here's what we're looking for. We're looking for a function y defined on some interval into r. This function has to be differentiable. So this has to exist. A zero has to be in that interval, right? Because we want this is a is just a constant, right? And so so and then we want then we want obviously y to satisfy uh this this equation here right that's what we're looking for. So this is existence. They're saying that what we will prove is that there exists some interal. So, so we want so we will prove the following. So, we prove the following theorem of which is has many different names and is attributed to various people. Um but it's I guess uh um in it's often most often uh named the pic lindelof theorem and so this is that um that's um that given f and and g as a bound so f has to be differentiable and the derivative continuous g just has to be continuous Then there exist then for any a there exist a delta greater than zero um such that and a solution and a solution to this differential equation this OD um um on the integral from minus delta to delta. So we just prove we prove that there exist a solution near the origin. The thing is that a solution may blow up. So it may not exist on a very long interval. It may just exist on a smaller interval. is all depending on f and g but in particular will depend on f. Okay. So it's uh and and that moreover uh it is unique meaning that if you take another solution defined on the same interval then it must be that solution. Okay. And so, so now I just have a minute or two, but but we'll prove this next time anyway, but I just want to um as a teaser, if you will, I will just say that. So, the proof of this, so the proof the proof uh uses Uh the contracting mapping zoom mapping the I'll remind you what that is. Maybe I'll remind you what it is. So the so recall that the contracting mapping system is the following that suppose you take a metric space X and D. So D is a metric, X is a space. And suppose you take a map from X to itself. Then X is so then T. So T here is a map from X to itself. T is set to be a contracting map. If if there exists some constant that constant and that's key it has to be strictly less than one so that if you measure distances between the images so for any X and Y in capital X this is for all X and Y in capital X if you look at the distance between the images of these two points then it's less or equal to this constant that is strictly less than one like this. Okay. So that's a contracting map and the contracting mapping theorem that we prove I I'll remind you about it again next time but just the contracting mapping theorem that we prove this that so we prove the following theorem which is a contracting mapping theorem that if X here is cushy complete Then and and t from x to x is a contracting map matching map. Then t has a unique fix point. So a there's a unique so there exist a unique one often write like this there exist one and only one x so that f so that or x0 so that this map takes x0 to itself so that's a contracting mapping theorem okay and so now so it seems like that what does od has to do with this abstract concept of a metric space. So it's it's tied together using this and then the space X it's not. You may think that it's it's you may think that's close, but it's not quite the case. You may think that it's like a continuous function on an interval like this. That's close. That's this here is you may think that because that's a space we've talked about a lot. this here with this metric D we talked about with this maximum distance. It's not actually quite the case. It's a little bit more complicated than this. The x is but x is related to this because x here would be a ball around the function that is constant um the function that is constant a in this space and and we have to choose this r carefully. Okay. And so that's a space X. And now I haven't defined the the fun the map G, but we'll do that next time. And I will remind you about this also. Any questions?