Okay. So today we're doing linear programming and we are um yeah going to basically do a very I think a four or five lecture um unit on linear programming and linear programming is one of the big I guess engines behind optimization and to show how important it is um Well, when I started working in 1986, there were a bunch of linear programming um you know tools on the market and Robert Bixby in 1987 founded a company and wrote Clex which was the um by far the best linear programming tool on the market and he charged uh immense amount for it and a lot of people bought it and he retire and he sold his company 10 years later for I don't know4 or $50 million and um you know and IBM recently bought the company that he sold it to for $180 million so it's big business and very important okay just yeah so what is linear programming So I'm going to give two examples of problems you might want to solve with linear programming and um then we will continue with other things. So what is linear programming? It's essentially optimize either minimize or maximize a linear function subject to linear constraints. And we'll start with a diet model. And um so this is actually taken straight from the lecture notes and I think given the um given the costs I think it only works if you're feeding mice. So, let's say you have some mice and their nutritional requirements. They need a certain amount of starch. Um and there are two grains you can give them. Grain one and grain two. And they need eight units of starch, 15 units of protein, and seven units of vitamins. And grain one contains five, four, and two, and costs um 60 cents. And grain two costs contains seven, two, and one, and costs 35. And the question is how cheaply can you feed the mice and satisfy their nutritional requirements. So what we do with linear programming is we need to write down a model. And how do you write down a model? You choose variables. write objective function and constraints and then you feed your linear program to a linear programming package and it will give you the answer. So any suggestions as to what the variables should be. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. How much of each grain? So let's let x1 amount of grain one and x2 be the amount of grain two. And now we want to write down an adjective function. So we either need to minimize or maximize something. So what do we want to minimize the cost? So let's write it down here. Minimize. I guess it's 60 x1 + 35 x2. And what are the constraints? Well, the constraints are that they get enough starch, get enough proteins, and get enough vitamin. So that would be And what we do when we write down linear programs is we say subject to I believe we say subject two. Let's see if yeah subject to before we write down all the constraints. So subject two and now we need some things. So we need 5 * the grain 1 + 7 * grain 2 has to be at least 8. So 5 x1 + 7 x2 is greater than or equal to 8. And 4x1 + 2 x2 is greater than or equal to 15. And finally 2x1 + x2 is greater than equal to 7 and I'm not going to solve it in part because it has an utterly trivial answer and also we're not going to actually tell you how to solve linear programmings. in this class. Um there's something called the simplex method and I will you know give you a very rough overview of how the simplex method works at some point. But actually explaining exactly how the details work is something first you'll probably never need because there are tons of linear programming packages and you can you know just download one from the internet and use that. And second, it's, you know, it's explaining how it works is somewhat interesting, but it's also rather tedious and there are lots of little um technicalities you have to go through. So I don't really want to do that. So um so that is linear program. Oh wait, I just realized there are two constraints I did not write down. Does anybody can anybody tell me what they are? Yes. >> Negative. >> Non- negativity. Yeah. So, x1 greater than or two x1 greater than or equal to zero and x2 greater than equal to zero. And these are non- negativity Non negativity constraints. And they're actually handled a little bit differently than most constraints in um are often handled a little differently from most constraints in linear programming. Okay. Okay. And now I'm going to come up with a another example. Okay. So, let's say you're having a bake sale and there are two things you know how to bake. Let's say you know how to bake cookies. and we'll simplify the ingredient list. Don't, you know, don't go home and use this ingredient list for real cookies. So, um, eggs we need one, sugar, we need two cups, and flour, we need one cup, no, one and 1/2 cups. And then you also know how to bake meringues. And for those you need three eggs, you need one cup of sugar. And you don't need any flour. And you can sell a batch of meringues for $20. And you can sell a batch of cookies So the first thing we need to do is write down our variables. So what variables would you use? Yeah. >> No. Yes. >> Like how many cookies and how many, >> right? How many batches of cookies and how many batches of meringue? So um let's say x1 is the number of batches of cookies and x2 is a number of batches of merangues. And what do we have? Well, you want to maximize the amount of money. So, you want to maximize um so our notes call the things you're maximizing or minimizing Z. And um much of the time you don't actually need to not much of the time you don't actually need to write down Z in your linear program. But there are sometimes when it's very useful to have a variable name for the thing you're maximizing. So we'll use it. Um, well, you don't want to run out of eggs. So, that means that the number of batches of cookies, x1 * 1 + 3 * x2 had better be less than or equal to the total number of eggs you have, which I didn't tell you what how many eggs you had. Okay. So, let's say we have nine eggs, um, eight cups of sugar, and 15 cups flour. So, x1 + 3x2 is less than equal to 9. And 2x1 + x2 is less than or equal to 8. And there's another one. 1.5 * x3 x1 is less than or equal to 15. And of course we have x1 greater than equal to 0 and x2 greater than equal to zero. And one nice thing you can do with linear programs if there's not very many variables and not very many um constraints is you can actually draw the feasible region on the plane. So I think I need to give you some notation before I go ahead. Um with drawing this notation. A feasible solution is not necessarily optimal is a is a point. Let's say x1 through xn are our variables or x1 x2 through I'm looking see if the notes okay let's say x k bit satis The size of the constraints. An optimal solution is a feasible solution that optimizes our objective function. >> [groaning] >> So, okay. So what does the feasible region look like? Well, let's write it down. Let's say this is x1 and this is x2 and we have x1 well we have 2 x1 + x2 is less than equal to 8 which means we have the point 8 up here and the point 4 down here and we have the linear region there. So that's our first constraint. Second constraint is x1 + 3 x2 is less than equal of 9. So now let's put 9 here three here. And our second constraint will be everything under this. And the third constraint is 1.5x1 is less than equal to 15 which means x1 is less than or equal to 10 which means the third constraint is everything to the left of this line. So you can see that this third constraint is completely meaningless because anything that satisfies the first two constraints must satisfy the third one. And the actual feasible reason is this region and the intersection of the first two constraints. Okay. I think before I need to say anything more, I should say something about the standard form and the canonical form for linear programming programs. Because so the notes form. So maximum Z is equal to cranspose. These are our constraints. No, this is our not constraints. This is our objective function X. So here I guess cranspose is the vector 2020 um ax equals b and x greater or equal to zero. canonical form maximum and it's nearly the same cranspose x a sub x less than equal to b x greater than or equal to zero Thurm. any um linear program can be put into well either standard or canonical form. So how do we do this? Okay. So there are some easier one. So suppose our objective function suppose objective function is minimize 3x + 5 3x1 + 5 x2. How would you turn that into a maximization problem? >> Yes. negative. >> Yeah, exactly. Stick a negative on it. Maximize - 3x1 - 5x2. Okay. Um suppose you have unconstrained variable X subi can be either positive or negative. Maybe I should just tell you the answer to this because it's not quite as obvious as the last one. So replace x i with x sub i + - x sub i minus x sub i + is greater than equal to zero. x sub i minus is greater than equal to zero. So whenever you have so I mean doesn't matter whether x i is positive or negative there's also ways some x i plus and some x i minus which will give you any value of x subi and now these are non- negative variables Okay. So, there's two more cases I should talk about. Um, and they are a little bit more complicated than this. Um suppose So let's look up here. So canonical form all the constraints are inequalities. Standard form all the constraints are equalities. So to go back and forth between canonical form or standard form or just to put an arbitrary linear program in canonical form we need to turn inequalities into equalities and vice versa. So suppose we have have um x1 + 3 x2 less than equal to 9 x1 x2 greater than equal to zero. How do we make this in a How do we make this inequality? Any suggestions? >> Yes, >> you can add another variable. you add another variable. Very good. What we add do is we add something that's called a slack variable and we get x1 + 3 x2 + s is equal to 9 with s greater than or equal to zero. And if we have x1 + 3 x2 greater than equal to 9, we would add something called a surplus variable. x1 + 3x2 - x = 9 s greater than zero. And the last thing is we do we need to do is we need to say how to turn any inequal equalities into inequalities. And that is actually again pretty easy. So if we have x1 + 3 x2 = 9, we can turn that into x1 + 3 x2 greater than or equal to 9 and x1 + 3 x2 less than or equal to 9. So anything that satisfies this satisfies that. And now if you don't like if you want to put your thing in canonical form, you need to get rid of all the greater than equal to signs. But that's easy. Then you just say - x1 - 3x2 is less than equal to - 9. And this is canonical form. So why do we need to worry about canonical form and standard form? Well, standard form use in simplex method. So the simplex method is one of the standard ways of solving linear programs and we're not going to go into it but as I said I will sketch you the basic ideas for it at some point and we use use this in duality and duality is one of the most important um I guess aspects of linear program. Well, another very important aspect of linear program is that there's efficient method of solving them. But as I said, we're not going to um explain that very in very much detail because, you know, if you're, you know, a ma an applied mathematician employed at some company, you never actually solve linear programming by hand. You you use whatever tool you have available, which is probably CLEX, if it's a company that solves a ton of different linear programs. And um that's you know you don't need to know what's underneath the hood in CLEX but if you are an applied mathematician you really do need to know how to use duality and I we will explain duality in this course. [clears throat] So, um, So let's write down a theorem. Every linear program that has a solution and optimal solution has an optimal optimal basic feasible solution. Okay. So what is a basic feasible solution? Well, the easiest way to explain is by looking at this diagram. Of course, you know, real linear programs, this diagram isn't planer. It's n-dimensional and impossible to draw on a blackboard, but the basic idea is the same. So the basic the the basic feasible solutions are basically the intersection are the extreme points of the feasible region. So these are basic feasible solutions and the theorem is that one of these is optimal. So why are they called basic feasible solutions? Well, to explain that, I think I need to go into um standard form and put this linear proto in standard form. The above LP in standard form is um maximize Z = 20 X1 + 20 X2. Um subject two um x1 + 3 x2 less than equal to 9 x2 or rather plus s1. This is our slack variable. And now we need 2 x1 plus x2. And now we need a different slack variable for the second equation. You need a slack variable for each equation. When you're doing this and finally 15x1.5x1 is less than equal to 15. So that would be plus S3 equals 50. So a basis Here basis is a linearly independent set of columns. So let's just take um this one. Okay. So that is x1 plus s1 = 9. 2x1 + s2 s2 = and 1.5 x1 + x3. Actually, we're just picking these three columns. So, we leave this one. So, that is equal to 15. And for every basis there's a solution because this is just uh you know an a a matrix times a vector equals a vector. I mean it's just uh set of linear equations with k equations and k variables. So it has a solution. Um, and I guess this solution would be x1 = 10. And now you could use this to get S2 equals that's 20 + S2 = 8 - 12 and S1 = -1. So you can see that this basis is not feasible solution. because it violates the um non- negativity constraints. But every linear program has a feasible solution which the feasible points here correspond to the extreme points of the feasible region. And the optimal one is the one 20 x1 + 20 x2 that is furthest in the direction of the vector which is the objective function. And what does the linear programming what does the simplex algorithm do? Well, what the simplex algorithm does is it starts at one basic feasible solution, which in this case you would use 0 0 and it walks along the edges until and it chooses an edge which improves the objective function every time. And there's always an edge that improves the objective function unless you're actually at the optimum. So that just walks along the edges until it reaches the optimum. So is this an efficient algorithm? Well, this is a little bit of um you know, history which we're not going to um you know, we're not going to test you on, but you know, this was Donsig's simplex algorithm just to walk along the edges and he proposed it. It worked really well in practice, but pretty much for any I mean, you need some way of choosing which edge you're going to walk along. And pretty much for any way of choosing which edge you want to walk along, people could come up with a counter example which it took exponentially many steps along the edges. So it works really well in practice. In the worst case, nobody could, you know, nobody could prove that it worked really well. And this lasted until Dan Spielman and um Tang, Dan Spielman was a professor at MIT at the time, invented a new technique called smooth analysis that says that it works really well almost all the time. that is probably all we're going to say on the simplex algorithm. Okay. So now I want to talk about duality and we're going to use this linear program as a you know as an example. And actually as you can see from that diagram we could just get rid of this constraint. it doesn't make any difference and just look at these first two constraints. So what we're going to do is we're going to ask how can we find a lower bound on the optimum and how can we find an upper bound on the optimum and then we will show that these two bounds actually will end up being equal under some conditions. So lower bound any feasible solution solution gives a lower bound. So let's take a feasible solution for that one. Um how about x1 = x2 = 2. That satisfies all the constraints. X1 = X2 = 2 and um does that 2 + 6 is 8 and 4 + 2 is 6 and those are satisfied and the objective function is 20 * 2 + 20 * 2 is equal to 80. So that is one way you could do this. And I should say that for this linear program, even though I've called them batches, you have to assume that you can use fractional numbers for x1 and x2. Otherwise, you get an integer program and not a linear program. And those are much more complicated. Okay, so any feasible solution gives you a lower bound. How about an upper bound? So let's I'm going to write down something. 20 x1 + x2, okay, is certainly less than 20 x1 + 3 x2, right? Because we have well because x2 is positive. And now we have x1 + 3x2 is less than equal to 9. So this is less than or equal to 20 * 9 = 180. And we can do the same thing for the second um constraint. 20 x1 + x2 is less than equal to 20 * 2x1 + x2 is less than or equal to 160. So these are both good upper bounds and this is a good lower bound. Can we do better? Okay, let's do better. Let's add this and this. We have two. Let's see. We have 3x1 + 4x2. So we're adding these two constraints. It's less than or equal to 17 and you know we have 203. Oh, x1 + x2 is less than or equal to 20/3 * 3x1 + 4 x2 is less than or equal to 20/3 * 17 which is equal to um 113 and the third. Okay, so we got a much better upper bound by adding these two constraints. So what happens if we find the best sum of these constraints? How does it look? Okay. So I want to go about this more systematically so we can find the dual linear program. Every linear program has a dual linear program and we want to do this. So we have and you know the way we the way we will do this is we will assume that the linear program is canonical in canonical form for the time being and luckily this linear program just happens to be in canonical form. So how do we do this? Well, what we want to do is we want a combination of a combination of these constraints which will let us give a best upper bound possible. So let's say we have y1 * our first constraint x1 + 3x2 is less than equal to 9 and y 2 * our second constraint um that's 2x1 + x2 is less than or equal to >> [applause] >> And now we want this combination to be less than or equal to. All right. We want 20 x1 + x2 to be bigger than to be less than or equal to our combination. So we want the combination to be bigger than or equal to 20 x1 + 20 x2. So that tells us that y1 * 1 + y 2 * 2 had better be bigger than 20. And 3 y1 + y 2 is also bigger than or equal to 20. So suppose we found y's like this. What would we have? We would have y1 x1. Okay, I want it. Y1 + 2 Y 2 X1 + 3 Y1 + Y 3 Y1 + Y2 X2 is greater than or equal to 20 x1 + 20 x2. So this would be our things and this is in turn less than or equal to I want to say 9 y1 + 8 y 2 y 2 So to get the best bound on 20 x1 + 20 x2, we need to minimize 9 y1 + 8 y2. So we want to minimize 9 y1 + 8 y 2 subject to um y1 + 2 y2 greater than equal to 20. >> and 3 y1 + y2 + y2 greater than equal to 20 and y1 y2 greater than equal to zero. So why y1 y2 greater than equal to 0? Well, I mean, if y 2 was less than zero, then when we add these equalities up, we have, you know, the less than or equal to if y2 was less than or equal to zero, the less than equal to sign would turn into a greater than equal to sign and adding these inequalities up would not make any sense. So, we need the yi is greater than equal to zero. So what did we what did we get here? What is this thing? It's another linear program. So this is the dual linear program. And now I want to write down I want to write down the dual linear program for an arbitrary program in um canonical form and then we will show the theorem of weak duality. But maybe I want to um maybe I want to solve these linear problems first. So x1 Okay= 3 x2 = 2. This is a feasible point. X1 = 3. X 2 = 2. That's 3 + 2 * 3 is less than equal to 9. And 6 + 2 is less than equal to 8. So this is a feasible point. And objective function is 20 * 5 = 100. Now let's solve this one. Okay, I did not write down the solution here. But there is a solution to this linear program. So the objective function is also 100. And um you know the dual program gave you an upper bound and the feasible point in the dual program gives you an upper bound. A feasible point in the primal program gives you a lower bound. So because this 100 is equal to that 100 then we are we know that the answer is 100. So let's try y1 = 4, y 2 = 8. 4 + 16 is 20. 12 + 8 is 20. and 9 * 4 + 8 * 8 is equal to 100. So here is a feasible point for the dual program which also gives the optimum objective value. Okay. So, canonical form duel. Okay. Well, the primal was maximize z= c transpose x sub subject to a x less than equal to b and x greater than zero. >> [clears throat] >> Well, the duel turns out to be minimize y I'm sorry w equals b transpose y subject to a transpose y is greater than equal to c y greater than equal to zero. And you can see why this is maybe by looking at this example. Um [clears throat] when we did this example, we had you know the original linear program had the matrix A 1 3 2 1. This now has the matrix A equals 1 2 3 1. And this two came from the AI J A12 thing a um a 21 um entry of A and now it's the A12 entry of the new A. So this is just this matrix is just the transpose of the original. The right hand sides are just the original um objective function and the new objective function is just the right hand sides of these inequalities. So [clears throat] um we have a transpose instead of a the objective function gets turned into the right hand side of the constraints and the right hand side of the constraints gets turned into the new objective function. Okay. Okay. So now I will prove something called weak duality. Durham weak duality. If x is a feasible solution of the primal with objective function um z= cranspose x And y is a feasible solution of dual objective function w equals b transpose Y [sighs] and then Z is less than group W. So any feasible solution of the primal is less than any feasible solution of the duel. Okay. There's also something called strong duality which we're not going to have a chance to prove today. We will do that next time. But I'm going to tell you what it is and then we'll get the proof of weak duality. So strong duality is really I want to say this is one of the great um one of the most important you know theorems in cominatorial optimization the If the optimum Z star is finite so is W star and Z star is equal to W star. So weak duality says that for any feasible solution value for the primal is lesser through the value for the dual. Strong duality says that if the you know if the optimal values are finite then they are equal. Okay. So how do we prove weak duality? So we have Z equals proof of weak We have Z equals cranspose X. Recall a transpose y was greater than equal to c. So that's one of our constra that's our constraints of the duel. So what we're going to do is we're going to plug this into here and we get um cranspose X is less than or equal to A transpose Y transpose X which is equal to Y transpose A And now well do we have something about ax there? Up there we have ax less or equal to b. So let's plug that into here. And that's less than equal to yrpose b. And what was yrpose b? um y transpose b. Well, that's just actually the transpose of b transpose y transpose and branspose y was w. So this uh this is w because w is a scalar. So transposing it doesn't make any difference. So that says that Z is less than equal to this thing which is less included this thing which is equal to W. So Z is less than W. Okay, there's two more things I want to do today. Although [clears throat] I'm not entirely sure we'll get by more than one of them. The duel of the duel is the primal and really I think probably all of you were expecting this to be true. So [clears throat] the primal is the maximum Z= Crpose X such that or subject to sorry A X is less than or equal to B and X greater than equal to zero. Now the dual is minimum of W = B transpose Y subject to A transpose Y greater than equal to C Y greater than equal to zero. So before we can go on, we want to put the duel in the canonical form because I haven't told you how to take dus of anything that's not in the canonical form. So one way you can take duels of an arbitrary pro linear program is first put into canonical form and then take the duel. Another way is to go back and look at the proof and figure out the formula for taking the duel of an arbitrary linear program. And we'll do that next time. So, but let's put this in canonical form. So, how do we turn a uh minimization into a maximization? We saw this already. We just take the negative. So, we need to So, what we need to do is we need to maximize minus brpose y yeah well this inequality is the wrong way around for um a canonical form. So let's take the negative of it. Subject to minus a transpose y is less than equal to minus c and y greater than or equal to zero. So this is the canonical form. So all we do is we um we want to take the transpose of a and put this up here. So the duel is minus crpose x um subject to okay we need to take the transpose of this that gives us a minus a x is greater than or equal to um minus b. But now if we just take the negative of this and the negative of this we get back to the original thing maximize z= cranspose x such that ax is less than equal to b rather than minus ax is greater than minus b and x greater than equal to zero. So the transpose of the transpose is the dual which no makes which justifies the name or the sorry the duel of the duel is the primal which justifies the name duel. Okay, I have four minutes left and I don't know if I can say anything reasonable in four minutes. Are there any questions about this? Okay. So, one thing you do when you're first see a linear program, if you're doing research, is take the duel and stare at it and see if it makes any sense intuitively. There are lots of linear programs where if you take the duel and you stare at it, it makes sense intuitively and you understand why the duel is an upper bound on the optimum of the primal. There are also lots of other linear programs when you get it, you take the duel, you stare at it, and you scratch your head and you say, why is this a bound on the primal? And I mean, you know it is because it's the duel, but it's not intuitively obvious. So, um, and you know, some of those if you stare at it for longer, you understand what's going on. And some of them you can stare at it for as long as you want and you probably still won't understand. So, um, we're going to see illustrations of I think after the after the quiz or maybe before the quiz. Yeah, we will see illustrations of this kind no of primal program making intuitive sense and then the dual makes also intuitively sense and is clearly an upper bound on the primal. So you're going to see that in um I guess zero sum games and in um probably max flow. Okay. So I will see everybody on Thursday and we will talk more about linear programs and duels and I will put out a homework tonight which I think will be due next Tuesday.