And this network could be all sorts of things. I mean it could be pipes, roads, um, you know, electronic communications. And each edge has a capacity. And the question is how much um whatever can you get get from a source to a sync. So here we have an example. This is a network. This six says that only six units of flow can pass over this edge at any given time. This says four. This is three. And the question is how many units of flow can you get from S to T? And we will call the source S and the sync T. And these are the standard letters that are used for them. I don't know whether they stand for anything or not. I mean clearly source S presumably stands for source but I don't know why T is a sync. Okay. So the question is how much flow can you get from here to here? Um, well, let's try putting flow from here to here. Does anybody see a path you could run flow on? Okay, this is an easy question. What is some path from S to T? Let's say S2 um oh my I have left out the numbers on the nodes. So this is four and this is five. So S to two to four to T you could run three units of flow along this path. So let's put them there. Now are there other paths you could take? Yeah, of course there are. You could run two units of flow from here to here. So that's two to two two. is this all? Well, no, because you could run two units of flow from here to here to here. And we have, you know, two units of flow already on here. So this gives you four. You have zero units of flow already. So this is two. You have three units of flow here. So that gives you five. Now is that the maximum? Does anybody see any more paths? >> Yes. One from S. Two, three, five. Is it? >> Yeah, you could do one from here. Wait. Oh, you're right. This was four. No, wait. Yeah, this was four. But you could run one up here. Four. You could run one down here. One. And three. And one up here. And one up here. And there's still one more path you could do, which I guess is one here, one here, um, one here, one here, and one here. So that's pretty complicated, but this would be five, and this would be two, and this would be three, and two. No, wait. And you could one run one run here from four to three. So that's there. And now we have a flow every the flow through every edge is less than the capacity on that edge. So that's good. And we have got a nine units of um nine units of flow from here to here. Okay. I guess I copied down the um No, I didn't copy anything wrong. I'm just looking at the green numbers rather than the blue numbers. Okay. So, here is um a flow of nine units. So, what we're going to do later is write down a linear program and the solution to this linear program will be the maximum flow. But first, I want to talk about a cuts. So, how could you prove How can you prove that this flow is maximum? >> [clears throat] >> Well, let's look at these three edges. This one, this one, and that one. There's four units of capacity on this edge, two units of capacity on this edge, and three units of capacity on that edge. And so this defines a cut and at most nine units of flow can cross this cut. So that shows that nine units of flow is maximum cuts. A cut is defined as a subset of the vertices or subset containing S but not T. And so to make this a subset of the vertices, gosh, what we do is we make the subset this guy and this guy. And um maybe we should call it C. Edges from C to C bar are edges in the cut. And let's say the capacity of an edge is U of the edge. So summation over E equals I J I in C J and C bar U of I J equals I guess the value of cut and it should be fairly easy that the maximum flow is less than or equal to the minimum cut because if you have a flow from S to T it must cross every edge of the cut. So if the flow is 9 units then or rather if the cut is 9 units then you can't have a flow larger than 9 units and the theorem we will prove later later theorem the value of max flow equals value of minimum cut. So you probably recognize this as being somewhat you know something like LP duality and this is the primal solution of LP and this will turn out to be the solution of the dual LP. P and by the strong duality theorem of linear program this guy equals this guy. So the maximum flow equals the minimum cut. Okay. So there's a bunch of things we have to do before we prove this theorem. So what do we do? First thing we do is write down the linear program. Does anybody have suggestions for what the variables should be? Yeah, >> I guess it's like how like how many units you like flow through each >> through each edge. Exactly. So the variables are going to be x subig j that's the flow over edge i j. And any suggestions for constraints? >> Yeah. for any node not equal to SRT like maybe the flow inwards is the flow outwards >> right so flow conservation I guess you could call it and let me write this down um Okay. Okay. Summation. Hope I'm getting this. J such that I J is in the set of edges. X subj. So this is a set of things going into node I and a set of things going out of node I equals um no wait this is a set of things going out of node I J and the set of things going into node I and let's put a minus sign here so that um K such that K I is an A. So this is a set of things going into node I X sub K I equals zero because you know linear programs it's nice to write down. So you have the variables on the left side of the equations and are inequalities and the constants on the right side of the inequalities. And there's another set of constraints. Can anybody figure out what it is? Yep. >> What? >> Yes. >> The capacities. >> Yeah, the capacities. We need to use the capacities somewhere. And the you know Xig is less than or equal to um we call them U of J. Okay J. and also x i j have better than greater than equal to zero. And what do we want to maximize? Okay, so what we want to do is we want to maximize the sum of the things into the sync which is node t. But actually we're going to do this a slightly different way. We're going to write down a different um a new constraint summation. Um, oh, let's write down for all I and I want to write down um K such that KT X sub KT is an A. So this is all the things going into the sync. X sub KT is equal to Z and we want to maximize Z. So let's did not leave enough room. So maximize see. Okay. So that is the um linear program and I have this sneaking suspicion that I messed up a sign somewhere but it doesn't really I mean doesn't ma I mean this is a pro linear program which does get the solution so it doesn't really matter if I messed up a sign except then when we take the duel it's going to be it's not going to be quite as nice. Okay, let's just keep on going and write down the duel. And if I got the sign wrong, we'll fix it after that. I want to say sign I don't I'm going to say the sign is not wrong. This is a perfectly good linear program for max flow. It's just I am, you know, a little worried that when we take the duel, we're going to have to flip some signs. Okay. So [clears throat] why don't I explain why don't I take the duel now to take duel each equation gives a constraint or each inequality no each variable gives a constraint each constraint gives a variable So, we have two classes. Well, actually, I guess we have three classes of equations and inequalities, but I just want to um use two of them. I'm going to call this one alpha subj and this one beta subi and this one beta subc. because this really is a lot like this except um slightly different. And I really should make this minus Z equals Z. So, how do we get the um variables of the how do we get the constraints of the duel and the objective function of the duel? Well, the objection function in the duel is just the right hand sides of the right hand sides of the constraints of the primal. So the so we will have minimum Because the original L primal LP was a maximization. We want to have a minimization. And the minimization summation alpha J u of I J subject two. Um okay, we're going to have a equation for each variable. So let's say the equation corresponding to variable x subig j it's just you look at all the places where xig j appears in equation. So x subj appears in beta subi and in alpha subj. And we should have alpha iig j plus beta subi minus beta subj is greater than or equal to zero. So it's greater than equal to because these were positive variables. And when we go from a maximization to a minimization, you're minimizing this. You want a greater than equal to sign in your constraints. Okay. Now there is one more um well I guess Z was also a variable in this and so there's an equa equing to B and Z appears in the objective function. So this should be greater than or equal to one and Z also appears in well I just want to say only appears in one equation that's beta subz. So beta subz is greater or equal to one. No, actually it appears in Yeah. Yeah. So this is the duel. >> What >> not negative one? Ah because I should have written this equation minus and plus. And now this left hand side is things leading into oh this is beta subt beta sub z I'm sorry that was a very good question beta subt and this thing is um k this should the edges leading into T. And if we look down here, edges leading into I have a minus sign. So to make it consistent, this has to have a minus sign. And then this is a plus sign and we have beta subt greater than or equal to one. That was a very good question and that explains why I was worried about the signs. Good. Okay. So, what do solutions of this equation look like? Well, how do you get cuts out of solutions to this equation? Okay, and this is uh very This is a rather tricky um thing. So, so for this we have we put we put um numbers on the nodes of this network. And we want to maximize alpha subj times the capacity and subject to the capacity beta i minus beta j is greater than equal to zero. And first I want to say you know for optimal alpha subig is equal to well either alphaig j oh did I write forget to write down alpha j bigger than equal to zero because alpha subi j was uh less an inequality in the okay the constraint corresponding to al alpha i j was an inequality so alpha j is greater than equal to zero and the beta sub i's are unconstrained. For the optimal, well, you want to make alpha subj as small as possible subject to the constraints that alpha subig is bigger equal to zero and alpha sub j is bigger than beta j minus beta i. So you might make alpha J equals maximum of zero and beta J minus beta subi and the optimal. Okay. So we're going to put values on the nodes and we're going to make alpha subj for maximum zero and beta j minus beta i. Now suppose each alpha j equals z or 1. And now what we have is we have and I'm just going to say here because we want to make everything as small as possible. We'll take beta subtal 1 and we'll take beta subs equals zero because you know because if there is no because if s if s is one of these if we're looking at i j where i equals s for this then really we don't have a beta sub i and the you know the equations alpha i subj minus beta j is greater than equal to zero but you can just make everything uniform by setting beta s equals z. So we have beta t equal 1 beta s equals z. So we have 0 0. Okay, I should put some this is one let's make this one this zero etc. So alpha subi j is the maximum of zero and beta j minus beta subi. So that means that this is going to be one. This is going to be zero. This is going to be one. Um this is you know this would be minus one except that's less than zero. So this had better be zero. This is zero. This is zero for the same reason. This is This is um one and this is zero. The one edges are a cut because the one edges are just the edges leading out of the things nodes with alpha nodes with beta i equals z and to the nodes beta i equals 1 which was our definition of cut. So that means that this is a cut between um which nodes are zeros between the green nodes and the other nodes. So there's one here, one one here, and one here. So when you add up the you look at the objective function, it's just the sum over all of the edges in the cut times their capacity or one for all the edges in the cut times their capacity. So it's just the value of the cut. So this is dual objective function value of cut if beta subi is in 01. Now here comes the trickiest part. of this whole um thing. Why can we assume it's the minimum cut rather than this? In other words, why can we assume that the optimal solution of the duel has integer values rather than fractional values for the variables? look at. Okay, we're going to look at this graph in another way. Graph above drawn in another way. Okay, so let's put S beta subs=0 on the left side beta subt = 1 on the right side and um beta sub 2 beta sub3 beta sub 4 beta sub5 But I want to claim I want to I want to say that there's no reason these beta eyes have to be in order. put beta i's online at value of beta i in the optimal solution of the duel. [clears throat] So if beta was 2 was equal to 2 in the optimum solution of the duel this point would be 0 2. And now let's look at the edges in this graph. And this is six. This is four. This is two. Um there's an edge three, a value three going from Beta 3, beta 2 to beta 4. So this is three. There's an edge from beta 3 to beta 4. So that is three. Um, there's an edge from beta 4 to beta 5. Wait, there's an edge from beta 5 to beta 4, which is this way. Two. There's an edge from beta 4 to t. So this is eight. And this is two. okay. So, so the claim edges crossing a vertical I form a cut. So let's look at this edge. Um this vertical line this has edge two, three and four crossing in it. And we have beta's Beta 1 and beta beta S and beta 2 are on the left side. So that is just this cut. You have S and two on the left side of the cut and all the other edges on the right side of the cut. And we have four and two and three crossing them. Now let's try another cut. And um I probably should use a different color. So um let's try Now we have five and t on the right side and the other four edges on the left. So what cut does that correspond to here? Um it's not a different color. I'm sorry. Let's try making it purple. Okay. So that and I see I have drawn drawn things wrong. I left out a edge because there's an edge from B3 to B5. So that should look like this because we have three going to five and that edge had capacity four. So the value of this cut is two. No, wait. It's four + 8. That's 12. And we don't count this two edge two because it crosses the cut backwards. And we only count edges that cross the cut forwards. And you know here we have that cut is um okay I need a purple line here. purple line here. No, those are the wrong I'm sorry about that. This is the So five and t are on the one side of this cut. So we this this and this edge is not cross the cut because it crosses the cut backwards. So the value of that cut is no. So these edges are these vertices are in the cut. So the edges are the ones that go from something not in the cut to something in the cut. So that's four to T3 to 5 and 5 to 4 is backwards edge. So the value of that cut is 8 + 3 which is 11 which is bigger than nine. So it's not the minimum cut but that it I think the B beta 3 to beta 5 might have the wrong value. >> I think you're right. So beta 3 to beta 5 is four and I put down three on here. So let's see beta 3 to beta 5 three. So this is supposed to be a three. Thank you. Okay. So that is um so we have a cut of value 11 for there. So these are cuts. Now I want to claim The value of the dual optimum in duel. Well, I want to label these cuts. So, let's label this one as Um, okay. C1, C2, C3, C4, C5. And let's assume that the betas are put down in order because we can always renumber the um variables so that the third variable is the one right after the second cut. So the value of the optimum in the dual is equal to summation well summation alpha subig j u of i j which is equal to beta j minus beta j minus one um times C sub J minus one. Why is that? Well, let's look at this picture again. So we have alpha i subj equals maximum of zero and beta j minus beta subi. So, so this is equal to summation over forward edges beta j minus beta i u of i j. Now let's look at this edge. This edge appears in two cuts and its value in the first cut is beta t minus beta 5 times the value times 8. The value of contributing the second cut is beta 5 minus beta 4 * 8. So adding them up when you sum up all the cuts you get beta t minus beta 4 * 8 for the value this edge contributes to the duel which is exactly what it's supposed to be. Okay. So this is the trickiest part. So should I explain it some more? Um so beta five. So the cuts only come from the edges where beta where beta 5 is bigger than beta 4. So this edge does not contribute anything to the cut. If there's a cut that goes if there's an edge that goes forward, it contributes beta t minus beta 5 * 8 to this cut and beta 5 minus beta 4 * 8 to this cut. And adding those two things up, you get beta t minus beta 4 * 8 to the total objective function of the duel, which is just what it's supposed to be because alpha j is equal to beta j minus beta i. Okay. So, oh, wait. I think I wanted to keep that. So, Objective function of duel is summation beta j minus beta j minus one c subj j minus one right but summation beta j minus beta j minus one is equal to beta t minus beta s is equal to because beta t was one, beta s was zero. Let beta j minus beta j minus one equals lambda j. So this equals summation lambda j c j minus one. Okay, maybe lambda j minus one lambda j minus one c a minus one where summation lambda j - 1 = 1. This is an average of values of cuts just by the definition of average. But the average of a bunch of things is bigger than the minimum of the bunch of things. So this is greater than or equal to the minimum cut. And in the optimal solution of the duel, you take the minimum cut. You can put zeros on the beta subjs that are to the left of the cut and one on the beta js to the right of the cut. So you get the minimum value of the cut for the solution of the duel. So the value of the dual substitution is equal to the minimum cut and we know that the value of the primal solution is equal to the maximum flow because that's the way we set up the LP. So the maximum flow is equal to the minimum cut. Okay. And so the next thing I want to do, which I'm I don't think I'm going to quite get through all the lecture notes today, but what I've done today is the so far is the thing that I really want you to take, you know, the lesson I want you to take home that looking at the DS and analyzing them can give you very interesting theorems about um linear programs and this is no I want to say this is a fundamental principle in combinatorial optimization and um if you actually get a linear program from somewhere one of the first things you do is you look at the duel you stare at it and you say what does this mean in terms of the actual problem you're studying. And often it will give you some insight into the problem. Sometimes it won't. Sometimes it just looks like a bunch of, you know, a bunch of um variables that you can't understand at all. Okay. So, um, I think we can erase this now. Suppose you have a you have a maximum flow problem with integer capacities. Then the solution is an integer proof. The dual solution is a cut. So it's a sum of integers because the capacity of the cut is the sum of the capacities of the edges and the capacities of the edges are integers. So we can ask the question does the primal solution also have I guess integer flows. because maybe it doesn't. I mean, there are certainly solutions where it doesn't. I mean, um, you can imagine coming up with a solution where you have, I guess, six and a half units of flow flowing over this edge and one and a half units flowing over that edge. and adding up to nine. So I guess I can't do arithmetic but um but you also know that all the edges all the flows going across a cut have to be equal to the value of that the edges in the capacities in that cut. So you know some edges have to be integer. So the question is do all the edges can you find a solution with all the edges integers and the answer is yes and I don't know how to do it easily working from the linear program. So there's another algorithm for integer flows algorithm max flow which I'm going to call augmenting paths and the and the idea. Find a path. Push as much flow over this path as possible. So as much flow over this path as possible will you know you will take the minimum residual capacity in every edge and the path and um that means that you um you know the residual capacity is always an integer because the flows are integers and the capacities are integers. So that means that the whole thing will be an integer. So let's try this and let's see we have a simple network. Um 2 2 3 three. These are the capacities. Two two. And let's put another edge from here to here with capacity three. And we're going to direct all the edges to the right. So good. Okay. So the first step, let's take the best path to push flow from here to here. So let's take three along here, three along here, and three along here. Okay. Now, how much capacity remains in the graph? Well, there's zero left in this edge, zero left along this edge, and zero left along this edge. So it looks like we have a cut between the left side and the right side with and you can't put any more flow across. But of course you should know you should realize that you could easily put a flow of four on the original graph. So um you have to be clever to use this algorithm. So how can we push more flow across this graph? I want to claim that we could use this path So this path we push it two across here. Push two across here. And now we're going the wrong way in the edge. But we can do that because there's already a flow of three across this edge. And so to get a flow of two this way, we just reduce this three to one. And then we can push another flow of two across here and another flow of two across here. So you can push flow across edges backwards as long as there's uh there is a flow left as long as there is as long as there's a flow already along an edge. [clears throat] So I want to claim define residual network. Um, if an edge has flow x subj less than u of j. The new capacity is U of I J minus X of J. If an edge x subj greater than zero. There's an edge and residual network so let's call this edge ei J E subji with capacity um x subi j. So what is the residual network for this graph when we put the flow the orange flow across it? Well, we have well this had capacity three. So now that edge has capacity three in the opposite direction. This edge has zero. So that has capacity zero. Two two. This edge also has capacity three and flow three in the forward. So now we get capacity 3 going in the backwards direction and this one we have capacity three in the backwards direction. This has capacity three in the forwards and the capacity three in the forwards. [clears throat] Okay. So this is the residual network. Okay. And now you can see that there's a flow of two that goes bum bum bum bum bum. So we push this flow of two here and we get here. I'm going to redraw this. We get two, two, and one going this way. And three going this way. And two, two, and three. So now we have a flow from the source to the sync with value five. And that's the best you can do because you can see that there's a cut of value five. With just taking t and everything else, you can get at most value five across this cut. So claim if there is no flow in residual network. then there is a cut cut in original graph. if you have a value, so I guess I should have started this with suppose you have a flow of value Z. If there's no augmenting path in the residual network, then there's a cut in the original graph of value. So if there's no flow in the if there's no flow in the residual network. Let S be maybe C be set of nodes you can reach from S. So let's say we have this thing. So what nodes can you reach from S? Actually you can't reach any nodes from S because this is capacity. This is at capacity. So we could have um made this made this capacity four and this capacity four. And this is still a good flow in the residual network. And now what nodes can we reach? Well, we can reach this node. We cannot reach this node because this is at capacity. we can reach this node. Oops. And we actually can reach this node because it's at capacity. But we cannot reach this node and we cannot reach this node. So we have a cut here and that corresponds to this cut here. So every edge from C to C bar, the flow is equal to U of I J because otherwise you could push flow from C to C bar and every edge from C bar to C X subig equals zero because Otherwise, you could push extra flow backwards along this edge. And that says the cut equals sum c bar u of i j equals flow. So if you cannot find any augmenting paths, if you already have a partial flow, then you're done. You cannot get any further. Yeah. I mean then you have you know that is the value of the maximum flow because you have found a minimum cut that is equal to your flow. So this says that you can use the augmenting paths algorithm to find max flows and it will give you an integer flow if all the capacities are integer which is know what we wanted to show and actually there's a there's an application of this which maybe I'm going to get through. And this is Kunig's thurum. Oops. All right. And a bipartite graph. The cardality of the maximum matching of maximum matching equals cardality of minimum vertex covers. Okay, let's look at a graph. So this is a bipartite graph and um what would be a maximum matching? Well, I mean we clearly should put this vertex in the matching. This vertex in the matching. Um I guess we need another vertex here. Um and we can put this vertex in the matching and this vertex in the matching. So the maximum matching equals four. So the maximum matching is just the maximum set of edges such that no two share an end point. Minimum vertex cover set of vertices that touch every edge. And clearly verdicts cover is greater than or equal to the matching because there must be a vertex that touches one end point of each of the edges of the matching. And you don't I mean you're not going to get less than that. But Kodig theorem is that these two quantities are actually equal. And proof maximum flow then cut. Okay. So we want a flow whose um we want a flow whose um value is equal to the matching. So what are we going to do? Well, we're going to take um s on the left and put an put an edge of weight one to every vertex in the matching. And now we're going to and let's um do the same thing on the right. We'll put a edge to the sink from every point on the right side of the bipartite graph. And then and these capacities are going to be one. And now let's see. Um there There is a max flow with integer values. And what that means is that oh and we can let the capacities of these middle edges be infinity if we want. Well, what that means is that there are going to be some number of edges in the middle which have weight one here. So I want to claim that those are clearly a maximum matching because um you know on the right hand side no if they one flow if there's a one unit of flow from here to here then no other edge could use this vertex. So if you have a flow from here to here then this edge this edge is in the matching and neither of these edges is in the matching and similarly on the left. So the maximum flow gives you a maximum matching duel is a cut and that means that there's a cut whose value is equal to the maximum flow and There are going to be some edges on the right which are cut and the some edges on the left which are in the cut. And I don't think I did that right. But um you know if the edge is in the cut then this vertex is in the vertex cover and now we know that there aren't any other paths from S to T. And that means that we know that every vertex every edge is covered by at least one vertex because otherwise there would be a path from S to T going through that edge. Let me see. Um, so let's Okay, I did not prepare this quite properly enough. So, this is an edge in the cut. This, I believe, has to be an edge in the cut. And now And um I can just say this is an edge in the cut there should be one more thing and that means so there are three edges in this cut and I think that cut actually cuts all the paths from left to right. So, we should have a maximum matching of only three. well, it's easy. One, two, three. And you can't get any more things in the maximum matching because you know because there's a cut. So this is Kunix theorem and I seem to be completely out of time. So I will see you next time on Thursday when we start a new topic on information theory.