Yeah. So, we're sort of in the last part of the class now and I've been reflecting on what what to do together. Um and uh I asked everybody for for some input, a little survey about what topics to do and how much detail to do. Um there was no consensus in the survey of of what people wanted to do. Um but I've decided I would like to do for a couple of weeks uh talk about some applications of projection theory in other areas. Um and then in the last couple weeks try to talk about at least the some of the main ideas in the proof of the sharp projection theorem. Um yeah so we recently had been doing uh Burgans's projection theorem and the burganc cat's projection theorem in finite fields and um we so feeling that that we really had to work pretty hard for those things and it was striking that we had to work pretty hard just to get this like very small uh improvement um and um so in some of what we'll do in the rest of the class I I will try to show that that that small improvement is really valuable okay. Um so the yeah so the so so the the plan for the rest of the class is for for about one week we'll talk about random walks on groups and then for about one week we'll talk about homogeneous dynamics. Um and then at the end we'll talk about the sharp projection theorem. Okay. Um um cool. And also in the last few classes I felt that we were um doing some very technical things and and and uh um sometimes a little bit of a struggle. Um so for for today what I want to do is to give I hope a very friendly induct in introduction to random walks on groups and then um next week on Tuesday to explain how projection theory helps to figure out some interesting things. Okay. So talk about random walks of groups. All right. So suppose that G is a finite group and then mu is a probability measure on G. So I'll think of it as a function on G which is non- negative and sums to one. Okay. So if you have a probability measure like this, you can do a random walk where at each step of the random walk, you pick an element of G by this probability and then you move by that element. So here's how the random walk works. So you start somewhere say at G0 then you sample a step h from mu and the next guy g1 is g 0 * h. So that's one step of the random walk and then you can keep doing this. Okay. And um so if you do take K steps of the random walk then that will be there will be some probability distribution of where you end up after k steps and the main question about one main question about random walks is how evenly distributed is that probability distribution. Um so question how evenly distributed is uh the random walk after k steps. Okay. And we'll make we'll make this more precise in a moment. All right. So, so we um it is helpful to describe this random walk using uh convolution. Okay, so convolution on a group looks like this. We have two functions f_sub_1 and f_sub_2 on this group. And then if I convolve them with each other and I evaluate that at g, that's the sum g1 * g2 = g. f of g1 f_sub_1 of g1 f_sub_2 of g2. That's the sum over all the g1 and g2 that multiply to g of of this. Okay. Um and then for mu we can make an operator and t mu of f is just f convolved with mu. And this operator basically describes this random walk. So let's say how they're related. So suppose I were to take t mu and apply it to the delta function at g knot and evaluate that at some g. Um okay. So let's let's see what's a good way to write this. Um so that's the sum. Um actually let me look at how I wrote it in my notes. I tried writing this a few ways and then I decided there was a good way to write it. Right? Yeah. Let's write it this way. So suppose I want to evaluate this at g* h. So that's the sum over g1 * g2 = g * h of delta function at g of g1 time mu of g2. All right. So the only way that this sum can be not zero is if g1 is g0. So there's only one term in this sum. So this um g 0 * g2 is g 0 * h of mu of g2. There's only one term and it's the term where g2 is h. Okay. So this thing is the probability distribution of one step of the random walk. The probability if I started at g that I end up at g* h is mu of h. That's the definition of my random walk. So this operator is performing one step of the random walker. And therefore if I take t mu to the k of delta g0 that's uh like k steps of the random walk starting at g. Okay. Um actually let me say this I could say this better. So this is the probability that a random walk is at g after k steps. Okay. So now we can take this question how evenly distributed is the random walk. We can write that as a precise question about this. I'll call it question one. So I'd like to estimate okay t mu to the k of delta g0. So this is the actual probability distribution. And if the probability was completely even over the whole group, it would be one over the size of the group everywhere. So I'm going to see how close it is to that by measuring the norm of this difference. So I like to estimate that. Okay. And L2 is helpful but also perhaps a little arbitrary. You could also put other norms. So could put or L infinity or maybe some other norm. Okay. So this is the kind of question about random walks on groups that we are going to try to understand. All right. So um to understand this it is helpful to notice that this is a linear operator. This t- mu is a linear operator. It's basically a matrix. And it's helpful to think about that um in terms of matrix ideas like the singular values and singular vectors of this matrix. So t mu plus a linear operator and we're going to study singular values and singular vectors of t. Okay. So there is um one um simple singular value which is or value I guess that t mu of one is one. >> Yeah. >> Are singular values and singular vectors just the same as values and values. >> Um they are closely related. Um so let me do a quick review of singular values and values. Right. Um, so if you have a a matrix and you think about what it does to the unit ball, it will turn the unit ball into an ellipsoid. Um and the principal axes of this ellipsoid are the singular values sigma sigma 2. Okay. And then um uh so if we look at the pre-im images of these things those will be the singular vectors. So well depending on the matrix they could be pointing any which way but maybe that's um v2 and that is v1. Okay. And they will always be so we'll have um uh so the the vi or orthonormal and the size of mvi is sigma. Um and the mvi are also worth are also orthogonal. Those are the singular vectors. Okay. Now they are not generally igen vectors in the sense that mvi will not usually be a multiple of vi. Uh but they are closely related to them. Um the vi are the igen vectors of m star or m m star I guess. Um and the uh sigma i squared are the igen values of m star mic mm star. so in particular this biggest uh this biggest singular vector measures the operator norm of the matrix which is that the the um so these are these are ordered like this and um MV is at most sigma 1 Okay, so the reason we're talking about singular values is we're going to care about stuff like this. And this is naturally associated with singular values. If m is not symmetric, it's not necessarily the same as talking about values. Okay. Um, okay. So, if we take this tu of the function one, the constant function, we'll just get one because this t- mu is is like an averaging operator. We're averaging t. So, t mu of f at g is the average value at of g at some other places around g that are dictated by mu. So t mu of one is one. Okay. And um now it's uh okay. So so that implies that the that the the Okay. So I'll do a little lema. The the the largest singular value. Yeah. Okay. So little lema is that t mu of f and l2 is at most f and l2 and this is sharp because of this example. They could be they could be equal. Okay. Okay. So proving this will help us think a little bit about what convolution means. Um so t mu of f is f convolved with mu g here. So that's the sum g1 g2 = g f of g1 mu of g2. And I'd like to think of this as a sum over g2. So it's the sum over g2 because I'm thinking of it that way. I can bring the mu of g2 out front and then what I have left is f of g1 which is g * g2 inverse and I want to think of this as a linear combination of a bunch of different functions of g. Okay, let's give them a name. So this function of g is sort of f but but we first did this thing and I want I want you to think of it as taking f and then shifting it using the group. So it's the right translation by g2 of f of g is defined to be this thing here. So we could plug that in. Um and this shifting operation doesn't change the norm of g. So, RG2 of F in L2 is the same as F in R2. Ah, I've been mentioning L2. What? Yeah, I should say. Okay, let me pause for a second. I should have said something before. Okay, so when we have these functions on G, we're going to measure their norm. Um, and if I have f L2 of G, this is going to be some G and G, f of gum squared to the 12. Or I could take an inner product, the inner product of f_sub_1 and f_sub_2 is the sum g and g, f_sub_1 of g, f_sub_2 of g to that. So the functions on g are I hope we're spaced with this with this natural measure. Okay. Um so then if I take a function and I translate it or do this right translation um it just sort of permutes the value so it doesn't change this thing. Okay. So now if we look at our t mu of f um um I have this yeah I'm interested in the norm of t mu of f. This is the norm of the sum on G2 mu of G2 R subg2 of F. It's a linear combination of these functions which are all translates of F. And L2 is a norm. It obeys the triangle inequality. So this is less than the sum on G2 mu of G2 RG2 of F and L2. All of these have the same norm. which is the L2 norm of F and the L2 norm and then this adds up to one. So this is just the L2 norm of F. Okay, so this is a basic fact about averaging operators. Um and to understand whether the random walk is mixing things up, we have to care about how it behaves on the space orthogonal to one. And the first observation is that it preserves the space orthogonal to one. So let's give that space a name. Say L2 of G KN is the set of F and L2 of G. So that sum G and G of F of G is zero. This is saying that f is orthogonal to the constant function. Okay. So another simple lema is that our operator t mu actually takes this space to itself. So it takes the constant function to itself and it takes the perpendicular space to itself which will imply that the constant function is one of the singular vectors of the of of this operator. Okay. So proof um uh so I want to understand the sum g and g of t team muf of g. Going to imagine that the sum of f of g is zero. And I want to see if that's still true. All right. So that's the sum g and g sum g1 * g2 equals g. f of g1 mu of g2. And if you think about what we're summing over, we're just summing over G1 and G2. So this is the sum over G1 and G2 of F of G1, mu of G2. And now that factors. So this is one. And if F was in L2 of GN, this would be zero. This is so f if f is an l2 of g not then so t mu of f will be okay Oh, all right. So, so we've seen that um t mu of one is one and t mu takes l2 of g kn to itself. So this is the largest singular value we've seen and um and then here there's something else. So let's say sigma one of t mu. So, so this this one could I'll call it sigma kn of t mu. Somehow in this setting the one is sort of trivial and everything else will depend on the trace of mu. So sigma 1 of t mu is the largest singular value of of this part. Okay. All right. So question two is going to be to estimate that estimate sigma one of t and these two questions are related to each other. Um this thing helps to understand um how I mean helps a lot to understand how this operator behaves and and to and to answer question one. So let me put up a simple proposition how question two is related to question one. So proposition if you look at that thing t mu to the k delta function g minus 1 / g in l2 this is bounded by sigma 1 of t mu to the k. Okay so proof. So we want to see what t mu to the k does to a delta function at a point. Let's take this delta function at a point and t mu splits up the constant function is an igen function and then and then then the the the things with mean zero. So let's split up this delta function. So the the constant part of it is like this and then we have this. So the reason we split it up that way is that this part which in the beginning of the class we could have we would have called like the high part of this um so I guess I'll do that that's in L2 of G 0 mean zero part okay now what happens when we apply this operator well this operator takes constants to constants uh it's the identity on the constant part um and so I take t mu to the k delta g kn this part will say stay stay like one over one over I'll take the left hand side and then if I subtract that it will disappear so what I'll be left with is t mu to the k on this uh high part of the delta g not okay how big is that well this part lives in this space so we can bound the size of this thing using the uh singular vector. Um and so so I get t mu to the k of delta g high two that's bounded by sigma 1 of t mu to the k times delta g high2 Okay. And now it's it's also now straightforward to check that this is smaller than one. Okay. So uh it's an application um if we were able to arrange that sigma 1 t mu to the k was less than 1 over 100 times the size of g um then well this l2 norm would be less than one over 100 times the size of g and so in particular the l infinity norm would be less than one over 100 times the size of g. So then I would say that for every g um t mu k delta g of g minus one over the size of g would be smaller than 1 over 100 times the size of g. That would tell us say that this function is pretty close to this constant function within 1%. So that random walk would now have mixed uh pretty thoroughly. Okay, great. So if we can get our hands on sigma 1 of t mu, then we can figure out how long it takes this random walk to mix evenly. Cool. Okay. So now let me mention tell you an interesting example of a particular group and a particular mu where there's a cool estimate for this So we are going to mostly focus or maybe only focus on the group SL2 of FP and um could pick many different measures for a random walk but one nice one which has been studied is to take the set A to be so f so first of all um if A is a subset of G. There's a natural measure on A which is the uniform measure. So measure on A which is one over the cardality of A times the sum A and A of delta A. Okay. Um okay. So there's a nice set A inside of here which was studied by Selberg. A Selberg. Uh well okay which is relevant to a theorem of Selberg. P set his third differently. But so there are four elements in this set. Um and these are generators of the group SL2FP. There are many ways you could choose generators for this group, but this is probably the simplest way. Um and okay and now I can state a theorem. So theorem one exists a positive c I think one one over 100 should be fine. Um so that for every p prime if you take a selberg and sl2 of fp you make a random walk. Um and so in this setting let me write t a for t sub mu sub a. um then sigma 1 of ta is less than 1 minus c. So uniformly for all primes. So if this is say 99 over 100 then you can just read off uh you know high powers of this are bounded by something and you can plug that into the discussion over here. So it says that that random walk mixes extremely fast. Yeah. >> How does sigma one behave kind of as it over time? Does it converge to sub or oscillate a lot? >> Um so the question is how does sigma 1 of ta behave um as as the prime varies? I do not know the answer to that question. Um so I should say so let me say that this was this is a correlary of a theorem of Selberg from the late 50s um and Selberg act's actual theorem is about the first igen value of the lelassian on a hyperbolic surface which is associated to this group and you can go back and forth. With modern technology, it's considered not very difficult to go back and forth between a bound for the igen value of the surface and a bound here. Uh but when you do go back and forth, you will screw up the constants. Um Selberg's theorem was that the first igen value of that surface was at least 316s and that's probably not the right answer. And he conjectured that it should be a quarter. Um so for his actual problem there was there is a beautiful conjecture about what happens as p goes to infinity which is that the values should converge to a quarter um for this I'm not sure okay cool okay so bounds like this are also related to uh expand standard graphs, isoparametric inequalities in graphs and I thought I would also show that um and um so it it shows that well okay so so let me explain that. So we can we can if you have a set of of generators inside of a group we can use that to make a graph called a kaly graph. And this mixing inequality can be thought of or implies some interesting geometric features of the graph. So um expansion in graphs. Okay. So if G is a finite group then A is a set of generators and I guess that to have a graph maybe we should say that is a symmetric set of generators. I don't know if that's important. Yeah, let's leave it. Um then we'll have a kaly graph kaly graph of GA. This is a graph. The vertices are G and G. And a pair G1, G2 um is an edge if and only if um G2 is G1 * A or vice versa. Um yeah, so I guess we should have it symmetric. Um G2= G1 * A where A is in A. Okay. And the random walk we've been imagining is basically the random walk on this graph. You start at a vertex and you move randomly to a neighboring along the edges. Yeah. >> How do you identify SL2 of a finite field with a hyperbolic surface? >> Um yeah, I I I will Okay, we'll talk about the connection to hyperbolic geometry a little later when we talk about the proof of this theorem, but let's do it then. Yeah. Okay. okay so that's the kaly graph um and in this graph if I have subsets s and t inside of the vertices e of s and t the edges from s to t that's going to be the set of g1 g2 and s cross t so that g1 g2 is an edge a set of edges from fast. Okay. So, proposition if we have CGA is above then the number of edges from S to S complement. So, S is going to be a subset of the vertices. number of these edges is at least one minus sigma 1 of TA times a * S * S complement over G. Okay, so let's digest this a little bit. Um so what does this expression mean? Well, there are S. This is the this is how many points there are in the set S. From each of those points, there are a edges coming out. So, this is how many edges there are that are leaving points at S. How many of them do we think end up in S complement? Well, we don't really know, but as a reference point, everything was sort of random. The fraction of edges that ended up in S complement might be S complement over G. So this expression here would be the typical number of edges from S to S complement if we had a random graph where each vertex was in this many edges. Okay. And then we're going to say that the actual number of edges is at least some fraction of that. If sigma 1 of TA were one, this would be a trivial inequality. It's bigger than zero. But if sigma 1 is is smaller than one, then this is a non-trivial inequality. and it says that the number of edges is a certain a definite fraction of what you would see in the random model. Okay, so let's prove this or at least give a proof sketch. So the key point is that we can describe this quantity using this operator TA and then it becomes not so surprising that the singular value of TA is relevant. How do you do it? The number of edges from S to S complement is the inner product is inner product of TA of the characteristic function of S with the characteristic function of S complement and there's a factor of a in front. This is a normalization. If if TA had been just TA is an averaging operator, but we didn't really want to average. We wanted to count edges. So there's an extra factor. Okay. Does this look plausible to people? Should we write this? Let's write this out a little bit. So t a1s of g is 1 / a sum a and a of uh um s of g a inverse. So that's the definition of the of the convolution. Um so we we so then when we take this inner product we're going to have the um sum g and g 1 / a sum a 1 s of g a inverse one s complement of So we will only be counting uh we'll be counting G's that are in S complement but GA inverse is an S and that's an edge that starts in S and goes to S complnt. So S S complement over here we have G. Over here we have GA inverse and those are connected by an edge. That's the thing that we're counting. Okay, this double sum here means we're counting all of the going through all the edges, but we're only counting an edge if it goes from S to S complement. And we have this, which we didn't really want, which is why we multiplied by this over here. Okay, good. Okay, so now remember that this operator uh sort of splits we it takes the constant functions to the constant functions and it takes the mean zero functions to the mean zero functions. So we should split everybody in sight into a constant part and a mean zero part. So we split 1 s is s over g that's the constant part plus 1 s minus s over g. So this I'll call it 1 s high and it lives in l2 g0. Okay. Do the same thing for s complement. So now the number of edges from S to S complement that is A times um okay we'll have TA of the constant parts so that's SG s complement G plus A times the high frequency high frequency parts uh the non the mean zero parts um TA of 1s high one as complement. Okay. So let's call this zero and this is the high part or the let's call this the constant part and this is the high part. Okay. So the rest of it is just a computation and I won't do the algebra carefully but if you do the constant part you get this as SS complement over G. The constant part exactly tracks what would happen if all the edges were random. Okay. And then for the high part of course we won't compute it exactly because we have to know what the operator TA is. But we can bound it by the um by the norm of TA sigma 1 of TA times 1 S high in L2 times 1 S complement high in L2. Okay. And then those things are straightforward to compute those L2 norms. And if you work if you compute them you get that this is a this is I'll put the sigma one out front. And then it's the same thing a s S complement over G. Okay. So the true answer is the constant term plus the high term which is like an error term and whose size is at most this. And if sigma 1 is strictly less than one then the error term is strictly smaller than the constant term. So something will be left over and that's the inequality. Okay, so let me make a little remark. Um, if S is smaller than G over two, then S complement is bigger than G over2. So this is more or less without loss of generality. You know, if you switch the roles of S and S complement, but it means S complement is at least G over2, which means that this whole fraction has order of one. So then we get that the number of edges from S to S complement is at least half sigma 1 of TA A time S. So it's at least uh a definite fraction of all of the possible edges that it could be living leaving us. Okay. So this property here is called being an expander graph because if you take a set that's less than half of the graph and then you add to it all of the edges that are leaving it then it will get significantly bigger. It will expand. So it's called an expander graph. Okay. Okay. Cool. Um so so this proposition shows that if this sigma one is strictly less than one it's something like in Selber's theorem then the edges in the graph behave in this way that it's an expanded graph. Okay, cool. Okay, now so Selberg did not state his theorem in this way. So this is slightly ahistorical, but Selberg's theorem plus things that are not very difficult in hindsight show that this kaly graph of SL2FP is an expander graph and it is in a sense the first Zelberg didn't quite say this but in a sense this was the first proof that any graph was an expander graph. Um, expander graphs were officially defined in 1970 by Pinsker and something pretty close by Koma Garf and Bars in the 60s and all of those people realized that um random graphs were expander graphs. Um, yeah. So I maybe many people have seen but it's really a remarkable thing. So, so just for comparison, like a simple graph that we might think of that we can easily visualize would be like a like an n byn grid and that kind of graph is not an expander at all. So an n byn grid has n squared vertices but you can cut it in half with a vertical line and you only cut n edges. So the number of edges so s and s complement are each about half of the graph. The number of edges between them is is much smaller than s. Um so these are very large graphs but the number of edges it takes to cut it in half is comparable to all of the edges and um it most graphs are like that but before people realized it it was surprising and counterintuitive that any graphs were like that and it's very significant fact in many domains of math and science. Okay. Uh okay, let me pause there and questions about about Selberg's theorem and this setup mixing and expansion. >> The point of a generators is just so that it's connected. >> Yes, that's right. So um so the question is uh is what what is the point of a being generators? So if a did not generate the group then this graph would be disconnected and then it wouldn't mix at all. Um so make a remark suppose that A is in a finite group and that H the so the the subgroup generated by A is H which is a proper subgroup. Okay. So then if we take TA and we apply it to the characteristic function of this subgroup since all of these guys are in the subgroup we would just stay in the subgroup. So this would be 1 H. Okay. And um and that implies with a teeny bit of work that sigma 1 of TA would be one. Right? So, okay, one thing we could see is that no matter how many times we repeat this operation, we will never mix over the whole group because we'll never get out of H. And so, based on what we've seen before, um, this should be one. Yeah. >> Just make a big does it just make the graph more likely to be an expander? >> Yeah. So, the question is, if we make a big, is the graph more likely to be an expander? Um perhaps if we so we could we could take a big and then it would um so we're so we're allowed to take a big and um we will talk in a little bit about what what we can say if we just know that a is big what does that tell us about sigma of ta we'll we'll talk about that right okay so another remark I wanted to make is that the first proof of this theorem was very difficult so the first proof depended on. So it had some interesting analysis related to hyperbolic geometry but then it depended on the remon hypothesis for curves over finite fields. So that's a you know a beautiful and important theorem but if you wanted to include the whole proof of that then the proof of this theorem is effectively several hundred pages long and has a lot of algebraic geometry. Um and in around the early 1990s, Sarnac and Shuer gave a much simpler proof. Uh which is the proof that we'll talk about. Okay. Okay. Okay. So in the rest of the class I will start to describe the uh proof by Sarn and and Shuer um uh and and introduce the first the first key idea. All right. Okay. Um so first idea this idea has to do with the representation theory of the group SL2FP it's a proposition okay so if we have a representation so a representation is a group homorphism to uh this is a unitary representation so to the unitary group in D dimensions. So this is a representation need a group homorphism um and okay and let me so there there's the trivial representation where everything goes to the identity but let me say it is a non-trivial representation um then actually d needs to be quite big d is at least p + 1 over Okay, so before we prove this theorem, let's try to put it in context by trying to think about group representations. Um, where would we find a group representation? Okay, well SL2FP acts on itself. So it acts on the space that we started with L2 of G. So, so any so any group G acts on L2 G by the action that we sort of wrote down. You take a function and you like shift the space under it. Okay, that action is not trivial. So the only only the constant functions are fixed. So that's a non-trivial action. And the dimension of this space is the cardality of G. So for this group that would be about P cubed. So cardality of SL2 FP. Okay. Um what else? Well, if you have a subgroup of G, H is a subgroup of G. Then um G acts on G mod H and so it acts acts on this as a set and so it acts on L2 of G mod H by a unitary representation and so the dimension of L2 of GH is the cardality of G mod which is the cardality of G divided by the cardality of H. Okay, so let's think of some subgroups of SL2FP. Think of there's the diagonal subgroup looks like this. The size of the diagonal subgroup is around P. There's the unipotent subgroup looks like this. Size of the unipotent subgroup is P. And you could sort of mix these together. So there's the upper triangular subgroup. Uh but we already used the letter U. So I'm going to call this B for Burell. Uh so I'll write it A A inverse T. That's a subgroup. And the size of the upper triangle subgroup is around P^ squ. So that's the biggest one that we have come up with here. And if you plug this in here, uh so if you take SL2FP, that's around P. And so this is uh the right order of magnitude. Okay. And this is an interesting fact about this group which is extremely different from a billion groups. So for for an aelion group uh every irreducible representation is onedimensional. So there are lots and lots of representations where D is one. But for SL2FP life is very different. All of them have very large dimension. Okay. So let's prove this theorem. Uh so I had heard about this theorem years ago and I always assumed that to prove this theorem one had to study a lot of representation theory and I was a little intimidated by it. Uh but then I read the proof as I was getting ready to teach this class and actually it it doesn't require anything that's outside of uh you know a good a good undergraduate algebra curriculum and it's quite elegant. All right. So here's the proof. Um, so we're going to focus on this matrix for a little while and try to figure out what the representation does with this matrix. So let's suppose for now that row of this matrix is not just the identity. Um, actually let me let me say it in a different order. So let's say so U is that matrix and V is this matrix which is very similar to U and we'll make the remark that so exercise this point I won't include the details U and V generate SL2 okay if you play around a little bit you you can see this all right so therefore if we have a non-trivial representation these cannot both go to the identity. So row is non-trivial. So either row of u or row of v is not the identity. And u and v are so similar to each other it doesn't really matter which one. So I'm going to say essentially without loss of generality row of u is not the identity. All right. Now let's think about row of u. Um there's something quite special about this matrix which is um um that it is conjugate to powers of itself. Let me write that down. So suppose take a diagonal matrix A a inverse. I put this matrix in the middle and then I want to conjugate it. So now I put on the other side the inverse. Right? So this is the conjugate of my matrix U. Okay. So I multiply this by this. Uh I multiply the top row by a and the bottom row by a inverse. So I get a a z a inverse. And then I still have this guy. Now when I multiply these matrices together, I multiply the left column by a inverse and the right column by a. The diagonals cancel, but I get one 01 a². So see that u is conjugate to u to the power a squ and this is for any a right. So that is a special and really interesting feature of this element of my group. And so now I have a representation and row of u is conjugate to row of u of a 2 which is row of u to the a 2. So now I have a matrix I have a unitary matrix and it is conjugate to a big power of itself. Okay, in the world of matrices, it's not so easy to get that to happen. So, this group has a has an interesting property that has an element which is conjugate to many different powers of itself. And in matrices, it's not so easy to find a matrix which is conjugate to many different powers of itself. Why? because uh uh- because of how the igen values behave. So okay. So so now let's think about IGEN values. row of U is U of D is a matrix. And if row of u is conjugate to row of u to the a^2 then that tells us that the igen values the spectrum of row of u is the same as the igen values of row of u to the a^ 2. Two conjugate matrices have the same igen values. But if you take a matrix and raise it to a power, the igen values are all raised to a power. So this is the igen values of row of u to the a 2. Okay. Okay. So for instance, you could take a to be two and it tells you if you have an igen value of row of u you raise it to the fourth power that will also be an igen value of row of u. And you can keep doing that. And it's not just four. We have many choices for a squ. Okay. So let's think about what the igen values of row of u may be like. So study values of row of u. So this is an an amazing fact about them. And there's a more pedestrian fact that we should also observe. We know that u to the p is the identity. And therefore row of u to the p is the identity. So then if lambda is an igen value of row of u then we get that lambda to the p is the is one. Okay. So the igen values of row of u they're all p roots of unity. Um right so we get the following. If lambda is an igen value of row of u then lambda to the p is one and lambda to the a 2 is also an igen value of row of u. So um since lambda to the p is one, we only care about a^2 mod p. So could put mod p there. Um and um there are p min -1 / 2 quadratic residues mod p. So this a^ squ mod p. It could be any quadratic residue mod p. There are p minus one over two of them. And if you take a p of unity and you raise it to a power it's between one and p you'll you'll change it. So so lambda is a primitive. So if lambda is not one then lambda is a primitive p root of unity and that tells us that the lambda to the a^ 2 mod p are all distinct for the p minus one over two quadratic reserves. Okay, so we now have seen that that there are an awful lot of different igen values which can only happen if the matrix is in a large dimension. So that gives us that d is at least p + 1 / 2. Okay, actually I so how do we know that row of u has a not an igen value that's not one? Well, if all the igen values were one, then row of u you you could is conjugate to a matrix with ones on the diagonals and some upper triangular stuff. And if you raise that to a power, you'll never get the identity. Um an exercise. So there's a little a little something where exercise. If um the igen values of row of u are exactly the set one and row of u to the p = 1 then row of u is the identity I I'll leave the matrix details. Okay. So all the representations of SL2 are really big. Why does that matter? Let's do another proposition. So proposition two you take sigma 1 of t mu. So mu is a measure on probability measure on SL2 FP. Then sigma 1 of this guy if you square it and you multiply by D +1 / 2 that is at most the size of SL2FP times mu L2. Simplifying the algebra a little bit, sigma 1 of t mu^2 is smaller than around 1 over p^2 time mu l2. All right. So we come back to the question from earlier in the class. How are singular values related to igen values? So sigma i of t mu squared is lambda i of t mu t mu star. It's the ien value of this matrix. And the key observation is that the igen spaces of this matrix have a g action on them. And except for the constant functions the igen spaces are not trivial. Here's the key spaces of t mu t mu star have a g action and except for the constant functions. So the constant functions are an igen space of t mu tu star but all the other ones it's a non-trivial action. Let's suppose that for a moment and see why it's helpful and then we can think more carefully about what exactly are the igen spaces. Um. All right. Um Okay. Um so that tells us that sig each sigma i has a multiplicity which is at least d + 1 / 2. So you have and we really care about the biggest one, this biggest singular vector. There's not just one biggest singular vector, but there's a a whole singular subspace of a big dimension and all of those vectors have have this large singular value. Okay. So now another uh fact from linear algebra is that if you add up the singular values squared of a of a matrix with multiplicity that is the Hilbert Schmidt norm of the matrix. So it's the sum of the entries of the matrix. Uh so this is a matrix where the rows and columns are indexed by our group G. So it has an entry G1 G2 and it's the sum of the entries squared. Does this look familiar to people from linear algebra? Okay. Okay. Now the entries of our matrix we can read off. It's the sum g1 g2 mu of something like g1 g2 inverse. This might not be exactly right but it's the right idea. >> Uh that's that's the entry and then we're squaring it. Um and so that's the size of the group times the sum of mu of g^2. Okay, so that's the right hand side and over here we're counting with multiplicity and the multiplicity is always large. So this is at least d + 1 / 2 * sigma 1 of t mu^ 2 So there's an important difference between the sigma 1 and the sigma 0. The sigma 0 went with the constant functions that lives in a space of dimension one. But anybody else lives in a big dimensional space. And so this uh counts get gets counted many times. Um and and that changes the playing field. Um, what is D? >> What is D? Sorry. D is P. Sorry. Thank you. Okay. Is it right up there? Yeah. So, D is the dimension of the representation, but um that's why I put it, but it's a it was just a mistake. It's supposed to be P+ one over two. So what needs to be spelled out more carefully? I think we should just spell out a little more carefully why the spaces have this G action. Okay, so first of all, what is T mu star? Let's say mu star of g is just mu of g inverse. And if you write down the definition of the adjint and play around a little bit, you'll see that t mu star is just t of u star convoling with you. So t mu t mu star of that is just you take f you convolve it with mu star and then you convolve it with mu. So it's t of uh mu convolve with mu star. Okay so our oper our operator is still just a convolution operator just convolving by something slightly different. And now we want to see that convolution uh commutes with the some symmetries of of g. Um okay so our convolution has been defined to be on the right and so I think it's supposed to commute with the symmetries of of f on the left. So let's say f the left action of g on f of h is f of g inverse h. I want to say that uh convolution commutes with this action. So I want to say claim that for for any measure new if I take T new of left action G of F this is left action G T new of F. Okay, cross my finger that I wrote everything correctly so that this is true. uh t new of left action g of f at some um let's say I evaluate that at x. So the I'm going to convolve this function with new. So it's lgf convolved with new at x. So it's the sum x1 x2 = x lf of x1 new of x2. So that's the sum x1 x2 = x f of g inverse x1 All right. So the product of these two guys is g inverse x. So really the product x1 tilda time x2 tilda is g inverse x um f of x1 tilda new of x2 tilda. So that is t new of f evaluated at g inverse x. So that's lg of t new of f x probably can see that I'm not a very algebraically minded person. I think there's probably a high sort of more highbrow proof of this. So something about acting on the left commutes with acting on the right. Okay. So, so the group commutes the group acts on functions and that action commutes with this. So, if you have an igen space of this, the group will act on it. So if t new of f is lambda f then t new of lgf will be lg t new of f which is lg of lambda f which is lambda lg of f. So LG so G acts on V lambda the space. Okay. So that fleshes out this. Okay. Cool. So um let's do a quick application of this to see what we have learned about mixing. So remember that we already know that this thing is bounded by one and it's not at all clear whether this is bigger or smaller than one. It depends upon mu. Um if this is bigger than one then this is kind of useless. But if this is smaller than one then it gives us some new information. Okay, one question about proposition 2. >> Yeah. >> Does it require the existence of a representation of degree P + 1 /2? >> Uh not exactly. I mean this oper this operator here has spaces >> and we know that the group acts on them. So therefore there are representations of this group. So application. So suppose a is a subset of SL2FP. It doesn't have to be a Selberg just any subset. And remember that mu of A is the uniform measure on A. Okay. So what is mu of a L2 squared? Well, we square the amplitude of 1 / a^2 and then we add it up and we'll get a contribution from a points. So we get one over the cardality of a right. So if we just plug in our our uh estimate, proposition two tells us that sigma 1 of ta squared is bounded by um p ^2. Whoops, I did that wrong. That's not good. This is about p cub. This is about p. Okay, good. So it's bounded by p ^2 over a. So we can see that if a is significantly bigger than p ^2 then sigma 1 of ta is less than one. So a is 10 p ^2 or even better p 2 plus epsilon then sigma 1 is quite a bit less than one and so this this walk this random walk will mix. Great. Um in particular corlary of that is that if H is a proper subgroup of SL2FP so we saw earlier take a proper subgroup and you you walk you just stay in the subgroup it won't mix at all sigma 1 would be one um then H has size which is smaller than around P ^2 and we saw earlier that there is a subgroup of size about P^2. So this is sharp. Okay. So this addresses the question that was raised earlier. The set A may be large. If you just know the size of A, can you say whether it mixes or not? Um this is essentially a sharp answer to that question. If A is significantly bigger than P^2, then the random walk does mix. And if a is smaller than p ^2, a could live in a subgroup and the random walk may not mix. This whole phenomenon is is is quite different from what would happen in a commutive group. Um in a commutive group, you could take very large subsets and still nothing might mix. Um partly because the commutive group might have very large subgroups, but even if it doesn't, it wouldn't work. Yeah. Cool. Okay, so that's all very interesting, but it doesn't look very close to this theorem yet because this is theorem says that we get mixing if our subset has size larger than P ^2 and this is a subset of size four. So we will have to think some more uh about how to do this and we will talk about that uh next time.