All right, we'll get started. Um, see, last time we introduced you to the definition of martingales. And what we're going to do the first part today is to see how useful and powerful martinale properties are in solving interesting uh questions and challenges. So, so just as a reminder, if we have a stochcastic process xn, which is just a sequence of random variables, generally the uh index n corresponds to time. Then we can consider another uh a derived process capital m subn which is a function of the first n values of the stochcastic process x. And we say that this second process, this derived process is a martingale if the expected value into the future from time n minus one is simply equal to the time n minus one value. So with a process evolving over time, we have a an m subn process basically at time n minus one. We have a value. Our prediction is that the expected value of that in the future is mn minus one. And so some examples of these we went through last time a simple random walk and with the simple random walk we end up having realizations of this martingale that uh evolve from say a starting point zero and what's critical with the these realizations is that the future paths that have yet to be graphed um will have average value equal to the last point on these realizations. So there's a notion of there being flatness in the martingale uh expectations. Um with the example here of a simple random walk with equal probability of going up or down one step, one can graph the standard deviations uh from the average zero for the processes and um you know basically the realizations of the random walk will by the central limit theorem converge to a normal distribution at any given time point far into the future. Now um this second example of a martingale where we have a random walk sn but then we square it and subtract n times the sigma squared the variance of each of the steps. This is also a martingale. And so looking at different realizations of this martingale um we can see it's very very different from that of a simple random walk. Um and you know importantly um there's basically sort of a lower limit u of the process it appears for fixed n and an unbounded upper limit. Um and uh but this process as well is a martingale. Um and let's see a different martinale can be defined not in terms of random walks with steps that add but with random sort of shifts with factors x1 dxn. So if we have MN being the product of X1 to XN where the X's are independent random variables with mean value one then this particular uh process M subn will be a martingale with respect to the original series. So um so here's an example of our Berni factors which are with 50% probability 1.5 and with 50% probability 0.5. This would correspond to the change in wealth from betting your wealth in a lottery where you either make 50% or lose 50% with equal probability. And here is the uh graph of a realization over 50 steps. Here's other realizations. And what's interesting to see is that with this particular uh martingale, there are opportunities to basically if you're playing this lottery game at each step to be able to grow your wealth to five or 10 times its value, its initial value, but very uh with moderate or even high probability ility you actually have lost almost all your wealth. So um yet another example and this one is really rather curious to introduce but it shows you how we can be flexible in uh generating or constructing uh martingales. If we have the YN sequence being IID random variables and the moment generating function E to the lambda YN or E to the lambda Y uh YN is equal to the moment a generating function and or let's say e to the ty is in the our notation we're going to use a fee of lambda here or f of t. Um then uh if we consider uh taking xn equaling e to the lambda yn divided by v of lambda then this xn will be a martingale uh or this xn rather will the factors that have expectation equaling one. And if we take the product of these x's um we basically have m subn equaling e to the lambda times the sum of the y ends divided by f of lambda to the nth power. This will also be a martingale. And what we'll see in a you know towards the uh middle of this lecture is that this particular martingale can be used to solve probabilities of gamblers ruin when you have gambles that have um different probabilities of uh success versus failure not necessarily equal uh fair bets. All right. Well, with martinales, it turns out to be very useful to consider this what's we call the information sets on the sequence the subsequence of variables x1 through xn. So if we think of information being uh progressing over time, the information up to time little n can be given by the outcomes of the x process. And we can consider expectations of random variables given this information set. And the kinds of random variables we might be interested in. Z can correspond to say trading strategies based on the outcomes of asset prices progressing over time. And um we if we have uh let's see if if this original information set is represented in terms of a martinale um then we can consider um functions of the first n values given by y and relating to this function of the first n values which could be say the trading gains from applying a uh a trading strategy with asset prices given by the x's. It will be very useful to use random variables that are called nonanticipating. And so a non-anticipating random variable is a random variable an end that is defined by the information set. It's non-random given the information set uh of the first n minus one x's. So if we wanted to represent the outcome of making trading decisions using the first n minus one values um this a could characterize how we might invest for the nth uh trading period. Now with such a non-anticipating random we can consider a transformation of the original martingale given by M's with no tildas. um and consider a transformation of the MN martingale by considering this decomposition of m tilda. So we have an initial value m0. Then we have the non-anticipating uh variable A1 that depends only on information at time zero times the increment of the martingale from time zero to time 1 and we add successive terms. So these A's basically are random variables at the beginning of time. But after observing say J time periods the AJ uh AJ uh let's see will be or J minus one time periods the AJ uh will be defined and non-random going from time J to J + one. Now the uh and if you were to look at um this M tilda subn definition, we basically have terms that are given by increments of the martingale process which where each of those increments has expectation equal to zero. And so if we take the expectation of those um from time zero then uh by conditional expectation properties um the a's uh are sort of fixed given the information up to time uh n min or j minus one and then the uh variation from uh of the martin Martell process from time J minus one to J uh is has expectation zero. Anyway, the martingale transform transform theorem says that this m tilda n process is a martingale also with respect to the uh information sets fn and we often call this collection of information sets sort of a filtration and so when we think of different processes different realizations of a process um up to time n. Then uh whatever the history is prior to n um that is the information set we have available and as we observe successive values of the uh original MN process um we're basically adding sort of more information about the realizations um and uh That's that's how it progresses. Now, um with Martingales, an important concept for us is a stopping time random variable, which we'll call TOAO. And so what the stopping time variable is is a random variable that characterizes whether the uh let's say I guess at any time n we know whether the the stopping time has occurred or not. So the event of the stopping time being less than n less than or equal to n steps that has to be known in the information set up to time n. So the notation here is a little bit uh tricky. We think of this set or event being the pro the the the underlying probability distribution states where the tow variable is less than or equal to n and at any time n we know whether this set has occurred or not. So the stopping time uh is a random variable uh and it could be infinite. So it takes values on the set s varying from zero uh up to possibly infinity if the process never stops. Now a way of trying to help explain this is with a stopping time random variable we have different omegas in the probability space and the omegas can be thought of as indexing all possible paths. So with different realizations we have a different omega. And so with these uh paths our expectation or our event E which is the set of paths for which the stopping time evaluated on that path is less than or equal to n. um this event is known to either have occurred or not to occur. So we have the indicator of the path being in this set E is either zero or one. And so we can uh work with this sort of random variable uh the indicator of of the uh of whether the stopping time has occurred or not. And with this um setup we can think of the process that is sort of governed by a stopping time toao. We can represent the process at the stopped time towo as the sum of the realizations xn times a simple indicator of whether the stopping time equals n or not. So we basically have our stopped process being a sum of weights time the xns where those weights are actually zero or one. Um now in the mathematics of dealing with stopping times uh the potential for infinite values uh of the stopping time makes things complicated. And what we can do is consider the minimum of n and the stopping time towel. Denoting that by n carrot towel. So the minimum of n and toao. And so if we have a finite value n, this truncated stopping time is going to be a measurable random variable with respect to the set the information set script fm information set fm for m greater than or equal to n. So if we imagine um basically this time increasing um and we think of n the minimum of n and toao then we will be considering processes that maybe stop for a given towo for a given realization. or if they don't really stop until later, we just consider the value at the end point. Now um this theorem can be proven with this argument and what you can see is that we define our non-anticipating variables to be the indicator of tow the stopping time being greater than or equal to k. And so substituting that in to the formula for the decomposition um we end up getting that this uh stopped martingale at time uh the minimum of n or toao is actually equal to the sum of these non-anticipating variables times the increments of the martingale. So this is easily a martingale uh transform u and satisfies the martingale transform theorem. So this uh sort of stopped martingale at the minimum of n and toao is also a martingale. What we then want to do is consider taking let's see I'm not sure if we do it here shortly or or not but we'll basically let little n grow large and argue that in the limiting case um we basically have the stopped martingale without the minimum of n and well um let's look at this simple random walk we had before where the steps are + one or minus one and we consider Sn being the sum of the steps. Um, this can be uh used to characterize the problem of playing against an opponent and betting one dollar with each iteration of the game and you either win or lose that dollar each uh iteration of the game. And we can consider uh having a uh hit level for the uh sum Sn being equal to plus a or minus b. And so um the uh basically this reflects whether we beat our opponent or not where um our opponent uh has um a uh well let's see where let's see if we have a bankroll B and our opponent has a bankroll A um do we win the entire bankroll control of our opponent and hit A first. Um so we have uh this problem and we want to know what's the likelihood of uh basically player one losing um and the SN is a martingale and toao the time at which the sum sn= plus a or minus b um is a mark is is a stopping time. And so this is a martingale by the stopping time theorem. And with such a martingale, we have that the expected value of s at the stopped time is equal to the expected value initially and uh that is equal to zero. starting out at time zero uh sn is equal to zero. And so if we take the limit as n goes to infinity, this converges to the random variable s tow with probability one. And this is proven partly by showing that it the stopping time can't be infinite. But if we assume that this these results are uh valid then we have zero is equal to the expected value of s tow. And if we write out what s tow is at the stopping time toao, it's either going to equal a * the s tow hitting a or minus b * the stopped value uh equaling minus b. And if we take expectations of this equation, we basically have zero is equal to a times the probability that we hit the level plus a minus b * the probability that we hit minus b. And those probabilities are complements of each other. So the chance that we hit minus B at the stop time is one minus the probability that we hit A. So using these uh relationships we get that the probability that that we hit A first is B over A + B. Yes. >> So on the previous slide, can I just check? I don't know might be an error or if I don't understand something. Is it meant to say solve for S to equals plus A where this problem involved? >> Let's see. Can you ask the question again? >> So where this problem involved with the code and then like problem solve? >> Oh, >> you meant to say probability that Stowals plus. >> Oh yes, it's probably the S to equals plus A. >> Yes, definitely. Um, >> no. No, that's fine. That's fine. There's always typos. uh fewer typos on slides than on the blackboard. I would say that's the the benefit of having the slides and easier to fix. All right, thank you for that. All right, so so we get this really nice formula for the likelihood of hitting A before hitting minus B. And so by symmetry, if A equals B, then this is simply a half. But if the player sort of B has a larger bankroll then um the chance of taking all the money from A uh basically uh goes to one. So it makes sense that if you're going to gamble with sort of fair odds, you you have an advantage if you have a bigger bankroll than your opponent. Now this second example of uh martingales which is sort of the square of the random walk sn minus n um this is a martingale as well and if we look at the uh uh this martingale it's bounded um by uh the max of a^2 b² plus to. So we have a bounded uh transformation of uh the original SN. And so this martinale is um has expectation zero for all n. And so if we look at the expectation of M towel, this transformation of the original martingale sort of Sn um it has zero expectation which is equal to the expected value of S to squar minus the expected value of TOA. And if we look at what is the expected value of S ta squared. So this term here um we have that that's equal to being stopped at plus a * a^ 2 plus the probability being stopped at minus b * b ^ 2. And this expectation is equal to zero. So we can actually solve for the expected value of toao. It's simply equal to the expected value of s to squ. So plugging everything in um it gets a little tricky until we simplify and it's simply the product of a * b. So the amount of time it takes to defeat the opponent has an expected time equal to a * b. So if you're gambling uh in the in such a situation, the size of your bankroll sort of times the size of the other person's bankroll estimates the approximate time it will take to finish the game with one dominating the other. Um anyway what's what's characteristic of these examples is we have a martingale transform of the original series. It has a zero expectation um as as it's defined and that zero expectation applies for all time points as well as the stopping time. All right. Well, um, a really challenging problem is to consider the random walk with bias. So we consider steps + one or minus one with probability p and 1 minus p respectively. And then we're interested in what is the uh what is the probability of hitting plus a say in this case. Certainly as uh p increases the probability of hitting plus a first increases. Um but how does it do so? Now some of you have taken stochcastic processes already or how many people have taken the course in stochastic processes? Maybe just a couple. Um do you recall this problem being covered in your course? And uh when I uh taught the stochastic processes course about five or six years ago, the way this was solved um was sort of by brute force understanding the dynamics of the process and doing computations with sort of first step analyses. And the solution was really quite complex, but it got the right answer. What's really neat about Martingales is that we can actually solve this problem pretty elegantly. And so we're going to use this moment generating function transformation. So our XNS have a moment generating function which is P the probability of + one time E to the lambda * + one plus Q the probability of -1 * E to the lambda * -1. So this definition of the moment generating function is very straightforward. If we take e to the lambda xn / v, these are independent random variables that have expectation equal to 1. And we can define mn to be the product of the first n yis. And this will be a martingale by our example four. And if we solve for the lambda value that makes f of lambda equal to one. Then for that fixed value of lambda this mn is going to be a martingale. It's actually a martingale for any lambda. But in addition that special case where f of lambda equals 1. And so if we graph this moment generating function as a function of lambda, we can see that it's equal to um equal to one when e to the lambda is equal to q over p. So this uh so mn for this particular lambda for which e to the lambda equals q over p is simply q over p to the power sn. And with that we basically have the initial value of m at time one basically or at time zero is one and that should equal the stopped value of q over p to the power s n at the stopped value. So it's Q over P to the + A time the probability of stopping at A plus Q over P to the minus B * the probability of stopping at minus B. And again this equation basically gives us two terms that are related to each other that we can solve for. So we get the probability that this biased random walk stops at or hits plus a first is simply the ratio of q to p to the power b minus one over the same ratio to the power a + b. So so this result is very direct and elegant. Um, if you look at stochastic processes books that try to solve this biased random walk problem without martingale theory, it's a a bit more involved and tricky. Um, all right. So, here's just some R code that will graph these probabilities as functions of A and B. Um, I think it's useful only just to know that you can do something like this. You can graph the probability surface as it varies with the hit levels A and B. And here are contours of the different uh probabilities which can also be graphed easily. And that's um sort of finishes this initial discussion of of martinales. Now a second uh topic in stochastic processes um that um is extremely important is the concept of marov processes. And so if we think of a general stochcastic process xt um then we will say that the process is a marov process. If for any times of the process s that's between u and t um that xt will be independent of all xus where u is less than s. So when we think of a time scale, so we have u less than s less than t. If we imagine realizations of a stochastic process and we are interested in looking at the value of xt Um the value of XT given information on times S and before will be independent of all of the times before. And so the conditional distribution so so the distribution of XT given all of the values of X prior to time u is equal in distribution as the has the same random distribution as just the conditional distribution given XS So with a markov process the future depends on the past only through the last value of the past. It doesn't matter how one arrived at a given value at time s for different realizations that have the same end point. It's only that end point that sort of indexes the distributions into the future. So this is a markoff process. It's like a uh um it's it's um sort of a a simple model where the past information can be encapsulated just in the last observed value not in the realizations of how that value was achie was achieved. Okay. So this is just some notation for trying to say what I just said. Um now with um marov chains these are interesting stochastic processes where we consider there being a state space s capital s that where where we can index possible states of the process beginning say with zero uh and the integers and it could be a finite number or a countably infinite number. And then we have a time index set um with n varying from zero to the through the positive integers. And so the markoff property with this uh markoff or with this with this uh stochcastic process um would have that uh the probability of the next step next state being J from time N given the values of the process X knot through XN. And um this conditional probability is equal to the conditional probability of J state at time n + one just given that xn uh is equal to i. So this is uh a nice property for processes that makes their analysis um a bit less complex. Um and what's important in this definition of the uh Markov process is that um there's a onestep transition probability from state I to state J from time N to N + one. And these transition probabilities um together with the probabilities of the initial states completely specifies the stochastic process. Now this issue of completely specifying a stochcastic process is an important one in that what we want with a stochastic process is to have a complete probability model of that process. And so if we have sort of an initial state x0 and the probabilities over all states i and s that characterizes the probability model for the state zero value. Then if we look at the probabil the conditional probability from time n= 0 to n to to or from zero to one. We then have the conditional probabilities of moving from any state zero to any state and and at time one. And so those conditional probabilities together with the marginal probabilities specify the distribution of the process over state zero and one. And we can continue this computation uh for successive time points and completely specify our uh stochastic process. Now the general marov process as introduced there is very complex because we may have different transition probabilities depending upon how long the process has been operating. A simple case is called a stationary markoff process where these transition probabilities one state one step transition probabilities do not depend on the time. So we have the same probabilities of moving from one state to another regardless of when that is occurring. And so we can define a matrix P which is the collection of all sort of pair-wise probabilities pig J moving from uh basically state I to state J and we basically require that these transition probabilities are non- negative and the sum over sort of target states J from state I that those probabilities sum to one for a stationary uh transition probability matrix. and to sort of define the uh probability distribution of the entire process XN using this stationary transition probability matrix and initial probabilities. Um we can compute any probabilities by computing the collection of all such probabilities where we have sort of n steps of the process or n time points of the process and states i not through i little n um there. So if we can calculate these probabilities uh we will have specified the probability model. Now um in calculating the joint probability of the first little n values states being i 0 through i n. Um we can decompose this probability into the marginal probability of the first n minus one and times the conditional probability of the last given the others. So if we think of sort of a equaling x0 up to x n -1 = i n -1 and uh b is equal to um xn = i then um we can look at the probability of A and B is equal to the probability of A times the probability of B given A. And this is basically what's written up there. Um and this formula on the blackboard is simply BA's formula relating sort of the conditional probability of B given A to the probabilities of A and B. So probability of B given A. Now um with this second equation we can simplify that to the red probability which is only depending upon the n minus one value. And so um we have that the this probability is equal to the marginal probability of the first n minus one times the transition probability from state n i i n minus one to i n and that won't depend on n and so um we can basically by induction basically replace each of the successive uh state transitions by the probability of moving from one state to another and the successive transitions of all those states. So this joint probability can be represented in this form uh exploiting the markov property to simplify the onestep transitions and uh using the uh uh stationary uh property to define these pigs. Okay. Well, with a stationary transition probabilities, uh the multi-step transition probabilities turn out to have a really nice form. And so we can represent the transition probability matrix over n steps as the nth power of the onestep transition probabilities matrices. So this property of uh markov change with stationary transition probabilities is very nice and uh gives us this this result. Um now um let's see there's in terms of proving this okay there's this analysis called first step analysis in stochcastic processes that's a really useful tool for proving different results and this uh first step uh prob uh analysis basically says okay if we want to calculate the probability of going from state zero sorry state i to j um in n steps that's like starting at time zero and state i and transitioning to state j then we can consider we can decompose this probability into the sum over all possible first steps going from I to K in state one and then from state K to J by time N. And so this first equation here is a first step equation of the probabilities. We can basically decompose the process of going from state I to J and N steps as going from state I to each K state in step one and then going from uh state K to N in n minus one steps. So this is um that uh formula. Um and so if we uh write this out um we end up getting the xn equaling or this in blue is equal to the term above in black because of the uh marov nature of the marov property of the process. And so we basically have this sum of pi k um times probability of uh xn minus one equaling j x= k. And so um so this uh so we end up basically getting this matrix equation of the nstep transition probabilities is equal to the onestep matrix P * the n minus one step transition probability matrix in green. Okay. Well, um these transition probabilities together with the marginal distribution of the initial state gives us the marginal distribution of xn at any uh time. So um okay so the these formulas just indicate how we do these computations. Now where do marov chains arise in finance? Well, one example to think about is how companies have credit ratings and those credit ratings range from high credit meaning which is AAA and low credit being I guess C D being default is uh sort of maybe a terminal state at least in some sense. Uh but companies are graded or rated by standard and pores and Fitch and other rating agencies and depending upon how good their credit rating is, they can borrow money at lower interest rates. And the way corporations borrow money is to issue a bond paying a certain interest rate and having that interest rate be attractive to lenders. And the way that such a loan contract is attractive to lenders is with um a high interest rate to the lender but um a low risk of default uh by the uh borrower. And so, um, one can think about how these, uh, credit ratings vary, uh, from one, uh, period to the next. And here's a, uh, table of sort of migration probabilities from one year to the next. And one can see that AAA initial ratings had only a 43% chance of staying AAA at the end of that one year. Um and there was a very low probability of downgrades to you know C triple C or B. Um and uh with say very low credit rating companies the chance of their basically increasing their credit rating to be was 41% staying at triple C is 32% but almost a 20% chance of defaulting perhaps. So, so these kinds of uh me metrics um basically can be uh analyzed sort of with the tools of uh uh uh Markov chains. Um and uh let's see then another example um that I put together is looking at the stock price dynamics of any stock but I chose Apple and using daily prices to consider states of the Apple stock price which is is it an upday or a down day. Is the price at day t higher than t minus one or is it a down day? I guess one of those should probably be a less than or equal to if they if we want to in incorporate everything. Um but we can consider defining a um a two-day uh state which is let's see the formatting here is a little off but we could have two up days in a row. An up day followed by a down day. A down day followed by an up day and a down day followed by a down day. and look at trying to model the state changes for a two-day state um with a uh marov chain and in R there's a nice R package that will do this for us and this u was distributed in the canvas site and so you should be able to replicate this example with Apple or choose any other stock you might be interested in. And so importantly, okay, this uses the library quant here. It's sort of hard to see. Let's see. So there's a library quant which allows us to collect price data from the internet. And then there's this uh package markoff chain which allows us to specify Markovchain uh models. And so with this our code um it basically collects the data on Apple stock. And yeah, I think what's what I really want to emphasize for everyone is that these examples and it's a it's a bit tedious if you want to go through these examples yourself. However, the examples should work just with clicking a button saying run and you can replicate these. And so for the Apple stock, we just needed to substitute in the Apple symbol and collect the data. And so here's the Apple stock price from 2014 or 2013 through um a week ago. I considered just fitting a marov chain model for these up and down states to the last uh four and a half years. And so the code here goes through and basically with Apple prices, Apple closing prices. Here we define differences in closing prices for two lags and then talk about defining up days in this section here. up down days down up and so forth. And then if we graph these states, say from May of this year to the end of August, this shows how this four-state marov chain evolved over these dates. And we can just use the marov chain function uh or let's see we can plot a marov chain function um or a markov chain trans uh transition states um as this graph here. So what's what this code does is it looks at transitions from one day to the next and calculates the probabilities of going from one state to another. So the sums across rows equals 1 and uh this graph this plot shows basically what is happening with the marov chain. We have different states given by the nodes and then we can transition from between nodes by which arrows are feasible and this Markov chain package will give us the probabilities empirical probabilities of moving from one state to another. And so one can see that um two up days in Apple are likely to be followed by two up days again. So that we'd get a third up day with that one-step transition. Two down days are not likely to be followed by a third down day because it won't go to that down state. uh with probability or more than 0.5 or so um so there tends to perhaps be reversals from double down days and a continuation of up days as sort of suggested by by these graphs. Um now with with this example I uh thought well maybe there would be some interesting structure if we defined three-day states. And so the same logic sort of gives us eight states of up or down on three successive days. And so sort of 2 * 2 * 2 or 8 is the total number of possible And one can calculate the probabilities empirical probabilities of transitioning and then get um get this sort of display of the Markov chain with these eight states. And so what's rather curious just to focus on our three down days are not likely to be followed by a fourth and three up days maybe are likely to be followed by a fourth upday. So um so you get some insight perhaps into the overall dynamics and uh what's great to me is that we can visualize the process and the graphical representation of sort of nodes and edges between the nodes um that have probabilities is is quite useful. Um so let's see if if you study Markov chains um and uh then one can classify different states or different nodes as communicating states. So can you move from one state to another or not? And in this case, one can u move from one state to another possibly not in one time period but in multiple ones. And so uh this happens to be a strongly connected set of states. And let's see um there was this this sort of little note ends with um printing out the uh columns of the transition probability matrix for up moves and down moves. And so if we wanted to move from one state to an up move the next uh period. Then looking at this table, one can see that the highest probability of the 3-day state being up in the third day given the prior three day state. then it corresponds to three down days lead to an up day the next day with almost a 60% chance. And um one can also sort of do the same for down moves and see under what state are we most likely to have a down move. And so this I think 0 510 is the highest which isn't much higher than 0.5 but um basically the past few days being a bit mixed uh but with two up days um preceded by a down day give us a higher likelihood of a uh down day. So um with let's see with this note the uh let's see there's a okay so here's the uh reference for this marov chain package and what's quite convenient with different R packages on different application uh topics is that the these articles often go through the mathematical background of the models. And so if you check out this discussion, this article on the Marov chain package, it actually will include issues of the mathematical issues of how you might classify different states and do various computations. So that's quite useful to uh uh have as a resource with these. Now um let's see with the uh R Studio cloud files that were distributed if you use those programs um you can change the symbols from Apple to any other and use different time periods to see whether these properties may be strong or not with other stocks. And I think that that might be an interesting thing to to check out. our next topic which is on regression analysis. And uh with regression uh we want to just review the notation and setup for multiple linear regression. Um, if you've taken any statistics class uh prior to this, which most of you have, you're very familiar with simple linear regression where you have one dependent variable and one predictor or explanatory variable. Um we want to consider the case of multiple linear regression where we have a single dependent variable and multiple predictor or explanatory variables given by X's and we want to describe the relationship between the dependent and independent variables. Now different regression problems can focus on prediction. This is actually one that I find most engaging at least trying to say predict stock prices over fixed horizons is is of real interest. Um but regression models can also be used to um make inferences of causality. regression models arise in uh medical uh experiments where one of the explanatory variables corresponds to a treatment effect. One can also be interested in trying to um approximate the dependent variable by functions of the independent variables and understand their functional relationships. So this is all of these uh objectives can be um achieved with regression and we define a general linear model with these equations here. We basically have our observed yi values being a sum of a fit fitted value plus error. And the fitted value y had i um is written here as a linear function of the independent variables x i with coefficients beta 1 through uh beta beta p. And um there's actually a a typo there. It shouldn't be beta sub. It should just be beta p there. And um with this setup, well, we could consider different explanatory variables that happen to be just different powers of one independent variable x. We could also consider for a series of x variables. Um, we could also have time series regressions where the independent variables x may correspond to prior time values of the y series. And in all of these cases, what's really important is linearity of the fitted value yhat. And what's linear is not um is is not that it's the sum of x's so much as it is the regression parameters beta are a linear function of those. So the linearity of yhat in the regression parameters is a key property of this model and that linearity um dependence on the parameters allows us to specify the parameters. Now um let me just uh go to another example here. Let's see here. Okay. Um here's a time series of the high yield spread in u the bond markets. And so this is looking at the yield on bonds with a credit rating of B double A uh minus the yield on the US Treasury. And so this difference in yield tends to be positive well above two. It means that these lower credit rated companies have to pay more interest to lenders when they borrow money. But that excess rate above the treasury evolves over time and uh sometimes you know drops moderately or rises moderately. Now if we were to use just polomials to try and fit these well as we extend to sort of eighth order polomials we everyone here probably knows that with a high enough order polomial you can match any smooth curve. No surprise. Um do we expect this uh spread to actually follow some higher order polomial? Probably not. Um here's another example of using Fier series with the same spread uh time series. And so as we add in more terms in the Fier series, we're able to model higher frequency variations. And what this shows is just how uh I guess frequency analysis in financial series potentially can be useful. Um what's really surprising though um is if we do a auto regression where here is the high yield spread and then we basically have an auto reggression saying that the spread tomorrow is the same as the spread today or very very close. Then we get this blue curve fitting the black curve which is sort of over underneath the blue curve. So we get almost a perfect fit with um with this auto regression. So um there's a multiple R squared which we will introduce you to but of.99 five for the auto regression. So the um use of historical values of a time series can be very powerful in predicting future values. All right. So, so in fitting a multiple regression model whether it's with time series factors or not um what we do is go through these steps of proposing a model step one and make assumptions about the error term epsilon and then second we define a criterion for judging different estimators and that that criterion can things like le squares or minimum mean squared prediction error or others and then characterize the best estimator using that criterion. Then we check whether the assumptions we made are in fact satisfied. And very often we'll discover that certain assumptions we make are not satisfied and we need to revise those and create a new model. So the models that um the model assumptions we uh apply include what are called Gaus Marov assumptions which is where we assume that the errors in the model have mean zero and constant variance. And so with this epsilon hat corresponding to the n cases in the series, we basically can assume these are mean zero and have standard deviation sigma. That's a constant. And that these are uncorrelated. uncorrelated. Um we could additionally assume that these errors are normally distributed or not. Um we can generalize the Gaus Marov to assume non-constant variances of the errors and possibly correlations of errors over time. We could also consider non-normal non-gaussian distributions. And all of these cases actually have a role in different uh in different contexts. In particular, I guess generalized Gaus Markoff methods apply with time series regressions and the non-normal non-Gaussian distributions arise um as well uh often with asset returns data. Now um in terms of what kind of criterion we should use for specifying parameters, we have le squares, maximum likelihood, robust methods, baze methods, a whole variety of methods. And what's really important to me is for people to have an understanding of what these different methods are and when you would prefer one method over another. And so what I think is a really important question to ask when doing empirical analyses with different models is um are your assumptions uh reasonable if not satisfied by the data you're modeling and with different criteria for judging different specifications of models. Are you using an appropriate criterion or not? Are there variations in that criterion that would lead to higher performance levels? So that for me is a guiding sort of question throughout these different checks. So with that um we'll finish today and next time we'll uh finish these notes going through ordinary le squares uh estimation. And what's useful about this development of le squares estimation is that it does so with linear algebra. And what we'll see is that uh with linear algebra we get very straightforward formulas for le squares estimates as well as interesting sort of analytical properties of those le squares estimates. So we'll cover that next time.