All right. Well, we have two more classes and this is uh day two of trying to grapple with the recent big breakthrough in projection theory. So, this is sharp projection theorems part two. And in part two we're going to talk about the ad regular case. So let's first remember our goal and remember what is the ad regular case. Okay. So our goal is the first set conjecture which is a theorem of Orpin and Schmurk and Ren and W says if E contained in R2 is a delta T C set and then for every point in E there are a bunch of delta tubes going through it. So t subx is a set of delta tubes through x and the the directions if you like of this set of delta tubes is a delta s c set. Okay. And parenthetically we can assume a couple of things. uh we can assume that this is uh is uniform and also that the number of them it's like delta to the minus s and s should be bigger than zero. Okay, so we put all of these tubes together to get one big set of tubes and the question is how many tubes are there? Um so then the conclusion is that the number of tubes is at least a little fudge factor. So this whole thing I'll abbreviate like that and then the minimum of a few options which we'll call option A, option B and option C. Okay. And these exponents are hard to remember, but I would prefer to remember for everyone to think of them in terms of three different scenarios. So option A that corresponds to the I call it the stars scenario. Have a bunch of points and through each you have a bunch of tubes and they're just unrelated to each other. Option B is more intricate. It's the integer grid scenario. Um and option C is a kind of random scenario. So E is arbitrary and T is random. Okay. Um now it's it's really a good idea to think about this theorem in these three different scenarios. So it's good to separate out the case where each one of those things is the minimum. Um, so let me do that and recall for you how much we know about each case so far. Um, and I said something about this last time, but what I said wasn't uh the best thing to say. So I wanted to do it again and get it right. All right. So there's the case where a is the minimum option. And if you do a little algebra that corresponds to s being at least as big AST. Um and in this case so if s is at least as big AST then the uh the theorem is is true the first so first is is true and it follows just by double counting. So we did it very early in the course like on the second one. Okay. Then I'll come back to B which is the most interesting. C is the minimal. If you do a little algebra it's if S plus T is at least two. Um and in this whole range where S plus T is at least two the theorem is is also true true and it's true by the forier method. So it follows from the theorem we proved in the second or third week using for a analysis. So the whole case where C is minimal uh we we also already understand that okay and that leaves a case where B is minimal and that's like otherwise if neither of these things are true then B is minimal and um and so that's that's the content of this theorem. So this is the hard new thing in the uh OSRW thing. Okay, cool. Another little comment is that the the number of tubes is not my favorite parameter to keep track of. Um, my favorite parameter to keep track of is I'll call it R of of ET, which in words is like the typical number of delta balls of E on a typical tube of T. Um so let's make a uh let's make a picture. Um so we have some delta balls and then we have some delta tubes going through them and in in an interesting scenario each tube will have many balls in it and r is this number of balls in a tube. Okay. So algebraically by double counting number of balls in a tube would be the number of points times the number of tubes going through a point divided by uh the number of tubes. So that would be the algebraic definition of r. And then it's easy to convert bounds for t into bounds for r. So our theorem is equivalent to um that r is upper bounded by the maximum of three things. Scenario one is a. So scenario one the number of balls per tube is one which is always easy to arrange. Uh b you have to do a little computation. It works out to this. I don't really care what the exponent. It's not important what the exponents are. And C is delta to the uh t + one. Okay. And this delta to the t + one has a nice interpretation which might clarify a little bit what we mean by this random case. So if um e is a set is a delta tc set. So the size of e is delta to the minus t. Uh let me say it this way. Suppose that E is a set of delta to the minus T delta balls in the unit ball. And then I take the average over any choice of delta by one rectangles of um the number of delta balls that the rectangle covers. You would get delta to the minus t + 1. So it's not difficult to locate rectangles with that richness. Almost any rectangle would do the job. And scenario C is when the rectangles just have this average richness. There's really nothing special about them. Okay. So next let's remember. So their goal today is to talk about the ad regular case. So let's remember what what is the ad regular case. Okay. So we're going to suppose that E is uniform. So that means that our delta is some um capital delta to the m where m is a large number and the uniformity is that if I take e and I intersect it with a cube of side length delta to the j and I ask about its delta to the j + one covering number that's around some uh beta j for all the iatic Q delta J um that intersect E. Okay, so these beta J are the branching numbers. We drew pictures last time to illustrate what they mean. Um and so definition would be that E is C L4 is to be regular. So actually let's say it's a delta t c a d regular set f um has a this branching structure like above and um if I take the product j = 1 to capital j of beta j. So that would be the delta j covering number delta to the j covering number of our set. um it is at most C * delta to the J to the minus T and it is at least 1 / C * delta to the J to the minus T. Okay. All right. So, let's label all these hypotheses in our theorem by each our hypothesis. And what we'd like to understand is given these hypotheses, how big could R be? And for for today we're going to talk about the AD regular case. So let's give that a name. So R A D of S T delta C that is the maximum over E and T obey our hypothesis and E is a delta T C a d regular of R of E and T. How big could it be in in this case? Okay, there's really a mouthful of parameters. So, let me just say to uh reduce a little bit for today, we'll have C equals 1. Um so, that means it's you know really ad regular and everything we say actually um will work for small C that are bigger than that will allow us to not write the letter C. And then s and t will not be changing through our arguments. So I won't write them every time. So now I'll just abbreviate it as r a d of dot. Okay. All right. So um so the theorem that orbit and smirkin proved is that they they proved this thing in the ad case. So r a d s delta is indeed bounded by that. I'm not sure I computed right. Got the minus signs wrong. So that's our goal for today is to understand this theorem which is a really important special case of that theorem. Cool. So maybe so it's clearly a special case of that theorem. Um and at first it might seem like a very special case because these branching function basically there's a huge range of what the branching function could be and ad regular is just one particular choice in this huge range but it's a particularly important case and we'll see tomorrow or next class that that this is really a crucial case plays a big role in understanding the theorem in general. Okay, cool. Um, yeah. So, so it was a really it was a really important realization in thinking about this theorem that we should break it into cases. The different cases have their different things that are useful and their different things that are difficult um and um and and so that recognition is is key. So the next thing I want to try to talk about is like what is special about ad regular sets that we could use to to get a handle on them um that we couldn't use just for the for the general setup. All right. Okay. So this proof is is quite difficult. We won't do all of it, but I would like to share some key ideas about it which I think are really cool and and are like sort of worth taking with you away from this class. Okay, so in a nutshell, the important special thing about ad regular sets is in this lema that has a one board proof which is called the sub multiplicative lema. Okay, so it says that RA a delta, let me put it this way. If delta is delta 1 * delta 2, then RA a delta is bounded by with a little bit of fudge RA a delta 1 time ra delta 2. It is sub multiplicative. Okay. and it follows from understanding thinking a lot about a picture of an ad regular set. Okay. So remember that E is a set of delta balls and T is a set of delta tubes and we're going to imagine thickening them. So, so in this setup here, um, delta is smaller than delta 1 and delta 2, which are smaller than one. So, delta 1 and delta 2 are each bigger than delta. So, I'm going to thicken them, and I'll get E1, I'll call it, which are the delta 1 balls around E, and T1, which are delta 1 tools. All right. So, what does it look like? Let's think about E and thickening E. So here is E1 is this bunch of circles. Each circle has radius delta 1 and inside of those circles there are some delta balls and those guys are my delta balls E. Okay. Now, um, T1 are some delta 1 tubes. So, they might look sort of like this. Let's put one more ball up here. That looks like that. So, those are my fat tubes. T1 Um and then there are inside of them there are some delta tubes T2 that um there are too many but I'll try to give some idea. So, so through this point here, there might be a couple of red tubes that are inside of that orange tube. And then there might be a couple of red tubes that are inside of that orange tube. Okay? And I just drew the ones through this point. Experience has taught me that if I draw more, this picture will get too messy. But you should imagine that this is happening at every point. Okay. So first observation is that E1 and T1 obey the hypothesis of our theorem because actually if so if you take a delta t set of balls and you thicken them up to radius delta 1, you get a delta onet set of balls at least if because if it's uniform and um if you Look at who's going through this point. Uh we have a delta s set of directions leaving that point. And if you thicken them up a little bit, you get um the directions corresponding to the orange tubes. And that will be a delta 1 s set of directions. Okay, great. Um then yeah. Okay, so let let me put the punch line and then we'll think through why this works. So R A D of delta that's the number of white balls in a red tube, but that's bounded by the number of delta 1 balls in a delta 1 tube. Right? So I look in this orange tube, I see how many of these balls there are times the number of delta balls in a delta tube within one delta 1 bar. So if I'm looking at this at this red tube here, I want to know how many delta balls are in it. It's bounded by the number of big balls that it enters times the number of little balls in each of the big balls. Okay. So, we'd like to relate these two things to our problem at a coarser scale. And this one here well E1 and T1 obey our hypothesis. So this this one here is bounded by RA a D of delta 1. Now here if you take E and T and you restrict them to a delta 1 ball and then you magnify it to bring it up to scale one. Um this also obeys our hypothesis. So if you look inside of here, you see a little delta TC sat a little a little uh you know this this this and and these red tubes. That's the same situation on a smaller scale or on a coarser scale. So when you when you blow this up um uh if you blow it up then you get delta 2 balls and delta 2 tubes in the unit ball. So this guy is bounded by the uh ra of delta 2. Okay, I'm going call this claim one and claim two. All right, so this picture is perhaps the most important thing uh to take away from this proof and this class. So take a moment and see if you have questions about this proof. ready to verify. >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is do we need to check that everything is ad regular? Yeah. Okay. So let me add to these claims and then if we want to we'll we'll prove we can add details to the proof of these claims. E E1 and T1 obey the hypothesis and they're ad regular. And we need that this blow up here obeys the hypothesis and it's ad regular. And if you believe those two things, then you can plug you just plug in and you get that. Yeah. And we we can talk a little bit more about those two things if you want. Are there other questions or comments? Okay. So, I'll probably add a little more, but actually I wanted to ask you all a question. Um, in this argument, where did we take advantage of the fact that the original E was ad regular? Yeah. Jonathan, >> is it like picking one delta one ball and magnifying it? >> Yeah. So, it's related to when we picked this one delta 1 ball and magnified it. Yeah. So, so let's talk about one and two a little more carefully. Um, all right. So let's discuss one and two. Okay. So point one if e and tx are uniform which we can pretty much assume in the which we can assume from the beginning with a little pruning um then um e delta t implies that e1 is delta1 t and tx um delta s implies that t1x is is delta 1x. Okay. And also uh if E is ad regular it implies that E1 is AD regular because this is saying all the branching numbers of E are the same as each other and this is saying that all the branching numbers of E down to the depth of delta 1 are the same as each other. Okay, we didn't need E to be ad regular to do this or this, but it comes in in part two. So because E is a deregular then we get that if you take E and you intersect it with a small ball and magnify it then this is uh a delta I guess delta 2 t and a d regular. So let me illustrate this with pictures instead of equations. So what does it look like? Let's draw an ad regular set and a not regular set and we'll look at both of them. Okay. So if E is ad regular what I do I pick say four of them. Let me do this in the color. Okay. Then for each one that I picked, I subdivide it uh and I pick four of them. Okay, I'll stop drawing. You get the idea, right? Okay, now this is a self similar construction. If I take this thing in here and I blow it up, it's just like what I started with. So it will be a dere regular and it will be in particular a delta it will be a a delta t set for the appropriate delta. Okay what would it look like if e was not a d regular? Well, for example, I might do the following thing. Might cut it into a 4x4 grid. And I might take all of the boxes. And then I could cut each of each one of them into a 4x4 grid and pick just one box. So this was the, you know, the well spaced example that we drew last time. Okay. So this whole thing is a delta t set. But if I took just one of these boxes, what I would see is much more concentrated. This is not a delta t set. So if I were to take this guy and take it out here and magnify it, then inside of here, I would just see this. This here is a blank T set. But this here is not a blank T- set. Whereas in the AD regular case, if I were to take one of these and bring it out and magnify it, then what I would see in here would be very similar to the original set. This is um similar to B. So this here is a blank T set and it's a dregular. And that thing in there is still a blank T set and it's still ad regular. Okay, so this is the special feature of ad regular. The word regular refers to the fact that all the different scales look the same. And so when we uh look inside this ball here, we have another example of our original problem at a coarser scale. And that feeds into an inductive argument and we can say for example we can say this sub multiplicative lema. >> Yeah first inequality over there do you need some sort of uniformity on the number of cuz like the average and you're saying something like the average. >> Yeah that's right. That's right. So so um yes that is a good point. Okay, so the comment is that RA was defined as an average number of delta tubes per delta ball. And here I was pretending that all the tubes are average. Um so let's call this a proof sketch. Um you do need some uniformity. If you think back to the original setting, you know, you have the set E and then you draw all these tubes. You can sort them by how many delta tubes are in each one and you take the category that has the most delta tubes and that will still you can work with that. So you can do it you you you're correct. You we have to uniformize it. Um and it is possible to uniformize it. Okay. So let me scribe that. So um can do some uniformizing so all tubes have the same number of balls. Okay, other questions or comments? Okay. Cool. All right. So, this little lema is very important. Um, for people who have some seen some other things in harmonic analysis, there's a submative lema that's sort of like this in decoupling theory and it's the beginning of what's special about decoupling. If those words don't mean anything to you, don't worry about it. Um so let me show you some uh corlary some applications of this lema and then we'll um and then we'll sort of go in earnest into using it to prove this theorem. All right. All right. So the first application is sort of tongue and cheek but uh also I I I think it's philosophically important. I'm going to call it so applications. I'm gonna call it uh brute force proof of a theorem of theorem um of the the ad regular case. So here's how it goes. Um so for some for some specific delta knot we check by brute force that r a d s delta kn is bounded by um the right hand side and we won't be able to get it perfectly but we could get something like Okay. So, how could you do this? Once you fix a particular delta knot, like one over a million, there are really only finitely many different ways you could arrange the delta balls. And there are really only finitely many ways you could put the tubes. So, there's a giant brute force calculation that you couldn't really do, but we could imagine. And you could just check this. Once you have this then you use the submultiplicative lema many times. Um and so you know when you used it once you would get ra s delta kn squared that would be bounded by right hand side times delta kn squar to the minus epsilon because the the right hand side is just a power delta kn. So it multiplies everything fits and you you keep going. Okay, so of course this so this brute force computation is so large that it's out of the question to do it even with a supercomputer etc. Um, nevertheless, it is worth noticing that this very difficult theorem has a one blackboard proof up to a brute force computation. Up to a finite computation. Most difficult theorems in math, it's not obvious how to reduce to a finite computation. I wouldn't say this is obvious either, but for most difficult theorems in math, there's not a half-page argument to reduce it to a finite computation. For this one, there is, but it shows that this is quite important. Okay, let me give another application. Um, second application is the general case general ad versus the projective ad. Um, okay. So, the course was called projection theory. Uh, and at the beginning we talked about problems about orthogonal projections. And this theorem is really more general. I guess I've erased the theorem. The theorem we're talking about today is more general than just orthogonal projections. Um, and if you had some orthogonal projections, the way you would get all these tubes is you would pick a direction from your direction set. And then you would get a bunch of tubes in that direction that cover your set. So um, so I make a definition. Let's say that ET is projective If for every X and E, the direction set of the tubes TX, let me put it this way, for every X1 and X2 and E, the direction of the tubes through X1 is the same as the direction of the tubes through X2. In other words, you have just one set of directions and TX is all the tubes through X in that set of directions. Okay, so if you think about the general the problem that we wrote down, this is a very special case. So it used to be at every point you picked your own independent set of tubes, but now there's an extra rule that that the directions have to be the same at each point. It's a very special case. Okay, so let's say RA a projection of delta is uh the maximum over the usual stuff. So ET obeys our hypothesis. Uh E is a regular but also ET is projective. All right. Cool. So um in general that you know that we're taking a maximum and this is a restricted maximum. So we clearly have that ra a projective is smaller than rather more cases but it turns out that they're basically equal to each other. So let's make that a lema. So r a d of delta is less than here there are some fudge factors so I'll write something like this c epsilon delta to the minus epsilon actually let me I don't quite say that that's true but let me just say something uh okay so here so here's a cool observation based on that diagram and that proof so notice that in the uh sub multip applicative lama. If um delta 1 equals delta 2= square root of delta, then the inner uh the the small ball problems are all projective. Okay. So in this in this problem we sort of we have a a delta scale >> fenberg problem and we broke it up into two pieces a coarse piece at the large scale and a piece a small piece inside each small ball. Okay so I claim that this piece inside the small ball is projective. Why is it? Well, so pick one of these points and I'm going to look at the directions of the red tubes going through this point. Um, now I'm working in this small ball, so I can only distinguish them up to an angle of square root of delta. So what directions will they be? They'll be the directions of these orange tubes going out through here. So, so there there could well be two long red tubes going through here in the that are in the same orange tube, but inside of this small ball, they'll just be on top of each other. I won't see any difference between them. So, the directions that I'll see within the small ball, they just correspond to these orange tubes. And if I look at different guys inside the small ball, I have the same set of orange tubes. Okay, so that gives me an inequality r a delta is bounded by R a D delta to the half times R A D projective delta to the 12. Yeah, >> I thought that you were writing projective, >> right? Only the inner one is projective. The outer one is arbitrary. However, we can repeat this. So now that's bounded by RA a delta to the quarter R A projective delta to the quarter R A projective delta to the half. And now you can keep going. Okay, so you do this many times. There'll be a T appendix left here that is still has no projective on it, but it'll be very minor. And the rest of them all have projective. And so the conclusion is that to prove the theorem, it suffices to check the projective case. So that's a cute application of being submitted. Okay. So those are a couple of cute applications of this lama. Yeah. >> Is that like extra r that kind of went over epsilon uh kind of where the delta epsilon kind of error term final or is there as well? >> There are several places where we might incur a delta to the epsilon in the final thing and this is one of them. Yeah. Okay. Um, so let's say something big picture about trying to prove this theorem. So we were saying yesterday that for a while in this subject there were only kind of there were only epsilon improvements on some classical things. And what was very striking to me is to go from just making epsilon improvements to go to making to to proving the sharp theorem. And while Pablush Murkin was visiting, I talked with him a lot about all this stuff. And he said to me something one day that really stuck with me. He said sort of philosophically. Um that here, yeah, here's how I would like to put it. Um that in order to prove this theorem, what we need to do is make an epsilon improvement on the submicative lema. So let me write that down because I think it's worth taking with you out of this class. So philosophy to prove the theorem what we need an epsilon improvement on the sub multiplicative length. Okay. So in other words, we'd like to say either one possibility is that ra a d square root of delta is already obeys the bound. Okay. Well then we're happy and you know by by the sub multiplicative lema our ide of delta also will obey the bound. So we'll be happy or we have so I'll write down the um sub multiplicative lema. So that's the sub multiplicative lema but or we have not not this lema but a little tiny improvement on it. Okay, so in this case of course we're happy and in this case we can iterate and so you can think of ra of delta as being some power of delta and then every time we do this that power goes down uh or some negative power of delta. Every time we do this, that power is going to go down. Um and um uh and so it'll keep going down until we get into this case and we're happy. So so let's illustrate that. So if say we have ra a delta um let me write it this way be easier as delta to the minus gamma then we'd have ra a d of delta squared would be bounded by um so this would give us delta to the minus 2 gamma but plus epsilon Then we would do this again. RA a D delta 4th would be bounded by delta 4 to the minus gamma plus epsilon plus epsilon. We keep going and this exponent keeps getting better and better until we can't make an epsilon improvement anymore. So if we have this dichotomy then we can get um the theorem. Okay. Cool. Um all right. So so then you might reflect well you know why is it easier to make an epsilon improvement kind of theorem than it is to uh you know prove a really sharp bound straight out. Well, there's a thought process for that. If we have we already have a result and then we want to make an epsilon improvement, then we say to ourselves, you know, what would it look like if the result we have is sharp and maybe there's a lot of specific things that have to happen for the result we have to be sharp. So, we get a lot of structure and then we have then we have to get a contradiction and that shows you can do just a little bit better. That's why an epsilon improvement result is is easier than um than just getting a a great balance straight away. And you know and when we so you know if if we go back to Bans's projection theorem and we tried to make you know epsilon improvement in a in a projection theorem well we we didn't say this at the time but it might have been good to say you know what would it be like what would it mean if the bound we have so far is sharp would mean we have this structure and that structure and eventually we have this subset that is almost closed under addition and almost closed under multiplication anda d Okay, so the idea is we are going to try to do the same thing. We're going to think about what would it mean if the sub multiplicative lema was sharp and we're going to see that it just means the set has to have a lot of structure and eventually we'll get down maybe not today but eventually orin and smirkin uh got down to to the structures got down to the banan projection theorem or um and got a contradiction okay so let's talk about what would it mean if the sub multiplic Licative llama is sharp. Okay. So let me draw a couple pictures for you. And one of the pictures it corresponds to the sub multiplicative lamina is sharp and in the other one it it it's not. Okay. So, so we'll have some fat balls in a fat tube. And then in each fat tube, in each fat ball, we have some little balls. And the little balls are in little tubes. So there's your typical little tube and okay in each of these balls there are some each of these back balls there are some little balls. So in the scenario in this picture would the sub multiplicative lema be sharp or not sharp? Stand next to the picture in this picture. Would the sub multiplicative lema be sharp or not sharp? I don't think it's sharp because there's just one tube for the like coarser scale. that could be consist of several tubes for the fine scale. >> Um, okay. So, let me clarify what this is a picture of. So, so there are many coarse scale tubes, but I just drew one of them. And I'm just drawing what's happening inside of one of them. So, inside of that one coarse tube, this is what we see based on this is the >> So, there's only one fine scale tube. Um there could be more fine scale tubes but this is a typical one. Yes, there are many orange tubes and many red tubes but I'm drawing uh only one of each to direct your to focus our attention. Okay, so let's review for a second the proof of the sub multiplicative lama uh because it's really important and maybe it'll go in a little deeper and then I'll try this again. Okay, so our goal is to estimate ra of delta, which is the number of delta balls per delta tube. So I picked a delta tube like this red one here. I I have to estimate the number of delta balls in it. First I estimate the number of fat balls that it intersects and then I multiply that by the number of delta balls that it intersects within each fat ball. And that was my bat. And that each one of those things I bounded sort of by induction and I got those two members. All right. So if I take a particular fat tube and inside of it a particular thin tube and I see this would that argument be sharp? Right. Okay. So so the suggestion is that this is not sharp because uh inside of this red tube most of the fat balls are contributed nothing. And only this one fat ball is contributing. And it would be sharp if the number of delta balls in the fat ball was the number of sorry the number of delta balls in the delta tube was the number of fat balls times the number of delta balls in one of them. So let me show. So this is not sharp. And let me draw the one that's sharp. You'll see the difference. This is not sharp. Delta tube should look like this, right? So the delta tube should intersect a bunch of fat balls. It should intersect that many fat balls as many as possible. And inside each one of them, it should intersect a lot of delta balls, as many as possible. That's what it takes for the sub multiplicative lema to be sharp. So it should look like this. So this is sharp. Okay. Um, and this is a kind of striking picture. right. So in this ball, these points are in just a few tubes in a certain direction. Could also imagine we're in the projective case. And in these other balls, the points are in those same tubes. Goes all the way across. Of course, the balls don't have to look exactly the same as each other. So maybe a better picture might be like so. But the the tubes are exactly the same. Okay. So, let me pause. I'm going to erase a little bit to make some space around here. Is that okay with everybody? that if the sub multiplicative lema is sharp, it has to look like this, not like that. Okay. All right. So, let's erase around here a little bit. Okay. So, um we already reduced to the projective case. So let's say D is the set of directions which is the same everywhere as our projections and so D is a delta S set in the circle and here I fixed a typical fat tube. So here's a typical root delta tube. Um, and I'm going to look at the angles that are within this fat tube. So, um, so let's say, so here's our circle and, um, there's a little range of angles here. This is a delta to the here's theta, which is a delta to the 1/2 arc that corresponds to the that tube. Um okay and so D is some delta set delta SC set in here and let's say that C is D intersected with theta. So it's just these directions. Okay. Um so so the red tubes correspond to one of the directions in theta. So this one there red tube. And um so when I project the set in the red direction, I just get a small set. But it's not just the red direction. I could draw some other directions inside of the tube also. Let me do one more. I'll take here a blue direction inside of here. So I draw the tubes in the blue direction. What would it look like? I think I need to make this picture come out nicely. I need to add a few more points. And then so there'll be one more red tube. Oops. And now I'll draw a typical blue tube. The blue tube also manages to intersect our points a lot. So it should look sort of like this. Okay, I don't think I can draw anymore without making a complete mess, but get the idea. So the blue tube passes through all these balls also. And each time the blue tube passes through a ball, it manages to line up with one of the red tubes. All right. Okay. So, we have a kind of special situation here with a product structure. So, what is our set? Um, so let's say over here these dots this the projection in the red direction. Let's call this A. And then um down here we can make a set that illustrates where the fat balls are in the fat tube. Let's call that B. And so what we see is that for every C in C the projection uh in the C direction or I'll write it this way. A + C B that's the projection in the C direction is not much bigger than A. So the you know the projection in every one of these directions is small. They're all about the same as each other. A was the projection in the red direction. B the blue one is just as good. So A plus CB should be not much bigger than A. Okay. Okay. So, let me summarize what we have seen here. f sub multiplicative lama is sharp. Um then we get sets A and blast and cruise which are subsets of real numbers. And in the main case, a is a delta a a set. Well, it's a row a set. Uh size of a is like row to the minus a. B is a row B set. Size of B is like row to the minus B. C is a row C set. size of C is like row to the minus C. And for every C in C, A + CB is not very much bigger than A. Okay. Now, the size of A and blast and cruise can all be traced back to the numbers in our problem. Um and we find that if uh if a is smaller than b + c that's equivalent to saying that ra a d square root of delta is good a sorry if a is larger than b plus c then that means you do a boring computation. Um so there's a intermediate result maybe I'll call it a key lema which is called the ABC sum product lema which is goes into this paper of open schwarin. Uh, and it says if you have all of this stuff, um, then indeed a is bigger than b + c. Okay, let's yeah, >> good means that it obeys the theorem. Um so the theorem's up there. So smaller than the maximum of one and root delta to the minus t / 2 + s / 2 and root delta to the 1us t. So if if that's the case, we're we're happy. And otherwise uh yeah. Okay. Right. Okay. So, let's go back to our general strategy, our big our big picture strategy. We'd like to prove this theorem that RA of delta is always smaller than that. And we consider the sub multiplicative limit which doesn't give us the theorem yet, but it's an important tool. And we'd like to say um uh if if the if we can have an epsilon improvement in the sub multiplicative lema then that's great. We go to the next scale and we have a better bound. So you keep doing that until you stop and we must stop in a situation where there's no more where the sub multiplicative lema becomes sharp. And maybe that's a better way to say it. We have the sub multiplicative lama. we use it. It's either sharp or it's not. If it's not, we get a, you know, a nicer exponent at at delta squared than we did at delta. We keep doing that and the exponent is not going to keep getting better forever. So, we stop at some moment where the sub multiplicative lama is basically sharp. But the fact that the sub multiplicative lama is sharp gives us a lot of structure. It gives us uh the structure of being projective and it gives us this kind of product structure and it leads us to this problem which looks a lot like additive combinotaurics and which is very special problem compared to our original setup. Um okay and then the bound we need to prove for this problem if you just unwind the computation we need to prove this bound for this problem and if you unwind it it will tell us that um that ra obeys the desired bound yeah row I guess row is also row here is square root of delta Yeah. Okay. Okay. So this situation is now a lot more structured than what we started with and it looks reminiscent of uh additive cominatorics maybe of brian projection theorem and so on and indeed they were able to deal with it with that toolkit. I could say a little I don't I don't want to write too many equations so I won't say the whole thing. I could say a little bit about it. Um, but I I think that what we've done so far is what what I feel is most worth remembering about the proof of this theorem. So, let's pause here and see if people have any questions or comments about Let me let me summarize it. So the ad regular case is special because all the scales are related to each other and so we can break it up into problems at different scales and put them together. And by doing that we get problems that are somewhat nicer. So first of all if we look at the problem in a small ball instead of the original problem it becomes nicer because the directions through any point are the same for any two points. the directions are the same because they correspond to the directions of the fat tube through there. So this already made it a little bit nicer. Then moreover in order for the sub multiplicative lema to be sharp. So if the sub multiplicative lema is not sharp then you just keep going down scales and you keep getting better exponents and eventually that has to stop when the sub multiplicative lema is sharp. when the sub multiplicative lema is sharp, there's even more structure because these different balls have to talk to each other. Um, and so if you know there's a if if you see in this ball, you see a tube here, then you have to see a tube in the same place in that ball. Um, and that means that this set of points has kind of a product structure. And in particular if you what what's literally true is that if you take this uh well anyway so if you if you take the set of red tubes in this ball and then in this ball and then in this ball that is a product which is very helpful. Okay. Um cool. So, so the the the ad regular case allows us to restrict to a situation which has a lot more structure and uh it restricts to to to this lema about projections of a product set. >> Okay. Yeah. Um, so the argument like can continue sort of until the more is sharp. How do you know that kind of sharpness corresponds to kind of the sort of delta to the epsilon factor rather than just kind of something much smaller? It's seems like I don't I don't understand how to kind of get a quantitative bound kind of a more qualitative proof by contradiction. >> Yeah. Okay. Okay. So the quest this question is about keeping track of the small parameters. So every time I apply the sub multiplicative lema I was using the word sharp or not sharp but of course there's some kind of a gray zone and I have to decide where I'm going to cut how how what am I going to consider to be sharp and what is not sharp. Um and um then in this analysis um uh um yeah okay so so actually so in in order for this to stop in a reasonable amount of time I'm going to have to have a cutoff that's a tiny power of delta otherwise this would go on too long wouldn't work. Um, so my so I would say um uh so what would the definition of sharp be? Keep that. All right, let's get rid of this stuff. So we're going to we're going to use the sub multiplicative lama repeatedly. And so if ra a d of delta is bigger than I need to put something here ra a d of root delta squared and here I'm going to put delta to the epsilon kn where epsilon kn is a tiny parameter then I'm going to call this sharp and I'm going to stop and analyze the Other possibility is that RA A of delta is less than delta to the epsilon KN RA a root delta squared. And here I'm making progress. So I'll keep going. So this is the not sharp case. So now I'll keep going. Okay. So that's that's if we're more careful about what is sharp and not sharpening. All right. So here um if I keep going every time I make a definite amount of progress and so uh this this actually cannot keep going forever because eventually the exponents would be negative instead of positive. So it will stop. So we will end up here. Once we end up here we have to analyze the sharp case and we do have to remember it wasn't perfectly sharp but we had a fudge factor of a tiny power of delta and that complicates all the pictures that we have drawn. So in this picture here, this tube goes through many fat tubes. It doesn't have to have many delta balls in all of them. It has to have many delta balls in a fraction like delta to the epsilon, not fraction of them. It makes the picture a little bit more complicated. Um and actually because of that in in this theorem, if we're honest, it's a little bit more complicated. It's not um so it's um this would actually be pi c of x where x is a subset of a cross b and it's like a delta to the epsilon subset. So we wouldn't have to fill the whole product. we'd only have. Okay. So for that's what how we would be careful about sharp and how we would have to be more careful here. Okay. Um let me tell you just the first idea of the of the proof of um of this key lama. So um so we have just a step proof um so we have a plus cb is only a little bit bigger than a um that reminds us of plunicus. So an appropriate version of plunicusia well okay we have this big subset x we might want to get rid of that by doing bix gowers. Um so a val 80 hours would reduce to um a prime plus c b prime smaller than a prime we actually have all of it instead of just a big piece of it and then uh plunicus would give us so this would be true for man c and c and that would give us a prime prime plus C1 B prime plus C2 B prime plus C3 B prime would still be smaller than A prime could get that from plunicus okay and so now you we're not done yet but you sort of have the feeling that we keep using these tools from additive commentary we keep having stronger and stronger sounding uh information about A and B more and more suspicious okay And it definitely takes some some skill and some some good ideas to to finish from here. But we're in a setting where the tools of additive combinatorics are quite powerful and they're able to analyze what happens. Okay, good. Any final questions or comments? >> Yeah. >> How did we reduce the projected case? we reduced to the projective case at the beginning. Um we said uh so after we had the um sub multiplicative lama we reduced to the projective case by saying that um this ball is in the projective case. Um and so using that we were able to show that it suffices to prove it for the projective case. How do you put that? How do you chain that argument? >> What's that like? Like like I I don't understand how you use uh like that kind of argument and the and the reduction at the same time. >> Ah um so the question is about how we put together reducing to the projective case with all the other things that we did. Yeah. Um um okay. So, so using this lama, we had an argument that if you could prove a good bound for the projective case, then combining it with this lama and and noticing that this is projective that then we get a good bound for the general case. So now we just imagine we're trying to prove the theorem in the projective case. Um so we can assume that we're in the projective case and then we start applying the sub multiplicative lema. Um ah so you're wondering when we do this yeah you can so you can think of this in this picture um where over here we have um not just some abstract thing but the this would be the R in the small ball and the R for the fat tubes. So, we look at those and if if the R if the R is better than multiplying the small balls times the fat tubes, then we keep breaking things up. Take the small balls and break them into smaller balls. And otherwise, if if they're comparable, then we look at at what's happening. >> Yeah, that's a good question. Yeah. >> So, I understand uh what's going on. Is this example uh supposed to be similar to the case B that we had at the beginning where like for instance if we started with tubes and points on a bridge would we kind of immediately fall just into the situation and what we're doing is blowing things up until we get there. >> Yeah. Okay. So the question is how how these pictures and these examples relate to the the the three examples that we had in mind at the beginning. Um so the three examples we had in mind at the beginning were there was a simple one the stars example there was the grid that was interesting and there was like the random example and a funny thing is that none of those is ad regular right and now the the the random one we could fidget to make it ad regular if we wanted to um and the stars we we could make it ad regular if we wanted to but the grid is is actually is really not adular Um and so that is a little bit funny that in the most important example is not in this case. Um even though this case is very important in the final proof. Um so you can't really start with the grid and it is not at least until recently it was not known what is the actual worst behavior in the AD regular case. It may be so it may be that RA a is much smaller than R. Um uh although but the argument so far doesn't prove that and that's a little it's a little bit funny because it means there's not an example that you can keep in mind when you go through the ad regular case. >> Yeah. >> What what goes wrong with trying to kind construct an ad regular grid where you just kind of have a grid wherein each point has a lot of sort of nested subgrids within it. >> Yeah. So the question is could you make an ad? Yeah, I guess that's true. You could make a roughly a somewhat ad regular grid by taking a grid of balls and then in each one of those balls you put a grid of balls and you repeat like this. Um uh but it's not since the grid itself is not a dregular. This this is only a it's only a dregular with a big c. Um could you do that? Yeah, I guess you could do that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So you could do that. And then what would happen here? The A, blast and cruise would be like sets of integers except they would have this ad regular structure. So A would be like take an arithmetic progression of intervals and in each one of them put an arithmetic progression of smaller intervals and so on. That's what A and blast and cruise would look like. >> Can you cancept them? >> Yeah, it's kind of like a caner. It's like a counter set but the but with but in order to make it make the numbers come out well you you need to have a lot of intervals in an arithmetic progression in each step. Here I'll draw it and then I'm over so I'm going to stop. So the example is um for a big line you make an arithmetic progression with a lot of intervals. Okay? Then you look inside of each one of these intervals and you repeat what I just did. Um and for for this to for this to be a kind of sharp interesting example, it needs to be a lot of intervals. Okay. Okay. Good. Sorry for going a little bit over. Um, those are great questions. Let's stop there and I will see you next week.