So uh the uh what I I'll talk mostly about u riskneutral pricing and uh black shows will be more of uh uh of an illustration to to to the method to more general method which I think is very important and very important for pricing derivatives. uh and many many a few of you uh did uh look into black shells. Uh so my hope is to to give some a little bit more depth and a little bit more perspective on uh how what is the bigger picture of derivative pricing uh through through risk neutral valuation. But as promised uh before let's start from uh from the interest rates from from the slide which similar slide which I showed you on the first class and Andrew Gensson already talked about yield curve construction and everything but yeah so that's how what happened since since we started uh that's the yield curve or it's just as planning as it was in in September just before beginning of the class and that's where we are now. So uh quite predictable in a sense because fed moved the the rates for by 75 basis points and that's uh that's exactly uh what what uh what happened uh here uh uh the uh uh the uh the the parallel shift is only uh at 70 base points. here but more of A-50 here. Uh what uh now a little bit of huristics. How does it look like? Well, right now it looks like we are very similar to to this shape, right? Which was uh 19, right? On the other hand, this shape is is almost exactly the same, right? Which was in fact just before the crisis. So, uh in both cases a recession fall I mean in both in both cases there the curves are inverted and in both cases the recession followed shortly after. I certainly think hope that it is closer to this because just this is basically the next snapshot in uh in 21 and the curve is completely normal shape and and the economy was uh the recession was very very short and the economy was on a very solid track by then but and hopefully we are not in this situation because this is just before the crisis. It's before before bare turns collapse before lemon collapse. So a lot of bad things happened after that. uh uh in any case uh this is all non non-scientific prediction and the the real question here would be to to to do some soral data analysis something like Stefan Stefan Andre talked about about analyzing the shape of the curves and bond markets using uh uh PCA principal component analysis but always fascinating to look at the data and always fascinating to look at the curves which in my opinion are in the middle in the center of finance. Okay, let's move on to uh to the uh topic of our class. And the idea is to to see uh how replicating the payoff can help us to price derivatives. uh and how to learn that actually if we can follow market market dynamics uh that how it can help us to price derivatives and actually that the real world dynamics is not that important it's it's what market implies uh that's what important and how it is connected to morting gales and to mathematical apparatus to to stocastic calculus connecting that. So, but yeah, here is a simple example uh horse betting, right? So, uh let's assume clear that we have two horses, horse one and horse two. And we I mean you're a bookie and you know the horses well. you know that this horse has 20% to uh chance to win and this horse has 80% chance to win, right? But people bet uh bet on the market and uh uh 10,000 is bad on this horse. People don't know exactly these probabilities. They know that this this horse is better than this. So they they bet rather the public bets 50,000 on this and 10,000 on on this, right? Um and then what you do, you just take a commission, right? Uh say 1% and you you have 6,000 in your uh uh 600 in your pocket of the commission. So now the question is you need to set the odds for for this race right. So well one way to set the odds is knowing the real exact probabilities. One it's reasonable to say let's make it four to one. So what what outcomes are possible right? Then horse starts horses race. So H1 wins H2 wins. So if a uh horse uh the first horse wins, you will get 50,000, right? This this amount and you will pay out four times this amount because you set uh you set the odds four to one. this will mean that you will be left with 10,000 profit. This is low probability outcome. You know that second horse is better. So what happens is second horse win uh second horse wins. Well, you will keep this money. So it will be 10,000 and you will pay a quarter of this, And this will be on my books minus 2,500 at the end, right? So you you will lose, you will have to pay, right? Of course, if you compute expected value, if horses run along many many times, it will be zero, right? Uh 10 * 2 plus minus 2 2 and a half time.8 is zero, right? But for this on average it the horses have to run a lot. Right? Now let's consider a different way of setting uh setting odds. You forget about the these numbers. You just look at at at what was bad, right? And you rather set the odds five to one. Okay, let's see what happens. Well, if the first horse wins, you will get 500 50,000 and you'll pay 50,000, right? Well, if second horse uh wins, you'll get uh you'll get 10,000 and 1/5 of this. So you'll pay out 10,000. So no matter which horse wins wins, you are you break even for sure in in this particular outcome, right? So and if you were collecting some fee, you just keep the feed. You'll do it next time. So basically what you did by setting the uh the uh the odds according to the market you hedged yourself. You you eliminated every uncertainty which is probably the the outcome which you want. All right. So this is all about betting and we are not betting people. In fact, we are scientists. So, and we'll uh we'll be talking today about pricing derivatives. Uh again, some simple examples and derivatives which we'll be looking at uh will be uh call put options and and forward contracts just to refresh. So, what are those? So the the simplest possible derivative is a forward contract which is an agreement to buy a security in our case a stock in the future for for a price which is set today. Uh generally speaking uh so uh the the payout of of a forward is just the difference of uh of the strike and the uh the price at the expiration right at the expiry. So the payout is s uh uh s minus k where k is a strike agreed price right and uh for forwards the agreement uh is that the strike is set in such a way that it costs you nothing to enter it today you basically say we agree with you today for a zero price that I'll buy the stock at the price K, right? Uh so uh quite useful diagram is the the payout that's uh that's sorry that's a blue line. So it's in our case it's S minus K. So that's forward. Uh now call option. Call option is an option to buy a stock at price K. Right? So basically at expiry you will decide are you buying the stock at price K or if it's if you don't want to you you won't. And generally speaking, if the stock ends at the money higher than the strike, you will buy it, right? Because it will be cheaper. And if uh if the stock uh uh ends uh below the strike price, it you will say thank you very much. And the contract will expire worthless. So this is the payout at the end. And this is the price of the call option today, right? Obviously it is not zero price contract. It is you you will pay some money to enter into this contract. Right? Uh another usual and simple contract would be a put option uh which is an agreement to to sell uh the uh it's kind of opposite right it's uh it basically prevents if if the uh the option uh the uh stock is too high you won't sell it. If if the stock ends low, you will sell it for a higher price. So it is basically insurance kind of insurance of uh uh of against stock falling below uh below the the strike price. And here is the the current price. And what we'll be doing today is deriving these curves, deriving the current price of price today for the options and the forwards. And what we'll see is a few observations that uh the only uh what will matter it is assumptions on uh on the dynamics of the stock price. Some assumptions on how the stock behaves, some assumptions on interest rates. uh and and uh given given that there will be no uncertainty in in the price of the derivative and this was believe me this wasn't clear to market participants before black and shows uh u and uh the u the Another important observation which we'll see that the uh the preferences of market participants will not matter. It's you know similarly in to our horse racing example we'll be able to to uh to find the riskless ways to replicate replicate the price the price of the option. All right. So let's start with uh with a simple example of the forward and uh let's start from from a discrete uh uh time and and and stock prices and uh because it's it's simple simpler to understand and uh so what does it mean is that right now we uh have some price of our stock s0. Uh we have price of our contract f0 in in the case of uh of the forward. We assume that it's zero, right? Because we we assume that we uh the we are entering at the forward contract at zero price, right? And there are two outcomes that we are only one step away. So some time dt to the future. And uh at the outcome the the outcomes either s1 or s_ub_2. So the stock can go either here and here. And our derivative according to our formula will be will go to s1 minus k or s2 - k right so again from naive perspective one can say well there is some probability for stock to go to go up to to s1 one and some probability 1 minus P for stock to go down. And one would say that we can assume that our price now is actually expected value with this probability of uh of the value of our derivative at the end. Right. And so it will be P * F_sub_1 - 1 - P * F_sub_2 U and well P * S1 - K plus 1 - P * That's 2 minus k and from uh from here we can actually well what we what we are looking for is the agreed price on our forward right so we can say that our strike price should be PS1 uh plus 1 minus p * s2 But we don't know the the probability and in fact that's as we'll see in a second that's not a good way to approach it. And why? Here is why because here is a suggestion what we should do. Here is a suggestion how we we can construct a riskneutral portfolio here. So that's what we are going to do. So at time zero we enter into uh into forward contract with strike K and we'll in a second we'll see what this strike K will be at zero at zero cost cost right enter forward at at zero cost and we will borrow money to buy to buy the stock. So we are borrow as zero. So we'll buy we borrow money in a bank and uh and buy a stock for a minute. Let's assume that our interest rates are zero for for simplicity. Okay. So what happens at expiry? What happens? It's time time equals zero time equal dt. So at at at expiry what we'll do we will deliver the stock right because we have it deliver s and we'll receive our strike guys and repays the loan. So basically what happens here we we we borrow here we had a stock we came here we delivered the stock this cost nothing so we receive K that's a grid a grid strike and we repay the loan which we started here it because interest rate is zero we it didn't change right if it changed it will be discount some e to the minus e to the rt t times s0. So now that's what we'll get here. And here we started with zero, right? Because it was we paid zero to enter. What can we say about this? Well, if this was greater than zero, we we for sure receive money, right? There is no other outcome. If it's less than zero, we for sure lost money. No arbitrage assume will tell us that neither is possible. So because the price was initial price was zero, this has to be zero because this replicates our payoff. So our strike has to be as zero, right? So if there are no interest rates, the forward contract would just we we we would agree to buy or sell the the the price in the the stock in the future at the current price if interest rates are zero. So no no no choice and we don't care about real world probabilities and we don't care about uh about what what how the stock behaves in in real uh in real life. We just replicated everything. What's interesting though? What interesting though we can find a probability which will give us our uh our strike or which will give us this formula. Right? So what what will it be? Well, well, K is is equal as zero and uh so our P and I'll call it neutral uh risk neutral prob probability S1 uh plus 1 minus P N S2 Right. And that's uh and we we can find our uh PN from here. S0 - S2 divided by S1 - S2. Uh what's interesting observation here? First of all, that we can find this rift neutral probabilities and we uh we actually could price our uh our forward contract using this probabilities using this expected expected payoff. The interesting the most interesting part is that our current stock price our underlying under this riskneutral prob probability is expected value of the future move of the stock and that's what we will see. So that that's basically our riskneutral measure. Then that's how we will be looking for our risk neutral measure because we can always find a measure which implies that our our current underlying value asset value is expected value of the future payoff and that's a measure which we can use to price the derivatives. Okay. So, let's move to something more interesting and let's do and call option but still in in discrete time, right? So our call option payoff would be maximum of the the value at expiration minus k and zero. Right? Right. That's is here. That's that's our payoff. That's the hockey stick. We still assume for for this exercise, let's still assume interest rates uh zero. So uh our diagram will be our value of call option which we will be looking for uh at time zero. Our stock is zero. Uh S0 stock goes to S1 or to S2. Uh and our value of our call will go uh we we assume that s_ub_1 is greater than s0, s_ub_2 is less than uh zero. So here uh value of uh of our option will be what? S t minus k, right? And value of our call option here will be >> zero right because it will be this this thing. Okay good. So now what we want to do we want to to find a replicating portfolio. Uh and here is suggestion how so replicating portfolio in the case of forward was stock itself right it it it was rep replicating the the payout. Now my suggestion is to do the following. Our replicating portfolio would be some amount of cash and some amount of stock, right? we we want to find these values of of cash and how much stock we need such that our our option payoff is replicated here, Well, we we certainly can can do it uh in in this simple case, right? Because well, in the beginning our our portfolio will be B 0 plus A S0. At the end it will be B1 plus S1 or B2 plus A S2. Right? And our condition of replication is that in this state it should be equal to this. Right? And in this state it should be equal to this because we are replicating our payoff. And let's notice that because our interest rate is zero again, this thing doesn't doesn't change because it's just cash, right? Well, nice nice and easy. uh from here we can find that our a well if we subtract this equation from this equation I mean we have two equations with two unknowns so b 0 is one unknown and the second unknown is a so from here we can easily find that a is equal s1 minus k divided by s1 minus s2 right and uh b 0 B 0 is equal S2 * K - S1 / S1 - S_UB_2 and knowing that if we replicate it the same as before if we replicate it the port we have a replication portfolio that's what uh uh where it should be uh uh here and this is our C 0 and that's what we are looking right we are looking for the value of our option at time zero so our C 0 is equal to a S0 minus S2 or it is uh s1 - k divided by s_ub_1 - s_ub_2 * s0 minus s_ub_2. Okay. So basically by the same replication argument we were able to to find uh uh to find uh our value. Now coming back to our risk neutral. Sure enough, if we use this this same probability which is derived from from expected value of of the stock, the price of our C 0 is actually P neutral times ST minus K plus 1 - P neutral time zero. Right? So if we know this probability and we can derive it from here instead of doing all this difficult machinery, we can just take the payoff and take expected value of our payoff using this probability and get the value of our uh our derivative. Now all right. So that's discrete world. Uh and yeah so they just for your reference here it is the same set of formulas for for any for any payout. Uh and it one other interesting uh useful uh comment here is that we started with replicating for portfolio. So we we started with some cash and some stock in order to replicate the uh the the value of our option in on the next step. Right? On the other hand, one can rewrite it and say that this portfolio is because this is just cash. This is riskless portfolio and we we will see that just in a second that sometimes it's more convenient instead of talking about replicating portfolios about talking the portfolios without risk. So we basically form a portfolio of option of full value of option and some stock such the combination is riskless. Okay. So that's our discrete world. With that, let's move on to continuous world. So and in continuous world for today we'll be looking we we'll be working with logn normal dynamics but we'll see that it's not absolutely crucial is just nice example once again and logn normal dynamic is basically a dynamic which implies ize that there is some some growth and there is some random component. Well, one can also write uh it in this form and let's talk a little bit about DW what what it is. Uh so uh DW is uh random walk inner process. So expected value of DW is equal to to zero and standard deviation of DW is equal to square root of DT and that's what always bothers me. Why standard deviation has to be square root of DT? Why why do we know that? Well, and here is a handwavy reason without any measure theory or anything else is the following that so our suppose we have n dt steps right our random walk had nine n steps right so the collection of those will be DW0 DW1 so on and dw and the uh no not equal. So our dwn the final value after n steps it will be sum of all the smaller steps. Right? So what's expected value of WN? Well, it is sum of the expected values of all DWS and each of them is zero. So it is zero. It's in fact Martin Gale, right? It stays zero. Well, and what is the standard deviation or variance uh of our DWN? Well, it will be sum of squared of each step. Uh yeah, and what I forgot to say to tell here Is that probability of us going up? Uh we we we are going by one either up or down. And on each step uh it is 1/2 with probability 1/2 we go up or or down. And correlation our our steps uh are not correlated. Right? That's important. So then the the variance uh here will be sum of expected values of t wi squared each of them will be one with probability with probability 12. So uh it will be it will be n right so with probability 1/2 it is one with probability 1/2 it's minus one so sum of squares will be all ones so n after n steps it will be n okay fine now let's uh put our n steps on a on a finite period of time, right? Let's assume uh le let's uh let's assume that we have a final period of time and we split it and uh and n equal periods of delta t of small delta And we also let let's assume that instead of doing the steps of one uh and minus one uh let's assume that they are some number D right plus or minus D right with probability uh h Sorry. Okay. So, expected value of of our random walk still stays zero and our variance now becomes uh becomes what? sum of 12 d^2 + 12 d^2 right so n d^2 and our n we we assume that it is just split uh period of time. So t d ^2 divided by delta t. Right? So basically what what I'm trying to say that if we put our steps on a on a period of time that's what's our variance. And now if we make the steps smaller the the time steps smaller and the space steps smaller as well right we're kind of taking intofinity. We we make we are taking a limit over the finite period of time and the only way for this to stay finite or n zero is for this to be of order of magnitude of square root of t. So a long winded uh question uh long winded answer is for for why standard deviation of our brownian motion has to be square root of t because otherwise we either will have zero zero variance or exploding process. So for this process not to explode this has to be true. All right. Uh now another observation before we go to uh to option pricing uh is to to talk about Taylor formula and eto formula as at a followup to it. Right. So if if if our life uh was deterministic and there was a a function of two uh two variables and s and s and t then our tailor formula to the first degree or to the second degree let's let's write it right? We'll take the partial derivatives with all with both respect of both and then we'll have second derivatives, right? So 12 of d2f by dt squared dt^ 2 + 12 d2 f by d s 2 d s 2 uh plus mix derivative right? So this is to second degree plus plus delta. Right? Uh this is to the second degree. Now in our uh in our stochastic world these two terms have kind of different magnitude right. So this the deterministic term is of magnitude dt and uh and stochastic term is of of mag magnitude of square root right. So if we go back to our uh our tailor formula and still and and would like to to have expansion to the first to the first degree what what we'll have to do so in our stochcastic world. So this is the first degree right? So this we keep this is first degree or le at least less uh first degree or less right because our ds is dt plus this is of order of magnitude of square root dt right so this will keep completely and now if we Go to mixed terms. This is second degree squarely. Get rid of it. Now uh this is certainly more than first degree. So get rid of it. But here something is left and what is left is is square of this roughly speaking. Right? So we'll have to have a term which is coming from uh from ds squared. So which will be 12 of d2 f by ds^ 2 and from uh from d s 2 the first term will be dt ^ 2 not not interesting the mixed term will be dt * dw will be uh more less than dt but uh the square of dw will be exactly on the of the order magnitude of dt. Right? So here will be sigma squar s^ 2 dt uh ds^ squ sorry right and so the and this is called etheros's formula very important uh for stoastic calculus and this is quick and dirty derivation of it. Okay. Now, uh let's move on uh to our to our No, this this will leave probably. So, we'll need this this but this we don't need. So let's move to pricing. So we still want to price a some claim derivative claim and we'll call it f in our case and we'll form a replicating portfolio. And as before, our replicating portfolio will consist of some stock, some cash. And what we want to do is to replicate our uh value of our claim on each step on each step dt. Right? Now let's do the trick which we did before which let's rearrange this. Right? So let's notice that AST minus f of t. So the combination or f minus a sorry more that this combination of uh of our derivative and stock is riskless. And what does it mean that uh well now we are we'll assume the uh that interest rates are not zero. What does it mean? It means that this thing if it's riskless it has to grow with time as e to the e to the rt right by definition. So BT is equal e to the RT times B 0. Right? So we started our strategy at time zero and since then our cash is growing with interest rate T. And what does this mean? Well, this means that our DB is deterministic function. No, no need for e or anything like this. And we all can differentiate, exponentials. So, trivial mass. That's how RB works. So now that's so let's try to differentiate the whole thing. We we know the right side because it's deterministic it will be this. So the derivative of our riskless portfolio will be r times uh our riskless portfolio times dt. Good. Now we'll keep it as a right hand side and for this we'll use our our uh uh eido eidto's formula right well let's do that so we continue to differentiate that and we get df minus a ds s and our f is stochastic. We use our ether's formula will be d of dt * dt plus df ds * ds plus our stochastic term plus 12 D2F by D S^ 2 D S^2 and we don't forget to subtract this and if we just continue continue further and start collecting terms. So we we'll expand our uh ds according to our formula right and we'll collect terms with the certain terms with dt and uncertain terms with our dw right so if we're collecting our terms with dt here it will be df by dt plus 12 uh uh 12 coming from ds^ squ and ds^2 remember it will be sigma^ 2 s^ 2 dt it comes from from this only right so it will be oh so sorry sorry well yeah not okay that's fine plus 12 d2f f by d s 2 sigma squ s 2 and I missed this one and if we are collecting the dt terms it it has to be that right uh plus df by ds times mu s right and we should not forget dt term from here minus a mu s and that's completes our dt term. Right? Now let's see what happens with our dw term. Uh well dw term will be partially from here right? DF by DS sigma S from here right minus part part from here a sigma S and this is equal DW uh times DW right and what it is equal to well it is equal to this right yeah >> um how come we can say that dw equals dt because I thought we just knew the standard deviation was the square root of dt but like >> so dw^ squared is dt >> but like I thought w was random. I thought dw was random. So how can you say that when you square it you get something deterministic? Uh well that that this is more of a notation but uh but yeah we we kind of yeah it is not very uh very rigorous notation but that's basically what uh what uh what it's formula tells you. >> Okay. >> Right. So if you go into uh the strict proof that that's what you'll get basically for for the second for the square term right but yet >> add to that when we talked about brownie motion the quadratic variation of brownian motion is constant over time intervals. >> I see. Okay. >> And so over the infinite intervals. >> Okay. That makes sense. >> Yeah. It's combination of infinite decimal and the fact that the the yeah the that the standard deviation is of order of magnitude but yes you are right it is uh it is kind of slope annotation uh okay so and this is equal to RF right uh minus R S R A S uh DT T and because we we knew that this this part is deterministic, right? So there are no DW terms on on this side. So what does it mean? That this has to be equal to this, right? And this has to be equal to zero because right right hand side here is completely deterministic. So uncertainty has to disappear. Why it disappears by construction because we from the very beginning we said that we want to find such an A and that's what we'll get just in a second that this portfolio is riskless or another another way that we can replicate our uh our our derivative. So if this is equal to zero then our a is equal to uh df by ds right and we are done right so what we are done in a sense that we arrive at the following equation basically. Uh where should I write? How about this? So our main equation will be this equal to this. But we'll substitute a and let me write it here. The equation which we arrive at df by dt + 12 the second f by d s^ 2 sigma^ 2 s^ 2 is equal to rf right minus r df by ds * s And this is the black shells equation right. So that's what we are looking for and that's what we will be solving. So just to give yeah so in the slides there are nicer and more cleaner write up. Um yeah. So the basically what what we found out that any derivative claim any pay payoff has to satisfy this this this equation. Well under assumptions of our log normal mo motion. If if we assume some other dynamics of the stock, the equation will be different but we still can derive it in in in a similar manner. Right? And but but the beauty of it that any derivative claim uh any uh payout at any time uh time before expiry has to satisfy the this this equation. More moreover this equation doesn't depend on our drift on our real world drift and we we'll come back to this uh come back to this shortly. Uh so so it doesn't matter what what matters is volatility right uh and uh that we we'll touch upon hopefully we'll have time to touch upon it further in black shaw theory it is assumed constant but it doesn't have to be it it you can assume some function or you can assume this to be stochastic itself which will make the uh the equations more complicated and more complicated to solve But but once again uh so and that's uh that's what uh Fisher Black Martin Scholes and Robert Merton discovered or published in their 1973 paper. Believe it or not, it was quite controversial because uh and actually wasn't very much applauded at this time, but was recognized by a Nobel Prize in 97. Uh and they always fun fact to to say that all three of them are associated with MIT. uh um um Bob Mertin is still I think a professor at at MIT which is obviously quite quite nice to to talk about it in these walls. So uh now uh coming uh well maybe a couple of remarks uh yeah uh yeah so v said that so any derivative satisfy this equation it doesn't depend on real world uh drift we obtained it this equation by by replicating strategy and that's the most important uh the the other beauty of it. It's not only replicating strategy, it's also a hedging strategy. Right? So if we know our A which is actually derivative of our current price with respect to stock, we can hedge out all the risk. Right? So basically by holding option and some amount of stock this this amount of stock our portfolio becomes riskless which is very important practical conclusion. Uh the more mathematical or technical uh observations are that this is actually a form of heat equation and a a good technical exercise would be to uh to uh to figure out what what change of variables uh gives you uh the heat equation and this is a very wellstudied and solved problem even though it will be it has to be numerical. Um so as any partial differential equation to solve it uh it will require uh it will require the uh initial or actually in this case final conditions and boundary conditions. And what is our final condition? Well our final condition is actually our final payoff which will be this. This is our final condition. This we know right. And what will be our boundary condition for for call will be that at zero uh the value of the call is zero. And the other B boundary condition would be uh would be that at infinity it is actually uh the approaches S as S as S as S as S as S as S as S as S as S as S s minus K right uh and if we imply uh this boundary uh conditions and uh finite conditions and this is the conditions for for put we can uh derive uh the arrive to analytical or semianalytical formulas for for the prices. Of course it's expressed in the terms of uh uh error function which has to be tbulated. Um uh yeah uh in in more complicated cases in in the cases of more complicated dynamics uh of course the the formulas are not so nice and most probably it will require some numerical numerical integration and numerical uh procedures which is a big part of numerical finance. In fact, what I wanted to talk about is uh coming back to uh riskneutral pricing and let me uh uh let me do it here. Uh basically how how do we find our riskneutral measure and how do we find our riskneutral PDF? Well actually fine in the case of log normal it is pretty simple because well our ds is equal to mu s dt plus sigma s dw. W. So here is a nice trick. If we take expectation value of both sides, then we'll get a differential equation for well uh for expected value of this is zero, right? Because expected value of DW is is is equal is equal zero. So an expected value uh of this will be mud dt right. So nice differential equation for our expected value. So our expected the the expected value of of the stock should be equal to initial value of the stock time e to the mu t right but for our riskneutral assumptions remember so we said that in discrete case the whole point of uh riskneutral probability was that expected value of our stock should be our stock may be compounded by by interest rate right well when interest rate was zero it was constant it was so uh in in logn normal uh uh dynamics ds over s will be martingale martingale So this has to be equal to s e to the rt because in under risk neutral dynamics our stock has to be has to grow with r. So basically it tells us that mu has to be equal to r under our risk neutral measure. Right? So now okay mu is equal to r but uh but we can easily find a pdf of of this process at time t and that's what it is of log normal process basically right with uh with mu sub substituted by r. So yeah so mu substituted by r and what what I'm saying that now instead of solving our black shs equation for any claim our under uh logn normal dynamics we we could just take the our payoff and integrate it against this pd PDF the final PDF and get the value of the function now as is expected expected payoff under risk neutral measure and that's our risk neutral measure right so that's a nice benefit of course it is easier for log normal for other uh for other processes uh it is not that easy um but uh it's certainly an added benefit. Another uh another example which I want to give you in the past in the last 10 minutes is another replication example. Uh so let's form such a portfolio. Let's buy a call and sell a put. So what what what is it? Well, let's draw a diagram. And let's draw a diagram at time maturity t. Right? So we long a call. So with some strike K, right? So this is our strike K. So our call is looks like this. We short a put, right? So put would be like this. And short put it will flip it, right? So it's like this. How does it look? It looks like just like a forward, right? So at maturity by this portfolio has zero uncertainty. It's forward, right? So at any time before maturity, it has to be value the the forward value of the stock, right? So it it always has to be so at at maturity it is S t minus K. So uh well so at any point of time the difference of call and put has to be the difference of value of the current value of the stock and to tell the truth discounted value of of the strike. Right? T minus T and the beauty of it that we we made zero assumptions about dynamics of the of the stock here. This has to be true always. It's just how the payoffs look look like because we always know forward. It is only dependent on uh on uh interest rate. it doesn't depend on uh on dynamics of the stock and this portfolio doesn't depend on dynamics of the stock and it's quite powerful because it basically tells you that if this is different at any point of time you have an arbitrage and to illustrate that I actually uh went oh sorry uh went to Bloomberg took real prices of calls and puts. This is Apple stock a while ago admittedly. uh and uh here I I literally plotted the data from here for call and for for put and literally summed it up and you see that it it is a straight line and no surprise because if if it w wouldn't be it would be an arbitrage people will jump on it immediately people check for it all the time the beauty of it that the the dynamics of The stock is not log normal and how can we see it? Well, I also plotted here implied volatility for I think I did it for call here and if it would be log normal the volatility should be straight line and it is not right. That's why we need more complicated models for for stock dynamics. that why black trolls is a nice example but but we need stocastic relativity uh or or others jump diffusion is by the way uh if tricky thing because the Martin gales with jumps don't really work so the the life becomes becomes uh more complicated so um yeah so that that's a nice another nice example of replication, right? So, and in general, that's how a lot of things function. You what you try to do, you look at the payout of a portfolio and you try to replicate the payout with the instruments which you have at hand or at least approximate the payout because if you did it, you know the price now or you know arbitrage. The the other way to do it is for some form some complicated portfolio and find misplacement right and that then it becomes arbitrage. Nowadays it's practically impossible but but people did a lot of things with more complicated options even 15 20 years a well 25 years ago I think Jake uh has a good story about that how he was starting in effect options. Yeah the just in another illustration I did the same for IBM stock and yeah sure enough it's the same straight line. I didn't plot the implied wall, but it's probably even uglier here. Um, yeah, we're about at time. Uh, but I would leave you uh with a little bit food for thought here. Uh, so this is called digital option. The payout payout of digital option or all or nothing option, right? It's basically either pays you zero if you end up uh out of the money or it pays you one if you end up in the money. Right? Uh the uh this is how black shs would price it that this is actually uh how coal spread looks from uh uh from the data which I just showed you uh pretty close to this. So my challenge to you is find a replicating portfolio which which prices it digital because I claim that you don't need to have a dynamic of the stock or do any complicated things here. You can replicate this uh this payout uh practically exactly actually approximate the the payout uh and uh that's how actually how people hedge digital options. Um yeah so think about it. Um for with this let me stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop here and any questions happy to answer looking forward a little bit so we have two uh classes the two two invited lectures um uh and one of them the the sec the the one in in a week time will be by John Hull. It will be by by uh by Zoom and he will be uh talking about uh machine learning. Uh and I think it will be an interesting lecture well at least interesting because for me John Hull is an icon. He I mean not only he wrote the most famous derivatives pricing book uh he also uh created halw white formulas and made a lot of contribution to quantitative finance. So and I I we we are working on on a couple of collaboration projects. He's in University of Toronto. He's a professor of University of Toronto. So yeah a little bit of advertisement. All right. Thank you very much.