Why don't we go on and continue our discussion of chapter 17 um which is talking about redistribution policy. Um if you recall we were talking about assuming government that wants to redistribute. Um we were talking about ways the government could. We set obviously initial ways just with a pure cash transfer program but we talked about how the pure cash transfer program has limitations in achieving all its goals and that's why people have tried to augment the pure cash transfer program with various features. One feature was um one feature was creating categorical transfers to try to target or tag people who are needy. The other was to create um transfers that are in kind to try to get people to self- select into uh the people who really need transfers versus those who don't. And the third was to increase outside options so people didn't need to rely on transfers as much. We talked about a couple of ways of doing that. We talked about training uh the minimum wage and wage subsidies. I want about two others here. Um the first is so we so this is fourth on the list of sort of ways to increase the outside option would be child care subsidies or provision of child care. So a major barrier towards female labor force participation all family participation but once again traditionally female labor force participation um is the high cost of child care. Uh most women work today even when their kids are very small. Most families, once again, I'm being too sexist. Most families have two earners, even when the children are very small. Traditionally, the traditionally and continuing today, the parent whose work suffers the most from childbearing is the mom. Um, and uh, as a result, many women, particularly single women, couldn't end up on welfare because they can't afford to work. Basically the net wage if you think about it you think about modeling it what you care about is the net wage after after tax and the cost of child care if you have to pay a lot for child care working is not worth it so you go on welfare instead. So a clear way to increase outside options is to provide childare at least to subsidize it so that it becomes an option instead of going on welfare. Um and indeed uh it's been shown that the elasticity of female labor supply with respect to child care subsidies is very high that basically um subsidizing child care can have a major effect on increasing the odds that women go to work. Uh there's a number of cool studies of this. One of my favorites was done by an MIT grad student decades ago where he said look what's the largest form of free child care in America? It's called kindergarten, right? Basically, suddenly the state takes your kids off your hands for half a day or a full day. And it turns out whether you get to for child care as a function of your child's birth date. So kids born in a certain in a typical state, a kid born on August 31st can enter can enter kindergarten when they're five. One born September 1st is going to have to wait almost all the way till they're six to enter. So he had a sort of different quasi experiment of kids born on two days apart who have one extra almost one full year extra of child care and he found that women with kids born a little bit earlier are much more likely to go to work unsurprisingly there's lots of studies I did a study of a massive expansion of child care in Canada where it happened in Quebec and not the rest of Canada we found a huge increase in women's work basically female layers fly is very elastic with respect to subsidies to child care okay So that's another way to increase outside outcomes. But now we get into an interesting feature where subsidizing wages is just well increase outside outcomes but it costs money. If you're starting to subsidize childare you have another question which is well is it good for the kids or not. So basically we're going to subsidize child care maybe we'll get women off welfare but if it turns to be it turns out that that's bad for kids that may not be a trade-off we really want to take. And there's now a huge literature studying the effect of putting kids in child care in preschool on the kids' long short and long run outcomes. And this literature with the literature as vast as this one, there's going to be difference of opinion. But my rough summary would be that if you expand if you put kids in child care that's relatively low quality, it is worse for the kids outcomes than not having them in childare. If you put kids in child care that's relatively high quality, it's better. So there's experiments, for example, there's actually randomized trials of kids being put in very high quality childare and preschool programs that show enormous benefits in the long run in terms of improved child earnings, reduced odds of engaging in crime, etc. There's also articles like the one I did in Canada where they overnight massively expanded the entitlement to child care, said to bring in a bunch of unqualified te people to teach it presumably. Uh, and that looked bad for the kids. We found the kids who were brought into this childare system had worse outcomes in the short run in the long run. More likely to commit crime, lower education later in life. So it turns out that whether you expand child care is good or bad for kids really depends on the nature of the child care. And this is once again another reason we're trying to avoid thinking in black and white terms about policymaking in this class. It's not childare good or bad. It's the nature of the childare that matters. Okay. So basically, if you expand child care in a way that's high enough quality, you can both expand the opportunities for women to go to work and also potentially benefit their kids. Okay, so that's another way to increase outside outcomes. A different way, which not a lot of folks have thought about, but it's actually quite interesting and important is child support. So when kids when they're single parents either through a kid being born out of wedlock or through divorce, the absent parent often owes child support. It's a payment that's imposed by the absent parent by the courts to support the children that are left behind. Okay? So the idea is if if you get divorced, there's a there's a custody hearing or there's a divorce hearing. As part of that divorce hearing, they establish some support that the higher earning spouse gives to the lower earnings or gives to the or that the spouse who's higher earning gives to maybe the spouse is more responsible for for child um for taking care of their children. The problem is less than half of the child support orders awarded in the US are actually paid. Many many people once again traditionally dads don't pay the child support owed to their traditionally lower earning wives who traditionally end up with the kids. Okay. So, basically, we have this problem that women aren't getting when they owed are not getting what they're owed. Since they're not getting what they're owed, since not getting what they're owed, they can't afford child care. They can afford things for the kids. So, they don't go to work and they end up in welfare. So when arguments been made is we could by increasing child support payments by increasing by making efforts to increase the collection of child support we can help women and actually get them off welfare eventually by increasing their outside option in this case which is having child support. Okay. Um this is um and indeed this is a real like universally pretty popular policy. I mean indeed you know we even have to create a term was called the deadbeat dads are the dads who don't pay child support. Now my father-in-law is a deadbeat dad. I'm sympathetic to this. I mean you know what what can you like more than beating up on deadbeat dads right? So actually we've very much tightened the the terms of which we collect child support. We've made it much harder for parents not to pay their child support. But what's interesting is it's not clear as morally upstanding as that sounds. It's not clear it's good public policy. And here's why. When a woman's on welfare and you increase child support payments, if that essentially goes to the state to offset the cost of her welfare, the state grabs that and says, "Oh, you're on welfare. We're going to take that and offset the cost of welfare." So, think about a woman on welfare. So, if it gets her off welfare, that saves the state money. But if she stays on welfare, the it saves the state money, too. But they just they just take the child support money and they keep it to offset the cost of being on welfare. Well, think now about how good a deal that is for the woman. It's not a good deal. She basically is getting the same welfare payment anyway. It's just it's coming. She's getting the same check at the end of the day. It's just being financed by her ex-husband rather than being financed by the state. So for the woman who stays on welfare, it's not really a benefit. For the woman where it can actually get her off welfare, it is a benefit. So if she can keep her, it's a keep it. It's a benefit. But if it just goes to offset your welfare, it's not. Do people understand that? Okay, now let's go further. Who are the deadbeat dads? They're often pretty lowincome folk. They're often people who are actually themselves not of many means and struggling to get by. So now let's rephrase this public policy. What if I told you there was a policy that taxed lowincome men to support the state's spending money? You'd be like, "Oh, that doesn't sound like such a good policy." Well, that's what this policy is. The deadbeat dads are low-income men. you take their money to offset what the state spends on their wives. That doesn't suddenly doesn't sound like necessarily such a good policy. Um so basically it's not entirely clear really in some sense it depends a lot on the moral case for it. Okay, which depends a lot on whether it stops dads from becoming deadbeat dads. Okay, it's a complicated policy. As I said to you, the policy is let's say I said to you whether someone's a deadbe dad has written their DNA. Nothing can change it. It's not elastic. Then the trade-off is on the one hand you're going after these deadbeat dads for money. On the other hand, just offsetting other state income tax revenue, it's not clear it's a good idea. But if it stops people from becoming dead beat dads, that might be a good idea. It might be a good idea if it actually can get if people say, "Well, wait a second. I don't want to leave my family because I'm going to have a big tax bill at the end." maybe it's a good idea. The evidence on that, however, um uh is actually um the opposite. So, it turns out the evidence is that when you strengthen ident paternal identification laws. When you are better at finding fathers and making them pay, they are less involved in their kids' lives. Why is that? When you're better at finding father Yeah. >> Yeah. You're giving them money. She's like, "Fine, I'm going to spend less time with them." Okay, so actually turns out that may backfire. Now, once again, I don't Once again, I'm sympathetic. As I said, I'm sympathetic to this personally, but it's once again a good example of why economists think things through. It's not obvious that this is a great way to solve the iron triangle problem, to collect money from these low-income men when it doesn't actually obviously make them any more committed to their kids. It just offsets state costs. Okay, sort of an interesting thought exercise about how you think through a policy which on its face sounds like a no-brainer but in practice is a little more complicated. Um, okay. And then finally, the last thing on the list to improve outside outcomes is you can remove what we can call transfer lock. We talked about job lock. Let's talk instead about transfer lock. And this is illustrated in figure 179, the first page of the handout you have today. The way Medicaid used to work is you got it if you were on welfare, but when you left welfare, when you left what was then called AFTC, now called Tannif, when you left it, you not only gave your cash benefit, you lost your health insurance. You lost your Medicaid. Okay. What did that do to people's budget constraints? Well, let's go back to figure 179. Remind yourself this figure from last lecture. A TOC is the prewelfare budget constraint. With A-50% tax rate, the post-ware budget constraint goes abd. Remember that from last time? Now, let's imagine that when you're on welfare, but not when you're not, you also get health insurance. And that health insurance is worth $2,000. What does that do to your budget constraint? Well, it says is as long as you're on welfare, you're getting 2,000 extra dollars. So, it shifts the welfare segment up by 2,000. Look at what that does. That creates an enormous disincentive to labor supply at the top of that graph between 27520 and 25520. you indeed you would never want to earn $26,000 because you earn $26,000 you're off welfare and you give up your health insurance. You'd rather continue to earn just below that to make sure you keep your health insurance. So just as having health insurance on your job can lead you to not leave your job, having health insurance tied to welfare can lead you to not want to leave welfare. And indeed that was a major motivation for actually the previous round of healthcare reform, the Clinton healthcare reform. One way he motivated it was to say we need universal healthcare to get women off welfare because being on welfare was so unpopular. And in fact the evidence is um that when you the evidence is it's modest but it suggests that when you expand health insurance you do get women off welfare. Okay. So that's kind of what I wanted to say about how we sort of think about designing this. I want to cover two other things before we move on to taxation. The first is I want to talk about welfare reform. This was a major public policy change in 1996. In 1996 um uh Bill Clinton was a fairly unpopular president at that point. his effort at universal healthcare had failed. He wanted he decided he wanted to really tack to the middle to try to attract a more a broader coalition of voters. He decided one way to do so was to really go after what people perceived as the sort of welfare undeserving welfare recipients. And so he worked with Congress actually many Republican members of Congress to actually design a fundamental change the way our welfare program worked. In particular, the the most fundamental change was it set time limits and how long people could be on welfare. Before welfare 4496, you could be on welfare, then called AFDC, now called Tannif, you could be on that forever. Okay? As long as your income was low enough, you never had to leave. What they did, and this is when the name changed to Tannif. What they did is they um they set a time limit on how long you've been in welfare. You could be in welfare only for two years at a time and five years for your whole life. They set a time limit. Moreover, they changed the way cash welfare was financed. It used to be that it was financed in the same way programs like Medicaid is through a matching grant. Every dollar the state spent, the federal government matched it. Instead, they gave states a block grant. They said, "We're going to take what you're spending on welfare in 1994, give you that amount, raise it by inflation, but it doesn't matter how many people on welfare, that's only the amount you get." In other words, if we go back to our healthcare lectures, they move from retrospective reimbursement to prospective reimbursement. Instead of paying them for every new person on welfare, said, "We're giving you a flat check. We're going to look the other way. You do what you want. You kick everyone off welfare, great. You get to keep all that money. You double your roll of welfare, tough luck for you. we're not giving you any more money. So, this is a major change in incentive structure for bringing people onto the welfare program in the state. Okay. So, what did um what did uh there's also a number of efforts to try to limit unwed motherhood since people were really worried that welfare was causing unwed motherhood even though the evidence said otherwise. There were things like they capped how many benefits you could get if you had additional kids and things like that. Yeah. >> Is that is that also >> it's it's it's per capita. It's per capita and it's infl it's inflated by population and inflation but not by enrollment. So what effect did this law have? Well, the enrollment in welfare was dramatic. Look at figure 1710. Figure 1710 shows the number of recipients of welfare. Um, and it fell from uh about at its peak in 1995, uh, I'm sorry, its peak in 1995 of about um of about 15 million people, it fell down to about four million people, a massive, massive reduction in welfare roles, unprecedented. Okay, so that was the first thing he did. Now the question there is, was that because of welfare reform? It turns out that also corresponds with a massive economic boom and maybe people would have left welfare anyway because the economy was getting better. So people have tried to study this and they they've decided a probably about a third of this decrease was due to the reform about two-thirds was due to better economic conditions. So it had a meaningful effect in enrollment. That's the first conclusion. The second question is what will this do to the well-being of single women? we're taking all those women off welfare. And this is this is a very important lesson for those of you who want to go on and work deeper in policy, which is that at the time this happened, when I taught this class in 1996, okay, much younger, uh, you weren't born. I was much younger. But this class in 1996, I said, "This is going to be a [\h__\h] disaster." Based on what? Well, based on two things. First of all, there was a large literature which showed that if you cut welfare benefits, it doesn't cause women to work any harder. So, it's not like by cutting welfare, we're going women are going to make it up by working more. They're just going to have lower income. Second of all, it showed that there was a paper that I'd written that much like I'd showed for UI, I showed for welfare that when you cut welfare benefits, women consume a lot less. So looked like there was big consumption smoothing benefits and not a lot of moral hazard. As a result, my feeling was when you dramatically reduce this program, people are going to suffer. Their lives are going to get worse. And that was the general feeling. Indeed, many people left the left the uh Clinton administration in protest. It was really viewed as a betrayal of of of progressive cause to do this. What happened? What happened was not a lot what we predicted. What happened was women responded massively by going to work and actually their standard of living didn't fall if anything at rose. So actually not at all what the previous research would have predicted. What's going on? What's going on is this is what's going on is what Josh Angress won the Nobel Prize for which is the difference between we look at something locally versus big changes. We were looking at what happens to little change. If you change benefits by a hundred bucks, yeah, people don't work anymore, more or less. When you say we're getting rid of your benefits, people go to work. That this change was so dramatic that it shifted the whole nature of how people thought about work. And it was so out of bounds from what previous studies had covered that it turned out well for didn't cause mass starvation among single moms. Actually, if anything, their incomes went up a bit because on average, they left work. They left welfare and went to work. So, this was a very surprising finding. So basically this is what this is viewed by many as saying sort of welfare reform was kind of success. We lowered the welfare roles and we didn't actually cause uh cause uh material suffering. Okay. Now two caveats to that. The first caveat is on average women's income went up but someone at the bottom did suffer. So there's a distributional component and how you feel about that depends on your social welfare function. But it didn't it's not that it caused no suffering. Some women who couldn't go to work did suffer from these time limits. Okay. So there's a distributional aspect that offsets that a bit. The other thing is once again ultimately what did it mean for the next generation? What do it mean for the next generation of kids? Actually no that's the third thing. The second thing which is quite interesting once again ethically and morally which is what is utility? Utility is a function of consumption and leisure. What I'm what I'm saying is consumption went up. Everybody says, "Yay, consumption went up. Look, these women were were worse off." Well, leisure clearly went way down, but no one seems to care about that. No one seemed to care about the leisure of single moms. They said, "Well, consumption's up. That's all I care about." Why? Because the view was that their leisure that we didn't value the leisure. The view was, "Well, this leisure is something they should they should be at work." basically a moral view of work, work as a good and actually whether that's true or not depends a bit on what influence it has on the kids. Part of the argument was what was called a welfare culture of dependency that based by these women not working they're setting a bad example for their kids and that basically once women went to work it would have set a good example for their kids so we shouldn't really value the loss in leisure. So that raises the third issue which is what about the kids and we the evidence is really unclear on this on what it did whether it was good or bad for kids welfare reform even though it's now far in the rearview mirror there still hasn't been a really good comprehensive study of the next generation effects of welfare reform. Yeah. >> Uh it partly because it was really pretty much a national change. It was a national change when the economy was booming. It's sort of hard to separate out. there's not really a sharp design to study it very well. >> Yeah. You know, it's it's someone's have to think of something pretty clever to go after that. So anyway, lot of stuff there, a lot of information. Once again, the main thing I want you to take away from this, you not be tast tested on the institutional details. The main thing I want to take away is how to think about the pros and cons of policy changes. That's what we're trying to build the intuition of how we think about all the aspects that go along with a policy change. That's what I want you to take away from it. Okay, questions about that. Okay, last thing in chapter 17, inequality continues to be a problem. One great way to see this is in figure 1711. Valerie once again has a typo in this figure. Those that X-axis is not 006%. The x- axis is is in percent. just say there's a typo on the y axis rather this basically shows the income distribution against the percentage change in income over the 2006 to 2000 over the period I'm sorry from uh 1980 to 2014. So each point in this graph is at each point in the income distribution, how did incomes evolve from 1980 to 2014. And what you see is incredible inequality evolution of income. The richest people got much richer. So if you're at the very top of the income distribution, your income grew on average 6% a year. If you're at the bottom, your income fell or grew very little. And this has motivated folks to think, look, we're just not getting it done. the existing set of programs are not solving the problem of inequality and we need to move to a system of universal basic income. UBI UBI is like, look, let's not, you know, wor these moral hazard effects and we're targeting everyone. Let's just give everyone money, okay? Let's just say, look, we're going to give you money and it's not going to depend on your on your income. There's no tall Y term. We're just going to give everyone a thousand bucks a month, for example. So, there's no moral hazard because we're not making you work less to get the money. We're just giving you the money. And indeed there's a number of studies which show when you do universal basic kind of interventions it doesn't lower labor supply. Okay, there's a cool study actually I talk about in the book. Alaska actually has universal basic income program. They collect so much in oil revenues. Everyone who lives in Alaska, you guys ever see the Simpsons movie? They did talked about the Simpsons movie. Everyone was in Alaska just a check every year for a couple grand. It doesn't affect labor supply. And now there's been a number of UBI studies on small populations which have shown that giving people this un this UBI does not change their labor supply. Okay. So the idea is look we can just give people the money without changing the labor supply. Problem solved. Okay. But remember there were three things that caused the iron triangle. There was helping out poor. There was rering to the neediest. Well UBI does that. The neediest get money. There was not disincentivizing labor supply. Well UBI does that. doesn't dissitative labor supply. But the third was the government budget constraint. A thousand dollars a month for every family in America would cost $1.6 trillion a year. Okay, that is the cost of the Medicare and Medicaid program combined. Okay, that is not happen. That's unaffordable now. It's not. Is it unaffordable? Well, I mean basically definition of how high you think taxes can go in America. But in current political climate, certainly today's political climate, even in yesterday's political climate, uh it is not something that's likely to really be possible. So basically the problem is that essentially an a truly unargeted UBI has the benefit of not of not um causing distortions labor supply, but it's a problem being too expensive. And this is essentially the equity efficiency trade-off. We can get rid of the efficiency costs if we spend enough money on it. Okay. But then where's that money come from? Let's go back to Oaken's leaky bucket. Remember, there were three sources of leak in Oaken's bucket. There was administrative costs. There was the fact that when you give money to poor people, they might work less. But the third leak was you have to tax the rich people to raise the money and that might cause them to work less. And so this is a great segue onto the next part of the course, which is well, why not just send 1.6 trillion million 1.6 trillion to people. Why not just do that? Why not just tax everybody and then give it back as universal basic income? Or why not just tax the rich and give back universal basic income? And that's going to be the segue to the next part of the course. Question. >> Oh, sure. Because um if you think about why welfare affects labor flight, it's because in order to qualify, remember what the benefit you get is a grant minus a tax times what you earn. This is just a grant. So there's no tax on your earnings. So it's just literally I'm saying whatever you're going to earn, I'm also going to send you a thousand bucks a month. Now there could be an income effect. You're richer. You might work less. Okay. But it turns out that's just really small. It doesn't really seem to affect people's labor supply. Yeah. There's basically the evidence is that it did not cause them to work less. It did cause them to be much choosier and try and essentially look for better jobs in some sense. Look for jobs that essentially made people realize, wait a second, I don't have to rush back to work, but actually doesn't really seem to have caused them to work less. But that's hard because we're coming out of CO. It's hard to separate that. We have real experiments which show doesn't cause people to work less. But it's a good it's a good question. Essentially, we did this during CO, right? We sent everyone a check. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, the idea is we didn't actually want them to work, right? CO was so weird because we liked the moral hazard. It's not moral hazard anymore when you don't want people to go to work because they're going to get sick. So then it's not moral hazard. It's actually the intended effect of the policy. It's kind of a it's a very hard episode to learn from in that sense. Okay, so the bottom line is the best way to get around the moral hazard problem. Did I answer your question by the way about why it doesn't cause best way to have the moral hazard problem? Let's just give everyone the money. Why not? Well, we got to raise that money. And that leads to the last section of the class. First section of class was external and public goods. Middle section was social insurance and redistribution. Now we come to the last part of the class, which is taxation. The fund's over, kids. We've been spending the money. Now we got to raise it. And there's a great great segue to why not just have a UBI program and the answer is because of the problems with taxation. So how are we going to now we're going to shift our focus taxation? How's this part of the course going to work? The way it's going to work is that um the way it's going to work is that we're going to start today and next time with chapter 18 which talks about the basics of taxation. Sort of sets the institutional framework for thinking about taxation. We're then going to move on to chapter 19 and 20 which are sort of the theory of taxation. One focused on fairness, one focused on efficiency. Then chapters 21 through 24 are different studies of different kinds of taxes like chapter 13, 14, 15, 16 or different kinds of social insurance programs. We're about different kinds of taxes. Talk about tax affect people's decisions to work. We'll talk about how tax affect people's decisions to save. how people decision to invest, how they affect corporations. Then finally, chapter 25 will wrap it all together and talk about how the government should change tax policy given what we've learned from all these chapters. Okay, so that's how that's how we're going to roll forward. So we'll start with chapter 18. And chapter 18, much like the social insurance chapters, started with the details of how our social insurance programs work. Chapter 18 is going to start our tax discussion by explaining how taxation works. And the first thing we'll do is say look there are multiple kinds of taxes in the US. And if you look at um if you look at uh figure 181 okay this shows you the different kinds of taxes. The first kind of tax is taxes on earnings. That would be the green social insurance social security contributions. These are your payroll taxes. the taxes you pay on your wages, what finances are social insurance programs. We've discussed them. The second type are income taxes. That's the biggest source that's in the salmon or whatever color that is. Okay, that is taxes on your income. I might say, wait a second, aren't payroll tax your income? Payroll taxes are taxes on part of your income, the part of your income that comes from employment. But people didn't come from lots of sources. at least rich people do, such as investment income, royalties from writing a book, lottery winnings, all sorts of things. An income tax taxes all your income, not just your earned income, not just what you earn on the job. That's the second kind of tax. The third kind of tax is taxes on corporate income. I've just described individual income taxes. I'm sorry. Corporate income taxes tax the net profits of firms of corporations. that as you can see only represents about 5% of the total government tax base. So if you look at the right hand column um social security contributions are about a quarter, income taxes are almost 40%, corporate tax are 5%. So a very small share of the pie that we raise. Okay. The fourth type of tax is taxes on wealth. And this is fundamentally different than all other kinds of taxes. Taxes on income are taxes on flows. Taxes on wealth are taxes on stocks. Not stocks like in the stock market, but a stock of goods. So, the most important of these and by far the most significant is the property tax. You pay a tax every year on the value of your house, not on some flow of service you got from the house, but literally on what your house is worth. That's very different than other kinds of taxes because you're only paying a tax every year on an asset value, not on what you earned that year. Okay, those are um about 10% of total government revenues. Finally, we have taxes on consumption. This is once again a flow tax. Okay, this is basically taxed not on what you make but on what you consume. The most prominent of these, of course, are sales taxes. Massachusetts, we have a six and a quarter% sales tax. Okay? But this also includes excise taxes. For example, when you buy cigarettes, there's an extra tax on cigarettes. There's a gas tax. There's an alcohol tax. Excise taxes are sales taxes on specific goods, where sales taxes are general taxes on all sales. Okay? So both sales taxes and excise taxes go in the category of consumption taxes. Now you notice at the federal level we don't raise very much at all for consumption taxes. But at the state level we raise a lot. So consumption tax the federal level the federal level has no federal sales tax. The consumption tax revenue at the federal level. This is in the upper left. The consumption tax at the federal level comes from excise taxes. There are federal excise tax on alcohol, on gas, on cigarettes. At the state level, the consumption tax revenue comes mainly from sales taxes, although also from some state excise taxes. So those are the kinds of taxes. You can see here how they're distributed. We can also compares ourselves to the rest of the world. Okay. So for example, in the US, we raise about 25% from payroll tax contributions. So does the average OECD nation on the bottom right. On the other hand, if you look at Denmark, they raise very little from payroll taxation. 0.1% comes from social security contributions. Okay. The OECD average income tax is 24%. That's much below the US, but once again in Denmark it's higher than the US. Okay. And other countries raise much more revenues from the consumption tax. So we'll talk about that in chapter 25. That's because they have something called the value added tax which is a form of national sales tax. So relative to the rest of the world, we raise comparable amounts in comparable amounts in payroll taxes, more in income taxes, less in taxes on consumption. Okay. And somewhat less on corporate income taxes. Although once again that varies a lot across countries. In Norway 16% comes from corporate income taxes. In Denmark it's only 6.5%. Yeah. tariffs. >> Uh, you did not miss that. That's a great point. We have to start talking about tariffs. Um, tariffs are not taxes and they would not be counted as taxes, but they would be a source of revenue. They would really be in the consumption tax bucket. It's a tax on consumption, a tax on it's a sales tax, but only on specific goods, right? It's kind of like an excise tax. The difference is Yeah. It's basically an excise tax, but instead of on cigarettes, it's just on things from China. >> Yeah. Um there aren't a lot. Um one of the most interesting ones is auctioning the spectrum. So uh it turns out one of the most valuable assets in the last 50 years is the airwaves because of cell phones and satellites and things like that. The government is the one that has the property right to those airwaves. For decades they would just say if someone came and said look I want to run on this frequency say great have it then an economist said wait a second that is a valuable asset you're giving away and we started setting up spectrum auctions and the government raises billions of dollars from actually auctioning off the right to use those various frequencies in the in the air which is kind of cool once again a positive role for economists we want to tell those stories these days on a day like today there are positive stories uh that basically economists realized that the government was giving away for free and could actually raise revenues off Yeah. >> Uh that's a great point. Lotteryies are also significant source of revenue. Excellent. At the state level, lotteryies are very significant source of revenue. I don't know how big they are compared to these others. Um this is they are not represented as graphs. Tariffs, lottery, spectrum auction that wouldn't be in this graph. This is just sources of taxation. Okay. Other questions? Now, you put all those together. There's still trivial relative stuff in this graph, but they're they're not zero. >> Yeah. something like USPS that >> the patent office >> postal service >> postal service um yeah I mean basically that's interesting that almost sort of goes back to chapter 10 and thinking about taboo and thinking about uh thinking about kind of benefit taxation that's really almost sort of a price that's charged for a service so it's kind of a it's a revenue source but it's sort of a dedicated revenue source to particular service. Good question. Those are great questions. Other thoughts, comments? Okay. So, that's the kind of taxes we're going to focus primarily for the next primarily for this lecture and certainly for lectures chapters 21 through 23. We're going to focus on the individual income tax. That's the most significant source of government revenue. So, what I want to do now is tell you how income taxes work. How many of you have filed your own income tax? Wow, impressive. Okay, how many of you did it like without using software? Like just did it by hand. Okay, that's all right. Nobody does that anymore. Just checking. Um uh I made enough mistakes on mine that wife my wife finally made me give up and get an account. Um okay, so um how does the individual gum tax work? Well, we're going to do this by going through an example. Let's take uh let's take Jack. Okay, imagine we're going to basically walk through Jack's income tax calculation. That is shown in table 181. We're going to walk through Jack's income tax calculation. Okay. Jack starts by earning some income. Imagine Jack makes $85,000 a year. That is what's called his gross income. The total income that Jack earns. Okay, this includes wages and salaries, capital income like interest in dividends, um rental income, other business income, etc. So, it's all the income Jack makes is included. Now, the first step is the set of initial deductions Jack can take off that income. They're called above the line deductions. This includes things most importantly like contributions to an IRA, individual retirement account, a savings account. We'll talk about that in chapter 22. Alimony gets deducted above the line. Um, uh, uh, expenses of from being a teacher, you can deduct above the line. There's a few things you deduct above the line. After you deduct those, let's say Jack contributed 2,000 to an individual retirement account. He gets to what's called his adjusted gross income of $83,000. Okay, at that point all hell breaks loose. At that point, he then has a choice. Okay, he then so these initial deductions are sort of kind of irrelevant. They're a very small piece of the pie. The next stage is a big one, which is the government gives Jack a choice of itemizing his deductions or taking a standard deduction. Let me explain what that means. Jack has a choice of saying, "I'm going to deduct from my taxes 12,500 if I'm a single taxpayer or 25,000 if I'm a married couple. I can just take that off the top. That's another deduction. I have my 2,000. I'm going to take another deduction. Alternatively, Jack can forego that and there's a list of additional things Jack can deduct from his taxes that are called itemized deductions. These are things like um medical expenses that exceed 10% of your income. Um other taxes paid like if you pay state and local income taxes that is an itemizable deduction. Your mortgage payment is an itemizable deduction. Your charitable contributions losses. If your house burns down or somebody steals stuff from you have to replace it, you can deduct those, etc. So basically there's this list of things and essentially what Jack has to do is ask, do those things add up to more than the standard deduction? If so, I take that. If not, I take the standard deduction. So you have a choice at that point. Roughly speaking, homeowners always itemize. Non-homeowners only very rich do not itemize. So essentially, homeowners with a mortgage there. Homeowners with a mortgage generally itemize and very rich people. Non-home owners who aren't very rich typically don't itemize. Okay, that's sort of the way to think about it. The reason is the major deductible expense is mortgages and state and local taxes which come from owning a home. Okay, now you take out that deduction. In our case, Jack's going to take the standard deduction and you end up with what's called your taxable income. That is the amount you get taxed on. Yeah. >> Oh, it's just an amount specified by Congress. It's a law. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's just like it's a parameter. It's like the tax rate. They have a standard deduction. Um is that >> Yeah. So basically um we end up with Jack's taxable income of 58,200. So this is the first thing to note. When people's income, they're often taxed on a much lower number than their income. Indeed, as discussed in a little bit, most Americans don't pay income tax. don't pay more than don't pay positive income tax. Okay? And we'll come back to that in a little bit. So in this case, Jack does from that he figures out how much he owes in taxes. Okay? And he to do that he applies a tax rate schedule. That tax rate schedule is shown in figure 183. Now here is a critical point to note about tax rate schedules. We are graphing what is called the marginal tax rate. Okay? Okay, very important distinction. We're graphing the marginal tax rate. What is the marginal tax rate? That is the rate you pay on the next dollar. So, let's look at how this works. Okay. Um, for any dollar of taxable income that's below 19,750, you pay 10 cents per dollar. But the but the 19,751st dollar, you now pay 12 cents per dollar. Okay. So let's say you earned $20,000. On that $20,000 you paid 12 cents, but in the first 19750 you only paid 10 cents. So the marginal tax rate is different than the average tax rate. The average tax rate is your total taxes over your income. The marginal tax rate is what you pay in your next dollar of income. And those are very different if you have a progressive if you have a schedule like this. So this schedule wanders up and basically has ever rising marginal tax rates hitting a top tax rate of 37%. Okay. So if you apply this tax rate to Jack's schedule, he owes 10% of his first 19750 which is $1975. So Jack owes $975, but he earns more than that on the remaining. He also has $38,450 of taxable income left. So pays another 4614. So he's in the he pays all on the first bracket and then he he's halfway in the second bracket when he stops. So at the end of the day, if you flip back to table 181, Jack goes 65.89 in taxes. Question about how that worked. Understanding marginal versus average tax rates is essential for the next third of the course. Yeah. >> Let me come back. I shouldn't I shouldn't I shouldn't have previewed that. I'll come back to it. >> Yeah. >> Exactly. Exactly. So if Jack earned if his tax was 100,000, he'd pay the whole 12% up to 80 and then he'd pay 15 on the rest. So you sort of think of yourself as walking up that tax schedule. Other questions? Okay. So basically Jack then owes 65.89. But we're not done yet because there's another feature of the tax code because it wasn't complicated enough called tax credits. These are distinct from deductions. Tax credits are various sources that you can subtract from your tax bill. Very important difference. Taxable deductions are things you subtract from your taxable income before computing your taxes. Tax credits are literally dollars you can take off the taxes you owe. The most significant tax credits are the earned income tax credit which I talked about last time and I'll talk about more in chapter 21. A credit you get back if your earnings are low. It's a wage subsidy. and the child and develop and the child the CDC the child basically child tax credit uh the um the child tax credit which basically um no that's not uh no I'm sorry yeah CTC is the child tax credit that's literally just a credit you get for having kids they give you money after taxes there's also a CDC which is the child and dependent care credit which a tax rate you can against the cost of providing child care or elder care. So there's lots of these credits that are flowing around at the end. Okay. So let's say for example Jack had three kids. Well the CTC is 2,000 each. So he gets another 6,000 off his taxes. Yeah. >> Oh, this one is just for having a kid. This for having a kid in childare. This like everyone has a kid gets it. Here you can deduct I'll come back to details on this. You deduct your childare expenses. You can get a credit for childare expenses. >> Formal childare. >> Yeah. Okay. But once again, the details aren't important of these. The important thing is that these credits exist and they come off the bottom line. Yeah. >> Credits and tax. >> First is deductions. Deductions come off your taxable income before you compute your taxes owed. Credits come at the end after you've computed taxes owed. So Jack has three kids. So, let's say he gets three CTC's. That's $6,000. So, he ends up owing $589 in taxes. Okay, think about this. This is pretty interesting. Jack earned 85 grand and he only ends up owing $589 in taxes. Okay, now we're not quite done because the government doesn't just send Jack a bill every April 15th for 580. doesn't set a but jack a bill on November 154 $589. The government instead practices what's called withholding which is the government takes and you've seen this on your paychecks. The government takes out from your paycheck every week an estimate of what you will owe in taxes. So the government doesn't want you owing the money or the interest and paying them in April. The government wants the interest. So the government withholds your taxes along the way as you earn money. Now, Jack here has set up a schedule such that withholding is actually bigger than what he owes. He's actually had $2,000 withheld during the year. So, that on net he actually gets a check on April 15th. It turns out that's true for most Americans who pay income taxes. Actually overwithhold. It's not quite clear why. Could go back to behavioral economics. People just don't trust themselves to have the money April 15th to pay their taxes. Could be they don't understand. But [snorts] the bottom line is there's overwithholding most people. So the average American actually gets a check in April 15th. They don't pay they don't pay money. Okay. It's people hating tax day. It's actually a day you get a check. Yeah. There's a form you when you sign up for your job there'll be a form you list your number of dependent stuff like that. But the reason people mostly overwithhold is because there's other lines like do you think you'll take this deduction that deduction people just ignore them whereas in fact they end up taking them and they end up overwithholding. >> Yeah. >> Uh that would be that's um uh the tax individual mandate which is added to your taxes. So I compute when I compute your taxes owed there'd be other pieces in that that are small that I'm not including. How is it? What? >> Like the $2,000? Same answer. Congress determines it. It's just a law. >> Uh yeah. So basic. Yeah. Go ahead. >> Americans or >> No. More than half of the Americans when you do this calculation end up negative. >> Now, a lot of them still have withholding. A lot of them don't realize they're going to end up negative, so they still have withholding. So, they end up getting a check. But actually, they if if they knew they were going to have negative, they could have not have withheld anything. They could have just paid no money all year. And with even without sort of excessive withholding >> without excessive withholding most the average the I think it's about 50% of Americans once you take out deductions and credits end up know owing nothing on the income tax >> uh we will talk a lot about that in chapter 25. The answer is we don't have nearly enough tax fraud in America and I'll explain why in chapter 25. >> Yeah. You say it again. You aren't you what? >> Yeah. I mean, basically, look, you're not we're not we're not making it easy to over withhold. We're just making it hard to properly withhold. Uh and basically, it it's a good question about whether we should do more to fight over withholding. I think people really don't want no money April 15th. It's a sort of behavioral thing that people just don't want that bill coming. Uh and so I don't think people mind it actually, >> but it's a good question. There's not enough research on that. Yeah. Eno >> uh No, they do not. They do not. Now, there's another feature not covered here, which is if you're wealthy enough, if you have unearned income, you also pay what's called estimated taxes. So, if the if you are going to have, let's say you're going to earn 100 grand in dividends every year, you have to pay tax on that every quarter. You have to send them a check a check every you have to prepay that as well. Now, if it turns out surprise, they don't hit you for it. But if you have income and you haven't prepaid it, then they will actually penalize you at the end. So, you not only withhold your earnings, you have to send them a check in advance about unearned income to offset the taxes you're going to pay on that. They don't want you owing taxes. >> Unrealistic was not tax. We'll talk about that. >> It doesn't matter. I mean, basically, when it comes, you should then pay tax on it >> if you realize it and we'll come back to that. Okay, those are good questions. Other questions about how taxes work. All right. So, that's how taxes work. Now, here's the big question on every American's mind. Are taxes fair? The fairness. Fair, fair, fair. It's all you ever hear about tax systems. Well, fair is not really a term of art in economics. So, how do we think about in economics? How do we think about translating the concept of fairness to concepts we can measure and define? Okay. And basically the way we do that is by first of all distinguish between average and marginal tax rates. First of all recognizing that fairness really people think in terms of not what you pay in the next dollar but how much you pay. So if I say my tax are unfair. I don't mean that like on the incremental dollar. I mean I'm paying too much in taxes. Right? So fairness is really about average tax rates. That's sort of the concept people have in mind when think about fairness, which is what's the amount they're paying in taxes relative to their income. Are they paying too much of their income in taxes or not enough of their income in taxes? And fairness is judged against two different standards. The standard economists talk about and typically worry the most about is what's called vertical equity. Vertical equity. Vertical equity. the notion of fairness which is it is fair if the rich pay more than the poor. So vertical vertical means your spot in the income distribution. Vertical equity is the the what the rich pay relative to the poor. It's a con when you say equity is sort of what you think of. I say the word equity is sort of what you think of. But there's another concept um that actually doesn't really have a lot of spot in economic models but is critically important politically which is the notion of horizontal equity. This is sort of an odd concept. It's hard to define and measure but the basic idea behind it is simple which is that two people who are similar should pay similar taxes. It's unfair if two similar people pay very different amounts. Here's the only true example of horizontal equity. Everything else is convoluted. Imagine the way it worked was that sales tax instead of being six and a quarter% were either 13.5% or zero depending on a coin flip. So you walk in the store, they flip the coin. Heads you pay 13 and a half% sales tax. Tails you pay zero. Well, if Eno and I walk into the store and I pay 135.5%, you pay zero. That is horizontally inequitable. We are identical. we go in and I pay a different amount. The problem is that's not how taxes work and every other definition of horizontal inequity is problematic. So, let me give you an example. Um, imagine that. Um, my friend and I are identical in every respect, in ability, in um, skill, in all sorts of things with one fundamental difference, which is that I choose to spend more time with my kids and he chooses to spend more time at work. Well, he gets taxed more than I do. He would could claim that is horizontally inequitable. were identical just because he chose to work and I chose to stay home. Why should I get to pay less taxes? Now, you might say, "Well, duh. Of course you do. You have you have less money." But he might say, "Well, I have less money through a choice I made. And why should I pay t less taxes because of a choice? Why should because I chose to stay at home? Maybe it's not with my kids. Maybe I'm just home watching reruns. Why should I pay less taxes?" And that's the notion of horizontal equity, which is very, very hard because basically it gets really tricky. Imagine two couples, one where the wife works, one where the wife doesn't. Should the couple where the wife works have to pay more taxes? They do. Now, is that fair? I think many people would argue yes. Their income's higher. But there's at least you can see the issue that raises. And horizontal equity, while hard to define and grasp hold of, is actually a big motivator of tax debates. And we'll come back to that. Typically when I slip into a term like equity I mean vertical equity unless I say horizontal equity equity is a shorthand for vertical equity because horizontal equity is almost more of a political issue than an economic issue. Okay. Now if we think about vertical equity how do we measure it? Well the way we measure it is essentially by asking does the average tax rate how does the average tax rate vary with income? If the average tax rate rises with income, that is higher income people pay higher average tax rates. We call this a progressive tax system. The richer you are, the more tax you pay as a percentage of your income. Not that you see pay more taxes, pay more tax a percentage of your income. If it's flat, that is everybody pays 10% of their income. that's called a proportional tax system. And if it falls with income, that's called a regressive tax system. So, for example, if you go to figure 18, we have a progressive tax system. The higher your income is subject to these steps, the higher your average tax rate will be. Okay? Because these rising marginal rates lead to rising average rates. Just like a rising marginal cost leads to a rising average cost, rising rates. We have progressive system. Now consider social security payroll taxes which are a flat 6.2 6.2% on the employee. That's proportional. Except it's not. Why? Yeah. >> There's a cap. So actually if the the richer you are the less your average tax rate is because once you're above whatever is 190,000 your social security tax goes to zero. Your marginal rate actually goes down. So actually payroll taxes are regressive. Okay. So you can see how different taxes can fit these terms differently. The problem is whether taxes are fair or not is often in the eye of the beholder. So, let's run through a fun example of that. Okay, George W. Bush signed a set of tax cuts into law in 2003 which were um they reduced income tax rates um and increase tax rates for corporations. Those were the major features of it. Critics said that this was unfair. They said, "Look, 44% of these tax cuts go to the top 1% of Americans." 44% go to the top 1% of Americans. That's unfair. The Bush administration said, "Wait a second. The top 1% percent of Americans pay 40% of the taxes. So, they're pretty much just getting back what they pay. That's not unfair. They pay 40% of the taxes. They're getting 44% of the tax cut. How's that unfair?" To which critics responded, "Well, that's fine. They pay 40% of the income tax, but they pay 30% of all taxes because payroll taxes are regressive. So the rich may pay 40% of the income tax, they pay 30% of all taxes. So giving them 45% of the tax break is still unfair. Okay? To which the Bush administration responded, "Well, that's ridiculous because we are giving 34 million families a tax cut of $1,500 each." Okay, it's a pretty good number. to which critics responded, "Well, wait a second, that is true, but actually that consists of 10 million families that get a tax cut of $100 and 200,000 families that get a tax cut of $100,000." So, as Paul as Paul Krugman wrote, when Bill Gates walks into a bar, the average person becomes a millionaire. Okay? So on average they were given tax break but it mostly was in a ginormous tax break to a few families and a small tax break to many families. So basically this went back and forth the tax eventually passed. It turned out kind of each side just talk past each other and they passed. But this highlights you know the famous Mark Twain addict. There are lies damn lies and statistics that in fact there are many ways to use statistics to make your case when you're arguing policy. And ultimately we have to ultimately at the end think about a principal definition and the principal definition is this one which is you have to ask did the tax cut make the system more progressive or more regressive and the answer is it made it more progressive more more regressive I'm sorry the tax cut made the system more regressive was unfair in the sense of vertical equity okay does that sort of help explain how these how these debates uh how these debates go Okay. Um, now uh um Okay. So that's what I want to say about fairness. Any other questions about that? Now the other major topic I want to cover this lecture which I'll go into next time but it's a critical one is we've just talked about tax rates and the next two chapters actually the next the whole rest of the tax chapters will focus primarily on the effect of tax rates. What happens? You raise the tax rate. But taxes of course are the rate times the base. Well, what defines the base? We had good question. Why is the child tax credit 2,000? Why is stand deduction 12,000? How about this? Why do we tax some things and not others? Why do we tax the things we do? And in fact, that is a deep and important question for the tax policy design. And that leads to an important concept in economics which is how do we think about the right definition of income? And a typical standard used by economists is what's called the Hey Simons comprehensive income definition. The Hey Simons comprehensive uh uh income definition basically says we're going to define people's resources based on their ability to pay taxes. And what is your ability to pay taxes? It is your potential annual consumption. It's your consumption during the year plus any change in your wealth. That is your ability to pay taxes. That's your total resources. How much you consumed plus any assets you added or subtracted. If you lost money, you have less than you consumed. If you made money, you have more than you consumed. Now, for many many people, that's equal to their income. For most Americans, that's equal to a measure of income. But for others, it's not for important reasons. But the H Simons tax base is what economists when we think about fairness, economists say this is the right way to think about fairness. What you think about ability to pay. And why is that the right way to think about fairness? Well, whether you think about vertical equity or horizontal equity, it's the right way to think. Think about vertical equity. vertical equity says. So let's say for example um let's say for example uh one second. Yeah. Okay. So let's take the example of the tax subs employer employer provided health insurance. The fact you're not taxed on what your employer spends on health insurance. Okay. Hey, Simons would say that deviates from a comprehensive income definition because you are you have you are wealthier by the fact you get health insurance from your employer. Well, by excluding that we lower vert vertical equity. Why do we lower vertical equity? Because a rich person with health insurance is treated as poorer than they are. So, we lower vertical equity. But we also lower lower horizontal equity. Because if a meta and I are the same, but I choose to have health insurance, I pay less taxes. So whether you're a fan of vertical equity or horizontal equity, they're both better off with a broader, more comprehensive definition of income. Bottom line is what you want someone's full ability to pay is a measure of how much they should pay in taxes. That's the economist starting point. The problem is that in that's a theoretical concept and in practice it is very challenging to actually define what a billion to pay is. And indeed if you think about the US tax code we deviate from hey Simons for two reasons. In both cases the reasons are theoretically legitimate but practically illegitimate. The first reason we deviate. So what are the deviations from Hey Simons? The first reason we deviate is because of ability to pay considerations. So here's the best example. Imagine your house burns down through no fault of your own and you get no enjoyment from that. Okay? Well, you have lowered your ability to pay taxes to live. You don't have to buy a new house just assume it's not insured. You lose all the money. You have lowered your ability to pay taxes. So even a hey Simon's definition would say we define your income. We should allow you deduct losses that are outside your control. Seems pretty reasonable. Don't agree with that. Okay. What if I end up having to spend uh 20% of my income on medical care because I have an accident? Well, if that was out of my control, then probably should deduct it as well. But it's hard to say it was out of my control. Maybe I spent 20% of my income on plastic surgery. Okay, that I just chose because I want to look weird. Okay, so basically the bottom line is yeah, in theory if we could define as non-controllable health care expenditures, we would want to let you deduct that from your from your H Simons income. It's just hard to find. What do we do in the US? We compromise and say you can deduct any health expenditures above 10% of income. the idea being major health expenditure are not something you choose. So that's sort of one way one way we sort of compromise on that. Okay. Um here's another fascinating case. State and local tax payments in as I said if you itemize your deduction you can deduct state and local tax payments. So in other words I pay every year to my town of Lexington tax payments and the state of Massachusetts tax payments. I get to deduct those from or I used to. I'll tell you why not anymore get to deduct those from my income tax. And the idea was well I have less ability to pay income tax because I'm paying these taxes other governments. So I have less to pay federal income tax. What economist is that ignoring? What concept does that ignore? Why is it wrong? Yeah, >> it ignores the tou concept because if those taxes are buying me something, they're buying me local public goods. In fact, in a perfect TIU equilibrium, the tax I pay is the benefit I get. So, in fact, I'm not poor at all from paying taxes. It doesn't lower my ability to pay at all. It's literally just the price I'm paying for my public goods. So, I shouldn't I should only be able to deduct state and local taxes the extent I'm deviating from the taboo equilibrium. >> Yeah. people. >> Yes. Exactly. Exactly. It's basically a subsidy of state and local government spending. Okay. So that would say so economists for decades have argued that we probably shouldn't allow the full deduction. And indeed, as part of the 2018 tax reform, the Trump tax reform, we'll talk a lot about uh throughout the next eight lectures, um we actually limited the extent to which people could deduct their state and local income taxes to $10,000. Um which was uh which was um uh which is a which was a limit which basically hit the blue states. Trump didn't put it in because he taken my class. Trump put it in because he wanted to hit the blue states, but it's still a pretty good policy. One of the better things that come out of the Trump tax reform. Okay, so that's that's another example of where it makes sense, but it's hard to do it in practice. Here's another example. The second deviate is the cost of earning, which is let's say that to get to work I have to drive a certain distance and spend money on gas. Well, that lowers my ability to pay. My earnings are not a measure of my resource because I should be able to deduct what I spent earning that money. So, that says that there would be you should be able to deduct legitimate business costs from your income. The problem that is what is a legitimate business cost and the best example of that of course is people who see here madmen. Any madmen viewers here? Okay. Best example of course is business lunches. Okay, business lunches, you should be able to deduct if I take my client to business to lunch, I should deduct the cost of that lunch minus my enjoyment of it because that is that doesn't reduce my ability to pay. We used to just allow those lunches to be deducted. That's why in Madmen they had these outstanding lunches every day because tax rates are very high and they were taxdeductible. Over time, we've shrunk the ability. Now it's 50%. Which is probably sort of makes sense. The idea that you know, you don't get to deduct your lunch, you get to deduct the other person's lunch. Okay. Uh, so it's 50% deductible. This, but this is just the tip of the iceberg. There's some fun examples in the book of business deductions. Yeah. >> No, just for lunches. So, uh, or for meals. Other fun examples. So, here's a guy who claimed $30,000 worth of business expenses for the cost of goods he was selling. Um, and, uh, what were the goods? Amphetamines, cocaine, and marijuana. Um, the government allowed the deduction and put him in jail. Um, ABBA uh reported that they should be able to deduct the clothes they wore on stage because they argued that the clothes were so uncomfortable they couldn't wear they only wore them to make money. They actually didn't get any enjoyment out of wearing them. They there was a cost of earning money was wearing those outfits. Um, and uh, it turns out that the US and and and um, and so Sweden passed a law which says business clothes are deductible only if they're so outrageous that they couldn't be worn on the street. I don't know how you define that. Um, the US has a similar law which says work clothes are deductible if they're not suitable for everyday wear. Of course, the best example would be Lady Gaga's meat dress. It was deductible because that's really not suitable for everyday wear. I mean, I don't think so. Um uh so um so that's sort of examples of how it's sort of tricky to think about what is a deductible business expense and what's not. Okay. So those are two deviations from uh from H Simons. The third deviation is the most interesting which is externalities which is if my activity causes a positive externality you may want to encourage it and what one way to encourage it is to lower the rate at which it's taxed. The classic example here would be charitable deductions which as I noted are deductible if you're an itemizer. The argument is look when I donate to charity I am creating a public good a positive externality. I'm giving money to other people. Therefore that lowers my ability to pay. So in other words unless there's a warm glow I'm literally just giving the money away that lowers my ability to pay. Well, actually, let me go further. Let me step back. In a standard model with no other concerns, the money I give to charity is lowers my ability to pay. Now, of course, if I'm altruistic, it still raises my utility. If I have warm glow, it still raises my utility. So, that would say you really wouldn't want people to deduct to allow people deduct all of it. You'd only want them deduct the amount above the which it raised their utility, which is impossible to measure. So, we just allowed them to deduct all of it. So we say basically you can deduct your charitable contributions by doing so. We make charitable contributions cheap because you make them with pre-tax dollars on after tax dollars. In other words, if if if you're thinking about deducting $100 to charity versus not. If you don't deduct it, you pay taxes on it. If you deduct it, you don't pay taxes on it. So it's essentially that's equivalent to a subsidy of one minus the tax rate. So the tax rate is 25%. If I spend that money on apples, I only get $75 worth of spending. If I give it to charity, I get $100 worth of spending. Say 25% subsidy to charitable giving. So subsidy charitable giving is essentially one minus your tax rate. And we we put that in the system through an externality rationale. The idea is that you're creating a positive good for others. So you should get debt. you should um uh get to deduct that. Okay. So that is sort of the the the the next sort of rationale. Okay. The problem is the government actually has two very different tools to encourage public goods. It can give these tax breaks which as I said you could sort of justify undertake Simons although measuring how much is ability to pay is tricky or it can also just spend the money and a fascinating question is what's the right thing to do so here's the problem I'm going to pose and we'll come back to it next time to start I'm going to pose the following the government wants to encourage more spending on a homeless shelter and the government has two choices it can give a tax break to individuals who give to that homeless shelter or it can the government can just spend its own money on the homeless shelter. We're going to talk about next time what you think about is what's the tradeoff and how we think about the optimal way for the government to undertake that activity and we'll talk about that next time.