Hey everyone. Um, today and this week we are going to talk about the a connection between homogeneous dynamics and projection theory. Um today is by the way the first day of the Simon's lectures. Marina Vioska is giving them this year and she's going to be talking about sphere packing and um I got interested in this two years ago when Alon Lynen Strauss came to give the Simon's lectures and he was talking about homogeneous dynamics and he explained a little bit this connection with projection theory and I have been trying to understand it since then. um and uh it's uh it's a pretty geometric visual thing. So I brought some tools with me and the goal of the class is to try to understand visually geometrically uh how homogeneous dynamics is related to projection theory. Um okay so let's let's first say uh a little bit what what is homogeneous dynamics. Okay. So we're going to uh be working with spaces that have a lot of symmetries. And so the spaces will come from a league group. So G will be a league group. Um for example, SLNR and inside of G there'll be a discrete subgroup. So EG, SLN Z. And then we're going to be studying the quotient space G mod gamma. So this is called a homogeneous space. So we'll see it has a lot of symmetries. Um and so the homogeneous and homogeneous dynamics is we're acting on this homogeneous space. Okay. Now what does dynamics mean? Um suppose that H is a subgroup of G and then if X is a point in G mod gamma then we can look at H dox. So H acts on G mod gamma. So you can talk about H dox that's called an orbit. And the question is to describe the orbits. Okay. So let's make a picture. Um so in actual group GR G this um there might be some group element and then um you could take a co-et h.g and that h might be non-compact so that might go on forever but somehow it's not that complicated. Yeah. for taking the quotient gamma is what are the conditions for gamma to be a normal subgroup fill out this question. So this so this object is not a group >> it's just a space >> right so gamma is a so so the question was about whether whether gamma is normal um and the answer is gamma doesn't have to be normal so this this is not a normal subgroup of this that means that this is not a group but it's still a space okay um so gm mod gamma oh and I I I'll put something else so gmod gamma uh where we'll assume that the volume of or we'll be interested in cases where the volume of G mod gamma is finite. So the volume of G is infinite but the volume of G mod gamma is finite. So G mod gamma looks sort of like this. Um, and so then there's a point X in there and the orbit goes through X, but then it wraps around and the picture looks a lot more complicated already. And we want to understand what what does this do? Is it um is it going to wrap back on itself and just just go around over and over again the same thing? Or is it going to evenly distribute all over G mod gamma or or something else? Okay. So to make it concrete, I'd like to begin with a with a very simple warm-up um which is with a commutative group. So it's it's simpler than that. Okay. So uh so I think the simplest example of this is that G could be R2 and then gamma could be Z2. So G mod gamma is uh R2 mod Z2. It's a Tors. All right. And H is going to be a subgroup of G. And let's say it's like a one parameter subgroup. I'll do a couple of examples. H could be the subgroup T2 T and R there's a subgroup of R2 and if we do this what happens um so I'll visualize G mod gamma as a square with sides identified um and if I were to take so let's say X knot is like is just gamma which is an element of G by gamma it's like you you take the identity in G and push down. Um, okay. So, what does the orbit through x knot look like? Well, it's this line of slope 2 looks like that and then it comes back where it started and it just keeps going like that. Okay. And actually, it wouldn't be it's a little harder to draw accurately, but it wouldn't be different if you started at any other point. So x if you start at any point x then if I were to add 1 comma 2 that would be equal to x in r2 z2 and so actually every orbit is periodic. So the conclusion in example one is that h dox is periodic for every x. Okay. Example two, I'll take a different one parameter subgroup t comma square of 2t t. Okay. So now what happens? Well, if I if I again start at x knot is the identity. Um now I'm going up at slope square of two the top and keep going at slope square root of two. And this time this will this will never close up because uh the slope is irrational. Um and in fact this this orbit will be dense and even evenly distributed. So now what happens is that h dox is dense Okay. I won't do a proof right now. Um but um I'll make a remark there. So there are several proofs but there's there's a nice proof using for analysis that we might talk about later if we if we feel like it. Okay. Questions or comments so far? Okay. So we've seen two things that could happen. The orbit could be periodic and the orbit could be dense. uh and we haven't yet seen other things but we might wonder about whether other things could happen and now we can shift to a more complicated non-communive group like SL2R okay um so Now let's say G is SL2R and gamma is SL2Z. Okay. And um there's there are multiple reasons for looking at these quotients G mod gamma but one of them that comes up for this particular example is that these parameterize lises. So gamma is this space of latises in R2 with the property latticees lambda in R2 with the property that the area of R2 mod lambda is one. Um so let's do a proof sketch. So um any such lattice we can write as G times the lattice Z ^2 where G is an SL2R. So you can make any lattice by starting with with Z ^ squ and applying a a linear transformation. Okay. However there's more than one G that gives you the same lambda. So um if H is in SL2Z then HZ2 is Z2 and therefore G * HZ2 is G * Z2 and these guys give you the same lice. So the space of lises is G modulo SL2Z. Okay. All right. Now, this uh space of lises G mod gamma is not compact. Um and I will give you an example of a sequence of lises that don't converge to anything. Don't have a subsequence that converge to anything. So example we could take lambdaepsilon to be epsilon z direct sum epsilon inverse z. So this is a lattice which is very skinny in one direction and very tall in the other direction and has co- volume one and as epsilon goes to zero this is not going to converge to anything. So the space of lises is not compact and this is the only reason that the space of lises is not compact. So a definition k epsilon is a subset of g mod gamma. Kepsilon is defined to be the set of lises. So that the minimum over nonzero v in our lattice of the size v is at least epsilon is greater than or equal to let's say epsilon. Okay. And there's a a proposition which is called the moler criterion. that says for every epsilon bigger than zero kepsilon is compact. Um so um so a picture of of G mod gamma it's something like this. G mod gamma is threedimensional so it's um not super easy to draw. Um but over here so this would be G mod gamma. There's this non-compact part and you make a cut off maybe here and this stuff is K epsilon. Okay. Um so I won't prove this in detail. This is not super difficult. If you think about uh two vectors that generate lambda, um if there if we're in k epsilon, the vectors definitely cannot be too close to zero. And you can also always find two vectors that are not too giant because the area of the thing is one. This gives you sort of a compact set of choices of these two vectors. Okay, so it gives a little bit of intuition about what the space gamma looks like. Okay. Now, inside of there, we have some interesting one parameter subgroups of of of G of SL2R. So, one of them is the unipotent subgroup. So, that's the set of 1 T 01 T and R. And the other one is the diagonal subgroup. So this is I'll call this so it's the set of u t. So this matrix is u subt and there's the diagonal subgroup e to the r e to the minus r 0 little r the reals and this I'll call the set of a sub r. So this matrix here is called a sub r. Okay. So those are one parameter subgroups. And now we can ask our question about what the orbits look like. Okay. Um, cool. So, um, so there's a theorem that goes back to the 1930s. Headed in the 1930s, he said that a U orbit is either periodic or dense. Okay. And but in contrast there's a guess I'll also call it a theorem. I don't know who proved this when um that uh d orbit does not have to be maybe neither nor dense. Okay, let me say something more than that about how these d orbits can be really quite complicated. So here's G mod gamma and inside of G mod gamma pick out three small balls that are not too close together. So B1, B2, B3 are small balls. Okay. Then for any sequence of ones and twos. So for example the sequence 1 one two one two one two two two one any sequence um there exists an x in gamma so that the d- orbit of x never hits b3 and the d- orbit of x hits b1 and b2 many times. in this sequence. So, what must this orbit look like? Um, let's see. So, first it hits B1 and it goes through there. Then it goes around and it the next thing it hits is also B1. And it goes around and the next thing it hits is B2. and it keeps going and the next thing it hits is B1 and so on and it never touches B3. Okay, so this orbit apparently is not dense because it never intersects B3 and it is not periodic if this sequence is not periodic. So it's something else. Okay. So, so d orbits can do this somewhat crazy thing, somewhat chaotic thing that we're anyway. Um, but U orbits can't. U orbits can be periodic. Um so if you were to take u of x knot um uh this is periodic and the reason is um so if you take so x so x knot corresponds to the matrix 1 one uh times time s 2z so now if I were to take one one tx knot that's equal to x knot in gy gamma. Uh if t is an integer. So that's a periodic orbit. It makes a closed circle in in gm mod gamma. Um okay. Uh but if you were to start with a kind of weird looking choice of x knot um and you were to do this then it won't there won't be any obvious periodicity. Um so for most for most x so that's that's let's that's let's let's suppose now x is uh 2 01 over 2 okay so now what happens when we and then times sl2z so now what is ut of x that's one t 20 one over 2 Um, okay. So, that'll be 2, that'll be 2, that'll be t over 2. Um, this will be zero. This will be 1 over 2. And oh, that one might be periodic. I think I picked the wrong example. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Um that was unhelpful. Okay. So, so to see why they're not all periodic, let's let's instead try to visualize what is happening to the lattice. So a point uh a point x corresponds to a lice uh lambda x. And if you think about what what is happening if you take gx that corresponds to the lice g of lambda of x. So g is in sl2r. It acts on r2. It moves a lattice to another lattice and that's what the action is. Okay. And so now G is going to be UT. And the way UT acts on R2 is by shearing. So UT acts on R2 um by shearing. So I'll I'll do it this way. So I'll draw some points in R2. And perhaps coincidentally, these points come from a lattice. Um, and then I'll illustrate what UT does. Um, so if this is the point P, then this over here is UT of P. It's a shearing motion. And so the shearing motion moves everybody horizontally. And it moves you horizontally, but at an amount proportional to your height. So this one moves horizontally, but a bit less. And this one moves horizontally and a bit more. Okay. Now what would it mean? So this so so you start with a lattice and when we apply this uniport orbit to the lattice every point in the lattice is shearing. What would it mean if the orbit was periodic? Well, it would mean that this point this lattice point is shearing along and eventually it reaches another lattice point. So if ux is periodic, um that implies that each lattice point is at the same height as another lattice point, right? So there must be another lattice point somewhere over here. Okay, but now think about this. This difference is also in our lattice because a lattice is a subgroup and this distance is is horizontal. So this is um if and only if um there exists if and only if lambda of x contains a vector of the form x1 comma 0. So most lises don't contain a vector on the x-axis. So u * x is usually not periodic. And then um the difficult theorem is that in that situation u * x is dense. Okay, cool. So this is the situation in SL2 and the situation in other league groups say SLNR for larger N is more difficult and more recent but there are similar theorems. Um so for SL3R uh for SL3R Margulus and Donnie in the 1980s proved an analog of this theorem and then for all the SLNR and and all the groups Ratner around 1990 proved an analog of this theorem. Um cool. Okay. Um so that's a little summary of some kinds of theorems. There's some motivations for this. There's some motivation from Yeah. >> Just a kind of a question about the link between the lises and the elements of the uh quotient group. Um so up up there in the definition of kp epsilon there's kind of what looks like some sort of norm the minimum size of v or the non-zero vector v in the does that generate the same topology as the the quotient topology from so um so the question is about the topology of gmod gamma and how the topology of gmod gamma plays with this definition of Kepsilon. Yeah. Um in a moment we'll put a metric on G mod gamma and that's what its topology is. It's a manifold. It has um topology manifold. Um and um this thing here is a continuous function on on our um on our uh space of lises. Another way to say what the topology is is you know if you describe a lattice as the span of two particular vectors if you slightly perturb those particular vectors that will be a slight change in the in the space of latises >> is is that definition similar anyway to have a minimum I guess you're right not quite thanks Okay. So when I introduced homogeneous dynamics, I mentioned some application in number theory. The uh uh connection to the Oenheim Davenport conjecture which is about the values of quadratic forms. Um and it's a nice that that's a nice connection. I feel like we already talked about a little bit and if you wanted to read about it, it's also easy to read about it. Um, so I wanted to spend the class time on um, uh, yeah. Okay. So I wanted So okay, so I wanted to spend the class time on trying to get intuition for why something like this would be true and also maybe why something like this would be false. And um, there are many different ways of thinking about homogeneous dynamics. There's a big literature, but I want to highlight the way of of connecting it to projection theory. Um, and that's not one of the classical ways. It's actually not super easy to find in the literature. Um the the um um so it appears in these recent works of Lynden Strauss and Mohammadi and their collaborators and they're trying they're doing you know the cutting edge of homogeneous dynamics and the particular problem they're trying to solve is to do first of all these higherdimensional things that Margulus and Ratner and Donnie were doing and second of all instead of having a qualitative theorem like this to have a quantitative theorem that says If you're not approximately periodic for some length, then you're, you know, quantitatively uh dense. Um, okay. And at that point, the they had they ran into some things that the many interesting classical techniques did could not do or could not obviously do and they invented this new technique, this connection to projection theory. But in hindsight, you could also look back at the oldest theorems, the oldest theorems like this one, and you could approach it using projection theory. And it may not be the best approach to this theorem. It's certainly not the only approach to this theorem, but but uh but it's a it's a way of looking at it and and quite a visual way of looking at at what's going on. So the goal of the class is to try to explain um uh uh the how projection theory could help to understand something like this. Okay. Okay. Um great. So we're going to do some geometry. So next we we need to think about the geometry on the space G mod gamma. Um and um uh and how that geometry interacts with the action. Oops. Okay. So geometry of gamma. Okay. So first we'll talk about the right action of G on itself. Right? So if G is in G, there's a right action which is a map from G to itself. And the right action G of H is H. and you multiply by G on the right side. So these groups don't commute. So it's, you know, it matters which side you put it on. And actually you have to be quite quite careful in this story. Okay. So that's a map from from G to itself. Um, now we're going to use that to start to put a geometry on G. Going to have a right invariant metric M. So, how does this work? Um, so, so what does that mean? So, M is going to be a Romanian metric on G and for every G and G, we have this right action G. So, that's a map from our group with its metric to itself. And this is for every G and G, this is an isometry. That's what it that's what it means to have a right invariant metric. Where do they come from? Um the idea is that we'll put a metric at the origin and then we'll use R subg to help define the metric at every other place. Um okay. Okay. So um a lot of what we'll say here works for any group but to be concrete I'm going to stick to the group SL2R the tangent space at the origin. So E E is or the the identity I was using the word origin I should say identity T is E is the identity in the group. The tangent space in the identity of this group is the space of matrices A B C D with A + D equal to Z. Um so this is not a deep factor. This is so SL2R is matrices A B C D where A D minus BC equals 1 and the identity is a is a matrix that's sitting in there in R4. So it's the the group is a threedimensional manifold in R4 and this is just its tangent space in the usual sense. Okay. So that's it tangent space. So now m is going to be a metric on t and I can specify it by by specifying who an orthonormal basis and this choice doesn't matter super a lot but um but there's a convenient choice. So my orthonormal basis of Mn is going to be 0 1 0 0. So which I'll call u 0 0 1 0 which I'll call u tilda and then uh 1 / 2 0 - 1 /2 which I'll call D. um these root twos are not actually important but this this orthonormal basis happens to be the orthoral basis that corresponds to the metric where you just take the metric on R4 and restrict it to to uh this subspace. Okay. So now how will we define the metric elsewhere? So now suppose G is in our group. Um R subg of the identity is G. It's easy to check from the definition of R subg. And therefore R subg defines a map from T tangent space E of G to the tangent space G of G. And this map is an isomeorphism. We have a metric over here. We use this map to define a metric over there. So now we define mg which is a a metric or inner product MG on TG. So that RG goes from T E G comma M KN to T G comma MG. So that that's an isometry. Okay. And then it's an exercise to check that this thing we just defined is right invariant. So So that all of these maps are isometries everywhere. Okay. All right. So now because m is right invariant um uh we we get a metric it it sends to a metric m on g mod g. So how does that work? Um so we have like all of G have a projection map pi to G mod gamma. We have a point X and G mod gamma. And X has many pre-im images. Um so X is equal to say little G * little G little little H* gamma. So okay so the pre-image of X is these many different points. Okay. Now I have a metric upstairs and I'd like to try to define a metric downstairs in a natural way. So I'd like to define a metric here. So for each of these lifts upstairs, I can take the metric there and I can use the map pi and I can produce a metric over here. There's no canonical choice of which of these purple points in the pre-image I should use. But because our metric upstairs is right invariant, they all give the same answer. And so there's a coherent choice. So that gives us a metric on GMO gap. All right. So now have also a left action of G on G. Okay. So if G is in G, the left action of G is also a map from G to itself. Left action G of H is G inverse on the left H. So the word left and left action is because the the thing that comes from G is over here. Um the inverse is not super important in our discussion today, but it causes this to behave correctly when you compose elements in the group. And so it's traditional to do this. Okay. Right. So um SLG is not an isometry of our group with our right invariant metric and that's very important. It's very important to our whole discussion to understand um geometrically how this operation uh affects this space. Right. Okay. So, let's see what happens. Um, right. So, it's easiest to see what happens around the identity and you can do it starting at other points too. So here's the identity and here's some G and I have a map the left action by G inverse that takes the identity over here. And now this action it's not clear from what we've said whether it preserves the metric. In fact it distorts the metric. Um but how can we figure out what what this mapping is doing to the metric? Well, our metric was defined to be right invariant. So there's a map going the other direction. The right uh action by G inverse that takes G back to the identity. And this one we do understand what it does to the metric. It's an isometry. So if I want to understand what this map did to the metric, it's a reasonable idea to look at this and then this. That part is an isometry. So all of the distortion of the metric came from this part. Um and this composition is going to be a little easier to understand. Okay. So what happens if I if I do this? If I take a left action by G inverse and a right action by G inverse and I apply it to H. These these guys uh commute with each other. We'll see when we write it out. So, um, I don't have to be super careful what order to write them in. Yeah. >> What's that? >> Yeah, I guess I should really write it in the other order, although it doesn't matter. So, I want you to imagine I started with E or maybe somebody else near E. I applied left G inverse and then I applied right G inverse and we're gonna see what happens. Okay. So just from the formulas this is right action of G inverse of GH and that's GHG inverse. So actually it's something natural and important. It's conjugating. So I'll call this uh C subg of H conjugating by G of H. Okay, cool. So conjugating by H then induces a map from the tangent space of E to itself. Right? So so conjugating by G is a map from the group to itself and it sends the identity to the identity and therefore it sends the tangent space to the tangent space. All right. And uh we can see what we we can write we can write this down and we can see what it does. Um and um if if this thing is distorting the geometry it means that this thing was distorting the geometry and in exactly the same way. So we could say it's you could say more than this but the singular values of LG inverse are equal to the singular values of um CG. All right. So what you know what they are depends on G. So I'm going to pick a nice G and we're actually going to compute them to see how the geometry is being distorted. All right. So the interesting uh G's are going to be from those one parameter subgroups up there. And the one that looks up looks the nicest and where this is calculation is the most important is for that diagonal matrix A R. So we're going to compute what that does. Okay. So I'm going to look at C A R that goes from the tangent space to itself. Um so the tangent space is the set of matrices a b c d with a + d equals zero. Let's call this matrix m and we're so c a r of m is a r m a r inverse. So that's e to the r e to the minus r a b c d e to the minus r e to the r. Right? So this is a sub r. That's just the definition. This is a sub r inverse. So I switched the minus signs. Okay? So I did this very carefully. Uh it's not super instructive to watch me do it very carefully. So I'm just going to write down the answer. It's a d E2 r b eus 2 r c. So this conjugation what it does is it doesn't change the diagonal. It magnifies this component and it uh demagnifies that component. So that happens to be something we can describe really nicely in the orthonormal basis that I picked. All right. So, C A R of U. So, is E 2R U. C A R of utilda is E to the minus 2 R U tilda and C A R D is D. This conjugation behaves really nicely in this basis. But you can see that it does not preserve the metric. It stretches that one. it compresses that one and it preserves that one. Okay. So the conclusion from this is that l a r inverse uh of u the length of that is e 2r l a r inverse of u tilda has length e to the minus 2r l a r inverse of d has length one and uh it also preserved angles right so We just stretched things but we didn't tilt anything. So l a r inverse of u of ut tilda and of d are orthogonal. So this describes how the left action by this matrix is distorting the geometry of the space. Okay. And we also can make some kind of picture. Um so suppose this is a quote unquote cube in G. Um where this is the U direction this is the utilda direction and the direction into the board is the D direction. So what will happen to it when we do this? Um the U direction gets really long the utild direction gets really short other direction is preserved. So it looks kind of like that. Okay. Um, one thing that you can notice from the picture and from the calculation is that um, while L inverse distorts lengths, distorts the metric, it nevertheless preserves the volume. Okay. So that's how the left action uh distorts the geometry. And we also have a left action. of G on G mod gamma, right? And so how does that work? Um well, LG of H gamma is just G inverse H gamma because the gamma is on the right and this guy is on the left. They sort of don't interfere with each other. And so this is an actual group action. Um so LG maps G mod gamma to itself and it is a bjection. It distorts the metric but it preserves the ball. Okay. And maybe I should say we just computed this carefully for a particular element G which is these diagonal elements. You could take any G there don't doesn't have to be diagonal. It will distort the metric in some different way. Every G is different but they all preserve the volume. We didn't really prove that because I just did one example but it's true. >> Yeah. >> Are you able to show that by showing like that in a second? uh the u u of t one parameter subgroup um does it change the volume and like do those two two one prime subgroups generate a g of pump >> yeah so the question was if we wanted to to check that it preserve that that every G preserves the volume it would be enough to check a few G's that generate it um and um yeah so so we could if we did the computation with the potent one that would basically finish the job okay so it's not that difficult um we also could just describe the G as you know ABC D um and and then the computation a little messy but could just check once and for all. There's probably a better way of doing it but it's not my part of that. Okay, cool. Okay. So now we can say um all right. So now important and interesting part of this story is um um what is the difference between the unitary ones and the diagonal ones? And there are many different answers to this. Um, we could come back to it multiple times, but I'm gonna mention one way of looking at it which will start to get us to the projection theory. Um, so there's a special feature of unitary matrices that we saw also maybe by coincidence, but it also came up when we were talking about SL2 of FP, which what we saw there basically is that something cool happens when you conjugate a unitary matrix by a diagonal matrix. And that that is a special feature of unitary matrices and it really helps to understand. Okay. So what is special about unitary matrices? Okay. So there's a computation that if I take a unitary matrix and I conjugate it by a diagonal matrix. So I have e to the r e to the minus r potent. >> Uni potent. Yeah, thanks. >> Yes, thank you. Uni potent. Okay, so if you multiply this out, you get this. So if you're interested in a uni potent matrix UT where this T is really large, you can get at it by starting with U1 and conjugating it by one of these diagonal matrices. Um so let's let's say U0 T. This is a set of unitary matrices. This is UT t goes from zero to t. And so to understand an orbit we you know our goal is to understand um u 0t of x where t is large and because of this slick little formula we can write u0 t x. So let's let's say um we can write it as a r u01 a - r of x where e 2r t. Why is this helpful? So this here is just some point in uh in G mod gamma. It's not the point we started with. It's some other point but it's just a point. This here is a short unitary orbit. Um short unitary orbit isn't so intimidating to to draw. And then all the action is here. And the question is what does this uh map do to a short unitary orbit? Okay, so if we make a picture, here's our G mod gamma. Here's our new starting point a minus rx. Here's our orbit. It's not very long. It doesn't wrap around yet, so it's not that intimidating. That's um this guy short unitary orbit. Okay. And now we're going to take this map of Gamma to itself and we're going to apply it and we want to see what happens to this blue thing. >> Again, uni potent. Thanks short. Thanks. Okay. And we can also make a remark a r is a subgroup. So a r is like a1 to the r or a little r to the big r over little r big r little over r is a natural number. So we don't have to do this all at once. We could take a less dramatic map of gi gamma to itself and we repeat that over and over again. We want to see what happens to this thing. Right? Okay. Okay. So we are led to try so we led to a goal which is to try to understand and visualize the action of a little r and ga and if we understand that really well we should be able to understand this orbit. All right. So, how might we try to get a handle on this? Let's look at a fundamental domain. So, f is a fundamental domain of gamma. So, f is a subset just of g. And I'll draw it as a cube. It's not literally a cube. um uh god gamma is not compact. So f cannot be compact. So it should have like a little tail that's going off to infinity. Um but for what I'm about to say that's not super important. And actually by the way the whole story also makes sense for gamas that are co-compact and then you would this picture would be better. Okay. So now uh we'd like to understand what a does. So the first step is I'm going to apply AR. And we just thought about what AR does geometrically, how it distorts the geometry. Um we were looking at what it does to the metric, but it's very similar to what it does to like a unit cube. Um so this thing um is going to be so this is a r of of um of f which is still sitting in the group g. It got longer in one way shorter in another way. The real thing would have more dimensions than this but just to give the idea. Okay. Now the next thing that happens is we have to apply the quotient map. So pi is the map from G to G mod gamma. Um and when we do that I'll visualize G mod gamma again as this fundamental domain. And what happens is that this thing is going to kind of wrap around the fundamental domain. Okay. So it will look something like this. There it'll go in there. Um okay it's very difficult to draw this well um this map from the fundamental domain to itself is going to be of ejection right so somehow this is going to wrap around it's going to cover every point exactly once uh it's like a some sort of beautiful jigsaw puzzle I don't know how to draw that so I'll just do I'll just have this come out here and I'll do sort of a dot dot dot okay and then I don't know if We were visualizing if we had something of interest eventually it would be some unipotent orbits but maybe initially we're interested in what happens to that. So in the first step it did this and then in the next step we see this and this somewhere over here we see this. Okay. All right. Cool. Um all right. So >> yeah, >> why does the map have to be a bjection? Like why can't the projection map sort of not be injective? >> Yeah. So the question is um why is this map a bjection? Um so we were saying so this this uh I guess is actually there um um right? So we said earlier that the left action of G god gamma goes to itself as a bjection and if we believe that then if we start with the fundamental domain we have one representative of each point in G mod gamma and then we end up in back in G mod gamma we should cover everything exactly once if this is a bjection. Okay. Now why was this a bjection? So what is this map? It's the map H gamma goes to G inverse H gamma. So why is this a bjection? Um um right. So uh it's injective that means that if H1 G inverse H1 gamma is equal to G inverse H2 gamma then um H1 gamma equals H2 gamma. That's what it means for it to be injective. So is this clear? Yeah. You multiply on both sides by G. Okay. Serjective. That means that um for every uh every H2 in in in G there exists H1 in G. So that G inverse H1 gamma is H2 gamma. So yeah, we set these equal and solve for G. >> I guess that convertibility. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Um, right. I have to say I went through this too when I when I drew these pictures. I asked myself like, is this actually going to like fold up and cover everything exactly once? And then I was like, is it really vigive? Yeah, it should happen. Yeah. Okay. I guess you can make easier fun examples where that are more linear. So you just have like a matrix acting on R2 mod Z2 or something like that. Um and then the fundamental domain is a square and you can draw what happens to it and you can look up. So this was inspired by the by that example. They called that the cat map, a particular map. And instead of a smiley face, they draw a cat. They've better artistic skills than me. You can Google that and see some nice pictures like this. Okay, cool. Okay. So here, so so this um this thing LG LL with with this diagonal action, they've broken it into two steps. And out of these two steps, I find this one quite confusing. uh it's difficult to write this down sufficiently accurately and then to say what happened here and and you know did this come back over here over there when it wrapped you know where did it wrap and that all of that seems very intimidating to me so very difficult to write down in a clean way but this first step is not so bad right um and so we're going to try to understand the first step very well and use that to see how much we can figure out about the about this map um LG acting on our homogeneous space. Okay. Now the object that we want to follow is not a smiley face but a unipotent orbit. Okay. So let's see here. Okay. This we can erase all of it. Okay. So I erased something that is useful for us. So recall we worked out um that the left map by a r inverse we found its singular values and singular vectors. So in the u direction um the length of this is e to the 2r and in the utilda direction the length is eus 2 r and in the diagonal direction the length is one. Um so this is this is if we're thinking of l a r inverse from t e g to t a right and this little u this is also the tangent direction of our group u. So that group is going to get stretched which is the same thing we saw in the computation over there. So um step one so if we start with a single unipotent orbit starts at some point we have like this. So that's u01 of some point x. What happens when we apply L? Okay. Well, this thing is going to get tall and skinny and the direction that got stretched is the direction of this orbit. So now we're going to have a long orbit and the height of this thing is e to the 2R. Then we're going to quotient. Um, so when we quotient, I don't know exactly where it's going to go, but it will go along. It'll go out the top and come in the bottom somewhere. And then we'll have a bunch of these. So we'll have like e to the 2 r u orbits of length one. and I have no idea where they are. So, we haven't made any progress yet on our main question, which is to see if these are distributing kind of evenly. Um, but now we can start again. Move this over here. So, now we have a bunch of unipotent orbits and we're going to stretch them out. Now, what happens when we stretch them out this time? Well, okay. So, each one of them got longer. It's going to go from the bottom to the top. But also, um, there's also some compression which is kind of in this direction. And that could potentially cause some orbits to get closer together or not. And this is the part that we have to understand really carefully. >> All right. >> So this box is some small box. >> Yeah. So this Yeah. >> Yeah. That's right. That's right. So this this box here is a fundamental domain. So it's scale one and sure it could be around the identity. Thing I most want to convey in this class is a feeling for how this map is like twisting and distorting these curves. All right. And so I'm going to try to make a really big picture of it there. I also brought with me some um props. All right. So, I'm going to sort of visualize our fundamental domain or maybe a piece of it as a cylinder. And now I'm going to draw some unipotent orbits in different colors. And they all go from the bottom to the top. Um maybe I'll draw three of them. Okay. Now what happens to this picture? So, first of all, it's going to stretch that way. That part's not that hard to imagine. It would go off the board, so I'm not going to emphasize that. Then each one of these uh slices, so we have some sort of slices. Let's say this is tals 0 up to tals 1. Other t's in the middle. Each one of these slices, one direction is going to be squished and the other direction is going to stay the same. So let's say that at t = 1 cross-section of this picture, I see a triangle that looks like this. And there's going to be some direction that gets compressed. When I apply l inverse, if that direction gets compressed, the output is going to look like so. And that has been actually worked out so that this blue and yellow get kind of squished together. And the orange is still there. And at t equals 0, if I look at the bottom disc, I have the same picture. And there's some direction that's going to be compressed. And it's not the same direction. I'll do somewhat arbitrarily that one. That one. Okay. So, compress that way. That will look sort of like so. And the blue point will be over here. And the yellow and orange point will be somewhat close together. Okay. And as you look at all the intermediate heights, you'll have a similar picture. But this compression direction is going to be changing continuously as you go up. Okay. All right. So I'm not sure if this will be helpful, but I brought several props to try to illustrate this important process. So if you imagine that you have a bunch of unipotent orbits in your homogeneous space like so and we apply a okay first of all they will stretch this way and second of all there will be some compression. So maybe at the top they might get smooshed together this way and at the bottom they might get smooshed together sort of a different way sort of like this or um if this piece of Play-Doh is this cylinder here what's going to happen to it when we apply the map? Well, it's going to get taller and it's going to get squished and maybe the top will get squished sort of that way, but the bottom will get squished sort of that way and in the middle it'll get squished some direction sort of in the middle and that will if I had done it carefully practiced it at home it produces something that's sort of like a helix. Okay, cool. Okay, so let me say briefly why this is relevant. Um, and then if we have time, if we feel like it, we could try to do some computations with matrices to check it. Okay. So, why is this relevant? Well, if you had a, you know, a situation like this, then um yeah. Okay, let's go back up here. So, this guy is really tall. We're going to cut it into a sequence of pieces that each have height one. And then each one of these pieces is going to fold back in. Right. So over here there is a an unused color. There's a purple piece over here. Okay. That purple piece is going to fold back in over here. Can you see that? All right. And then there are a bunch of other pieces in different colors. Those other pieces will somehow get slotted in in an order that I don't understand at all, but they'll all go somewhere. All right. Now, inside of this purple piece, so over here we have uh a yellow orbit, a blue orbit, and an orange orbit. Let's just focus on those three. They aren't all are going to pass through here. And we could have um the blue orbit and the orange orbit and the yellow orbit all kind of spread out from each other. Or we could be that they are smooshed together close to each other. Anyway, whatever happens here, this is just slotted in over here. So that will tell us how they're spaced over here. Okay. So um uh when we have something like this that will produce two unit length unipotent orbits over here in this purple thing that are really close to each other and that that phenomenon is the enemy of the unipotent orbit spreading out. Unipot orbit is definitely going to be really long but it may not spread out because it may have many segments that are really close to each other. Okay. Um so let me scribe. So to prove that u 0t of x spreads out we want to prove that coincidences of this type are rare. Okay. And why are they rare? Well, they're rare because this compression angle is rotating smoothly as we vary t. And so even though there may be one projection that smooshes a lot of things together, we have learned in this course that if you look at the projection in all different directions, most of them do not smoosh things together very much. And that forces this unipotent orbit to spread out. Sorry for so confused. Why does like the direction get like compressed change like from that picture after you apply L A R inverse it's always get long and and get another direction gets >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. So the question is why does this happen? And in fact there was a point that the picture that I drew up there sort of makes it look like it doesn't happen. Right. All right. So in my picture I this is not exactly accurate but but I I drew it as though this map was just a linear map that takes a cube to a rectangular solid. and I drew it as though well I tried to show that this would okay so these unipotent orbits are more or less vertical. All right so here's what so here's what wouldn't work. So if the unipotent orbits were literally vertical and if this map was literally a linear map then this would not happen the compression direction would be the same at every height. All right. So, um I think you have to kind of pick um this this this Lee group is like, you know, it's a sub manifold of R4, but if you want to represent it in coordinates in three dimensions, you have to make a choice. There's not a completely canonical choice. So, um, we could make the choice that, um, the unipotent orbits were literally vertical. And if we did that, this picture would not be right anymore. Um, if if we did that, then this would have a bit of a twist. This would be more this would be like a helixy thing. Or another way of looking at it is I think we could choose coordinates in such a way that um this map was pretty close to a linear map but then these unipotent orbits would not be vertical and instead they would kind of spiral a little bit as you went up and so the angle between two unipotent guys would be changing. Okay. Now at some point you know why do you believe that? So at some point we should do a computation right. Um I don't think I'll do it in the last two minutes but I'll just say what you should do. Um okay so we figured out which direction is compressing. Um we could have written it down a little bit more clearly but if if you trace through our thoughts today at any point in the homogeneous space if you ask which is the tangent direction that's going to get compressed when you apply L we have a formula for it. Okay. And then we can also say if you have two nearby unipotent orbits and down here at the bottom there's like a a little vector between them as you go up the orbit what what happens to that vector. There's a formula for that too. If you compare these two formulas you will see that they don't match. So that the the if if this direction initially was the compression direction compression direction if you follow it up you don't get the compression direction up here and you you can compute it all with matrices. >> Yeah >> this just kind of saying is a curvature tensor that's not zero any from the guess one of the two one parameter groups. Yeah, the question is is is this saying that this there's some kind of curvature tensor that doesn't vanish? Maybe it's it's not the remon curvature tensor, but uh it might be something in that spirit. Yeah. >> The picture kind of makes it seem like it stretches. It's not periodic. Is there something I'm missing? Yeah, great question. Okay, the question was this appears to be a proof sketch that every orbit of the uniport group is uh evenly distributed and we saw at the beginning that that is not true. So what did we what did we do wrong? Okay. Um all right. So this orbit we can write this way. All right. Actually, so let me say that the the shortest answer to your question, the key thing is that the cusp of the homogeneous space is really important here. And we were neglecting the cusp. Um so you know the the cusp produces a piece of the fundamental domain that's really skinny and it doesn't look like the rest of it. And when something's in the cusp, it doesn't apply. Um and so actually Hedland proved another theorem which is that if you take a a co-compact subgroup gamma then in Gmod gamma every unipotent orbit uh is is dense and this is a sketch of the proof of that theorem. Okay. But now what goes wrong um is that this a minus rx could be very far in the cusp and then our whole analysis is wrong. So what what we've roughly shown is that either our orbit is very well distributed or a minus rx is deep in the cusp. And if you unwind what that means about x, it means that it's very close to being a periodic or cool. Okay. So, we'll talk a little more about homogeneous dynamics on Thursday. I'm not sure exactly what we'll say. Maybe we'll fill in some things.