just begin with. So uh if we have a a metric space here uh then uh a cover of of x uh is a collection uh of subsets u alpha so that the uh uh x is contained in the union of u alpha. So that's a cover of x. And likewise uh likewise if a here is a subset of x then uh u alpha is a cover of a if a here is in the union of the u alpha. So that's what it needs to cover as the whole set or just a subset. Then uh there are some covers that are particularly important and those are the open covers. So a open cover is a cover uh that consists of uh open subsets. And then finally we have uh that so if again x comma d is a metric space a here is a subset of x then we say that that uh that a is compact uh if every A open copper of a has a finite uh subco. Okay. And one thing we proved last time was that if you have if you have a so proved last time that if if you have a if a here is compact then uh then uh a is is bound and closed. Um right. So it's a is a closed subset meaning that the complement is is um is open and uh a itself is contained in some large ball centered at some point in x. Okay. Now the the converse is not the case always. So uh so in RN uh with the usual metric you cleaning metric the converse is the But in general, not but not in general. Okay. And so we looked at one example on this uh last time. So we looked at the following example but it was a rather trivial example that if you take x here if you take the space x to be say the interval from 0 to one uh and uh the metric here this here is the usual metric. So the distance between two uh elements here is is just the norm of the difference and then well x is the whole set. So x so with this here x is the whole set. So x here if you think if this here is the metric space then x is by definition closed because the whole set is closed right. It's not closed as a subset of R. But if it's if if the matrix space just is X, you know, then then it is closed and it's it's bounded and bounded. In particular, this interval here is contained in the ball of radius 1/2 around 1/2, but it's actually equal to that ball, if you will. Right? So it's definitely bounded but it's not compact. Right? So it not compact because you can write x here as the union of 1 / n to one and now you take the union over all inte positive integers right and but if you only take finitely many of them then you don't get all the way down to zero Right? So it's it's not a union. It's union of all of these. The each of these are is open but you but there's no finite union of those sets that cover X. A more interesting example um is that suppose you take suppose you take um so here's another example that we didn't get to last time. that if you take the continuous function on the unit interval. Uh and so if you take and now we use this metric that we have looked at before where the uh distance between two functions is the max uh over x in this interval here uh of the norm of f ofx minus g ofx. X right we've already seen that this here is a nice metric right uh and and if I now look at in this metric I look at the the unit ball so I'm looking at the closed unit ball so uh which means that I'm looking at the set the set uh of functions there so that the distance of f to the function that is constant equal to zero this distance here is sorry is uh less or equal to one so I'm looking here at the subset of the continuous function on this interval So that the distance to the zero function is at most one. So let me just write this out. Right? So this means that uh this is the function f in this continuous function here. So that um the max of f ofx minus zero. So I don't really have to write zero is is is less or equal to one. Right? Now this set again this set here is what we denote by the this is like the closed unit ball because you have lesser equal to here right. So and the closed unit ball the open unit ball we have written and this is now the the function that is identically equal to zero the open unit ball we wrote like this right this is if you have strict inequality and to to to denote that is lesser equal to I'm just putting a bar here okay and so we already know that this thing Here if you take a metric space and you're looking at a closed unit ball like this we already proved that this here is closed right because you prove directly using the triangle inequality that the complement is open right okay so that's if so this is a closed subset it's obviously bounded right because it's actually even just a ball right um now so how but I claim that it's so it's it's closed it's bounded but it doesn't it's not compact and and here's a sort of interesting example uh of a sequence of element in this form so I will now construct for each for each n which is a natural number uh we construct a function uh fn in this that is a continuous function on this unit interval and the function f um will be given as follows. It's will be it will be uh one uh from uh when uh see let me make it uh zero. Uh I guess doesn't matter. I I make it one uh when uh x here is between um 1 / n + one. No when zero is I would make it equal to one when x here is bigger equal to zero and lesser equal to 1 / n + one. Then I'll make it um when when x here is bigger than or equal to 1 / n but lesser equal to one then I'll set it equal to uh to to zero and then you see now I want it to be so so let me just so let's look at it. So this function here is um so so this function here is if you draw this function so I have here one here I have zero and this function is one um up to uh 1 / n +1. Maybe I'll draw it a little bit further out. Uh actually make the picture bigger. So like that. Here I have one. Here I have uh 1 / n + one and here I have 1 / n. And the function is supposed to be one here. And then it's supposed to uh die off between here and here. And I will I choose it to die off linearly and then a zero here. So if it's going down linearly this means that I have right what is the difference between two these two it's 1 / n minus 1 / n + one this is this distance here and so this here putting it on a common denominator n +1 / n * n +1 this is what you get from this and if you put it on the common denominator for the second one this is what you get here and so this is just one over n like this right and so this is this distance here and so if I define the function to be uh right so I'm setting it equal to to this and now in between when x here is bigger equal to 1 / n +1 and lesser equal to 1 / n. I will set it equal to 1 minus um n * n + uh 1 um times sorry let me make more space. Yeah, let me make more space. So here this here was when zero is less or equal to x less or equal to 1 / n + 1. This is when uh x here is between these two numbers and this here is when x is larger than one / n and it's x is always in the interval between zero and one. And here I'm I'm choosing it's x minus uh and then 1 / um u n + one right. So you see that if you take x to be 1 / n + one then this here contribute zero. So at this left point this here is equal it's the function is equal to one as it should be. And when x here is at the other end point then this here becomes exactly one over this. So this whole thing becomes zero. Right? So if I so this function here I drew is is uh is if you write it down precisely this is what the function is right and now um now if I'm looking at um if I'm looking at the difference between uh two such such functions. So for the next one you see the next one here the next one here is so this here is fn right this is how fn look like if I now look at fn + one right this start off being it's zero to the right of this thing here and then it's it's one once you get to n plus2 True. So the next function looks like this. I don't know if there's any color chalk, but this thing here uh is uh that's the next function, right? So so the the the first function is this function here. That's a graph of the first function. The next one is like this one here, right? And so if you're now looking at the distance between FN and FN + one, right? The distance here was the soup of the difference of the two, right? This here was just the max of uh f of like this. it was just the max of this right and now I know that these two numbers is always between zero and one so this max here is at most one right but if I now evaluate it if I now looking at if I now just evaluate if I'm looking at fn and now I just evaluate it in in this point here in this point 1 / n + one. So if I'm looking at this thing here, f(n) + one 1 / n + one, you see this value here, this was this first function here and at this point is one, right? This here is one, but for the next one, you see at that point it's zero, right? So this means that this max here is for all n and n + one is actually equal to to one, right? And so so now if you look at at um if you look at at the balls So now in particular if I'm looking at the balls of radius 1/2 suppose I'm looking at the ball of radius 1/2 around so this is an open ball so around fn right because this here is an open ball so it means that's strictly less than a half so this means that fn plus one is not in that ball. Right? So it's not in sorry it's not in that. Right? And and so now it's easy to see that all of these balls here are disjoint. So all of these balls here will be disjoint. They're all disjoint. And so if you're looking at if you you can write uh this initial ball this ball here this was this close ball that we started with in beginning you can write it as uh as a union suppose you write it you can write it of course as a union of half balls where you take the union over all centers. plus all possible centers like this, right? Because you know this clearly cover this set because it contains all the centers, right? But that's already the whole set, right? But using this here, you can see that there is not that you can't have finite many of these half balls that cover the whole set. Okay. So using the functions fn uh it follow follows easily uh that finite in many many of these balls. does not cover uh and it's uh let me just cover this here. Why why is this the case actually sometime you you you put it uh the bar all the way across uh but but I haven't done that. Okay. Why is suppose that Suppose for a second that you have suppose that you have a ball here uh of a radius a half around some point then and suppose that you have a function g two functions g and h that are in that bone just ucing that it's a metric space. So now we have that this thing here g is strictly less than a half and the distance from uh f to h is strictly less than a half. So now using the triangle inequality, we conclude that the distance between this pair here G and H is less or equal to the distance where you go over F. And so this here is less strictly less than a half plus a half. So this is strictly less than one. So you see from this in particular that if you take such a ball here then you can't so it's impossible to have that fn and fn plus one. It's impossible to have that they both are in that ball, right? Because if they were both in this ball, then the distance would be strictly less than one. And we've already seen the distance is is one, right? And this holds not just from for fn and the next one, but it holds for like fn. The same argument give that from fn and any m larger than n. this this here would be impossible, right? And so from this it follows that you can't have finitely many that cover the Yeah. >> or how do we know that the union of all of those functions and like the one >> Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so this is just and and this is important because we're going to use this in a minute anyway. So again if you take if you take a set here so if you take a metric space and suppose you take a set subset of X then there's always you know you can always find a cover even an open copper um and in particular in a minute we will look at so if you take a here so one example of an open cover of A is that you're looking at at the family of balls. You just pick some radius. R is positive and then you pick centers, right? But the centers, right? You you you take the centers, you know, X here is now anything in A, right? If you're looking at R is fixed, it's positive. X is anything in A. Well, the union of these guys, the union certainly contains the centers, right? So this here already cover a right and so and we will use this in just this is like a standard array to get a cover and then if it's compact then finally many of those should cover right okay so in fact let's get to that um so um right so the next thing I want to prove is um uh is um is is this volano bias version for a metric space. So you prove a banal bias theorem for metric space. Remember that the banana basis does not hold for every metric space. for a metric space. So, so now it the bulan visor does not hold for every metric space but it holds. So uh when when this space here is compact, right? Okay. So that's what I want to prove and that's like one of the motivations here and for for the for the definition of being compact. And so uh let me just remind you. So on RN on R say uh what is the bulani? So on r the balsano why the what did that say? So this is that any bounded sequence has a convergent subsequence, right? That was the banana bias assume and and so uh what we want to show here is the following theorem for a for a general metric space. So we want to prove the following theorem that if x comma d is a matrix space uh a here is subset is compact then any Then any sequence in uh A has a convergent subsequence. Okay, now let me try to divide it into the poo and let me try to divide it in into some sub pieces. So I begin with a lema. So, so the lema, so I want to begin with a lema that is the following. So, I have uh so I have my metric space. I have um a here is this subset that is uh compact. And then I have as a a family of nested subsets. So let me just talk about nested subsets for a second. So I do this on this board. And so what do I mean by nested subsets? So, so again I have some set and then I have some subsets. Um, see it's a it's a it's a family but it's now a family that is uh indexed by the integers. Right? So CI here is subsets. So this is I uh equal to one two so on and next I mean in this case here uh I am thinking about that the next subset is smaller than the previous smaller or at most equal to the previous. So I have this I could also have looked at where they were kind of increasing the subsets but uh but this is what I have in mind. Okay. So the sets as as I become larger the set becomes smaller. So I have so now back to the lema. Um I have this metric space. I have a compact subset and then I have a sequence here of CIS is a sequence. It's a nested sequence sequence of subsets. So again this means that the next element is contained in the previous one. Right? And this nested sequence of subsets, it's actually a nested sequence of closed subsets. Closed subsets of A. Okay, so they're closed in X and they're contained in in A. And then I assuming that uh and assume also that the CIS that none of the CIS are the empty sets. Right? So I I don't want any of them to be trivial. uh then the claim is so the claim is that is that if that's the case then actually if you take the intersection of all of these this here is is is is non empty so there is something that is in all of the CIS right okay that's what I want to prove um and in fact this is quite straightforward Okay. Um and because since the so the proof here since CI is closed this means that the complement here is open. Right. And now for the complements here. So the complement let's call it complements let's call it uh bi. So BI is open again and BI um + one they actually have this property that they are because the previous ones was nested where they became smaller then when you're looking at the complements then they become larger and uh but uh so since this is closed then we have is uh if the intersection of these CR if there was nothing in the intersection of all of them if this here was the empty set but then it means that that the complement of these guys would then cover a right it would actually right the cover right because there's nothing the union of the complement so the union of the complement here it would actually cover X but it would in particular cover A right. So yeah this here called BI. So you have that. So this mean and again this here is this here is the same as BI. So now since uh A is compact since uh A is compact this means that uh A here A here is contained in finitely many of these let's call them So you have finally many like this of the bees and I just you know I'm not sure whether it's the first but but but there are finitely many of these that cover it and so in particular but one of these is like right one of the indices here is the largest one of those right and so this means that it's actually contained in the largest of these Let's say that that the largest of these is b right. So you have this for some n right? But this say but this here remember that this here was the complement of CN like this right. So this means that a have nothing in CN right. So this mean but A was a sub C was so CN intersected with A is empty but CN was contained in A. So this means that since cn was assumed to be uh contained in a right this was subsets of a then this means that cn. So this here is this means that this here then implies that that this thing here is is cn. Right? So you have that one of them was empty but that we assume that none of the sets CN was empty. Fine. Okay. Was that clear? Sorry. Yep. >> Okay. So that's right. So So I'm I'm trying to prove uh this theorem here, right? And it it's uh it's not super complicated, but it's a little bit involved. And so I'm trying to of course this is always a great idea if and it's kind of like important thing in this class and and and and also if you take other math, you know, more advanced math classes is that when you're trying to prove something, it's, you know, there's things that are really easy to prove, but then there are things that are much more complicated, right? So one thing is that you try to prove it. Another thing is that you try to explain to other the proof right and so in either case if you can divide it into substeps right and so this here is a substep uh in the proof and uh and so in a minute we will see why this here is relevant and so this sort of answer your question right I mean how does how does this come up right and and in a minute you'll see how it comes up so So, so let me get back to that question just a minute. >> Are you able to explain the last remark again? >> Yeah. >> So, so here so so again the BIS are open and using compactness because all of the BIS cover a then finally many must cover it. But the bis are nested in in this way that they are increasing as subsets. So if I'm thinking about maybe this here is the one where the index is large this then contain all the other. So this is it's actually equal to in that case it would be equal you know this really is equal to like this. So again, so this means that A is contained in in the complement of CN. So in other words, there is no elements in uh in A that are in CN. Right? That's what it means. So there is no elements in A that has a CN. This is that this thing here is empty. But the CN remember that the CN was assumed to be subsets of A. Right? So this means that that there is nothing in CN that is not in A. So this is really just equal to CN >> and so is that essentially just creating a contradiction. Uh and so that's why and that's a contradiction because now this show that this one here this CN is empty but they were all assumed to be non empty right yeah okay so so this is this is like uh yeah Sorry question. >> Right. Right. Okay. So if so if the intersection of the CI right so here sorry if they inter so I want to prove this. So I'm assuming that this is the case and I define the BIS to be the complement of the CIS. So if there is nothing in the intersection of all of the CIS then it means that the union of the complements must cover the whole set right because you know right so if you takes anything in even in X if you take anything in X it's not in all of the CIS so this means that there is some I so that it's in complement of that CI right but that's that's exactly this um okay so now so you're asking why is this relevance right and and that's a good question and uh and I'm not I'm I will answer it in a minute but I will uh kind of elaborate I will give you an example where I have it and then we will eventually see how to get to that example okay so the next thing is that suppose I take a suppose I have the same setup but now my sets are you know the the then close sets so I have this setup again so this is like a corner of of the lema that we just pruned so we We have x comma d. This is matrix space. And we have uh a here is a subset of x uh is compact. And now now my sets CIS is going to be so CIS here these are going to be balls of radius R I and center X I and U there would be balls like this and I'm assuming that they are nested so in the Same way I'm assuming that this thing here the centers change the radi and the center change is depending on I they're all this close ball where it's like lesser equal to the eye. So I'm assuming that the next one is contained in the previous one. Okay. And then I'm making one more assumption is that the RA I goes to zero. Okay. So I have that. So so just let's observe that these sets here they are nested by assumption. They're closed, right? Because it's it's it's it's this closed ball. So they're closed subsets. Also observe that each of these balls contain the center. So right so this means that each of these balls is not empty. Right? So it's automatic that they're not empty. Right? Okay. So now I claim that I claim that the intersection of all of these balls is is just one point. So now uh so now the claim here that the uh intersection of these balls here, these closed balls here is uh is a single point. Okay. Yeah. How do we know that each of balls contain the center? >> Uh because you know but if you take um if you take a ball so if you take a ball here in any metric space this is the y in the space in this set. So that the distance from X to now I take the open one but similarly with the closed this thing here is less than sorry this here is why saying >> it contains its own center but not like one single point across all >> yeah so that's right so so I'm just saying that so so if you plug in y x for y right you get zero right so this is definitely so so this here x definitely is in here right and I'm just saying that each of these guys is not empty right okay so now but and then I want to claim that actually there's something in the intersection of all of these balls and I want to claim that there's only one thing such thing there's a unique thing that is in intersection of all these balls right okay so now First, first I want to prove that this thing here is non right and sorry and this here should have been the closed balls like this but you see uh this just follows from from the lema because each each uh B, you know, because each B R I XI is closed and non- empty is each is closed non- empty. Um and and and the family or sequence of of walls is nested. Right? By assumption, right? By assumption, we assume that this thing here is our i + 1 x i + 1 that this thing here is contained in the previous right. So by assumption by assumption so we again we use the lema and this is the CIS right and the CIS are closed and they are indeed nested as they should be and they are all non- empty just because they each contain their own centers right I you know yeah >> we're making some assumption. That's right. We're making some assumption about um right so we're you know and uh uh right we're making some assumption about that we the when you when you make this assumption about nested there's some assumption about the centers the the distance between centers and there's also something about the radi that you know how large is one radio relative itude to the other, right? Because if you have if you imagine that this here is BR I like this. This is this. So in the picture it would be kind of contain the boundary and then the next one but the next one may be out here on the side but it's supposed to be contained in it. Right? So you see that the center the sender may have moved. This here was the XI and the next center may have moved. It may have shifted quite a bit, right? But of course, you know, this here is the RA I radius and this here is the RA I + one radius, right? So you see that there's u there's some sort of relation, right? But okay so so the so we have that the it just follows from the lema that the intersection of all these closed balls is non empty right yeah >> it just follows you >> yeah that's right so it follows now from that I that's why we're using the r= to zero because suppose that you have two elements, right? Suppose that you have X here and Y. Suppose that they are in the intersection of these guys here. Right? Now look at the distance between X and Y. Well, they are into intersection. So this means that for each I for each I so for each each eye we have that X here and Y is in this guy here. Right? So if it's in in this ball here for for a AI then you can use the triangle inequality, right? And this thing here is bounded by this here should have been a RA. This here is bounded by less or equal to because I have this bar RA I plus RA I so 2 R I but it this here holds for all I this here goes to zero. So this means that this here implies as you say this here implies that the distance had to be zero but this is part of what it is means to be a metric space that if the distance is zero then the two points are the same. Okay so that was actually so the whole core was really quite easy from the demo. Okay. And so now the question is so this is your question is why is this relevant in in the in this balsano vast stress right I mean there may be not so interesting I mean the lema and color on its own but but it's but there are tools to prove the banana bio okay so let me try to first explain the idea and then then we go to the proof. So we have we have this matrix space and we have a subset and the subset here is compact. subset is assumed to be compact. Then we have a sequence XN and this sequence here. So this is a sequence contained in in And we want to prove that there exist. So want to show one to to find a convergent subsequent remember that here I mean you know just that there's no assumption you know I'm not talking about some cushy complete set space or something like that right so in this case I really have to construct the you So I have to construct the convergence sequence but I also have to kind of construct the limits right and so this is where or you know like in particular like the limit this is why we want this thing here to have a unique intersection okay so that's what I want to do right so you you have this uh space you have the subset that's compact and and you are given a sequence So now I start with um so so and and and before I actually get to the proof let me just try to explain the idea. So this is this is again this is sort of uh before the proof So I want to make an observation. So if I am in this s iteration and suppose now that I take so I have a here and I take some r think of r as being really small and then do what we did just did a little while ago. We cover we cover we're looking at A here is covered by A. You can write A as a union of these balls here where the center is anything in A. Right? So again that cover A and so this means that finally many that's finally many many cover a since a is compact. So I can write a here as the as uh contained in and then r uh now I had to be careful because this is not the x probably I should use a y here. Sorry, just to to not confuse it with the sequence that I have. Okay. And so I can I can it's contained in the union of balls like this. YM right is contained in the union of finitely many balls like this. Okay. So far we haven't used our sequence, right? But now of course I can say that we we we were given a sequence right we now have finally many balls right so and there are like infinite many elements in the sequence so it means that there is one of these balls finite many balls so for one of them for one maybe more more than one maybe all of them but for at least for one of these sports. There are infinite many elements in the sequence. Let me be very precise what I mean by that. So by that I mean of course this sequence could be like a constant sequence. What I mean that for infinitely many ns xn is in one of these balls right. So let me just write that out just to be totally clear. So meaning for one of these balls. There are infinitely many many ends such that XN is in in that ball and let's say that this is uh Y3 whatever right so there's infin many n okay so now I can just think about that one ball right and I can just think about the sequence instead of the original sequence I think about a subsequence that is contained in it. Right? So meaning this means that there is a therefore there is a subsequence a subsequent of the given sequence that is contained in this in this form. Okay. Now, um, okay. Now, I want to somehow repeat this process. I want to repeat this process and again I'm I I haven't quite started the proof here but I'm just trying to explain the idea right so this is like this this is like a step in the proof that you then for the right sort of has to use over and over again right and so now um so I want to repeat this process and for that I I need to remind you that if you take um metric space, if you have a metric space, so the coin that if um if um x here is a metric space uh a here is a substance a compact subset. A is a compact subset and B here is a closed set and is a closed subset of X. Well, then A intersected with B, right? The intersection of if it's compact, it's also it's also closed, right? We proved that. And so this is the intersection of two closed sets. So this is closed. This is contained in A. And now we proved last time that if you take H. So this here is a closed subset. This is closed and is contained in A. Since A is compact, if you take a closed subset of A, then this is also compact. So this is also compact. Okay. So now now let's continue that uh string of thoughts from over there. So how do we now we repeat this? So it's have I have a set I have here maybe even bigger. I have here uh this here is my space x. Then I have some subset. This here is a a is compact. I cover it with balls here of radius uh and I now have that finitely many. These are balls of radius r around some some y's, right? Finitely many. as fin as many of these balls and the copper eight right then these sets here are of course not closed and so I'm looking at this ball here these finally many and I just take the closed balls now I want to cover right and and and I found that for one of there was a subsequence that was contained in fact in the open ball so even you know so therefore also in the closed ball right there was a subsequence of the original sequence that's a ball I'm focusing on right now this ball I can then cover by balls of radius so I'm covering this so cover this by balls of radius uh r over 4. So I'm going to write this thing here in the same way. I'm going to write this this here I now know um this thing here this thing here I'm only interested in syncs that are contained in a. So I know that if I intersect it with A then this here is is compact, right? I know that this is compact. That was because this here was closed, right? And and Na was compact, right? So this here is compact. So this means that that if I can write that set here, I can write that set uh as so I can write this set here. So, so I have so I have so I start with a that is compact then I find a ball so that a subsequence is contained in that ball right this is was that ball then I'm looking at so this is like the process I start with here this is step one step two I looking at this set three I'm Looking at now the closure of this ball intersected with a this here is here is compact. This here contains a subsequence a subsequence of xn. This thing here is compact. This means that I can cover it by balls of radius. So cover it um r over four. I want smaller radius as I'm going along. Okay. So I'm covering it with and in fact I can cover it by finitely many balls. Right? Why finite many? This is because this here is compact. I'm writing this here as the union of balls of this radius where anything in this set is a center. And so I have the finite many of those cover it right by compactness. Right? And so now what I observe is that if I take and now I just had to be a little bit careful. So now I'm observing that if I take the ball of radius the double ball suppose I'm taking this ball here. So I get finite sorry no before that. So I have that it's now finitely many balls cover this. So this means that a subsequence must lie in one of these balls. Right? So therefore, so this is the fifth step. A subsequence of the subsequence lies in one of these these these finite many balls. of radius uh r over four, right? And now now I take so the next thing is I do and now I want to I want to apply the color from before. Right. So I started with my space X. I got this ball here of radius R and then there was some center. Then then the next thing is that I get a ball of radius uh one quarter ah and now this is with you know one of these other finite many balls where a subsequence is called it like this uh maybe like one or something like that right so I get that so so The balls of radius R over four they cover this. So a subsequence actually would have to lie here. Right? And so now but now I want to use the corner. If I need the to use the corner I need to have nested and I need to have closed sets. Right? And so in order to make them nested then I double I'm I'm going to double this ball. Why do I double this ball? Well, I double this ball here because these guys here cover this, right? But it means of course that there could be something outside, right? There could be. So this is like a ball of radius R. And so then you have this ball of radius a quarter R but the quarter balls they may have some part outside and some part inside right so so it's not this ball here is not contained in that ball right but if you went to the double ball if you went to this ball of radius 2 R you see this this point here the center the the the center here It would lie right there would be some points in this ball here that would be within it may not be the center but there's some point here that's within R of the center and then by the triangle inequality any other points is actually within R2 R over two of that point. So everything is comfortably. So this thing here and even the half ball. So I I can conclude that even the ball of radius r over two. Even this one here is contained in the double ball like that. Okay. And and in fact if you make things less or equal to on both things then you have that. Okay. Now what I have is at least here you have something that is nested. Right. And you see that the radius went down. Right. Right. So these are nested and they're closed. Okay. And so now what we do is so now we want to do this for a sequence, right? And then of course we want so now we want to construct a sequence of closed balls like this, right? And so and now when you pick your subsequence, you have to you can't wait with picking the first element in a subsequence. Right? Remember if you keep waiting then you will end up getting nothing right? So you pick at each stage you pick one element in a subsequence and then when you have the next ball you pick the next element in a subsequence and so on right and so so we will do this with so we're going to do this procedure here so now we're getting back to the the proof of the theorem right and again remember the theorem was this maybe I erased it now mistake but the the serum was this bosano V theorem for a metric space that you have a metric space you have a compact subset and you have a sequence in this compact subset and you want to construct a convergent subsequence. So, so what you do is there's a proof of the bulan visor for metric spaces. So, so what you do is so you have this again a here is compact and you have a sequence xn this is a sequence that is contained in a What you do is that first you can just let r be equal to one and then and then you do this you you cover it uh by you cover it you have here a and you cover it by finitely many balls of radius one and for one of these balls you have that there's infinite many element in the sequence. So you're going to focus on that ball from here on and out. And you just pick in your subsequence. You now pick your first element in the subsequence to be some element in that ball. Then so now the picture is that you just look at that ball, right? Forget about the other ball and everything else. You now cover it by uh balls of radius a quarter, right? And you have that again that's finally many cover the this this ball intersected with a finally many cover it right and so one of them has infinitely many elements in this in in in this sort of subsequence I consider and so you just pick one element in that right that's the next one and now you Repeat this process, right? And so you see that for these balls, but remember that. So you're starting with radius one, but you have to double syncs, right? So the sequence of closed sets, the initial closed set will have radius two, right? And the next one won't have radius a quarter, but it will have radius two times a quarter. So a half, right? And the next one will then be a ball. It will have a different center and it will have a radius of half. And then the next one you see at each stage when I do it like this then it go down with a factor of four at each stage. Right? So this here would be 1 / 8 and so on. Right? And so you see that this sequence these are are these closed balls. they are nested as they should be and the rad goes to zero. Right? So this means that there is an element that lies in all of these and that is now the limit because of the subsequence if you are from here on and out it will be like in that ball and from later on and out it will be in the next ball. Right? So that intersection of all of these balls will be your limit. Yeah. So, right. So, really what you're looking at that this thing here intersected with a right. So, it's just that these balls here. So, the intersection here that these are the the closed sets. These are the compacts. they are each of them are non- empty and and they are the uh the closed subsets of a right so you're really arguing on these guys here you see what I mean I know I stated it for balls in the call length right but if you just think about it right the balls play no particular role except for saying that the intersection of all of them contained just one point and that was because the rad went to zero right the important points were that the sets were closed subsets, right? Because then there was the lema was just all about closed subset. It had nothing to do with and so you see that that these guys here are closed subsets of a, right? And so yeah, it You mean why why I went to double the ball? No. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So I So the reason I go to the double ball is that I want to make sure that things are nested, right? And and if I I just did this procedure. Suppose so again I take this ball here. This is the first step. I have these balls of radius one and I find one of them so that there's infinite many in sequence. Then I want to have something finer, right? And so I go to I chose because I think you didn't quite have to do a quarter. You could actually have gotten away with a half, but I thought it wasn't as clear if I I did it. So I did it with a quarter because then I thought it was it looked more obvious. So if you now take this ball here and and as you say you always have to intersect with a right uh but just to make things compact but so I cover it with balls of radius a quarter right but some of these balls part of it may lie outside this ball here right because you know I couldn't cover you see if I take a ball here I can't cover it by finally many balls if I insist you know just if it was like you clean if I insist that the balls had to be these smaller ball had to be inside this ball then there wouldn't be finite many so I have to kind of look at balls that where some of these balls is kind of outside the surface right but now of course you know so that wouldn't really work because it's not like this ball here let alone the double of this ball is not contained in this So that's why I doubled that ball. Then everything is comfortably contained to each other. Any other questions? >> Isn't there since they're all closed ball or wait no these are open balls? >> When I cover things they are open because I have to have when I have a compact set I have to cover it by open subsets. But then once I'm looking at the nested things, I have to go to the closure because otherwise the lema in the corner would not apply. >> Okay. >> And if hypothetically though, if they were closed though, you would be able to cover like E1 with a >> and and and I and I'm just saying that if the the open balls cover it, then of course their closure also cover it because the closure is a larger set, >> right? But you know it wouldn't be approic clear that you know with you know like it's not like you know they're closed set so that it's not working the definition. Yeah. >> I'm not sure if we prove that like up there we have like you have a compact subset and take the intersection with subset. Yeah we prove that it's closed. We prove it's compact. >> We prove that it's compact and I can prove it again because it's very easy. So uh so if you take um if you take a if you have a if you have you have a metric space this here is compact and now you take a subset here of this here and this here is is closed. It's a closed subset of X. Then you look at X take away B. You take any copper of this together with this they cover A. But then finally many but this here have nothing in B. So actually finally many of the other one cover. Any other questions? Okay. Okay. Great. Thanks.