Okay, so I'll briefly explain the grammar of the ninth section. This is a rehearsal recording, so there might be some mistakes, but please bear with me. First, there's the phrase "whether you do this or not," but this is the negative form, so let's practice the form a bit. The meaning is, for example, you can remember how to write this kanji or not. ITOKwhetheryouREMrememberornot And this movie can be enjoyed by children or not, whetherareCHILDnot That's how it is. Okay, next, with the adjective, it can be high or not high, good or not good And with adjectives, not And with business cards, not So whether you're a student or not And with comrades, not, whether you write or not When you do, you can repeat it, but it's okay if you don't do it like this So whether you get married or not, that's okay And the meaning is whether you do this or whether it is  The next grammar point is Xornot, which we will practice later in class. The former is Xornot, and then the latter is Xornot. It is the same as in English, but it is a very formal way of speaking. For example, in representative traditional Japanese performing arts, there is brain and expression. The former is so this is brain, and the latter is expression, it is a tragedy. Yes, next is something like "said something." But, let's take a look here. It is also okay to list them like this. For example, this university has some examples from Asian countries such as Korea, China, and Taiwan. From this, it is that in any language, the more polite you are, the longer the sentence tends to be. This is a sample, but usually here it is noun, this noun, noun, noun, noun, noun, something like this is fine. Here, I will give an example. For example, about books. In Japanese, there are honorifics, swear words, and normal words.  English: There are difficult grammars, like words, and maybe it was a little strange, but for example, honorifics and onomatopoeia, there are difficult grammars, and so on. And then, MIT students, yeah, they major in subjects like computer science and engineering, and what often comes up here is, so, what, so, something, or something, something like that. Let me give you an example sentence next, but the way it's used is, of course, when it comes at the beginning of a sentence, it's on the other hand, but when it's in the middle of a sentence, it's what's called S2 in English, and I think it has a meaning like "while" in English. For example, let's look at this one, number 3, " While I like to study abroad in Japan, I also have anxieties about living in a foreign country." "I write AB," so what else should we do? Let's try number 5, " While I'm busy studying, I also have to work part-time to pay for tuition, so every day is really tough." While, right? Well, while, I'm busy with school, so, well, I have to work part-time to pay for my tuition, so it's really difficult. Now, all of these were grammatical points within sentences, but when it comes at the beginning of a sentence, it really means the same as "on the other hand" in English. Yes, well, next, or what is this? When it comes between nouns and nouns, between business cards, it's either. Is it? Or, what is it? It's also fine when it comes in the middle of a sentence. For example, I hope to be able to work in Europe or Asia in the future. Well, what is it? A simpler, more informal way of saying it is the same as Europe or. Or, at this university, you write your graduation thesis in Japanese or English. And, it's also fine in sentences. Or, I'm currently undecided whether to get a job or go on to graduate school and continue my studies. Now, be careful here. When it comes to sentences, there is a here. Yes, whether I should, so, well, whether I should send an email or make a phone call. But here, it's not fine without the here. Email  You can either send a message or make a phone call, either is fine, but is that strange? Don't forget to send a message here. Oh, and of course, what is this here? This is a plain form, okay? Thank you. Yes, and then it's quite negative, but negative means not easy, not ready, or difficult, so this is called negative polarity, isn't it? It always comes with negativity. It's not easy, so the bus is taking a long time to come, or I can't remember the kanji. And, it's written here in English, but it's usually used in situations where there's something desirable that happens easily. For example, the concert is taking a long time to start, or I'm practicing but I can't play well. Something desirable that happens easily. For example, the train is taking a long time, or I can't remember the vocabulary. We study this in class. And, in other words, it's really just like the English phrase That is in Word name. For example, next week my mother's brother, that is, my uncle, is coming. This is a paraphrase.  Okay, so my parents said that 20 years ago, that is, the year I was born, and that's how it's used. Of course, that sentence is fine too. For example, the entrance exam war, uh, you study, but the entrance exam war is basically competing in studying to get into a good school. This is a paraphrase. For example, uh, I studied Japanese traditional performing arts, but the expression of Japanese traditional performing arts is basically old Japanese comedy. It can also be used like this. Ah yes, this is something we study in class, and this is um, their, and um, well, the English "thef" sentence, uh, you always use it at the beginning, but there's only one, so let's look at the rec. Let's do um, number 1. For example, students would want to speak Japanese not only with their teachers but also with ordinary Japanese people, so they decided to have a party with a group of Japanese exchange students, uh, in this text, uh, so it's similar in meaning. Okay, so that finishes part 1 of grammar 1 through 8.