Okay, let's start with number 9. Number 9 is, well, first of all, it's "except," but be careful. When a name comes after "except something," it's "except something," but in this case, it's both "except," but this has the meaning of "ext," which is the "X" in "ext." For example, if you say "universities other than MIT," it means "universities other than MIT." But if you say "except M," it's " mitp," which has a slightly different meaning, so be careful. For example, number 1 is "I can eat any sushi except Co." And then, how about this one? "Is Friday okay for the next meeting?" "Ah, sorry, that day is a bit difficult." Is it "any day other than that day," so "Day excluding that day," right? And besides studying, I play tennis and watch movies. Yes, besides studying. In this case, "besides studying" means "studying." Yes. For example, something like this: " Besides Japanese, I can also speak French." "Ah, sorry, I can also speak Chinese and French." This means "biz." Yes. Number 10 is "never something." This "never something" is negative.  It's called polarity, and for example, like "not very" or "not very," it's always used in negative sentences, and the meaning is "by me." For example, "I want to stop by anyme" means "no matter how difficult it is, I will never stop studying Japanese." This isn't that difficult, but we'll review this in class. And then there's "not very" and "never." This is all about negative polarity, and it always happens together with negativity. Okay, next is "for such and such," and this reason is "of the reason," right? "Of the reason," "that" is always in plain form. So for example, there are students who miss school because they are busy with their part-time job. In more natural English, it's "of this reason," like this. Or, in Japan, it's said that foreigners are sometimes refused an apartment because they are foreigners. Is that unbelievable? I don't think it's that difficult. Okay, we'll practice this together again in class. And then there's "such and such," which is a plural suffix, so please take a look at this. In Japanese, there's a plural suffix called "ra," and then there's "tachi." Tachi is for human nouns, and also for animals. For example, dogs and cats are fine. Ra is also a plural suffix used for these kinds of nouns, like "they," "they," and "us." Dragalia Lost is a word that seems to be looking down on something. It's a bit of a dirty word, but even in words like these, the plural meaning comes out. Teachers and big dogs and cats - please don't use these. Okay, next is "in contrast to something." But this has various meanings. Here, it means "in contrast to" or "in contrast to." For example, in contrast to otaku culture, which boys are interested in. In this case, it means "in contrast to," but cute culture seems to be popular with girls. Also, Japanese grammar is difficult, while Chinese pronunciation is difficult. For example, in English, for example, whereJapanese IN THECASEO OF Japanese TheGrammaris  It's difficult, when we're doing contrast, in contrast, or rather, in contrast, of course, in contrast, it can also mean as, in contrast, so look at the context and think about the meaning. For example, the United States put strong economic pressure on North Korea at this time, so there are times like that. So think about it appropriately in context. Okay, next, number 14 is as far as, but this means as far as, so be careful. In the same case, this is plain form, and then it becomes noun, and is an adverse. For example, as far as I know, this is often used, so as far as, as you know, and as far as, as you know, is also often used, depending on the context, either is OK. And then there's this, but before, it's a negative case, right? A student of this university, this is also OK, or not, either is OK, is it? As far as, as far as, you know ののカードは、 English: notastudent col Both are fine. Next, it says, and here it is, and then, unless it is something, so be careful here, when it comes to verbs and adjectives, plain is fine. Let's take a look together. Okay, next, number 10, this exercise is a little sporadic, right? Number 15 is, despite the fact that, so here, please use the plain form. For example, despite the rain was falling heavily, is it not of the FA or despite the FA? And despite the question was difficult, is that okay? I don't think this is difficult. When it comes to business cards, it is despite the fact that she is a foreigner, and also to foreigners, either is optional. This is optional, either is fine. Yes, and this "despite" has the same meaning as "even though" that everyone has studied, but "even though" is better, especially when it comes to colloquial. "Despite" has quite a nuance, but the meaning is the same. Okay, next, since we're here... もせっすわ」は、ご Whenever you see a combination, think about the meaning of "even if". Um, so it's the form you studied in first grade, "It's okay to eat" or "It's okay to speak in Japanese". Um, so it's like "You may speak Japanese" or " You may speak Japanese". So, think about the meaning of "even if". Um, so this is the same context. Um, what is it normally? In natural English, it might be used like "even if" or "although". Um, for example, even if you can read kanji, you can only read about 300, so you don't understand the contents of the newspaper at all. That means "I can read kanji". Um, so even if you say "this grammar is difficult", it's not that you don't understand it at all. Is it "this grammar is difficult", "it's not", "that's the case that I don't understand it at all", "I understand everything"? Um, so this is a bit strange English, but it means "even if", "you said", or "even if they said". Yes, for example, even if he's an MIT student, he might not know much about computers, so that's one way to use it. And lastly, there's the negative, but this one always has a negative ending. This is not As One Wishes, for example, what should I do? Well, as I wish, so things aren't going as planned, which is a problem. Also, I ca n't express my thoughts as I want in front of other people. That's one way to use it. Okay, so that's all for now.