Okay, so, for part 2 of day 6, we'll cover grammar, from number 11 to 17. First, there's the pattern "that why," but the meaning is, well, that. For example, look at this, look at number 3, look, the heater is off, so it's cold. So there's a situation here, and that Why, it's cold. Then, for example, look at number 4, he's lived in Japan for 20 years, so that Why, he's good at Japanese. So, you need some kind of context like this. And then, well, this is a grammatical structure issue, but this "wake" is a noun, so if you use the assertive, it means he's good at it. And then, well, the assertive, and then the assertive, and then in the case of a verb, this is plain form, in the case of a noun, but this is also OK. After all, it's a person, so I think both the person and the verb are OK.  You ca n't use business cards, but usually they're good, they're fast, they're cold, and then they come, and in this wind, predictions often come. So, the part of speech that is called a business card, remember that. Yes, it's number 12. This is "if this noun is okay," so in terms of meaning, it's "if this noun" or "if with this noun," but for example, if this noun is okay, please, please, if with dictionary, please, and if coffee is okay, I can make it right away. Or, if this is okay, this also means the same thing, if coffee is okay, if coffee is okay. In short, in Japanese, "if" and "if" represent the meaning of "if" in English. Yes, it's number 13, "quite a lot," so this is "above," but in English, it would be "fairy" or "pry," but as you can see here, speak feels the degree  "Of something is not High but is Higher than Average" is a common adjective, so it's quite a predictive expression. For example, it's quite useful or quite interesting. There are these kinds of uses. Yes, number 14 is quite something, and this one is also quite similar in meaning to "quite" that we studied before, like QU and FY, but it's a little different here. "Speaker was impressed by the way something the way it is" basically has a positive nuance, like "better than expected." For example, "Was your trip the other day quite enjoyable?" "Was it quite enjoyable than I expected?" It's a positive result. And "I wrote it quite well." This is also a positive result. Yes, number 15, by the way, this one is " Talking that," but you need some context, so be careful. For example, " Tanaka was absent from class today." Yesterday you said your stomach hurt, so you need the context here, like that reminded me of that. And yesterday I went to a friend 's birthday party, talking about that, so you need the context here too. Just be careful about that. Okay, number 16 is something, but this is explained here, so it's change the Sin to ANCL, so in English it's the FA, or the FASU that, or the FA that. This is a function that changes a part of a sentence to a noun. For example, let's look at number 3, this university is known for being high level, of course this university is known for being high level, sorry, this is also OK, please always put this in plain form before it. Okay, number 17 is the last pattern, this is passive knowledge, and it's used to express some rule that something is something, for example this movie  It's decided from after 7pm. For example, Section 1 of Japanese 6 is decided from 9am. This is how it's used. Here's a quick comment, but here it says it starts at 5am, for example, 5pm or 7pm. You don't need to include this. Be careful about this. This is also true. The percentage of graduate students is 25%. It says 25%. Please do not include this.