Yes, so, the lesson is number 10, part 2 of grammar. We'll start with number 10. It's about thinking from the perspective of something, but this is really an English expression meaning From the perspective of From the stand of something. For example, if we think from the perspective of education, from the stand of... And also, like this, convenience From the perspective of convenience From the stand of... Convenience, right? If we think from the perspective of something, if we think from the perspective of something interesting And then, equality in education Equality is important If we think from the perspective of something, there are problems with the current education system This is how we use it I do n't think this is such a problem We'll practice this together again in class Next, the sentence above is, well, in English, on something For example, nowadays, children nowadays don't play outside, and what's more, they don't play outside, and what's more, this is always playground, okay? So, not only do they not play outside, they don't read books either. It's just normal or natural English.  If you ask me, I do n't read books either. And let's try this. Tokyo is crowded, and besides, the cost of living is high, so it's hard to live there. And this hotel is quiet, and what's more, this is a business card. So, this is, um, when you're being assertive, you can say it's quiet, and what's more, that's how you use it. Also, Einstein was not only a physicist but also a great musician. For example, Tezuka Ohha was not only a medical student but also a great manga artist. There are ways to use it like this. Yes, we'll practice this in class as well. Okay, next is number 12, something about something, and this is a set phrase in English. For example, there are expressions like toone regret and toone surprise, but this can be used to mean something good, um, what, um, something sad, something regrettable, something fortunate, or something surprising. For example, something good, um, I'm going to get a scholarship. Is it called toyjoy in English? I'm not really sure.  To my delight, and to my sadness, and then there's " myad," I think? This is something everyone knows, so please tell me more about it. And then there's number 13, but this is okay, right? This is, um, in English, but, but, but, is it exactly the same thing? Um, but, but, please be sure to use, um, before the sentence. Yes, it means " towards something" or "in relation to something," but it has various meanings, but what we're studying here is, for example, with respect to, or for example, with respect or about, in relation to confidence that you don't know when it will happen, right? And then, for example, let's do this. Um, studying Japanese or Chinese, and then, towards Asian countries, is it "with respect," or um, with respect, towards Asian countries, is that right?  There is nothing to do in the past, so it is There is nothing to do in the past. But for example, let's look at this one slowly. The next train is coming soon, so there is nothing to do in the past. There is nothing to do in the past. And there is nothing to do in the past. There is nothing to do in the past. And for example, when it comes to something, there is a softening to it, but let's read it. It literally means If I were to tell you who what or when those question words are used, so in general this is used, but it is often used as if anything or rather. Let's look at the second one. I like spicy food, so rather I prefer Korean food to Japanese food. So of course there are other question words here. For example, let's do the third one. When is the next meeting? When is the next meeting? It is next week.  It 's Wednesday, so this is a bit... what is it? When is it? This computer is called IfItotell youWhen, and how much memory does it have? It's about 2 GB, so that's how you use it. Okay, next, so this is really the same as in English, in thatCASIFSO. I have a headache, so you should go to sleep right away. So, next, ah, that's all for now. Okay, so that concludes part 2. Please study well.