Okay, so the next kanji is this one. However, it means Set and then finish. Let's take a look at the components. Now, if you look at this radical, it's always water. This radical is called 3 in Japanese. So this is this radical always stands for water. This is the feeling, but this is a letter and this part looks like a ladder, so Imagine a story where in earth, a water, someone is climbing up the ladder with a letter with his hand. It also means finish and then set. The pronunciation is only, this is economic and then rescue. This is read, but read is pronounced "s". It is an interjection verb, something is done or got done. For example, the exam was done. Then there is the transitive verb, something is done at this time. For example, finish your homework early. Okay, so the next kanji is... This kanji has meanings like "good" or "authentic." This one is called " component" ( or "person with three meses"), so it means "good." The pronunciation is... This one is pronounced "hin" (品). For example, "food" is "food," so it's "goods" (to eat). Then there's " merchandise," for example, "what kind of goods does this store sell?" or "products," for example, "what kind of products does this company make?" Then there's "component" (コンポコン), which is "work," so it's "work related to art," so it's "music," for example, "writing," or "novel" or "literature." For example, "the work by Natsume Soseki." Then there's "quality," which is "goods." For example, "this product is of good quality." And then there's "elegant," which is an adjective. For example, "she is an elegant person." That's how it's used. So it's not used much in writing, but for example, this is "good." Then there's this character, and this one  Okay, so the next kanji is Q, and the meaning is round, and then there's also Do, but please put this Do here. As for how to read it, there's Maru, which is round, for example, round, and then there's Hinomaru, which means the flag of Japan, so you can see the ROUND The Sun in the Japanese FL, and then there's Marugao, which means round face, and then there's Nipponmaru, this is one of the names for Nipponmaru, so Nipponmaru is CAS, where can be used as a suffix for the name of Honmaru, and then there's also Gun, which isn't used very often, and this is 1-gan, which is used as one-lamp, so okay, so the next kanji is Maru, and the meaning is life, so please look at this component. Please give me this feeling, but this ACT itself means Order. And another example, this 令 is The Current ER of Japan, and 令 is what year, so 2021 is Reiwa 3. so ACT literally means me. And this part, this part is good, it just means mouth, so mouth is Order matter of Life and Death, so all of this together means LIFE. It is pronounced as calling life, for example I will receive your life, but it means I will kill you, and his life won't be so long. And only is pronounced as may, for example life, this is also LIFE, and then command, but this is life order, so it means order. Okay, the next kanji, this kanji, the meaning is War, which means Fight, so let's take a look at the components, from this part, this component いまね みね みね English: If you think about it, then this left part, this kanji is this it self means individual, so it means individual with spear so is going to go to fight, so it has that meaning, and the reading is on reading, this is line, for example, war, particle filter, before, after war, before the war, and then battlefield, this means battlefield, and it is read as fighting, for example, fighting that team, particle is both, so be careful, now the next kanji, this feeling, but it means contend, dispute, argument, so let's take a look at a contend, it's three, but this part, IMAGINE someone mouth, open and this part, IMAGINE the shape of the hands, so one is holding, A stick and to argue or dispute, so try to think of a story like that, and the reading is on reading, so for example, war, then dispute, this is argument, A meaning, argument is theory  Regarding the meaning of the logic in the paper, there is the word " competition" (to compte), and in reading, it is used to mean "to fight," for example, "to fight with China." This can also mean "to fight." Here, " IMAGINEA Tree Asuling Tree with small branches So this Tree is not yet Fly GROWN" means "Not yet." The pronunciation is "Mi" in reading. It means "future," and then "unsensory," which means "completed" or "unfinished." And then there is "mikon," which means "marriage." It can also mean "not yet" or " not married." Okay, now for the next kanji. This kanji means "deep." Now let's look at the component. When you look at this radical, you always say "Woo." This is "3." Think about the meaning of "water." And then this part, you can associate this part with " Another Sense Hole," which means... WH And then, this one, everyone knows it well, right? Tree so you can IMAGINE at Tree I Me Tree with ah so it will S Into The Water deeply Yes, all of this together means DEEP And as for how to pronounce it, it's read as deep, and then read as s For example, midnight This means the night is deep, so it's deep in the night, or late at night And then, deep sea This is DEEP, the new DEEP SEA And then there's the aggressive, serious, which means aggressive Yes, yes, the next kanji is this feeling But it means number And then there's the meaning of destination sign And it means story But there's no particular story to describe this feeling But this part is M And then there's this part below This And as for how to pronounce it, it's read as GO For example, number And then the year The Name of ER For example, the current Japanese era name is Wa And then there's the symbol And then the number plus car number It's also used as a counter For example  This indicates the car number of the train. Car No. 1, car number 12, car number 2. It can also be used like this. Okay, now for the next kanji. This character means sad. Let's look at the components. First, the component at the top. This part means negative or unusual. For example, this character means usual. Yes, "extraordinary" can mean unusual, but it also means very much. Next, this part at the bottom. I think everyone knows this part well. It means heart. So the heart has a negative feeling, so the you are sad. The reading is sad in kun reading, and sad in on reading. For example, tragedy. This character means play or theater, but it means tragedy. Okay, the next kanji. This character means status, rank, standard. And on the left, this radical. This is okay, right? 3. And on the right, this part is by it.  It stands for the meaning of each word, but you can imagine each tree has its own standard or status. That's how you should remember it. And, um, reading, this is called writing in reading. For example, personality, body type, this is body status, then price, cost, and then, to pass, to pass, entrance exam. For example, I passed the entrance exam.