Okay, let's start with the lesson level feeling. This is the first feeling, us 9. This feeling, but first let's look at the points. This feeling means to buy a cow. Then this part, we have a large this hour before, which is a wig. And this part, this is a rally car winds, ah egg office word means knife. So, a woman car, way 4, re the big knife nof, ah product, be in controller, that's the story. As for how to read it, in reading it it is gender. For example, system, grace system, but it is often used in compound, education system, and school system, save system, that's how it is used. And uniform, this is uniform, but this means clothes. And past life, this is tax, tax. Tex system, and then enforce, today, which used to mean today, comes from studying, but it means strong force, correct, 24 sound true, product. Okay, now the next feeling, this feeling, so it means yes. Let's look at the components, you know this radical well, right, water Then, this part at the top, here, this means glass. Everyone knows it well, 93 layers, Glassy Labyrinth, increasing exo, ah, Fanti's mud, giving drugs 3. Then, at the bottom, this means boo-boo, oh ah boss, field, are you do s 40th. Well, that's the story. Now, as for how to read it, in reading, man, for example, man, a satisfaction and research, then full, this means it's full of people, 4, meaning people, then dissatisfaction, for example, d, satisfaction, there is dissatisfaction, for example, dissatisfaction, there is dissatisfaction, for example, dissatisfaction, there is dissatisfaction, then number 3, this is used for what is called a husband, for example, a person under 18, a viv, a waaa rasha goa young husband under hea, a statue of a cherry blossom and a person under 18, it's not allowed. And in reading, there is a reading that is not used very often, but it is read as mi, michiru, data, grandma, pudding, become 4, but this is not used very often, uh, only, ring is fine. Yes, the next feeling, this feeling means a night, a cup, glass, then component Everyone has already studied this, right? If you look at this rally, Sanpicture ol Life means number 2. Then we studied this part before this part, this is that stamp body see you 92 blades barley web dry x advance ink progress good, it's a reading, but there is a reading of god for sound reading For example going to college Albers is higher thinned so he went to college once or Oda Station Then when progressing, the dental meeting is progressing Meeting in black Grace Then progress poo progress has the same meaning, a technology has advanced ah technology advisor star progress And then um, developed country this is velop country This is underdup country There is also this usage, it is a reading, but when you read it, it is progress For example this project is progressing this project asr bounding progress It is used like this Yes, next feeling This feeling but the meaning is 24 or faye ahhhh ping It has this meaning Let's look at the components for a bit From this rally it's OK, right This is about glass medicine And then this radical  This is okay, then this part, this means good or every, yes, in Indian 4, eh vr, glass force, so it means 4 and cafe, as for how to pronounce it, first of all, only, ring is easy, for example, falling off a horse, falling off a horse, this means horse, delicious, spicy, it means 4, so, yes, falling now, 4 longer horse, and you know rakugo, right? Rakugo performances in Japan, this raku is also used in rakugo, and then rucker through, to 4 from the sky, but it is also used like this, and military leading is often used, to fall, at this time, to 4 also means, eh, 2 fail, for example, failing to get into university, failing to get into sovereignty, and then when your grades drop, at this time it means 4, get for, idea sheet gray, boo boo sr, and then when you fall from the 22nd floor, aaaah, jump, Frontale purity, please, the English 4 is interview, sa, Mr. Asher, harbor forger, c, ah, this is an unin shop owner, at this time in Japanese it is with と There is a way to read it, but there is a way to read it by sound reading. For example, 1 is Japan, 1 is Edo, position, go, pair, and then there is chi, so well, runner, status, and so the car, 1 is sea, for example, his chi is high, this position, pass, king, status is high, and also, it is attached with the number, 1, 2, 3, groove, for example, in a race, it is used as project 2nd, 3rd, so first position, then second position, and then the position after, this is a little x, but everyone has studied for about 10 minutes, glare, bowers, about, and merit, and everyone can write it in hiragana, but sometimes there are Japanese people who use this feeling, but you don't have to study this. Okay, next feeling, this feeling, it means happiness and happy, let's look at the component, this part at the top is like that, or ads, pearl, Audi, scan character, pugya, gya, muse two, do, Saturday, saturday to do in, it is the header, but in sound reading it is like this, for example, happiness, a, all of these become, well, day. Happy, happy life, happy life, then lucky, fortinet, and this "f" is negative, super unhappy means unhappy, unhappy life, and then there's happy, this also means happy, it's familiar, for example, happy life, happy life, well, happy life, this also means the same thing, and then there's the two "c"s, which is the negative ear, so anchor p, share, happy life, unhappy life, that's how it's used. Yes, the next one, this one, but the meaning is beautiful, and then there's the part that means up, so look at the component, this part, this is coming from this, it's called this, this feeling character power window, turn sound to asobou, stars match, window youdo, and then insider, this is awesome, unaf, it should be na, turn, hero, diversion, camp, pou dou dou, up or ev, it means up, as it's pronounced, is it just the sound reading? For example, possible, force bar, for example, this project is possible, this project is pos, and then impossible, this is good, negative impose bar, and then possibility, so pos ability  It has the meaning of For example, whether you pass the entrance exam for this university Noseda Pos Ability University, there is no such campus Water River City, and it is used like this Yes, next, this is the feeling, but the meaning is plain and also, also, rice water, it has the meaning of And it is a story or component, but in no time it is margin zoom premature ejaculation Bright Ah Cliff perfect score Endy Bell White 2 voodoo sa base order server window diffuser playing car letter a 8 on reading original For example cause 9 records And then principle this Prince stick means basic rule And then deduction At this time, well, it is starting or original Great point starting point And then current This was previously script That is, well, original And then this is the meaning of script And then primitive This is primitive Hapbar meaning start So original And story primitive And you There is a reading of Hara in reading Only Nohara in Japanese see you And then it is often used in Japanese names such as Harada Yes, next  It's like this, but the meaning is course p andy and then beer to meter so go two blades boo boo lure leather parka leather fashion din side bag this character winds please it means old rose to defend 4 sp T4 it is pronounced as ah reading wine for example current member course and cause of death this is ah reason for death pose yes next feeling this feeling but the meaning is sweet or demand let's look at the components wes but resin does order leg this undo this with 1234 Force major league 1st earl this es 12 3 sod star box defender aros shell with the meaning of all are so you can immersion story week am pop all regard to seek for help and it is pronounced as 9 reading for 9 for example job this is seeking people fc silver 4 pos marp 1 ty and then school lunch this is the food upper part of employment This looks sturdy, and then there's the proposal, this is now marriage, so pose, muumuu, meaning, then, to request, this is, um, necessary, necessary, dimar matuidi, troublesome, and then you reading, this is read as, to ask, for example, to ask for help, Suika hair pupu, there is a usage like that, yes, the next feeling, this feeling, but the meaning is appeal, and then now there is the meaning of shop assistant, and um, this is the component, the upper child, this part, this is u, and then the lower part, this is, there is also the meaning of older sister, for you puaru, sound and papa plum soda entering the shop, now the shop assistant, gear correct, that is the meaning, 8 on reading, for example, the content, for example, the content of a professional class, the content of homework, the content of a meeting, it is used like that, and then bo in a, this is the word from beauty sales art pupeepo, but often ko shi jpma, this k sama, let's do it, yes, the next feeling, this feeling, but the meaning is passing gray, and it is the component, this upper part 5, this means bamboo booby midi so you do bag ir county ん gardiner bar bamboo The pronunciation is only ring and goes to mountain For example, calculation This is twice clay calculate Ah bead counter lady And then arithmetic This is not in front And then um what is it Arithmetic or math These are things that are often used in Marriage This is um Caesar concertly App This combination eu oag the only ding So addition addition subtraction subtraction multiplication and then division Well these words are probably useful so remember them Okay, next feeling This feeling means good child or sometimes class And it is a component We studied the upper part, right? Wight slaw Ah bad face This is a foot teaching goods bag And the lower part This is a store That is a secure brother Mazinger story is going happo It should be ame Gangnam blow bamboo please d The pronunciation is sound reading For example equality This is a flavor active Let's go For example we want to create an equal society with ip  2 Creative Bank Society That's how it's used And you're reading In group reading 1 is equal Often especially used in the decks A is equal to B or A is equal to B AIDS ap bar in to use CO2 b Yes, next This is the feeling But the meaning is heavy rain Way water Leave And this component above is good, isn't it Along or Ground Day of the week Road Duty 2 cards g Story Sam One SX Reading Underground Sending off Master Bluff This world Says beacon Day That's good Yes Galway or Leave And as for how to read Now in reading today For example last year Rush and then in the past Pasto You're reading this as monkey This means tree And to leave America to do This party group Wow, be careful Something to do a place True Wave Sun Place Yes, next This is the feeling But the meaning is happy And happiness Water Big L  Let's take a look at the components. This part above has the meaning of good work, or what you might call luck. You often see 8 fortune slips in Japan, right? The first one is xon door, then you hear gargwa, then small luck, sumo wrestling, work, and then if you get yo, it means grabber door. That's the story of the politician now, that kind of thing, curb happy to doing be happy. And as for the reading, a is happy in reading, guwa so, happy. There is also the reading, yoriki. A common example is comedy, this play has the meaning of play. Comedy happy primer koumerry. And the opposite is sad, intense performance, and play has the meaning of plage. The next one is this feeling, but it means great season or Western. And as for the components, everyone knows this one, it's the water radical, rally car series Suche therapy also lau Booby feeling, but Pole is butler this character harraca ah redwood bass tinkarudou This is the way, but it is read as yo in reading. For example, Western, this is doub foot and Then there's the word "party," which specifically refers to Asia. And the Pacific Ocean. And then there's the word "antique ocean." And this one is a bit productive, but there's "Western food," which is food. And then there's "Western," which means room. And then there's " clothes," which is Western. And then there's the productive word "party open," which means Japanese food. So there's Japanese food and Japanese room. And then there's "Japanese," which means Japanese. And then there's " Japanese," which means kimono.