It's the feeling at the very beginning of the lesson, the pressure, the character Indian Sunten, this feeling, but the meaning is this, let's look at the points now, first this left party component, this is a lang, a good woman, a pintail wig, lang video, a chain, for example speaking, Juspi, and then Japanese, this has the meaning of lang city, and then on the right side, this um, this feeling, this has the meaning of direction, for example this one, way, and then direction, gentoo, do, it's the pronunciation, but in sound reading, for example to visit, visit Nippon Kodo, or visit Tanaka's house, this is also OK, visit something, this is bz, and then you read it as asking, visit, there is an eco pronunciation, for example to ask, last night, but this is transtive, baabu, so for example to visit the joint, it has the same meaning as to visit, but this one is a little more conversation, let's meet, visit the joint, and then to visit Tanaka, this is OK, and then pain rail, this is internship, wave, transition, allpoldi, s day, for example to do  do Neil Ah Par Lady An old friend came to the polo party io plenty phase to do this party girl Open tend to be noa Days Transdue Point Feeling Next feeling This feeling But the meaning is scene And it's a component But this top part This is not to be released in Japan Right then Button Port This means Kyoto's Kyoto Winds Captor Meeting UK 3 sheets God 3 s prize in b find Kyoto Barbie Finder Captor is view 2 scene The reading is only Ring history For example landscape water water And then night view This is the night I see And then cake This is the base nurse worker's big condition And a little special The reading is but this is read as house diary Scenery means scenery Boo Boo help But the meaning is gesture Are you doing Do Version Are you do Boo Boo But in reading there is a Ku For example Tiro And then this rd So Tokyo how to do  A good older brother is aa s do do so re new rote grinder steep mounting here to do it has meaning Polo is an ally but only ding do days x Dale ar w do but this autumn CanDo patisserie me and then don't do anything dangerous ah do do and then insurance is this place ho is poodle 2 puku cure from pain garsting so impression 2 start meaning it is then put together reading but when you are reading, steep has meaning This is for example steep 9 is c mountain Steep Mountain is used Yes next feeling This feeling but the meaning is service and then there is the meaning of wu king component but web this means liquor 9 we are plan dick now heavy rain thunder turn year this party 22 blades es order br that's right jaspar avatar intervis order low that's the meaning so it's OK as for how to read it For example if you want to play a role like this, I'd like to try this tarp and then official this is government office と official, then government office, public office, then actor, this means act, art works as, then acting, it seems, but it's useful, this as in Japanese, ball, useful, useful, for example, favorite video is useful for studying kanji, sb, and for use for four, feeling starry particle, be careful, yes, next feeling, this feeling, but it has various meanings, mini 3 save deflect, and then med, it has various meanings, go to apartment, the story this, parka sumo, it means a little, and then this e 4 a so are you might on red, it means ping, but the reading is reading, there is a gender, and this is used in lesson shops, usage is energy saving economical use, ng, and then this is what it is, then far, through to reflect, loan, and then to control, this is to go home, turn, in our case, later, Arthur, each regular item, when it's time to go home, it means to control, special caliph, go go back t, there is 3 in the 4th turn, and you omit, it is read as 2 is really が ふわっす Be careful, chilling, this is a cool, cold, this is a cool, cold, for example this beer is a cool, cold, this beer with tools, it can also be read this way, it's a feeling, this feeling means generic, and then office, r has the meaning rendered in to sing story Aso shell with this are old man voodoo sujan book 2 reading day sound reading is called syndrome, the most commonly used is in the future, what do you want to be in the future? And Sho-kun also uses this award, yes, next feeling, this feeling but the meaning is mo, the head is a complex condition, and it is a component, that is, buddy car frc tomorrow shell web meaning 4 mine fillies 3 coming from push web one's face eeeeee then on the right side do rider desires character Zao winds blue booboo but akibo day sr waiting in mature meow little renren b motion 4 Minekan LDP cane motion is the way to read it only bing  For example, information. This is, well, information. This is a position that gets boring, right? David Port op. Oh dear. Condition. Well, it means information. And then, this is emotion. This is emotion. Love. This love has the meaning of taking. Yes, love is the opposite of feeling, but it means romantic feeling rope. Friendship. This means friend. Frame. Display tree. Dojo. This means god. And you read it as "nasato" in reading. So there is compassion. It means there is passion. And then there is pathetic. This is hard to see. Shane 4 is an aggressive. There are these kinds of uses. Yes, next is poop. a. This is the feeling, but it has various meanings. info. prick. ir. news poodle. Ah, happy to do. And then there is riding again. ukemi. Zinger 1 zundub. mm. Group for days envelope. re. Undo. Labyrinth. heartbeat voodoo. Group mast. b. Sams oad blue bag report. And then there is rating. only. Ring. Information. Then there's "to report," so please report, then the weather forecast, Ueda Forecast, then breaking news, this quick report of measurement, so it's " Gentle Report" or, well, " New Splash," that's what it means, and also "to reward in reading," although it's not used very often, for example, to reward Mr. Tanaka, putting AI Miu in, Mr. Tanaka, that's another way of using it, the next feeling, this feeling, but the meaning is, well, and this feeling sometimes means German duram, and now it's "for rent," but this "radical" means " buy this radical," this "radical" with app documents, steal the base, shake bees, and that's also what it means, this "radical" is, that is, "is so cl," way b, and then this on the right, this powered by Arthur Encanto, so I mean, story bees only, win-win, public opinion, s, armor sweat zone, and reading, but it's read as "poison," for example, "independence," to become independent, so choose medium heat, choose pendant, and then single, this is swing, talking, barmy and state, ah, and then self-study, this means to study alone, Hey, you two, and then there's the idea of ​​loneliness, which is a bit active, but Won Lee, that person is a lonely person, en, Porsche Audi a +6, there are these kinds of uses, and as I said earlier, there are these kinds of kanji characters, Akanji character fan 4, Particular party, for example this is America, and secondly this is France, and then this feeling, character umbrella fall charm Mary, you reading, but one person, for example one, anon, a single person, this also means swing, well, in the context Mary is a single person, after the war, a single person, which means single art, it has the same meaning, it feels like this feeling, but the meaning is Dolly, and there is the meaning of render, ah story Audi s, character Yu cancar Inly, blades, aaaaaa, human Dolly Far Entire Aboly, nas shady sds, character, and reading, this is God, for example dog scene art guard wid pbs, ah feeling character, good, hmm & Lee onbd, give swing, Arthur towing bar me, Estel, and then Height This feeling is what gusowwingspot bolly high heart This is a horri body But it means a back-shaking body And then place This is uh, place wiiu bolly this coming corn So it means home and mother is also from Where are you from? And you are looking at this, but actually sashimi eco -i feeling is used And then close, but hard headache prevention Lee But Seth is talking about or the highest degree Next time Close up on emotion Media And then for example close people Cross are friends and mother Gloucester When you say close people, for example family or pro 3 meaning pass close people Yes Next feeling This feeling But it means just stand And then it means for component But it is back face sos Aso Ciel Bleu dry thread from polo party But voodoo om pump ask reas Ah infa and uh drag n And then distant There is party goods stall and bar Uh uh this combination is discommunication distant far  It's a sound reading, but for example, bar ends, shock, prepe loop, voodoo, and then forever, this is aps, character indicator, forever beso, forever blue star 4 at, and then you're reading, but this is far away, far away, be careful, this one is close, Optiball, good, close, close, yes, the next feeling, this feeling, but the meaning is two, audio, not, this is related, you can go home bus, shady, wes, image, two people standing, cultivation, year, line, the way to read it, you're reading, line up, uh, trusty, intern, c, there is a pillar, truth, and uh, line up, intern today, line up, Plasty, martial arts, for example, line up this book, line up this part x, and then intern, when it's the part, people are coming, be careful, people are lined up, pivot, what, and x, the floor, living, famous place, but in sound reading, parallel, this line means line, so parallel, play, pearl due, adaptive disorder, for example, a, these two lines are, this two, lines are power a  This is another way to use it.