Okay, now I'll explain the grammar for Section 6. This is Section 6, Section 1, from 10. First, there's "to notice something." When it's a noun, it's "to notice the noun." This "to" is everyone's attention. So "to notice" has the meaning of "at" or "ATT." So everyone 's attention is "ATT to this," which means "to realize." For example, "I noticed a mistake in the kanji." Then, when a sentence comes, "to notice something." Here, use "the FA that." And before "here," you can use "past" or "present," but use "plain form." For example, "I realized I gave the wrong answer." That's how you use it. Okay, next, number 2 is "to wish or pray that something." This "to" is optional. This "to" is optional. Here, it's the speaker's " hop" or "desire." For example, "I wish the world would be peaceful soon."  I pray that it will be peaceful. Of course, you can also put in the present state. I hope so. Here, I always ask you to use the plain form of the present. And then, I hope. In English it's I hope, but in Japanese it's usually the present state. So, I hope so. We use the present state here. And then, for the third one, something and then something. This "ba" is the ev form. The ev form of verbs. For example, I think we studied this in the second year. When it's verbs, it's eat, eat, and when it's verbs, it's write, write, write, line, right? And then it's do, do, come, come, but using this ev form, we use the other Do. For example, some people like sushi and some people don't. This means exactly the same thing. Yes, some people like sushi and some people don't. This and this mean exactly the same thing. And with this textbook, you can practice conversation and learn about culture. The meaning is, well, this textbook allows you to practice conversation and learn about culture. It means exactly the same thing. Next, yes, number 4, this one is fine, right? What will it be? In spoken language, we use "What will it be?" but this means IW. For example, "I wonder if I don't need to go to the hospital?" is used as IW. Then, number 5, that's the Cod series. It's a series word, and it means something like this, that, what kind of, but this is Ka. So for example, if you say "What kind of problem," it's Whatkindproblem. But there is one thing to be careful about. For example, if you say "a book like this," this is a derivation. "A book like this" is not allowed, so be careful. And next, there is the word that means each, but this means I. For example, the children each went home to their own homes. This has the meaning of Iri. Also, the modification of Noun is OK. For example, if you say "each of the countries," it's Eofthe country. And then there is the usage eachofthecult. Okay, next is something we studied in our second year, right? Something that seems to be... This is what it means, but let's look at the sentence again. Something to be careful about with something that seems to be... It's a dora, but here, when it's an aggressive or noun, you drop it. For example, it seems to be difficult... It's not that the teacher's class is difficult... It's not that... And it seems to be a kind person... You drop it, so be careful. Next, it says something like... Continue... This is a barb stem form. Okay, it's a noun form. For example, continue studying or continue crying. It means Do and S. Next is... But this means Nothing but. There are various patterns. We'll probably review this again in class, but for example, do nothing but play computer games. It means you only play games. Also, for some people it's a casual thing, but there are also people who put a diagram and say... For example, eat all the time. When it's a barb, you use the low form.  Right, for example, it can be used in phrases like "always playing," "always drinking coffee," or "always playing computer games." Now, lastly, this 'M' is a prefix that comes before "adjective" and "noun," and it's an intensifier. For example, if you say "bright red," it means red, but it means very red. And if you say "directly above," it means up, but there's an intensifier function called "right AB." Okay, that's all for now.