Okay, first of all, well, this is "to the extent that," and it's often used like, "so surprised I can't sleep," or "to the extent that." Let's read the next page. For example, "I want it so badly I could die," or "I love that person so badly." "To the extent that I could die" is an idiom, and after that, "so surprised I ca n't sleep," or "so astonishing." What is this? And "so much that it brings tears to my eyes." There are idiomatic set phrases, you see. And then, when it comes with a business card, you can say, "Mr. Smith, for example, there's probably no one who speaks Japanese as well as Mr. Smith," like "like Mr. Smith speaks Japanese," or "there's probably no foreign language as difficult as Arabic." That's how you use it. And here, we always use the plain form, so please use the plain form for "so surprised I can't sleep." Yes, we'll study this in class, so we'll skip it here. Yes, number two. But this one is easy, so it's something like " They say that" or "It says that." For example, let's take this one, the most touristy place in the world.  The country is France, and more than 7 million people are affected each year. This means the same as saying it is. So here is a proposition, so it's before the usual, so please make a plain form. Okay, next is "according to something" or "suitable for your Budget". When it's "according to something", then there's an action or verb. For example, " according to" or "according to the PA". Various medicines are used depending on the condition. But now, the modifier is "suitable for". Yes, "suitable for something", "suitable for something". When this is the modifier, this is what you use. For example, what should we choose? Let's choose number 3. You can choose a product that fits your budget from this list. Or a book that fits the child's age. This is how you use it. Be careful, when it's "according to", there's a verb here. Also, when you modify something, please use it. And then, number 4, It's like something. Is this Asif? Yes, it's Hypo C. Is that right? For example, what shall we say? Yes, this robot can walk just like a human. And it's often used together with "just like something." Is that right? Asif it's War, so yes, this is also fine. That person is just like a child. This is also fine. Asif that person is like a child. Is that a child? Yes, there are other ways to use it as well. And then, it goes without saying, but I think there are two patterns. For example, in tomorrow's exam there will be questions on grammar such as "need to say." And then, it goes without saying that it is obvious. There are other ways to use it as well. For example, it goes without saying that you have to be quiet in the library. Is that what it means? For example, in Japanese class it goes without saying that you can't speak in English. Is that what it means?  Needless to say, you shouldn't speak in English. Paraphrases like this are okay. We'll practice this in class, so let's skip it for now. Okay, next is number 6, which means "even" or "even." This means "even." For example, let's say this: "Even though it's a child or an adult," these days there are even robots that play soccer as well as walk. "Even though it's a child or an adult" is also okay. Okay? This is optional. Also, "from something to something" is often used together. For example, "from rap to classical music," so "from modern Japanese culture to history," and " not but also" also applies to adults as well as children. This pattern is also often used together. Okay, we'll practice this. And then, number 7, "whether it is something," which is W. X or Y means "including X AND Y." For example, " whether it is a child or an adult" means "you have to eat a balanced diet of meat, vegetables, and everything else." "whether it is a child or an adult" means "you can enjoy it." Okay, we'll practice this in class, so let's skip it here. Therefore... This is the same as the English "according to the f," and it always comes at the beginning of the sentence. We'll skip this one. And number 9 is "It is TRUE that..." So the proposition here is "It is TRUE that..." But wait a moment, yes, "It is TRUE that..." So please read this in plain form. For example, let's take number 2. Tokyo is not only expensive, but the land is also small, and the land is also small, which means it's difficult to live in. The fact is, this proposition is "It is TRUE that..." Yes, we'll study this together again in class, so we'll skip it here. Okay, so this is Part 1.