Yes, so let me explain the grammar of Volume 8. First of all, "noun" means "there exists a relationship between X and Y. " For example, "Let's not ask questions that are unrelated to the business," or " That's none of my business." That's how you use it. Now, number two is "by means of," which is " indicate the C." "Noun" is also fine. And then, when you want to insert a sentence, use "by means of," which is a nominal. And of course, this is plain form. For example, let's look at a concrete example. You often see " global warming," right? "By global warming, something happens." And then, sentences. For example, "searching on the internet" is plain form. And then, "by speaking, reading, or writing" is plain form. That's how you use it.  Do n't forget the form. Yes, it's number 3. So, this goes to the very beginning of the sentence. So, do this Please do as I say. In English, it's "Do as I said," but of course, this is also fine. Of course, " assaid" is also fine on business cards. You can also use it like this: as promised, as explained, as planned. When it comes to business cards, this "as" is often dropped. For example, as promised, as explained, as planned. Of course, the meaning is exactly the same. Yes, this is "as." Yes, it's number 5. It's number 5, but this is "to the extent of," but be careful with the form. The first "to the extent" is the "ever form," and before that, we use the "plain form." The meaning is "the more," but for example, the more you speak a foreign language, the better you become. The first one is "speak as," the "ever form," and then "speak" is the " plain form." Yes, the more you speak a foreign language, the better you become. You can use it like this. Or, the more you exercise, the healthier you become. Okay? You can use it like this. Of course, the same  It's not just that, but the adjective ADC is also OK, the closer it is, the more you use Evaform and the closer it is Plainform. However, when it comes to aggressives, be a little careful, the more impressive it is, use this DAL, for example, the more convenient it is, use this DAL, so if Evaform is something, use this, so be careful here, yes, that's number 6, but what does this mean, well, it's the same as the commonly used J in spoken language, for example, when you say, well, it's getting late, so I'll be going now, this means the same as, well, it's getting late, so I'll be going now, that's all. Yes, that's number 7, something to center, but this word center is, well, the English word center, so it means something to center around, like cing around or on, but for example, heavy rain is falling centered on Kyushu, Hokkaido, then Honshu, Shikoku, Kyushu, so Kyushu is what you call the center, so it's heavy rain on Kyushu This is how it's used. Um, this is how it's used in the case of Abar, in Europe, it's centered around Rome. Europe developed with Rome as the center. Yes, this is also fine, centered around Kyushu. Also, there is heavy rain centered around Kyushu. This is also fine. Yes, OG