Okay, so for the seventh day, part two, I'll explain the grammar. First, number eight, which means that X corresponds to Y, so it means X corresponds to or is equivalent to Y. Let's look at some specific examples. For example, number four, the word that corresponds to the English word president is the president of a company, the dean of a university, and the president of the US government in Japan. So it's used as "the word that is equivalent to English president." Of course, you can also use it as a predictor, like this, saying that X corresponds to something. For example, she is the daughter of my mother's sister, so she corresponds to my cousin. That's also fine. Okay, next, it's a sentence. This is a sentence like this, and it means that X corresponds to something. However, it can have various meanings depending on the context. So you have to judge for yourself based on the context. For example, let's look at number three. Let's start with number three.  Let's study now, or you might not be able to graduate later. In this case, the nuance of "up" might come up. This is also true. The rent has gone up, so I have to move. This also has the meaning of "up." However, there is also this example sentence. For example, you can't smoke a cigarette with this amount. This is optional, but it's not allowed. We studied this in Japanese class 5, but it has been decided. When stating a rule, for example, you are not allowed to speak English in Japanese class. Be careful not to confuse this. Okay, next is number 10. This is a tendency, and tendency means tender. This is optional, but it's a sentence modifier. There is a tendency, there is tenderness. Yes, literal translation is there is atendency. This is a non  Please give me the past form. For example, Japanese students tend to study hard until high school but not so much after entering university. Of course, there is a tendency to see this. There is a prediction that can also come here. Yes, it is number 11. The pattern for number 11 is, if. This "if" itself means "if". And if it is a sentence, in English it is "f", and it is here, right? Itemizes That speaks presenting the Situation as a hypothetical one. And there is a hypothetical part. For example, number 1, right? If you had a time machine, which era would you go to and who would you like to meet? Of course, this model is optional, but if you had a time machine, which era would you go to and who would you like to meet? That is how it is used. And this is always the non-past form, so please be careful. Yes, number 12, uh, is an onomatopoeia.  I've studied it, but in Japanese, the patterns of onomatopoeia are always followed by the verb "to do," but first, let's look at some Japanese onomatopoeia. But as you can see from here, the pattern is always repetition, like rattling, sparkling, and thenドキドキシクシク. Most onomatopoeia are like this, with repetition. Of course, I do n't think it's 100%, but this onomatopoeia, like "my head is pounding," is something you really have to memorize. For example, when you're in pain, you say "my head is pounding," and when it's your teeth, you say "my teeth are pounding." We'll review onomatopoeia again in class and look at each one, so please wait until then. Okay, next is number 13, which is the word "habit." First of all, the part of speech for this word "habit" is " noun." So for example, " noun"  When you get something like "no kuse" or "ekuse ni e inite of something", then don't forget " kuse", for example, "poor kinai" (poor kinai), that's good, and then when you get "noun", for example, "woman's kinai", right? And then E, " adjective", in this case it's a modification, for example, in a sentence this is in plain form "kuse", but the meaning is, well, it's "scars and fuside", but Japanese people often say things like this, for example, "woman's kinai, but she's bad at cooking", "she's bad at cooking", or something like that, well, it's a bit of a Japanese discrimination against women, but is it okay, but it's often used, for example, "woman's kinai, but she's too strong", and in these cases you often use "kuse". And then, here's something I want you to be careful about, the subject, the subject of these two closings must be the same, so in this case, "still a student, but her parents", this is no good, in this case  We use nanononi. Mary is still a student, but her parents bought her an expensive car. So be careful about that. Yes, um, it's number 14. Number 14 is a conversational contraction, but when Japanese people speak, for example, I have to get up early, I have to get up, I will forget, I will forget. There are various contractions, but we will practice various things in class, so I won't explain it in detail in the video. Yes, um, then number 15, um, it's the last grammar, but at the very end of this sentence, you say, something like this, which is optional, but it means that it is not the case that, so in English it is the pattern of "It is not the case that," or rather, I think this English is probably more natural, but for example, even if you say you're bad at kanji, it doesn't mean you can't write them at all. Of course it doesn't mean you can't write them, so it's like "It is not the case that I can write them." So, um, let's take a look at number 5.  It's not that I dislike that person, but I don't want to date them. That's how you use it. Okay, so that concludes the grammar explanation for day 7. OG