Yes, now I will explain the grammar for the seventh day. First, for the first one, it is "ja," and it comes at the very beginning of a sentence. Its meaning is like the English "th," "if that is the CAS," or "in that CAS," but it is used in informal, spoken language. Yes, the second one is "on top of that," and it has the same meaning as the English "in addition." For example, " exercise is good for the body, and on top of that, it is good for the mind." No, this also comes at the very beginning of a sentence, and it is usually written with a dot like this, so don't forget to use a dot. Yes, the third one is "sae," and it means "in top of that," but here I want you to be careful, in Japanese, this is a case marker particle command. You don't have to memorize it, but this Japanese word "wa" is a case marker. This is a case marker.  It's meaningless and brings out grammatical functions, but it's contrast with this, and of course pictures too, but from then to these things, well, they have me, so there is no replacement of this case marker and particle filter, for example, well, they even eat natto, so natto, so we have to replace that, but for example cats and dogs, and even like this, this is a normal particle filter, this means made for or for the use of, but as for patterns, first X is for something, when you enter into predict, X is for something, for example, this is or this book is for children, this is for Children, but there is also a common usage, for example this book was made or written for children, this is also fine, but then there is also name modification, this is also fine, when in that case don't forget, for example this is a book for children, there is this usage, yes, it is number 5, it is something, but in Japanese you type it in the place after  I learned that there is, but there is a formal plain form of the, but there is a difference in behavior. For example, you can't use "it seems" or "it might be" before "it must be". For example, you can't say "he might be French". He might be French, but when you say "it is", you have to use "it's okay, it's okay". So, he might be French. Like this. So, "it" and "it" mean the same thing, but of course "it" is a little more formal, but the sentence behavior is a little different, so be careful. Of course there are times when they are the same, so be careful. Yes, yes, it's number 6. Number 6 is something to bring out. It says "babmas", but this is the stem form. For example, when you eat rhubarb, you say "to bring out". And then what, when you eat oats, for example, oysters, the stem is the mass form, but this is how you use it to bring out.  But then, to start, and it's written here, but basically there are two meanings. One is someone makes something available or accessible, for example, to create or to find. The second meaning is really BEGIN something, for example, to start laughing, and then to start moving, BEGIN to MOV. But look at the first one here, it suddenly started raining in the middle of a picnic. This is the second one, BEGIN to BEGIN raining, but it's beginning, but if you ask what the difference is between starting and starting, it's here, but what is it, starting has a bit more of a nuance of abrupt and nonvolitional, so it comes out suddenly, you know, it suddenly started raining is much nicer. And then the baby started crying, it has that nuance. And then there is this third one This is the one that created instant ramen, and I think this probably has the meaning of the first one. It has a nuance of making something instant, so please keep that in mind. Yes, um, number 7, um, it's something not there is something not there, so this is a double negative, but let's look at an example together. There is no student in this class who does his homework. So the meaning is, um, all the students in this class do their homework. Please keep that in mind. Yes, um, that's the end of Part 1. OG