Okay, so for the first kanji in Lesson 8, first of all, this kanji means "excto" or "beeec". And it's a part, so it's a component. On the left side, this "compon" part means "exchange". For example, " exchange" and "international exchange". And on the right side, everyone knows this, right? It means "power". So if you exchange your power, you can be more effective. So it's a feeling, so it's an "e" or "extive". As for how to pronounce it, the main reading is "on". For example, "effect", "result", " efficiency", "sincy", and "effective". This is " adjective", but it's pronounced "exjective". And then there's this kanji in the "ya" row. What do you think of this kanji? It's "medicine" and then "ect", so what is it? It means drug, ect. And then there's "cleeding", so it means "to hear". Hearing means that medicine works, somedicon worked eec. Okay, so for the next kanji, this kanji means "div" and then "eec".  It means subject of study, so it's a component. But first, on the left side, this radical is called the 'radical' part, and it means gray. Then on the left side, this kanji is WeUs to use this feeling as a COUNTER, which is like 18L. But we no longer use this COUNTER, but you can IMAGINE as story you need some sort of COUNTER or Cinorder to Dividegrains. That's how you read it, but this is only reading, so for example, course of subject, subject, subject, and then science. Pay attention here, this science is sce, and this is also science, both are read as science, but this character means CHEMISTRY, then internal medicine, surgical department. Now the next kanji is, this kanji means decree, so it's a component. But, um, this radical is fine, right? Water, and then this part, but this is you can IMAGINE like WEAPONors pareso something like someone is actually making WH with a WEAPON So that the water decreases is a story that I think can be made, and that's how it's read, but only reading, this is present, um, it's pronounced "ge", for example decrease, it's okay, right, decrease and it becomes less, to decrease origin, this means point, so to decrease, POINT reduction, POINT reduction is the same as reduction, and then principle, this "immediate" is fast or speed, so speed is the meaning of decrease, tax reduction, this means tax, TsoTX means reduction, and also read as "to decrease", for example, the population has decreased, thePO means decreased, the next character, this character means "conley", so it's "compon", but if you look at this part, this radical, it's "think the me HOUSE", and then the next part, this part, this character itself means ORIGIN or BASE, for example, energetic, this is THE ORIGIN of your Spirit, yes, energetic, so you can IMAGINE THE STORY, so THE BASE was attached to the ROOF, so the house is completed  So COMPLETE COMPLETE is the meaning of COMPLETE, and as for the pronunciation, it is on reading. For example, completed, finished, and completed, this also has the meaning of complete or finish, and then complete, this has the meaning of Perfect, yes, the next kanji, this kanji means to climb, and it is a component, it is the upper part, this is you can imagine outed legs and for example, it also has the meaning of Departure, a commonly used meaning to depart, so it means Departure, and then, this kanji is bean, so you have to bring beans in order to climb high mountain, so both of these together mean to climb, but to climb, for example, to climb Mount Fuji, particle counter, this is school, so it means to go to school, and then, appear, this is for example, to appear in this play, it means to appear, this is place, so it means to appear, yes, yes, the next kanji, this kanji, but the meaning is public and then  It means Official, so this feeling is ASS with feeling Simply just those in katakana, and the pronunciation is, for example, park, this is OK, then public university, this is PU Unity, and then to release, this means PU, and um, it's reading, but it's not used very often, but it can also be read as big, for example, made the incident big, this means the same as making the incident public, yes, so um, this feeling, the meaning of feeling is L, and it's a component, so um, this radical is OK, this is the radical of person, and then this part, this part, um, this feeling by itself means TRIBE or clan, so this is the person Whois the lowest in one clan in tri, so it's L, but the pronunciation is first, reading low, OK, it's short, and then low temperature, it means low, it means the temperature is LOW, it means short, it means short, and then bottom, this is reading, um, low sound, LOW, and then the worst, this means the worst So, the worst is the opposite, and the best is the opposite. Yes, the next kanji is, the meaning of this kanji is, well, reverse or correlative. And radical is this component, this radical part, you know, this is either trust or intrusion, either is fine, but it also means legs or something to do with legs. For example, look at this list, road, street, road, near or far. So this is something to do with legs, and then you can imagine this, a person in a hand stand so he must be going opposite. Reverse is, I think that story is okay. As for how to read it, it's on reading, reverse, for example, reverse or oh. And then there's paradox, which means explanation or something like that, so paradox, and then learning, gait, current, this means current. And then there's not used very often, but it's read, handstand, please do a handstand, it means the hand stand.  Okay, next is this feeling, this feeling, the meaning of this feeling is point, so this part, this feeling above it means fortune-telling, and then this radical below, which you often see, means fire. We have a good story to make for this character but this one this component or this means fortune-telling and this radical always means fire. The pronunciation is, it's pronounced only reading, for example, point, the point of the exam, so test, and also point, grade, test score, test points, both have the same meaning, and then origin, this is point, subtraction of point, right? And then defect, this is defect, ah, a person 's defect is that they talk a lot, so it means something like that, and then, you often see this feeling on trains, I think, this is the terminus, this is the last point, this is the ending point, last point, for example, the terminus is Tokyo, so it means the very last station is Tokyo. Yes, the next kanji is this one, and it means normal, regular, and also always, but let's go from the bottom, it's component, this component, at the very bottom it says you can IMAGINE some Banner or flag, so it means something to do with CL, and then the next one in the middle, this one is okay, right? mouth so IMAGINE Under normal circumstances you always have to wear a mask, so this is perfect for your PANDEMICPER, and as for how to pronounce it, there is a ' ji' in the reading, for example jiji, which means always, and then common sense, this formula is what it is, it means knowledge or sense, but um, common sense, and then abnormal, this is always, but this is not, it has the diff meaning so abnormal, and then unconventional, this is the negative, so lack of, and then there is very, it means very, it is very cold, it is very cold today, it is very cold today, it means the same thing, and you often see emergency exits inside buildings, this is  It means exit. And in reading, this is always, which means always. Okay, the next kanji is this one, and it means copy. And this feeling is, I have, please be careful, There is no DT on top of this, and then this part this feeling is itself, which means give. And the reading is, this is shi, and in reading, for example, everyone knows, take a picture, take a picture, and this is a book, so for example, I will copy the teachings of Buddhism, and this is radiate, which means to copy. And in reading, this is to project, which is also to CY, but I will copy my friend's notes, which means not. Okay, the next kanji is this feeling, and it means TRUE or genin. Let's take a look at the components. This top one is good, this is 10, and then this is Eyes so 10 Eyes are standing on the podium, to find out the truth, to find out what really going on. This feeling is TRUE and also has the meaning of genen. The pronunciation is, uh, it is read as shi. For example, photo, this is a copy of a picture, well, photo, photograph, but it is a photograph, and then truth, this is truth, and then true intention, this is intention, uh, so, true intention, real, it is read as kum. This is in the middle, this is RightInTheMiddle, and then pure white, really White, and then directly above rightAB, directly below rightUnder. That's how it is used. Okay, next feeling, this feeling has the meaning of C or verify, and it is a component, first of all this on the far left this is Stone, and then this part, this part had something to do with A bard, so you can make a story such that make sure verify Word can be Safe by putting a protection or ROOF and then putting a Stone on the left. The pronunciation is, uh, read as on. For example, certain This is an aggressive, and then Probability is a word we often use in mathematics, right? Then there's Clear, which is also active. For example, please give a clear explanation. Accurate is... Then there's To Believe firmly, and then to Confirm. We often use it like this: Please confirm the time. Also, in reading, to confirm means, for example, please confirm the time. Yes, the next word is... This word is the last character of Lesson 8. This word has the meaning of "vegetation," and it's a component. This is okay, right? And then on the right side, this word has really corresponding to English in you think about, meaning like OFF, so in order to build a village, you have to CH OFF, LOT, Softrees. That's what it means. And in reading, only in reading, for example, Noon is farm, farm, vage, and then fishing village, this is fishing village, and then in reading, this is village, village, and then villager, this is busy, meaning people in the village.