Yes, so let's start with the 8th grammar item in Part 2. We'll start with number 8. Number 8 is the word "opposite," and "opposite" means opposite. The pattern is, X is the opposite. For example, morning and night are reversed. Then there's also "above," for example, you're hungry and eat a lot, and then you eat a lot, on the opposite of what I wanted. You start exercising to diet, then you get hungry and eat a lot, and then you eat a lot, on the opposite of what I wanted. Then there's " opposite." For example, in Japanese, you can say, "Count the numbers backward from 100, so 19998." And then there's " opposite direction." Yes, number 9. Everyone should have studied "should" in their second year, but we'll just review it. Before "should," there's a sentence that says "should be," and here it's in the form of verbs and then E. When you're being assertive, please use plain form. But when you're being assertive, you should use phrases like "should be..." or "should be..." as per speech, like on a business card. So when you're being assertive, you should use phrases like "should be..." or "should be..." For example, "should be convenient," or "should be interesting," or "should be interesting," which is an assertive phrase. When you're being assertive, you should use phrases like "should be..." And then all the other things are verbal assertive. When you're being verbal, plain form is fine. Yes, number 10 is "point," but "point" of course means "point," but it's a bit more abstract, like "in terms of" or "in this respect." For example, "in this point," and then, "in terms of service," you can use "with respect, serve." And then, you can also use sentence modifiers. For example, "in this respect" means "in terms of being able to shop without going to the store," and "in this respect" means "a store that is popular for online shopping." And then, for example, "in this respect" means "in terms of being able to have a home station." Sell ​​points, this is how you use it, yes, it's number 11, it 's a verb meaning "more and more", but in English it's " more and more" or " increasingly", but please be careful, as it's written here, "more and more" and "more and more", so here, the predictive part at the end, when it's a controller, "more and more" is no good. Japanese people often say, "Please, please, eat more and more", but here, "eat more and more" is no good, when it's a speaker's intention, "more and more" is no good. Yes, number 12, I don't think this is difficult, it's the verb stem "mass", goodbye form plus " correct", so it means to do this action again, for example, rewrite, reread, then call back, it means to do this action again. Yes, number 13, this is passive knowledge, but I think it's a very useful word or phrase, something like "something is something, but..." This is, of course, a plain form sentence, but in English, it is "It is certainly true." This proposition is true, but when you want to add a comment, for example, let's look at a specific example together. This apartment is close to the station and is convenient, but there is something a little bit of a comment, like "Yes it is convenient, but something." For example, a comment like this comes in: "The person is a good person, but he's a good person, but he's a little stubborn." That person is a good person, but he's a little stubborn. So here, it is convenient, and he is a good person, but please repeat this. We will practice this together again in class. Yes, number 14. Um, "thanks to" means sincerity, but in English, there is a bit of a difference in usage between the Japanese "okage-sei" and "say." When you use "okage," it means you are grateful for something, but " say" really means you are feeling a little bit like you are doing something.  There are, for example, um, a friend helped me, and I feel grateful because they helped me. There are also, um, a brother who pays my tuition, and I feel grateful to my brother. But in this case, something is bad. For example, because I drank too much last night, um, like this, this is bad. It means doto, so be careful. Of course, here, um, when it's a sentence modifier, um, this is plain form. Yes, it's number 15, and it's above, but this is also increasingly, um, it's a little faster space than the increasingly we studied earlier. So, um, when it's increasingly, for example, eat more and eat more. This was bad, but when it's don't, um, here, the controll action is OK, so ask more and ask, go ahead. Eat more and eat, this is also OK. This don't mean anything, so first, it means that the state changes. Yes, it's number 16, and it's something like " Every Time you do this ACTION".  It means that, for example, when you go to Japan you learn new things and come back, or when you go home for a holiday you can say, EveryTimeIgoHome, and this dog is getting bigger and bigger, and of course it's fine for business cards, for example, a holiday trip, a test trip, or a date trip, and he takes you to a nice restaurant every time you go on a date, that's how you use it. Now, lastly, number 17 is "touto," but "touto" has the meaning of the English words "finally" or "although," for example, I finally finished my doctoral dissertation, and then I finally got to participate in the Olympics, but in Japanese there are these three words, and then "finally" and "at last," and if you translate all of these into English they all become "finally," but we'll practice in class how they are different. That's all, JA