Next is this feeling, but first this component on top is the same as feeling 4, but it is Imagine, it is Poppy, boo boo story to do, and there are many figures, empty, prizes and cups. For example, put a book here, particle, be careful here, from force to pompadour, it is 1 in Japan, this means position. Next is this feeling, there is no story in this feeling, but put this hook, ah, put it on today, there is a hook here so be careful, it is this feeling, but it is just kanji and it is ceremony, but it is often the suffix, for example wedding, Meabikko, and also graduation ceremony, graduation ceremony, it is a new word that you hear, but q means to aim, so it means to aim. Now next is this feeling, the meaning is stone, one thing to be careful of when writing, please put a black swing here, this is not allowed, there is no story, but this organizer reading is 1, for example, the Japanese person, Ishikawa, a typical name, and also a bridge made of stone, bleach, you can use stone, that is how it is used. Next is the reading, and this means there are many secure petal, and then there is gemstone jumpstone, which is in 10th place, and it uses kanji, so the next feeling is this feeling, and the meaning is r pin 2 and then invex in best gate, which I think everyone already knows, but the part above is part 8, which is a caution, and then the part below is not the feeling of woman, it is love, but aren and the bottom line here is A-un are in sanden story, now media sep, which is how it is read, but in sound reading it is read as sa, for example 8 investigation or to investigate tween best gate d and then inspection and inspection is inspipe, for example an example sentence is investigating the cause of the corna in investigation foolishness or coby 18th The next feeling is this feeling, and the meaning is here happy burger, but first of all the parts below is part, this component, if you look at this packing year it means fire or then this feeling this feeling is father march along Saturday  It means that, to crush that Hanyu degree, and then this part, this component has the meaning of being round, so the product is Gwaan rain r 4 yo amayu candy ma ge poli m poli needs to be heater by ah oo take adder play with this or happy bar it has this meaning, and um, the on'yomi reading is Yaon reading, but this is used in the sense of heat, there is heat, ayu fever, high heat, high fin, and also be careful, this feeling is something when you are defending fire, for example net ball ah means drawing order, but this reading is boiling water, and then enthusiastic Hime-chan 4 enthusiastic, well, Daily-chan chocolate, but please be careful with this reading as well, and then when you are reading hot, for example hot coffee ho ho, this means that the temperature is hot, hot coffee focaccia, one more thing to be careful of, war, when it is hot, we use this ear, this feeling is used only for something you drink, drinks, hopslinks, so please be careful  Okay, the next one is this one, and it means people. Let's take a look at the components. a This component is this one, and it means people. This is advanced, right? And anxious, and so is good, so it means people. And the pronunciation is sound reading. This is called people, for example, citizens, residents, so this is the people of the country, and then citizens. This is seti 4, people, and then residents. This is p, [ __ ], it means the people. And then resident, this is the people who live there. Wedge, and then farmer, this is brain, so it means farmer. Now the next one is this one, and it means gentle and then hurry. Let's take a look at the components. This component is Imai Hitoshi, man's wharf, wow, spring, and then shape, and then this one is hard heart as, right, rono, minutes, fried rice, sting, wig forti, ah, disperse. b Inner hurry, so all the components mean hurry. And the pronunciation is this, please hurry, how, after all, and then sound reading. This is called old, well, urgent, gentle, ah, ge, agent, mate, that  First, this is the RX Prospray for express train. Then it's called an express train, or express special, or X Express. Then there's rest, which is the same as urgent business and salary, but salary is R Gent, and it's used like this. Next is this feeling, but the meaning is A 1. Now let's look at the components. This component is radical, but this is called Ito Edition, which means plate. Then this part on the right, this kanji alone means blue. 4 won ebj author play doors special event without Etia s counter battle caution is A is the meaning, it's a way of saying it, but it's pronounced on'yomi. For example, 21st century Tweety First Chain caution then 21st century society s eventy twenty first Sentry. This Tanji is a component, and then there's person, ah then Start Two then Boo Boo Chip Polini Starlet 4 s pro 1 d 3 warp y means spoon, and it's often that number then by a dish twice double Then there's 3x tea time, then 100x, oh, Hunters, it also serves as a counter, for example, here, Japanese, 9 cars, doubled, but this university bkm twice, taste match, this is how it's used, next feeling, this feeling, but the meaning is pew pew pew, and then, sometimes, Kyubey, leather horn, spacer, face, it can also mean, let's look at the components for a bit, there's no story, but the top part, this is written the same way as drinking in katakana, and then this part, this is big, it's good, and then this part in the middle, but this is not a feeling, just hold this angle, and in total there are 9 pew pew, which means it's good, but the reading is san, to participate, to join, for example, to participate in the game, participated, eye patch, state, page, binder game, and then to worship, to worship, this is a type, this one has the meaning of replace, to worship, Colette, today I have a hobby, and everyone knows this reading, mile, this is Humble, 4 major space torrential rain, before, it's used as, oh  Let's take a look at the components. First, this one on the left has the meaning of "power" and " meaningless". Then on the right, this one has the meaning of "the power to do". The pronunciation is " participate" and "3" is the badge, and "increase" is " increase". Next is "process" and "process", and "barker" is processed food, and "processed food", and "processed food", and "processed food", and "processed food", and so on. And then there's "add", and "out" is the pronunciation, and "add", and "out" is the meaning of "add water", for example, "add water to a pot", and "border interpattern", and so on. Let's take a look at the components. First, the component on the left has the meaning of "person", and " radi", and then on the right, this has the meaning of "old", and then "back", and " imagine", "rmt orea", "hoodie in cyberfis", "order here", "she be knot b goo", and "today", and "per", and " 2" is the meaning of "to do". The pronunciation is "only", and " ring", for example, "individual".  Pooh, and then this individual room, blue, and then composition, this means personality, and then this counter, it's number plus, so for example, one right arm, for example, give me one apple, you right arm upper, so for example, two, for reference, give me three rings, you tree apple, that's how you use it, and when you say how many, it means how many, the next one is this one, but the meaning is central construction, this ugly safe sampling, that's what it means, uh, story, you do, fish pose amp is dog, this ugly sampling, the pronunciation is on'yomi, this is han, for example, to oppose, two is chuunibyou, ugly pose here particle, be careful, particle is ni, to oppose that opinion, pose against, ahhhhhh, opinion, and it also means safe, for example, Hansen, this means to oppose war, safe, and then half a day, this means to oppose Japan, it means anti Japan, yes, the next one is this one, but the meaning is two phrases later cutter ugly agreement, but first component, this up here, this is husband  It has meanings like bunt and so on. Then the next part below the tree, but this is a groom, just this feeling alone can mean Kaimer share, take, meet, well, win s t u share earth eye point, so it has meanings like walk, money, and so on. Two faces ugly sound and pry sword is sampling, so this means ugly. And the way to read it is only ring, for example, agree, disagree, it's a long pose, so be careful with particles, to agree with his opinion use particle. The next feeling is this feeling, but first the top component, this component is OK, it's Tanaka's so it goes into the field, and then below is tester diffuse pg h 2 produce fruit, this whole feeling has the meaning of hoop, for example fruit clef, but eat acetic acid fruit every day for your health, and then this is achievement, pumpplishment to, and also result without.