Hello and welcome back to recitation. Uh today what we want to work on is drawing level curves. This is for all the artists out there in the audience. Uh we have uh three functions here. Z is 2x + y, z is x^2 + y^2 and z is x^2us y^2. And we want to get some practice drawing their level curves. And just to remind you, the level curves are not drawn in three dimensions. They're drawn in the xy plane and they're uh constructed by uh setting z to be a constant and then and then graphing the curve that we get. So we can think about a relief map that that we might use if we were hiking. So uh why don't you get started on that? Pause the video and we'll check back and uh I'll show you how I solve this. Welcome back. So, uh, over here we've got the, uh, equation for part A already set up. So, A is, uh, so Z is 2X + Y. So, now, uh, what we need to do to get started is is just draw the XY axis. And you know there's really not a precise uh science for for drawing these level curves out. We just need to choose some values of Z that we feel are representative and then and then just draw them in. So um one thing we notice about this is that if we if we choose Z to be a constant then the equations that we're going to get is 2x + y equals some constant. Right? So um you know these are just going to be lines. The level curves in this case are just going to be lines. So uh for instance if we take the level curve at z = 0 then we have just the equation 2x + y = uh 0. And so that has intercept. So we're looking at um so 0 = 2x + y. So that's just y = -2x. So that's this level curve. That's the level curve at Z equals Z. Now, if you think about it, all the other level curves, we're just going to be varying the constant here. And so, we're just going to be shifting this line. So, all of our level curves in this case are just straight lines. So, let's see if we can make some sense out of that uh by thinking about the graph in three dimensions of this of this function. So, over here, I'm going to draw So this function z = 2x + y if we if we draw its graph it's just a plane right? So it's just a plane which I'll just kind of draw in cartoon form something like that. And now when we do level curves what we're doing is we're slicing this plane with uh with another plane which is the horizontal values where z is a constant. And so for instance if we if we take the level curve here then we're just uh intersecting these two planes and their intersection is just a line. And that's exactly the lines that we're drawing here. So, um, so it's not surprising that we we were graphing a linear function and that our contour lines, our level curves were were just straight lines. So, let's go on to a slightly more interesting example, which is part B, which I have written up here. So, this is uh this is the function uh z= x^2 + y^2. Actually, this is even easier to get started drawing the level curves for. Well, if you if you think about it, if I fix the value of Z, then this is exactly the equation for the circle with radius square root of Z. So level curves level curves for uh for the function z = x^2 + y^2 these are just um these are just circles in the xy plane and uh if we're being careful and if we if we take the convention that our level curves are evenly spaced in the z plane then these are going to get closer and closer together. And we'll see in a minute where that's coming from. So let's let's draw what's uh going on in in three dimensions. So if we if we graph z= x^2 + y^2 in three dimensions, this is just a paraboid opening up. And now and now what you can see is that if we slice this through the constant uh uh through z equals constant planes then we're just getting these these circles and those are precisely the circles that we're drawing on the level curve. And uh because the parabola gets steeper and steeper that that's uh that's telling us that these um that these circles um if we keep incrementing Z in a constant way that's telling us that the circles uh which are the shadows below here are going to get closer and closer and closer. Uh this this reflects the fact that that this is getting steeper and steeper. In fact, this is generally true. If you're looking at a contour plot where the uh intervals between level curves are are are at regular distances, then very close contour lines means that it's the function is very steep there. So that's something to keep in mind. Let's look at uh one more example. Uh this is z = x^2us y^2. So uh to get started with this well again if we start choosing constant values of Z this is just giving us hyperola hyperolas of two sheets. So for instance if we take um so let's see what happens if we take Z equals 0. So if we take Z equals 0 then something a little special happens. This becomes x + y * x - y = 0. We can factoriize x^2 - y^2 is x + y * x - y. And if this is zero, then that means either x + y is 0 or x - y is 0. So that tells us that the zero level curves for this uh for this graph are the lines uh y= -x and the lines y= x. Okay. And now uh if we have uh if we move Z away from that then what we're getting are hyperolas and these hyperolas uh will approach this uh this asintoic line y= minus x or this line sorry this line y= x or this line equals y= -x. They'll approach this as they go down, but they'll never quite reach it. So these are so the level curves here are just hyperolas. So now let's see uh what what is this telling us about the uh about the threedimensional graph of this function. Okay. So first of all we have uh these level curves when y equals x and when y equals minus x. And so those level curves we can kind of draw. Okay. So I want you to think that that sits in the xy plane. It's kind of hard to draw in three dimensions. Uh and so this is where our function is going to be zero. Now if we take uh if we take x to be positive uh uh sorry if we take uh if we take x to be greater than y and both positive then uh this is a positive number and this is a positive number. So if we look in the region where uh x and y are both positive that's in here and where x is greater than y then our function comes up. So and it looks like this and then it dips down and goes down comes back up and goes back down and now uh at the middle here it has to dip down to zero. So we have something like this. So what we end up getting in the end, this is a saddle. So it's a bit hard to draw. It's a bit hard to see on this. So let me draw a sketch of it uh off of the axis for you. So we have uh we have a rise and then a drop and then a rise in the back and then a drop and then down the middle it dips down in in this direction and it rises up in this direction. And so it's a saddle like you could ride a you could put this on a horse and ride it. So um and so we can see that the that the threedimensional contours of the saddle when we look uh when we look at their projection down onto the contour plot become these hyperolas. So a saddle is sort of like a a hyperola stretched out into into three dimensions. And I think I'll leave it at that.