Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, you've been learning about line integrals of vector fields. And I have a couple of problems here. Well, one problem here that requires you to do two integrals of vector fields, line integrals of vector fields. Um, on that subject. So, okay. So um in both problems f is going to be the vector field whose coordinates are xy and x^2 + y^2 and c is going to be the arc of the parabola y = x^2 that starts at the point 1 and ends at the point 24. All right. So what I'd like you to do is to compute the integral over this curve c of fd dr in two different ways. So the first time I'd like you to use sort of the natural parameterization x= t y= t ^2. So that for me at least that's the first parameterization that I think of when when I think about this curve. But I'd also like you to do it again using a different parameterization using the parameterization x= e t y = e 2t. So this still parameterizes the curve uh y= x^2 since e t^2= e 2t. Um so yes so uh why don't you pause the video have a go at at computing this integral both of both of using these two different parameterizations come back and we can work it out together. So let's get started. We want to compute a line integral of a of a vector field f. Um so we know that the integral over a curve C of fd dr well usually we write f equals mn. The the two components are are m and n. So in this case this is going to be equal to the integral over c of m dx + n dy. Now in our case we know what f is. We know that f is the vector field xy x^2 + y^2. So this is equal to the integral over c of xy dx + x^2 + y^2 d y. And now we just need to plug in in our two different cases into our our parameterizations and this will turn into an integral that we can evaluate. So let's let's have a look see. Um so on our first parameterization over here we want to have x going from uh sorry x= t and y = t ^2 and we want this parameterization to go from the points 1 one to the point 24. So that means that txt is going from 1 to 2. Okay. So um so in this case all right so in part well the first part um so this is equal in so I'm going to just write equals and continue on um so in this first part so t is our parameter and it's going from one to two so xy is going to be t * t^2 and dx is dt and then plus okay so x^2 + y^2 is t ^2 + t 4th and d y is * 2t dt since y is t ^2 all right so this is our integral and now it's straightforward to compute this it's you know a line uh sorry a single variable integral of a polomial so okay so we might have some fraction arithmetic in our future but but not nothing horrible so let's um let's collect our dts So this is the integral from 1 to 2. So here I've got 2 t cub + 2 t 5th and here I have t cubed. So that's 3 t cubed + 2 t to 5th dt. Okay. And so now we have to evaluate. So this is equal to let me just continue it. So 3 t cubed that's oh so it becomes T4 over 4. So it's 3 t 4th over 4 + 2 t 5th becomes t 6 / 6 2 t 6 over 6. So that's plus t 6 over 3 between t = 1 and 2 and let me just bring that computation up here. So that's equal to well okay so 3 * 16 over 4 + 64 over 3us minus what is it 34s + 1/3 okay and now we got to work this out so this is maybe 12 and the third give me 21 so that's 33 - 3/4 so That's 32 and 1/4 or you know 129 over 4 if you prefer. Okay. So that's that's going to be our our answer there. Um so now let's go back and do it again using this alternate parameterization. So in this alternate parameterization we had x= e the t and y= e 2t. So in that case that means that dx well so x is e to the t y is equal 2t. So our integral that we want let me rewrite it. Well actually let me not rewrite it. Let me just go back here and take a look at it. So we want the integral of fd dr and we know that that's equal to the integral over c of xy dx + x^2 + y^2 dy. So x is e t y is e 2t. So that means dx is going to be e to the tdt and dy is going to be 2 e to the 2t dt. So okay. So we'll just have to plug these things in. So our integral maybe I'll give it a name. What we want what we want www. What we want is equal to so it's the integral of well we start plugging in. So xyd dx is e t * e 2t * we said dx is e t dt plus now x^2 + y^2. So that's e 2t. That's x^2 + e 4t. That's y^2 * 2 e 2t dt. That's dy. Okay. Um, but this integral is missing something, right? Because it it needs to be a a definite integral. Right? Now, I've written down an indefinite integral. So, that's a problem. So, we need to think, okay, so what are the bounds on this on this curve? What what are we integrating from and to? So, let's go all the way back and look at the problem over here. So, this is the parameterization of the curve. And we need it to connect the points 1 one and 24. So we need to know which value of t puts this this parameterization at the point 1 one and which value of t puts it at the point 24. Well, I think the easiest way to do that is to solve this and we have t equals natural log of x. So natural log of 1 is 0 and natural log of two is natural log of two. So, okay. So, we want t to go from 0 to natural log of two to go from this point to that one. Okay. So, 0 to natural log of two. Let's remember that and come back over here and put that in. So, what we want this integral that we're trying to compute um using this alternate parameterization is all right, we've already written down what the integrant is, but it's going to be the integral from we just said from zero to the natural log of two. Okay, great. So now let's take this integral and let's start simplifying it. Um so let's see this is an e t * e 2t * e t. So that's e 4t dt. And here we have well that looks like a 2 e 4t + 2 e 6t dt. So if we combine like terms we get the integral from 0 to natural log of 2. So we had an e to the 14 and a 2 e to the 4t. So that's a 3 e to the 4t plus a 2 e to the 6 t dt. Okay. 3 e 4t + 2 e to 6t. Okay. And this is also, you know, it's a different looking integral than the one we had before, but it's not a difficult one to evaluate because we're just, you know, it's just e to a constant time tdt. Pretty straightforward stuff, I think. Um so what does it actually give us? Let me come up here and write it up here. So this is equal to all right integrate e 4t and you get e 4t over 4. So this is 3/4 e 4t plus 26. So that's + 1/3 e 6t and we're evaluating that between zero and ln2. And I will leave it to you to confirm that what you get when you do this is you get exactly 129 over4 when you plug in these values and take the difference. So one thing to notice here is that in this doing it with the second parameterization we got 129 over4. Now if you look back just right here you see that when we did it with the first parameterization we also got 129 over4. Now this is a general phenomenon, right? The parameterization doesn't change the value of the line integral. So when you have a line integral of a vector field, you can parameterize the curve that you're integrating over in a bunch of different ways. I mean, in fact, infinitely many different ways. There are all sorts of different choices and they all give the same answer. They have to. So no matter what parameterization you choose, you get the same number out for the line integral over the same curve of the same vector field. All right? So what that means for you is that when you're given just a curve and a vector field and you get to choose your parameterization, you should always just choose whatever the nicest one is because it doesn't matter which one you choose and there's no reason ever to choose anything harder than necessary. All right, so now just uh I want to quickly recap what we did. So we had a curve. We were given a curve and a vector field f and we are asked to compute the the line integral of fd dr. And we did it two different ways. So in both cases we used the fact that fd dr is m dx plus n dy. We wrote that out using the known values of m and n using the known components of f. Um and we and then we plugged in in both cases. In this case we we used that first parameterization and then over to my left we used the this second parameterization that I gave you and in both cases we that reduced it to a to a integral in terms of a single variable t that was the parameter that we could compute and and the answer came out the same both times as it had to. Um so you can also one thing you can notice is if you compare this with the preceding lecture video you'll see that this curve and vector field it they connect the same points and it's the same vector field and these answers both differ from both of the answers in the preceding uh recitation video. Um so this is further illustration that different curves can give you different values but if you take the same curve different parameterizations always have to give you same values for that for that line integral of the same vector field. I'll end there.