Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, you've been learning about line integrals and computing them around curves and closed curves and in various different ways. So, um here I have some some problems on on line integrals for you. So, um in all cases, I want C to be the circle of radius B. So B is some constant, some positive constant. Um, it's the circle of radius B centered at the origin. And I want to orient it counterclockwise. And then what I'd like you to do is for each of the following uh vector fields F, I'd like you to compute the line integral around C of F. DR. So in the first case where F is Xi + Y, in the second where F is G of XY * Xi + YJ. So here G of XY is some scalar function. Um but you don't you don't know a formula for this function. Um uh so so your answer might be in terms of g for example. Um and you know you that's just you can assume it's a continuous differentiable nice function. Um and in the third one f is minus yi + xj. Now, before you start, I want to give you a little suggestion, which is often when we're when we're given a a line integral like this, a a sort of first thing you want to do is jump in and and and do a parameterization right away for the curve and and then you get a, you know, a normal single single variable integral. So, what I'd like you to do for these problems is to think about the setup and think about whether you can do this without ever parameterizing C. So without ever substituting in you know cosine and s or whatever um so for all for all three parts of this problem. So if you can use some sort of geometric reasoning to save yourself a little bit of work without ever going to the parameterization. So um why don't you pause the video spend some time work that out come back and we can work it out together. Hopefully you had some luck working on these problems. Let's get started. Um so let's do the first problem first. Uh let's let's think about what this vector field f looks like. This first vector field. U so let me just draw a little picture over here. So here's our circle of radius B and this vector field F given by X I + Y. At every point xy the the vector the vector f is the same as the position vector of that point. So over here the vector is like that. Over here the vector is like that. Up here the vector is like that. So these are these are just a few little uh values of f that I've drawn in there and and so on. down here. Say f is like that. Okay. So in particular, so that's so that's a just a sort of you know if you wanted you could draw in some more uh some more vectors get a get a full vector field picture. Um so the thing to observe here is that a circle is a really nice curve. Um right so the circle has the property that the the position vector at a point is orthogonal to the tangent vector to the circle. Right? At every point on the circle the tangent vector to the circle is perpendicular to the position vector. So that means it's perpendicular to f. Okay? Right? Because f is par is the same in fact but is parallel to to the position vector. So in part a you have that f dot the tangent vector to your curve is equal to zero at every point on the entire curve. All right. So so your your field f dot your tangent vector is is always zero. So that means that the integral around C of f dr well we know that dr is t ds. So this is ft t ds but that's just zero. It's just an integral and the the integrant is zero everywhere. And whenever you take a definite integral of something that's zero everywhere you get zero. So this is just zero right away. We didn't have to parameterize the curve or anything. We just had to look at this at this picture to sort of understand that that this kind of field what's called a radial vector field where where the the vector f is always pointed directly outwards um when you integrate a radial vector field around a circle centered at the origin you get zero because the contribution at every point is zero. Okay, so that's part A. Part B is actually exactly the same. Right? Right? If we look back at our formula over here in part B, we have that f is given by some function g ofxy * x ihat plus yjhat. Well, what is this g of xy doing? It's just rescaling. It's telling you at every point you you can scale that vector by some by some amount. So, you know, if we looked over at this picture, you know, maybe over here you would scale some of these vectors to be longer and over here they might be shorter or you might switch them to be negative. But but you don't change the direction of any vector in the field um from part A. You just you just change their length. So you still have a radial vector field and you still have the property that at every point on our curve the tangent vector to the curve is orthogonal to the vector f. So the tangent vector is orthogonal to f. So that means you again have ft is equal to zero and and so f is also equal to zero ds. And so when you integrate that you just get zero. So that's also what happens in part B. So part B, I'm just going to write ditto. The exact same reasoning applies in part B as applied in part A. And you also get zero as your as your integral without without having to parameterize without having to do any tricky calculations at all. All right. So let's now look at part C. I'm going to draw another little picture. Um so in part C, there's your curve. uh at the point xy. So I'm going to draw some some choices of f again. Um so in part c at at the point xy your your vector field f is minus min - y ihat plus x jhat. Now if you draw that on the picture here over there that's that vector over here. So at the point 01 say that gives you the vector - 1 0. So that's horizontal to the left. Uh here are some more. There's one there. There's one there. There's another one over here. And so on. Um in fact what you'll notice is that this vector f is is just parallel to the tangent vector of the circle everywhere. this this field is a is a tangential field. It it's always pointing parallel to the curve. Okay. So so we have a a little it's perpendicular to the position vector. It's it's in the same direction as the tangent vector at every point. So this is something that you've seen before. I think that that this vector field is is giving you the a sort of a nice rotating motion. You know at every point it's it's circulating counterclockwise. Um so what does that mean? Well, again, uh we're it's not exactly the same as part A and B, but we'll again we'll be able to compute this integral without parameterizing. Why? Because f T in this case, well, so let's see what is the norm of f um the the magnitude of f is just the roo of x^2 + y^2. So on our circle of radius B that means the the magnitude of F is B and the magnitude of T the the unit tangent vector is one and they point in the same direction. So when you have two vectors that point in the same direction their dotproduct is just the product of their magnitudes. So that means FT is equal to B. This is a constant. Yeah. FT is equal to B. So when you integrate around the circle f well this is equal to the integral um around the circle of f dot the tangent vector with respect to arc length. But this integrant f dot the tangent vector is is this constant b. So you're integrating over the curve b ds. All right. And when you integrate a constant ds, well that just gives you the total arc length. So this is b * the total arc length. And this is a circle of radius b. So that's b * 2i b which is we could also write as 2 pi b ^2. So there you go. So in this in this third case you have a nice tangential vector field. So that means the the integrant is actually works out to be constant. Um, and because the integrant is constant, we don't ever have to parameterize the curve, we can just use the fact that we already know its arc length in order to to to compute this integral. Again, we could do all of these integrals if we wanted by parameterizing the circle by b x= b cosine t, y= b sin t, and and going through and writing this as an integral from t= 0 to 2 pi and so on. Um, but these are these are examples of problems where it's where it's helpful to think about what's going on first. See if you can understand the geometry of your situation. And you know, sometimes you'll you'll have a problem like this where you'll, you know, in in either in this class or elsewhere in your life where where something that might seem complicated has a has a simple geometric explanation. And so when that does happen, it's nice when you can take advantage of it. Sometimes that won't happen and sometimes you'll have to do the parameterization and the computation. But in these cases we had these nice three examples where with a radial vector field you can just you get that the integrant is always zero or with a with a tangent tangential vector field you have that the integrant is constant. All right. So I'll stop there.