The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Good afternoon. My name is Thomas Malone. I'm a professor at the Sloan School and director of the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence. And it is my job to welcome you here today and to introduce our speaker. I actually have an even more exciting announcement for you, which is you thought you were going to come for an interesting exciting talk, but you're actually here for an adventure because it turns out that apparently the power is out in all of Cambridge. The lights you see here are from the emergency power system in this building. But we do not have regular power and therefore the speaker will not be able to use his slides and video and all the wonderful multimedia material he had prepared for you. So you get to have an oldfashioned adventure just listening to each other talk. So to prepare you for that uh it is my pleasure to introduce our speaker. Uh, I talked to him a little bit just before this and neither of us has had a clear memory of this, but I do remember talking to Don over 30 years ago when I was a researcher at Xerox PaloAlto Research Center, Xerox Park, and he was a researcher at Bell Northern Research. Uh, I don't remember what we talked about, but I remember thinking it was interesting, whatever it was. And then uh after he was at Bell Northern Research, I actually found one of his bios on the web which said after three years at Bell Northern, Tapscot left to pursue other interests. Now, that's usually not a very good thing to say about. But in this case, the next sentence says, "He founded and sold a few successful companies and wrote 14 books, including best sellers, Paradigm Shift, Wikenomics, uh, which by the way I use as leading in one of my courses on organizational design, and almost most recently his new book, Microeconomics, which is, I believe, for sale there at the back of the room." He just told me this afternoon that that's not his newest book. Apparently, his newest book is not a book. It is an app. The Don Tapscott app, New Solutions for a Connected Planet. In addition to all these books, Don was also named one of the thinkers 50 definitive list of top business thinkers in the world. Macroeconomics was a runner up for the best business book of the last two years. He's a member of the World Economic Forum, an adjunct professor of management at the Rottman School of Management in Toronto, Martin Prosperity Institute fellow. He is, I believe, it's fair to say, one of the most prolific, profound, and influential thinkers about in the world today about the digital revolution and what it means for all of us. It's my pleasure to introduce Thanks Tom for that two kind introduction. Well they say power corrupts PowerPoint corrupts. Absolutely. So um I guess we will have a conversation. The u I'm trying to remember what we talked about too but we were both trying to figure out how computers connected to networks might have an impact on the world. And back then uh some of you may not have been around but computers were only in the late 70s when I started DNR were used by programmers. They weren't even used by secretaries. Word processing was just starting uh to appear. Um and we had this crazy idea that at DNR that computers might become a communications tool. They might be used by everybody. And so we did a controlled uh experiment. We had 50 knowledge workers as we called them uh using multi-function workstations pretty much Microsoft Office running on a BT100 dumb terminal from deck and um then we had 50 uh people who were the control group and uh they had the old pens and papers and secretaries and calculators and all that traditional stuff. We found out that the the test group actually worked very differently. They communicated differently. Um and on the measures that we had, they performed uh better and they had more fun too. And within only 25 years, people were watching cat videos on there. Um but I wrote a book out based on that experience in uh 1981. And u I'll say it was a study in bad time. It did not sell very well. And my I think my mom bought most of the cops and people said this will never happen. Regular people will never use computers. And do you know the reason regular people what they said? Typing. Yes. Managers, professionals will never learn to type. So all these profoundities became reduced to typing proficiency. I became a typing evangelist. is fun. But uh flash forward to today um this of course is happening. So um what I think I'll do rather than talking for an hour without slides is I'm going to talk for a lot less and kind of cover the the turf that I was going to cover. Then we could throw it up and have a conversation there for a few people in this room who actually have some knowledge about the web um and other things than uh themselves. So uh where do we start? Well, womics that was uh actually my 12th book 2007 and it argued that uh the internet and the web are not are not about eyeball stickiness page views hooking up online uh.coms any of that. They're becoming a new computational platform that radically drops transaction and collaboration costs in our economy and in society. And this we argued uh is leading to a profound change in the deep structure and architecture of a corporation of how we orchestrate capability to innovate to create goods and services to engage with the rest of the world. This talent and uniquely qualified minds can be outside the boundaries of your company. And this unfolds in all kinds of new business models. Ideagorics which are open markets for for unique and qualified minds. Proumer turning your consumers into producers. Open platforms where you open up the APIs of your business and the world co-inovates on top of that. Um peer production. These are all new models that are emerging in in a very powerful way. The book was a big deal. It was actually the bestselling manager book for the year uh in the US in 2007. And then something happened uh that caused me to recalibrate and that was the um the financial meltdown. And it's who imagine five years ago that one of the big themes of business books and cover stories on magazines and so on would be how to save capitalism. Where's capitalism even savable? And these books are not being written by occupied types. They're being written by the capitalists. Matthew Bishop, business editor at the Economist, wrote a book called The Road from the Room. And some of you may know this guy Paul Kugman, Nobel Prize, The Economist, Controversial Guy, writes the New York Times. Um, he and I have been on the same stage a few times recently. And uh you may know his point that when you have the meltdown of a financial industry, you get a prolonged period of slump. Japan had one in '92. They're still in a slump. So get ready for a couple of decades of ugliness. He says the global economy. And that's the good news scenario because some really bad things can happen like say Italy or Spain defaults on it so debt Merkel and Germany doesn't backs stop the euro. Europe uh goes into a depression. in the global economy goes into a profession. So I get up on the stage and I look out at this audience and all these people in a fetal position and um I say look far be it for me to debate a Nobel Prize winning economist but to me the future is not something to be predicted. The future is something to be achieved and we can achieve a very different future than the one that carved in our minds. But if we're going to do that, we need to know what the problem is. And the problem doesn't fall within the paradigm or the mental model of traditional economies. So worry about things like the business cycle and do we need more austerity or more fiscal stimulation and in the UK is this a double dip, you know, recession and so on. The these are all important topics, but fundamentally to me this is not a cyclical change that we're going through. It's a secular change. It's a turning point in history. You add all these things up all around the world and there's a case to be made that the industrial age has finally ran out of gas. I mean you look around and there are a set of institutions in macroeconomics we talk about 16 of them that are at various stages of being stalled or frozen or in atrophied or even failing contrasted with these sparkling new initiatives of of a new model of that institution being built around the web and being built around a new set of principles and uh you know the old industrial age model of of innovation and the corporation typified by General Motors. Well, GM went bankrupt, the financial industry. I gave a talk called TEDex Wall Street at the New York Stock Exchange. It was actually the opening speech. And and I said, you know, Wall Street, we have a problem. There's a growing understanding that the world is becoming less fair, less um prosperous, and less sustainable. And you're at the heart of of this problem. Your core modus operandi almost brought down global capitalism. Have you changed? Um, newspapers are going bankrupt. 70 have gone under in the United States. It'd be a fun little mass collaboration thing. In what year will the last newspaper get published in an OECD country that you know 30 or so developed countries? I'm guessing sometime in the 2030 range. Um as one youngster said to us, "If the news is important, it will find me." Um there and actually interviewed a youngster in front of a big she's 20 years old at the World Congress on it. It's like 7,000 people and I had a panel of of young people and uh I said to her, "I bet you're part of the dumbest generation." It's the title of a book. This guy Mark Bearine says, "How the digital age stupifies young Americans and jeopardizes our future. Don't trust anyone under 30." He says, "Um, so I said to her, aren't her name is Rahu. She was uh studying in Syria. Sorry, born in Syria, studying in Paris. Her boyfriend is in Toronto. They turn on video Skype all day long to keep their relationship from across the ocean." So on. So I said she met him on the internet. They're now married. I said, "Is that weird meeting your boyfriend on the internet?" And she said, "No, it's great. It's like shopping." And uh so I said to her, "Aren't you part of the dumbest generation? I bet you're you probably know who won American Idol, but you don't know who's the vice president of the United States. I bet you you don't read the newspaper. You probably don't watch the TV news. you probably get your news from John Stewart in the Daily Show on Comedy Central. And um like I knew her and I kind of knew that that was not true, but she says, "Uh, why don't I don't think that's a fair stereotype. I mean, I think I'm informed and most of my friends are, but you're right, Mr. Papscott. Uh I don't read the newspaper, but have you ever seen those things? They come out once a day and they don't have hot links. They don't have any." and you get this weird black stuff on your fingers. She says, "Let me tell you how I get informed." She describes how she curates this environment. Uh she says, "You're also right. I I don't watch the television news, but does anybody Sam Donaldson told me the average age of the ABC night news is 64." And she says, and I do watch John Stewart, the Daily Show, but not to get the news. She says, "I don't think the Daily Show would be funny unless you know the news." So, this is a little vignette about the challenges that we have with informing ourselves as a society when the old models are doing that are collapsing and when there are vast opportunities that are emerging and for every one of these institutions are tough issues. I mean, you know, h how do we pay journalists? How do we ensure investigative uh journalism and and quality? Um how do we avoid bulcanization where we can all follow our own little point of view and where we may end up in these little self-reinforcing echo chambers where the purpose of information is not to inform us but it's to uh to give us comfort. So, but every one of these, I mean, our models of global problem solving, they came out of the Second World War, Breton Woods, the UN, great UN, the World Bank and the GAT and the the WTO and the IMF and the G20 and the G8. Are these problems that we have in the world that are growing? Are they just too hard to solve? Or maybe our state-based models of global cooperation and governments are not the appropriate model? Now meanwhile on that one there are tens of millions of people participating in new things multistakeholder networks. I call them global solution networks. This is the biggest project that I'm doing right now. It's a a big project on how do we solve the world's problems differently. So modest little thing. So um but we can go through all of these institutions. Science our model of science is deeply flawed in many areas. The pharmaceutical industry is a great example. They're about to fall off this thing called the patent cliff where they're going to lose they are losing right now 25 to 35% of their revenue overnight. So what do you do? Cut back on office expenses. No, we need to change the whole model of science to embrace the internet and new models of of uh of orchestrating capability. and Andrew Witty uh bless his heart the CEO of Glaco Smith Klein just two weeks ago announced that they're going to start sharing clinical trial data a rising tide can lift all boats you share pre-ompetitive research they should be doing that proof of clinical mechanism it's called share comparator arm data and why not share all kinds of clinical trial research they have to change the whole model so the the what what I was going to focus on today was the issue of education and that's another one both at the university and at other levels um we still largely have an industrial age model and the industrial age was a model of a scale and a standardization. So we have mass production, mass distribution, mass marketing, mass media, mass education where something at the center or the top pushed out standardized units to passive recipients. Um, so you push out products, you push out uh television shows, you push out lectures. Um, but they're all one sizefits-all, one too many. And the recipients are relatively inert. And you know, this is reflect. I know that a lot of teachers are working hard to reinvent the schools, but still the the the basic model pedagogy is I'm a teacher. I acknowledge you're a student. You don't get ready here in Congress. and uh K to2. I was just with a a amazing group of uh business leaders and government leaders and educators in Canada this morning that's decided we're finally going to have to transform the schools K to 12 for relevance and effectiveness for the 21st century. But the whole this model of the lecture well I I kind of caricatururize it. Lecture is a process whereby the notes of a lecture go to the notes of a student without going through the brains of either. I appreciate the irony that I'm standing up here giving you a lecture and it would have been even more so if I had my but um in this conversation you're not going to remember about the 16 institutions or the five principles or the seven business models or anything else that I I may try and go over. I'm I'm just trying to convince you of an idea maybe that you would think differently about something. So just one more point before I finish up on it. So all these institutions um that are the old the old model uh contrasted with new models that are emerging um I think that this is really an apocalyp and if you want to understand what's happening today again with respect to Kugman you don't go back to 91 or 82 or even the great recession. I think you need to go back earlier that all around the world we had agrarian economies the means of production the political system was called feudalism and knowledge was tightly concentrated in all adopters the church and the state and people didn't know about things there's no concept of progress and then along comes uh Johannes Gutenberg with his great invention and over time different parts of the populations started to acquire knowledge and when they did the institutions of feudal ligrarian society appeared to be stalled or frozen or in atrophy or even failing. It didn't make sense for the Catholic Church to be responsible for medicine when people had knowledge. It didn't make sense for a bunch of kings and nobles to be running things. So, we had the parliamentary democracy, the creation of the nation state. We had these national democratic revolutions all uh throughout Latin America and other parts, the French Revolution, the American Revolution. And that's essentially what these these were of a new population um a new classes rebelling against the old church and and mobility wanted to create not just nations but a new kind of uh of economy and uh with that the we had the Protestant Reformation Martin Luther called the printing press God's highest act of grace. We saw the creation of u science. The the university really started to take off during this period. We saw the uh the industrial revolution and ultimately it it was all good. It advanced our standard of living and our our knowledge and and quality of life but it it did come with a cost. And now once again uh to me the technology genie is out of the bottle. Only this time it's it's very different. that the printing press gave us access to the written word. The web enables each of us to be a publisher. The printing press gave us access to recorded knowledge. The web gives us access not just to knowledge but to the intelligence contained in the cranium of other people on a global basis. This is not an information age. It's an age of networking and human intelligence. That's why I'm so delighted to be introduced by Tom's on the question of the next step on that collective intelligence is probably the world's leading thinking. So this is an age of collaboration. It's about connecting cranium. Now um why is all this happening? The web daddy's internet. you know, the social web, a new generation of uh digital natives. I'm a digital immigrant. I had to learn the language. We had the first generation to grow up digital. And I started sping kids about 20 years ago when I noticed how my own children were effortlessly able to use all this sophisticated technology. At first, I thought my children are prodigies. And um then I noticed that all their friends were like them. So that was a bad theory. So um in the mid 90s I started working uh with 300 kids and in 97 I wrote a book called growing up digital and I and I that defined the net generation the digital divide the generation gap a whole bunch of other ideas and I said these kids are going to have no fear of technology because it's not technology dynam very important. I was an authority on model trains when I was 11. Today, the 11year-old at the breakfast table is an authority on this digital revolution that's, you know, changing business, commerce, government, earning, finance, education, every institution and society. So, it's not a generation gap. That's what we had in the 60s. Uh, kids and parents get along really well today. We interviewed uh 11,000 young people in 10 countries uh or surveyed them. Um, back back in the 60s, I mean, my parents didn't even like the Beatles, let alone, you know, the Doors or something. What we have today is what I call the generation laugh where kids are laughing their parents on the digital track. And if you have a teenager in your house, you know what I'm talking about. Who does the systems administration in your home? So, this is humbling and it's leading. This generation is the biggest ever. They're coming into the workforce, the marketplace, into society, and they're different. I'd be happy to talk about that because we did a really big project. It was probably the biggest study ever of any generation. And I'm convinced they're and I'd be happy to explain that why. And they're sure not the dumbest uh generation. All the other stereotypes about kids are not addicted, discreet, losing their social skills or the terrible youth culture, the violence. Uh Jean Twang's got a book called Generation Me. We've created a little army of narcissists. They don't give a damn. Um it's a great stereotype that the problem is there's no data to support it. The data would suggest otherwise. I'd be happy to give to so this is leading to a social revolution as the internet drops transactional collaboration costs not just in business but in society. And you know that um this big debate with Malcolm Gladwell who's familiar with that about he wrote an article in New York that said the revolution will not be twot. But again we can get into it if you want but um he said real social change comes from strong ties and there may yeah maybe 200 million people on Facebook causes but just because you go like doesn't mean you're changing the world. They're not activists they're slactivists he says. Um, so I got involved in the debate and others did too. And I said, "Look at, you know, all ties in society that are strong begin as weak ties with probably one exception. The relationship between a mother and her baby, that one's strong from the get-go, although even that one kind of gates for a while. But if we can create a platform that builds and sweep ties and people get to come into motion and they become stronger, the connections are greater, then surely this is a powerful force or enable for change. It was a good debate and then reality intervened. It was settled. Reality had a name Tunisia and then it got another name uh Egypt. Then it got another 15 names or so. And like the Tunisian revolution wasn't caused by social media. It was caused by injustice. It wasn't created by social media. It was created by a new generation of young people who wanted hope and who didn't want to be treated uh as subjects. But the internet was really critical to this whole thing and be happy to talk about that. But in ways that people don't understand. During the Tunisian revolution, snipers were killing unarmed students in the street. So the kids would take their mobile device, take a photograph, uh uh try and triangulate the location, send that to friendly military units who came uh came in and took out the snipers. You know, you think the webs about hooking up online. Actually, for these kids, it was a tool of self-defense. Up until 8 months ago, uh the Syria uh Syrian situation was just um kind of disintegrated. But there actually were demonstrations a year ago. And what would happen is if you got injured in a demonstration, an ambulance would pick you up. You go into a hospital with a broken leg and you had a good chance of coming out with a bullet in your head. So, these two youngsters in their 20s created an alternative emergency health care system using Twitter where you got injured, someone um you got picked up, taken to a makeshift medical plan where you got medical treatment as opposed to being executed. So, those are just two little vignettes of how this is not about helping people get the right placards to the right place. This is like call them wiki revolutions where they enable people to have collective force in ways that were previously unthinkable. So the final u big driver for all this is what you might call an economic or business revolution. And anyone here heard of Ronald co you know Tom has co a s e okay well I'll just do a sec on this. Um, this was what 75 years ago now, 80 years ago. He wrote, probably more like 75 because I'm pretty sure he's still alive. Um, he wrote a paper where he asked a deceptively simple question. He said, "Why does the firm exist? If Adam Smith is right, the open markets the best mechanism to determine the allocation of information and people and materials and money and so on. Why isn't everybody an independent contractor at every step along the way in production? And he said, why do you why do we all work companies? And he said, the answer is, and he won a Nobel Prize for saying this, the answer is transaction cost. Now, he defined that very broadly. He really was talking about the cost of collaboration. He said the cost of search. This is like 75 years ago of finding all the right information, the right people, the right whatever in in an open market that'd be totally prohibitive. So we bring that inside the boundaries of a corporation. We have things like filing cabinets to get information and order charts to find people and so on. The transaction cost of search are lower within the boundaries. The cost of coordination, the cost of contracting, whole bunch of things. And the big industrials were right. The industrial age was an age of vertical integration where we brought everything from soup to nuts within corporation. Henry Ford had within the boundaries of the Ford Motor Company, power plant, steel mill, shipping company, glass factory. Why? Because the costs of collaboration in an open market were greater than the cost of doing things inside and so forth. Along comes well early uh days of modern transportation, the telephone uh tel u faximile u the early days of information technology and the boundaries of corporations became more coarse back paradigm shift. I finally wrote a book that somebody read um at the beginning of the '90s, but we called it the extended enterprise. And then with the internet, transaction uh transaction costs dropped more in the web. And then now transaction and collaboration costs are dropping so much that peers come together and create value. peers within an organization. Peers in the sense of companies acting as peers rather than superiors and subordinates in the supply chain. And the crazy one is peers outside the boundaries of companies. So if you can, you know, create an encyclopedia with a million people. It's 20 times bigger than Britannica and 240 languages. But according to the big nature magazine study on scientific articles, the air rate is about the same as botanic. What else could you create? Could you through pure production? Could you create a computer operating system? Well, Linux is now the dominant operating system for uh in the world actually. It dominates medium and large computers and as of this year dominates mobile devices. It's in a comments. Um social media is becoming social production. It's a new it's not about hooking up online. It's a new means of production. So, uh, Linux announced some big new customers a while ago. Hear about that. One of them is called China. Imagine that you're the saleserson. Hey, got a great new customer. China, lot of users, lot. Could you create a physical good this way? Well, the Chinese motorcycle industry is dozens of little companies. They cooperate alternative web. They meet in tea houses. There's no OEM. There's no Harley-David Harley-Davidson pulling all the strings. This is now 40% of global motorcycle production and get ready for the thousand peer produced car uh using the same model. So you put all that together, tie it in with the global crisis, and we now have a burning platform in all of these institutions. And um so let's just say a couple words about education and then we can throw a little you know the burning platform idea that you're somewhere like on an oil rig that's on fire where the costs of staying where you are become greater than the cost of moving to something new even though the new state may be unknown. And in all of these institutions we've had a burning platform or we now have a burning platform. government. It was Al Gore was on this 20 years ago, the reinvention of government. You all know about that. We actually have to reinvent government today. The the the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, the fiscal mess in the in the US. We have these industrial age models of government that grew up at the same period as the industrial age corporation where governments take tax revenue from citizens. They have all these people inside their boundaries that create public value like services or laws. They push that back out to the citizens. Well, that will continue. But there are all these new models that are emerging now. Um where governments can be not simply the providers of public value, they can be the the curator. So the context providers of public value. So the whole notion of government as a platform, great big idea. Governments release data. Tim's huge advocate of that. I think at a at a TED conference people chanting as I remember raw data, raw data. there's we can get but um you know and then then if we simply provide raw data you've got private companies civil society organizations other government agencies academia individual citizens who self-organize now on this platform to use that data. This is not about you know putting government online or paving the count path or all the other things that we've been doing about the reinvention of government. This is the early days of a new division of labor in society about how we come together to create public value that we used to call services or laws. Now this has extended out around the world too. Um you know we can now come together and do things like govern something in the world without using a state-based institution to do that. And the governance of the internet would be a great example of that. And as you may know, there's a huge showdown at the OK Corral shaping up next week in Dubai for the old state-based institutions um institution of the uh WTU that that regulated telecommunications in the world. Um um sort of battling the ecosystem that governs the internet. I can the um uh internet engineering task force the W uh 3 consortium all these organizations that are multistakeholder networks but they are not based on states and they're doing a pretty good job of governing u the internet with a with a completely different model. So the old regimes and some of these uh uh tyrannical if you like or death spot regimes think that no no we need better governance. So there shouldn't be things like lies on the internet and um so we can fix that by having you know the the WTU playing a more active role. So this is this is a battle between the old and the new that's shaping up in all of these institutions. Okay. So, a couple of things about education and learning and I I say this with some humility really. I mean, I'm at MIT, the home of uh the uh open courseware uh initiative, but um to me, we have a bunch of big problems with the industrial model of learning. One is pedagogy. It's a one to many, one sizefits-all model. And second is how content gets created for learning. um at the post-secary education level. How bizarre that we have thousands of statistics professors all around the world that are each developing their own little notes and powerpoints and tests and and u and and materials and and learning guides and so on to explain what an analysis of variance is. There are probably three or four best ways and they be culturally specific. But the ivory tower that that term it it's not an accident that that term is used. Universities were originally places to keep the books and then smart people started hanging around and then you started getting students to come and learn from the smart people. We have all these old inst ins insular institutions and within them um you know academics that that create their own thing when we could be collaborating to create postsecary education. The third big set of issues has to do with the relationship of the university to not just other universities but to other levels of education and to other institutions in society and I think that we can make some big changes on those too. So let me just say a word about uh pedagogy. Um the model is a uh in the industrial age was a teacher focused one way model where the student is isolated in the learning process. Now, of course, you can try and have discussions and so on, but when you're teaching psych 101 and there's a thousand people in the class, it's hard to hard to. So, what can we do to move towards a new model? Actually, just before I do that, let me say a couple of things. You know, the whole thing about lifelong learning, we've all know that concept. This is really very impactful when you think about what is the purpose of higher education. Um, you know, when I graduated, I was kind of set for life. I just kept up in my chosen field. At least I thought. Today, young people graduate, you're not set for life. You're set for like, I don't know, 15 units. If you took a technical course in the first year, a lot of a lot of that is obsolete by the time you get to the the fourth year. So, you know, it's like your career is a milk carton. It's got a time stamp on it and it's going to go sour unless you're reinventing. So, um this means that what a university needs to do is not just do trade knowledge. Um now, let me uh provoke you a bit on that one. Um, I would say that of of course you need mastery, especially technical courses and and we're not going to Google everything, but the fact that we have the web now and these search engines and so on and the these new technologies coming out, geospatiality, the semantic web and so on, that we can we do have this world of information that's going to be easier and easier to get access to. So Albert Einstein was interviewed rare rare interview and it was a a journalist who at the end of the interview said um and I paraphrase uh that was great. Could I follow up with a phone call? And he said yes. She said may I may I have your telephone number? And he said yes. And he pulled out a phone book and he started looking at his number. And she said I paraphrase what? You're the smartest man in the world. You don't know your own phone number. Einstein says, "I only remember things I can't look up." So, this is uh Eric Schmidt, the Earthqu CEO of uh Google has this little aphronism or apherism uh where he talks about um information and the growth of information. So, um and I've heard different variants of this, but they're all roughly the same. He says between the beginning of human time and the year uh humanity recorded five exabytes of information. That's a lot. An exabyte is quintilion by bites. He says in the last 12 hours we recorded five exabytes of information. Now a lot of that is cat but a lot of it isn't. um their transactions and important you know the things people develop in courseware and so on. So what are we going to do? Try and this is get kids to stuff more of that into their heads. No, when you graduate what's really important is your capacity to think to solve problems to research collaborate put things in context to understand the inter relationship between things. these higher order skills and so this is a big challenge to reinvent both K to2 and university so that these kinds of capacities uh can be uh developed. Now in 1976 I took a gra uh I was doing a master's of uh education and I did uh I took a graduate course in uh statistics 1976 that was all on a computer was connected to a machine called a PDP117 digital and we had uh dumb terminals and there was a slide projector that projected graphic stuff out to us. So, it was multimedia. It a self-paced interactive party like a moot. Um, I went over things I understood uh quickly. Things I didn't understand. I went over and over again. I remember thinking if someone saw me going over this again, they would think I'm really dumb. But nobody saw me and I went over it till I got it. Now, I got an A, but most most kids did it up from a B minus on the same set of standard tests two years earlier. And I thought, well, this is obvious. Self-paced learning. There were no lectures. This statistics lecture by definition is a bust, right? There's no one sizefits all for statistics. Everyone in the lecture hall is either bored or they don't get it. But um I thought, well, this is going to just take off. That was that was almost 40 years ago and it's just in the last 12 months that we're seeing the rise of these um these uh new interactive learning environments that are self-paced. So you got Corsera uh just a little uh reality check. Who knows about Corsera? Okay. You've got things like um EdX here at MIT with Harvard. Um the whole idea of the flipped classroom where rather than studying after the the class, you study before the class, you watch the lecture, you do some interactive thing. And these interactive things are they don't just work for statistics, they work for anything where you you have a challenge of mastery where there's a right or wrong answer. Now even in history, there are lots of right and wrong answers. You know what was about the American Revolution? you know the dates and and what actually occurred around that and then you come to the classroom and that's when the interaction and collaboration and and the active learning uh really uh takes place. So um this is a big opportunity and um it's a time when this is finally uh really happening and those of you I know a number of you are with the uh the open courseware board thank you very much because you're viewership made a real difference. Now on the second question about how does content get created uh Charles Vest again from MIT um was a real leader on that stuff creating the notion of the meta university and see with the open courseware the first stage was really just publishing materials online but we need to move to a couple of new stages. A second stage and and the mukes are driving a lot of this is we need to have collaboration in the creation of higher learning content. We need to co-innovate postsecary education amongst academics and um content creators around the world. And a lot of this is going to be software actually um as self-paced interactive writing becomes important. And then the next level to me is that you start to bring the tonic of the market to bear in every course in every situation and and value comes to the floor. Value is evidence like never before because of transparency and the really good stuff starts to have a real impact. So, I'm a student and I might I might have a home university and especially I might have a campus experience somewhere because that's still really important. Marvin Drestler, the uh the former head of sociology at Princeton for 20 years. I was on a panel uh with him and we were talking about the role of campus and he says, "Come on, Don. The campus is a great place for young people to go for four years and get older." He says, "They're bound to learn something while they're there." um and that there there's a role for a campus and for a home institution. But why why shouldn't we be able to to study from a multiplicity of all kinds of different sources? Some of them will be other universities. Some of them will be independent academics. Some of them um could be come from other places as well. And when you start to think about that, you start to think about these walls of the 94 plan breaking down. So, I have this great video I'm dying to show you, but um I'm not going to be able to do it, but it's it's around the idea of collective intelligence and um something that I've been studying uh science of nature actually to try and see what an age of network intelligence might look like because we've looked at lots of organizations and um and we've learned lots, but uh there's a lot to be learned from nature and there's a very spectacular thing. You can go on to YouTube and actually see the video um but it's called the murmmoration and um if you type in macroeconomics murmmoration into YouTube you'll see it but it's one of the most spectacular things in all of and um it functions according to the principles of economics basically it's collaboration there's a big openness there's a sharing of all kinds of information not just about speed and trajectory and so on and their rules to govern that key rule would be don't bump into anybody else. Um, but these are thousands and thousands of birds and and there's a real interdependence like I'm going around saying business can't succeed in a world that's failing and this murmmoration functions around that notion because one of one one of its main purposes is to defend the birds from predators and in these videos you can see hawks trying to get a bird and then the the birds whirl around this violently noisy huge huge black arrow. That's a terrifying thing apparently if you're a hawk or a predator. And they the hawks just get chased away. So by deflecting power of the little birds. So the the idea there and I just want to throw this out because um u because uh uh Tom and others who think about this are here. But could we go beyond? If we were to connect ourselves on this planet through this vast network of glass and air, could we go beyond just sharing information? Uh could or knowledge, could we start to share our intelligence? Could we create some kind of collective intelligence or even some kind of consciousness that extends beyond an individual or a organization or a society? Um if we could do that we could solve some pretty big problems like you remember the learning organization Peter Sangi that whole idea it never really happened maybe the precondition for a learning organization wasn't there that organizations like people can't learn unless they're conscious. I mean when I give talks I try to tell stories and even be funny because I find people learn more when they're conscious. Um maybe we need to create organizations that have consciousness before we can create learning organizations. Um you know during the Egyptian revolution um a lot of people were saying Labar's too strong the kids are going to give up. They'll go home. And I knew at the time the I wrote about this, I don't think they will because if they go home, if they break up that collective um then he'll hunt them down individually and he'll kill them. So or for sure all of the leadership and probably a level down maybe a few of their families as well. Um so they had to kind of uh stay together like the like the murmmoration took breaks up then predators are going to have a field day. So um just to recap, some big drivers, technology, demographics, economic and social leading to new models of most of our institutions going away from an industrial model to a collaborative model where we network human intelligence and um where yeah, this is a time of great danger and peril, but it's fundamentally a time to me of a big opportunity to create all kinds of new wealth, new value, new prosperity, and and uh new social justice, and maybe even um creating a smaller world that our kids inherit. That's uh that's a better one. So, I'm I'm going to stop it there and then uh just let's uh we can talk about any of the So speaking of hyperbolic um what are your thoughts if any around's uh writings around singularity you you talked about collective intelligence sort of starts to touch on some of the things he has written about you read his work and what are your thoughts well I'm I'm just reading his new book which is not yet published the moon review but of his new book about um changing the way we think. And so far it seems to be pretty interesting because u we have to design our models. Uh especially important for kids because a third of the human brain gets built during extended adolescence age 8 to 18. And the number one variable determining how what your brain is like, the synaptic connections of your brain is how you spend your time after you. And um my generation, the baby boomers, grew up, we watch TV 24 hours a week. And so we were the passive recipients of somebody else's video at the industrial mall, right? I was cool with that. But for a long time, I was cool with being a passive recipient. I was broadcast to TV and my parents, you know, the the baby boomer family. Father's father knows best. It was a one-way kind of uh transition. I described this as the uh the baby boomer family had an org chart. you know, mom reported to dad, the kids reported to mom and that's of course, but but I went to school and I was broadcast to and I went to the church uh uh church every Sunday and I got broadcast to and I went into the workforce initially had a boss telling me what to do. Um but kids today are growing up in a very different kind of environment. They come home and they don't turn on the TV. They turn on their computer and they're in three different windows and they got three magazines open. They're listening to iTunes and texting and they got video game go oh yeah and they're doing their homework. Um but the the TV is sort of like um ambient media. It's like and this is affecting brain development um in all kinds of ways. So we need we need to think about designing our children's brains or helping them design a good brain. But it's also true for us as well. Uh brain plasticity now is a big theme. Now it's not like adolescence where you're actually building a third of the brain. This is you have a brain but they can change. You know the that famous meme about London bus drivers that um uh that taxi drivers have a bigger part of the uh frontal cortex responsible for memory than taxi drivers because they have to remember the map of London. You ever got a taxi cab in London? I I did this recently. I'm going to one whiffle pot lane. It was this little tiny block and I googled it because I knew I was going to have to explain where this was. the guy goes Roy off he goes. So, um, so if it's true that we have brain plasticity, there are probably all kinds of things that we could do to uh to actually design our minds. Now, on so, so that's kind of what this new book is exploring on the singularity. Um, the you know, these are interesting ideas. Some of it I don't buy. Personally, I don't want to live to be 150 and watch all my blessed friends and family die off. Um, so the whole thing if you can stay alive for another 30 years and we can start implanting all kinds of devices in us and but that's a social opinion and it's a personal opinion but obviously he's made you know he's made an important contribution to this. Yeah. Yeah. So I I often like being provocative too. So I'll make an analogy. If you if you look at global climate change and global warming, you know, you could look at it as great opportunities, right? If you're in Canada, gets warmer. If you're in a desert, you might get water. Um there's lots of places where you can say it could be much better, but there's a lot of places where it could get a lot worse. And if we're at a sort of real changing point, um, you seem nicely focused on places where it could get better, but I don't get a sense that you're capturing that like there's change all over the place and a lot of change could be a lot worse. Yeah. Okay. Well, let let me pick up two sides of that. First of all, let me talk about climate change, okay? Because I am from Canada and uh last summer we had this beautiful hot, sunny summer. was just wonderful. And I remember um saying to a friend, you know, this whole climate change just could be really cool if it wasn't for the fact that a billion and a half people are going to lose half their water supply in the next 10 to 20 years. Yeah. So, um I'm, you know, I agree with you completely. So, of course, there's a dark side to all of this and there's also massive disruption as well. Uh give you an example, a digital divide. Okay, that was a thing that we came up with back in in the uh ' 90s. And uh you know, I said there's a danger we'll create a world of digital halves and have nots who become knowowers and no nots and doers and do nots and people who can communicate with the rest of the world and those that can't. And if we do this, we'll create a structural underclass and some wounds in society that are hard to heal. So since I wrote that like 20 years ago, um what billion and a half people have come on to the internet and and they're not they're not coming onto the internet in the developing world because of the you know one laptop for child or something like that. Although bless Nicholas Negro Ponte for the wonderful thing that he did um they're coming up because of mobility. So my family uh was in the uh um the Suru land in Kenya and uh on one of these safaris and we met a a goat her 14-year-old goat her who didn't have water. She drank goats milk. She didn't have electrical power but she had a mobile device that could pull up a browser. Um now she's 14. uh she's pregnant for uh for her second child, married to somebody in his 60s who has no idea what this thing is kind of threatened by. Uh so what kind of cognitive dissonance is going on in her mind about what's you know what's going on in my world? Uh but but and and you could point that that's a single example but and we could we could talk all day about all kinds of huge disruptions and calamity and the newspaper I alluded to the the problems of the old models of informing ourselves collapsing but overall to me the arc of history is a positive one and it's towards overall with all kinds of disruption it's towards openness it's towards prosperity and Um to me we've got the most powerful platform ever for creating wealth for for transparency for scrutinizing our institutions companies governments everywhere becoming naked and sunlight is a fabulous u disinfectant everywhere it's taking time but everywhere institutions are having to get buff you know if you're going to be naked you better be buff as we said fitness is no longer an option and Um, and but by buff you need to have good value, but you also need to have these values of integrity as part of the bonus because if you don't, you're unable to to build trust. Uh, and and increasingly I may be naive, but I think that integrity is on the rise overall um as an arc in the world. um you know this old uh this old thing from the corporate social responsibility people do you remember this uh meme you do well by doing good now I don't think that was true I think lots of companies did well by being really bad by being monopolies or having terrible labor practices in the developing world or externalizing their costs on their uh society or you know by treating their employees bad by focusing all purely on marketing rather than innovation But now I think that's starting to become true. We know well uh we know for sure that you do badly by being bad. Wall Street found um found that to be true. So overall I'm not an optimist. I'm I'm just I'm more of I'd like to think of myself as a researcher basically. And I with notwithstanding all the disruption I think that all of this is moving in a direction. I'd like to throw another analogy. This is about trains. In China right now, they've built several high-speed trains in record time. And in the United States, we've taken years to talk about building trains and at the same time our subway systems are not close to the efficiency of those trains. So I'm wondering even though these revolutions be starting in the United States, what do you what are your thoughts about how other countries when they technologies to to deal with these drugs develop to deal with these collaborations they will be able to move faster than we can on using them? Well, if if by that you mean can um developing countries leap fraud over previous stages that the developed countries have gone through are going to the answer is obviously uh yes and you see it's like uneven and combined development in the world when you have big explosive and very positive movements I mean there are reasons that we don't have proper transportation systems in North America and they have to do with the industrial age and the automobile the oil industry and the oil industry that had a strong material interest in preventing that from occurring. In macroeconomics, there's a chapter on trans rethinking of transportation systems, right? And it starts off with this little um thought experiment. Okay, I'm do it right here. Imagine you have landed on a planet similar to Earth in its development 100 years ago and your assignment is to design the dominant mode of transportation for the population of this planet. Here are your design criteria. Uh use as much fuel as you possibly can. Uh use as much arable land of the planet as you possibly can. Um pump the maximum number of toxins into the environment. Kill or maim as many people as possible. Hint, make every pilot an amateur. Um, you know, it goes through just all these design. I mean, the the internal combustion engine automobile and don't get me wrong, I love my car, but u is is a bizarre sort of concept with retrospect in terms of a way of of uh of moving this around. Well, now now again burning platform. We have to start to uh to rethink this. Now the way it's going to work out is we're not going to get rid of all highways and and have big trains. Uh the way it will work out is with intelligent transportation systems where um we'll have all kinds of hybrid hybrid models that will hopefully externalize fewer costs on onto society. will be more efficient in their use of resources and will kill less people and will be a more rational transportation system. Yes. Um let me give you a reference. Um the biomimicry institute which collects information about biomimicry to a technology. I I was on their site a couple years ago and thought that I'd look at what they have in terms of intelligence and there about 285 as I recall biomimicry ideas applied to intelligence and organization. So if you haven't looked at that resource, I would suggest that you do. Let me push back a little bit on the difference between regeneration and and communication. I'm 62, so I come out about the same time period and I would do my homework in front of the television. So and it, you know, so that would be a little bit like having another screen open. And I noticed a difference between the way that I looked at television and the way that my parents looked at television. So for instance, when the live show of the Harvey Oswald being killed in in a Texas police station came on, I was the person who noticed that. My parents, my grandparents who were also watching didn't. And they were surprised and pleased that I noticed that, that I could see that where they didn't. And I remember as a kid looking at television and saying there are all these images of different sexuals, men and women, and I would actually count when I'm eight or 10 how many women appeared and how many men appeared. And so there's different things that are going on, but they're not so different than I think the generation coming up. Now for the generation coming up. Recently Occupy did occupy sanity and they did it in collaboration with 350.org. And if you go to the Occupy site, it has a link to 350.org. You press on the link and it's 404. It's not there. You go to 350.org report and they have a link about Occupy and Hurricane Sandy, but it's to the Red Cross and it doesn't tell me anything about how to collaborate. So, we still have all of these different difficulties of actually putting information together. And I'm not so sure that my brain is all that different than my niec's or my nephew's brain. And I'm not sure that all of the media that we have is appreciably different than the media that we have now. Well, maybe true in your case, but for most people it's not. I mean, I can't even read my email or listen to iTunes at the same time. Um, and I think that my parents come up to me and it's just an guy came up not too long ago. He said, "Uh, how can my 14-year-old get A's when she does her homework and five other things?" And so I asked him, "Well, does she really get A's? Is she a good kid? Does she get out? Is she fit? Does she have balance in her life? She have friends?" He said, "Oh, yeah. She's just great." I said, "Well, well, the first thing is we're not talking about a problem. I'm talking about something that's interesting." And the the time that I spend with brain scientists, the best conclusion I can come to, see, she's not actually multitasking. She has better active working memory and she has better switching abilities. And so she can hold on to that, move over to that uh do this, and then come back and and pick pick that activity up again. And this is a whole generation that's doing that. And there are all kinds of implications of this. I mean, one thing we ask the kids all around the world, when you're online, what are you doing? Working, learning, collaborating, or entertaining yourself, having fun, and everywhere they had trouble answering the question. They'd say, "Yes." Yes. Are those are the same thing, aren't they? Yeah. So, they sure weren't the same thing for me. When I was watching the Mickey Mouse Club, I was only doing one of those things. I was having fun and entertaining myself. Um whereas today work, learning, collaboration and fun are the same thing for a whole generation. I think the kids have got it right. I mean what are you doing today? Are you working or learning? You know it's called knowledge work. It's the same activity and then you know increasingly we work and learn through collaboration and hopefully you know we're having fun too. So, um, there, if you're really interested in this, there's it's a $4 million project summarized in in Grown Up Digital. There's a ton of evidence. By the way, while I'm at it, this whole stereotype about kids, they don't give a damn. Youth volunteering is up year to year for 15 years in the United States, many OECD countries. They're the dumbest generation. Well, our measure of dumbness or intelligence is called the IQ. It's been going up year to year forever. Um, uh, SAT scores are at an all-time high. It's never been tougher to get into MIT. Uh, kids are graduating all around the world from university like never before. Now, to be really frank about this, the top third are great. The middle third are not too bad compared to previous generations, better. The bottom third are dropping out of school. Um, but you know these people like Mark Bearine that blame the internet for that. I mean they're real problems with the bottom three. They're coming from single parent families. The mom doesn't have time to talk to the kids, let alone to work with them on their homework if she were so inclined. There's an old model of pedagogy. The kids are bored. Uh there's all kinds of inner city uh bad stuff with uh with you know gangs and kids are coming to school hungry. This is not a failing of the internet. It's a it's a failing of public policy. It's a failing of society. And u you know to blame the internet is kind of like what I said in the book blaming the library for ignorance that the web's not the problem. It's part of the solution. And it's not about technology. It's about a change of relationship between the student and the teacher and the learning process. As long as you're on that subject, I wonder if you make comparison for to u I think it's a common perception which exaggerated quite our university system both public and private is uh is the envy of the world uh in large school send the children here etc. And our K through2 system is large measurably or is it viewed that way anyway and again I'm exaggerating point you were getting to that point that's a third at the bottom but how would you want differentiate the causes of that or maybe maybe what our expectations should be and second and how it does compare with the rest. Um well there there are people in this room that would have uh more complete data but uh K cult was a big problem uh in the United States and I was just in Wisconsin um with a bunch of educators class sizes they were going to 50. Now when you have 50 kids in a grade six class you're into the industrial model. I mean you're not even you're not even a transmitter of data. you're more a custodian, you know, and supervisor and it's really hard to have self-paced interactive collaborative learning when you have that. Now, if you have a smaller class size, you actually don't even need much technology. My my son went to Amoris College 8 to1 student u teacher ratio. you know, he's got Pulitzer Prize, a Pulitzer Prize winning history profon time with it. But when when you say the universities are the uh envy of the world, the top universities are the envy of the world. But there are lots of universities that aren't that great too. Ammerst to the Ivy's, you know, MIT schools like this. So they are absolutely the greatest schools in the world. And like being a Canadian, it's it's talk about envy. I mean, if you're a smart kid in Canada, just like in the US, you always try and go to the toughest place to get into. And in the United States, out of high school, you've got the Ivy League schools, you've got great technical schools like uh MIT, you've got um and then you have the little audience. Ammeris College has an endowment of a billion4 with 1500 students. But in Canada, you don't have any of that really. What you've got is the hardest places to get into are the undergraduate finance and commerce schools, Queen Commerce, McGill Commerce, the ID school of so all the smartest kids end up being 20 years old studying accounting. And I've talked to so many kids who figured this is terrible. I got trained. I didn't really get an education. So, um, that's just a a little Canadian angle on this whole thing. Um, we're going to run out of time and I wanted to tell you a story to sort of make the point, but I saw another hand sort of anxiously waving. Are we I had a question about your thoughts on place. Some of your comments about how collaboration over the distance seem to kind of dissolve the notion of close and distance. you know there's been such a reinvestment in cities for the last few decades and really recognizing the value of clusters and I think innovation helps people coming together physically um how do you reconcile the digitalation agency I think it's great importance having physical people coming together in the same time but I don't see a conflict I see endless opportunity um it's true cities are becoming more important in fact if you look at the world there's a disintermediation that's happening where we need stronger global problem solving governance as models that I was talking about, but the world is all coming into cities and cities are where we live and where we eat and where we um have children and and uh and so on. So, um now having said that, there are opportunities to reinvent just about every aspect of the city. And in North America, again, we did a terrible job designing uh cities after the Second World War. We separated where you worked and where you lived and where you shop. And we didn't listen to Jane Jacobs who was saying we need density because when you have density you get uh first of all people can walk around or they can move around more easily and you get community so you get people taking responsibility for things. So you go downtown in some of these cities of Atlanta and after 6:00 at night it's like a ghost town. It's a dangerous place to be. So the European model would have made a lot more sense. So, I was just in Dubai last week and uh it what what a missed opportunity that was. You know, you're building a city from scratch. You have all the money in the world. You know, you ought to go and hire the best city planners and think about the networks and so on and building a a new 21st century city. We didn't do that. So, you're driving along in the desert. Here's a sky school. I mean, it it makes uh no sense whatsoever. But when it comes to learning, which is kind of what we were talking about before, there's a role for the physical place. I mean, this is this is a pretty high bandwidth kind of situation. It's hard to replicate. And um there there's a lot to what Marvin Drestler said about the physical uh campus being a place where young people can go and interact and get older and and do that that kind of stuff. Um so uh but on the other hand the the web provides these endless opportunities to rethink you know how we deliver content who you can get access to in the world. I mean why would you have some somebody standing up giving you a lecture about Peter Duck when you can go and interact with Peter Ducker the real time you know Peter Duck it doesn't make a lot of sense to do that. So it's a time of opportunity. Um I think we're supposed to end about now. So let me just uh tell you this story to make uh the point and this is a in the spirit of provoking. So I was at Florida State University and they have a billion dollar fund raise. They're trying to position themselves as the world's first 21st century university. So they brought me in for a long lunch with the president and the deans and and some academics 25 people to basically have a conversation pick my brain about what does that university look like. So you got a little taste of my view uh today and I presented that and then they they said great let's have a discussion. So, one of the deans, he turns to a guy in the room named Joe and he's a a 22-year-old senior uh graduate and he says, "Joe, you're the only um student here. Let's start off with your point of view. Uh what do you think about what uh Don just said?" And Joe says, "Well, I've been sitting here thinking about it and actually it's resonating with me and something I hadn't really considered. I think as a generation we do learn differently. Let me give you an example. I don't read books. Now the look in the room is sort of the look in this room. Um he says I think I'm knowledgeable but I don't really read books. I mean I go on the web and I got pretty good BS protectors. I know how to authenticate and scrutinize and where to find good sources. If if I need to know what's in a book, I can go to Google books and I can get a chapter. And I'm pretty good at figuring out what's the red chapter to get to understand someone's thesis. And if I have to actually read a book from beginning to end, um I don't follow somebody else's. I'm in the index. I'm in the table of contents. I'm not on the web. I'm counting back. Says I don't read books. And so the dean of the film school, it's a a famous film school sitting beside me. He says, "Well, Joe, that was very interesting. I don't know if that's exciting or if it means the end of civilization." So, so we got into this amazing conversation. They were challenging all kinds of fundamental things of pedagogy, the nature of the university, the relationship to the institute. I was very happy. And so, at the end, we all stand up and I go over to Joe. I said, "That was really interesting what she said. I'd like to explore that a bit. I'd like to get to know you. Could I interview you? And um because I was just finishing up a grownup digital. And he said, "Well, I don't think so. I got to go. Um I'm going to uh to Fort Lauderdale." I said, "Perfect. You can come with me because they give me a plane for the day." So, we hit a ride Fort Lauderdale. I'm sitting there interviewing in the in the plane and I said to him, "Tell me about yourself." He says, "What do you want to know?" I said, "Well, first of all, what kind of student are you?" He says, "I'm a good student." I said, "How good?" He says, "Well, 4.0. I mean, I've always had A's." And I said, "Do you do anything else here at the university besides being a student?" He says, "Well, yeah. I mean, I'm the president of the students council have been for two years. I'm on 18 committees. I chair 12 of them. And I've got a $14 million budget." And um that takes some time. said," he said, "You do anything else?" He says, "Well, the usual inter mural sports stuff." I like that. He says, "I guess the big thing would be uh that my girlfriend is from New Orleans and when Katrina hit, u we went down to see what we could do." And there was no healthcare clinic in the ninth ward, the devastated area. So, I set one up and I said, "Set up a healthcare clinic?" He says, "Yeah, you have the internet. You can do anything. You need an air conditioner, you can get an air conditioner." I said, "Wow." I mean, what happened? He says, "It's great. It's still functioning. It's called the Ninth Ward Healthcare Clinic. It sees 9,000 patients a year." And I said, "That's good, too." Um, I I said, "Uh, tell me uh tell me about your family and his size." And he says, "Not I realize I did some something sensitive here." He said, "In the last year, both my parents died. Uh, one got sick and the other was in an an accident." I said, "Geez, I'm so sorry, Joe." And u I said, "Do you have siblings?" He says, "Yeah, I'm the eldest, uh, too." And so it's my job to keep the family together. And I said, "Well, do they live here?" He said, "No, they're in Lauderdale." Um, and I said, "How do you keep the family together when you're not there?" And he says, "Well, we're on the web all all day long and texting." He says, "You know, the best thing I found is we created a guild in World of Warcraft and we go slay dragons together as a family." Man, it's just it's so great. And uh it's pretty cool. Um I said, "What are you doing next year?" He says, "Well, I'm going to London. I'm I'm doing a master's degree and I'm so excited." He says, "I'm going to have the British health care system." He said, "We just never had healthcare as a kid. Um, we just never want to be doctor." And I said, "Wow, that's great. What What are you studying?" He says, "I'm doing a master's in philosophy and I'm really excited. I'm going to Oxford." Said, "Wow, I'm going to Oxford." Oxford and Cambridge for a master of philosophy would be the two hardest places in the world. And I said, "Um, it's wonderful. I mean, did you get some financial aid?" because I knew he was poor. And he said, he says, "Yeah, yeah, I got this great great scholarship. It covers everything." And I said, "Cool. Where'd that come from?" He says, "Well, it's called the Roads Scholarship." The Road Scholar from Northern Florida 2008 doesn't read books. So, Bob Dylan, there's something going on here and we don't know what it is. I mean, we and these forces are coming together. They're really tectonic. You got the web, you got the first generation and they are they are different. I think there's a lot of evidence that speaks to that and you've got you've got you know the social thing. You've got profound changes to the architecture of our institutions bumping up against the old industrial model. This is uh this is finally happening. So this is a new paradigm and when you get one of these, you get a leadership crisis because uh you know paradigms are a mental model. They put boundaries around what we think they constrain our actions. They're often based on assumptions that are so strong we don't know that they're there. The earth is at the center of the universe. Fair enough. A big problem in the world is communism. Remember that one. Uh the purpose of computing is to automate existing business processes with the goal of reducing headcount. And something can happen in our times, culture, technology, whatever that causes a shift to occur occur. And and when that happens, these new paradigms cause dislocation or conflict and confusion and uncertainty. Uh they're nearly always received with uh coolness or worse mockery, hostility, uh vested interest, fight against change. I mean, M uh not Melly, Galileo had a rough life trying to convince the church that the earth wasn't at the center of the universe. Do you know when he was exonerated? See, it was like about 20 years ago. The pope said, "Yep. The world is not flat and we are not at the center of the universe. Um so so um so leadership is a huge challenge and the old model you know via a koka you know Jack Welch great visionary sells a vision down that's one thing Sang was right about the person at the top can't learn for the organization as a whole and so I think that this again is something gives me great hope because leaders can come from anywhere and now with these new collaborative tools. They're being called for it all over the place. And leadership is not the old, you know, I have a great vision. It's this it's about collective intelligence and about new collaborative models of leadership. So, it's a time when um you know, we each get to participate in that. And the the way that I've just to finish I've been describing this is that the old media was this controlled, you know, one-way model, you know, freedom of the press. Somebody said it's a great idea, especially if you own a press. And but the new model is it's the antithesis. It's it's not one to many, it's one to one, it's many to many. It's it's it's highly distributed. It's not centralized. People are active everywhere. they can participate like never before. And this will be uh what we want it to be. And if we want it to be a platform to find a cure for cancer, a galaxy zoo to discover the heavens with 275,000 amateur astronomers, or we want it to be a platform to rethink the whole model of higher education, it will do that. If we want it to be a tool to organize against public education as some people in the Tea Party think should be done, it will do that. So um my bottom line on all this just getting back to the point about optimism is that I'm hopeful there are more good people than bad people and that um but each of each of us has a responsibility to bring our legitimate aspirations and um expectations to the table to do that. If we do that by the hundreds and millions then uh you know this network intelligence uh age will be one where promises fulfilled and peril is uh perhaps uh unrequited. So thank you very much.