Hi everyone, welcome back. So today I'd like to look at a problem on manipulating 4A series. Specifically, we're asked to find the 4A series of cosine t or 2t minus p /4. And then the second problem is given a square wave function which takes on the value of minus1 and 1 and it's per uh 2 pi periodic. We're also told that the square wave function has the forier series 4 over pi 1 / n sin nt and the question is to find the forier series of three related functions. So the first function takes on the value of 0 and 4 on the intervals minus p to 0 and 0 to pi. Note that this function is also 2 pi periodic. The second pro uh problem is to find the 4year series of a function which is minus1 from minus1 to 0 and one from 0 to 1. So this is the square wave function but now has period 2. And then lastly we're asked to find the for series of a function f of t which is absolute t and it's defined as absolute t on the interval from minus pi to pi. However, this function f is going to be extended on the entire domain with period 2 pi. Okay, so I'll let you think about this problem and I'll be back in a moment. Hi everyone, welcome back. Okay, so let's take a look at the first problem. Finding the 4A series of cosine 2t minus p /4. So in this class when we say find the for series what we're really looking for are coefficients a 0 a n and bn such that for example we can write our function out as a sum of s and cosiness with these values a n and bn. Now what we could do is we could take this function, plug it into the integral formulas and compute using the integrals the uh value a 0 a n and bn. However, there's a bit of a trick and that's to realize that this function cosine 2t minus p /4 is really just a syosoidal function with a single frequency and it's currently in an amplitude phase form. And we can always convert an amplitude phase form of a syosoidal function into some amplitude times a sign and some amplitude uh times a cosine and add the two up. So specifically this can be done by recalling uh the cosine identity cosine a minus b is cosine a * cosine b plus sin of aromasin of b. And if we identify a with 2t and b with pi over4, we obtain that f of t is cosine 2t cosine p / 4 plus sin 2t sin of pi / 4. And now sine of t uh p /4 and cosine p /4 are both 1 over 2. So f of 2 f of t becomes 1 over t cosine 2t plus 1 over 2 sin 2t and that's it. So when we take a look at this expression for f of t we see that this is actually in exactly the same form that we started or that we were seeking in the beginning the forier series representation for f. So this is this is the end of the problem. We don't have to actually compute any integrals. Okay. So now let's take a look at part two. So for part two we're asked to find the forier series of several different functions. And I'll just take a look at part one. So in this case f of t takes on the value of 0 from minus pi to 0 and the value of four from 0 to pi. And if I were to quickly sketch this function, it would look like a square wave. 0 pi minus pi. This is f of t. And we see that it's actually related. I can draw in dashes just to be clear what the original square wave function might look like. So this is square wave of t. We see that if we were to take the square wave function and shift it up, the square wave takes on values of plus one and minus one. But if we take the square wave function and shift it up one unit and then rescale it, we'll then get the function we're looking for f of t. So specifically we can write f of t in terms of the square wave as well we have to shift the square wave function up one and then we have to amplify it by a factor of two. So then when we seek the 4year series for f all we have to do is substitute the 4year series for the square wave function in. Okay so let's do this. So we have 1 + 4 over pi. So I'm writing here this 4 a series for the square wave function. n odd 1 / n sin nt. So by manipulating the 4A series for uh the square wave function we can arrive at a 4A series for f of t and odd 1 / n Okay so this is the first function. The second function f t I'll just rewrite it again. f of t takes on the value of uh negative 1 from 0 to t sorry from negative1 to zero and takes on the value of plus one from 0 to 1. So it's it's somewhat useful to draw just to quickly sketch this function and I'll draw in my axis here. Okay. So this is f of t. This is t. And it transitions. it makes its jumps at uh the integers. So for example uh it jumps from plus one to minus one at one and from plus one to minus1 at minus one as well. And if I were to just quickly sketch the square wave function over top of it or sorry underneath of it, the square wave function makes its transitions at minus pi and pi. So this is the square wave function. This is t. So we see that we can take uh the square wave function and squeeze it to obtain this function f of t. And the question now is what factor do we have to squeeze the square wave function by to get uh f of t? Well, usually what I like to do is take one characteristic point in the sketch for uh in this case the square wave function. So a nice characteristic point is uh when the square wave function has a a zero. So when it goes through the origin and compare it to the same point on this function f of t. So we see that the point pi has to get stretched to the point one. So we we basically need to take the time axis uh in the square wave function and squeeze it by a factor of pi. So what this means is that f of t is going to be the square wave. And when we do what mathematicians sometimes call a dilitation, a a stretch or a squeeze, if we're squeezing by some factor, that factor always appears uh in the argument of uh the function we're squeezing. If it's a stretch, then it would be t over the stretch factor. And we can quickly check here that if t uh equals 1. So AST goes from 0 to 1. So when t is 1, the square wave function is being evaluated at pi. And I'll I'll now write out the forier series. So this is going to be 4 pi sum of n odd 1 / n sin of n pi t. And there's another quick check we can do. That's uh this function f we were told is 2 pi or sorry is per uh periodic with period 2. And if we just take a look at this function here, the forier series representation of it, we see that each sin n pi t is in fact periodic with period 2. So that's just another quick uh back of the envelope check that we've done our uh we've done our uh calculation correctly. Okay, so this concludes part two. And then for lastly for part three, f of t is the absolute value of t from minus pi to pi and it's uh extended beyond minus pi to pi uh to make it 2 pi periodic. And at first it might look like this function f of t is not related to the square wave function. But if we look at it a little more carefully and say analyze the derivative of f of t, we see that this function takes on the value of + one on the interval 0 to pi and takes on the value of minus1 on the interval of minus pi to 0. And this is exactly the square wave. So what we can do is we can write f of t. It's going to be an integral of the square wave function. So specifically we have the integral of square wave which is going to be the integral of 4 pi 1 / n sin n t Oh, summation and odd. And I'm going to leave this as an indefinite integral. So when we integrate, we have a constant of integration. C plus 4 pi sum of 1 over now n^2. And we have negative cosine nt and this is n odd again. Okay. And now we have one last uh question to answer. What is the constant of integration? Well, notice how the constant of integration can be identified with the a z term of a 4a series. So if we want the constant of integration, we can just calculate it directly by the integral formula for the a z uh of this function. So what this means is c is going to be 1 over 2 pi. Essentially it's just the average of the function but it's pi to pi the absolute value of t which is 1 over pi pi^2 over two. So we get pi / 2. Okay. So just to quickly recap in this problem we were given several functions which were related to the square wave function and we started off knowing what the 4year series for the square wave function was and by manipulating uh or rewriting these functions in terms of the square wave function we were able to compute their 4A series and we were able to do this essentially without having to evaluate any integrals. Okay so I hope you enjoyed this problem and I'll see you next time.