Welcome to this recitation on matrix exponential. So here we're given matrix A with entry 6512 and we're asked to compute the matrix exponential exponential a t and to use it to solve the initial value problem u u prime of tals a ut where here u are basically vectors with initial condition u of 0= 41. So, why don't you pause the video, work through the problem, and I'll be right back. Welcome back. Okay, so first to uh go ahead and compute the matrix exponential, we need to identify the aen values of the matrix A and its AEN vectors. So this is a matrix just rewrite it here that we saw before and it's a values are again solution of 6 - lambda 5 1 2 - lambda = 0 which gives us 6 2 - lambda - 5 = 0 lambda square - 8 lambda and we have a 12 - 5. So you can verify that the two egg values be 1 and 7. So yeah plus or minus just write them la 1 = to 1 and lda 2 = to 7. So now we need to seek the AEN vectors associated to each one of the AEN values. So the idea here is to basically move toward a diagonalization of the matrix A. So let's seek the AEN vectors and here I'm just going to give them to you and you can verify the the the calculation. Uh and this calculation was performed in a previous recitation. So the aen vectors v1 associated to the aen value lambda 1 was for example one minus one and the other one that we found again this is one form of the aen vector was one and five minus five five and So these are from the notes of the previous recitation. So you can verify that these are the two agon vectors and uh from this point then we can rewrite the solution if if you recall I'm just going to go through the steps toward getting to the definition of the exponential matrix. So here if we didn't know anything about the exponential matrix we'd be able to write this solution as C1 exponential T v1 plus C2 exponential V2 which basically gives us here if I write it in this form for example uh an exponential t minus exponential t and an exponential 5t multiplied by the entry of this vector an exponential 70t here multiplying c1 c2. So this is where the idea of the um of the um matrix exponential come from. We're basically introducing a matrix f of t for which we can write u equals 5 oft multiply by the c1 c2 uh general constants. So f of t would then be equal to this matrix. But what we want is an in is to be able to solve an initial value problem for which um so let me just for which e of a of zero applied to our initial conditions would give us back our initial condition. Okay. So we're seeking for a form for this exponential matrix that would allow us to do this. So the way that we define the exponential the matrix exponential give us exponential a and I won't go into the proof but we're just going to check it together multiplied by 5 of 0 minus one. So let's check that if we use this form of the exponential matrix exponential we would have e we would have that at zero applied to u0 we have 5 0 5 0 - 1 applied to u 0. This is a matrix with its inverse which gives us the identity and so basically this gives us back u of zero. So basically just as a quick I mean you don't need to do that when you're asked to find the matrix exponential but just as to remember where it's coming from you have the you write down your system in in matrix form you identify the matrix 5 of t and then you recall why you want the matrix exponential to have this form basically to be able to solve initial value problems for which the value u of t is uh projected to u of zero when u we take t equals z for the matrix exponential. Okay. So now let's go back to our problem. So let's compute this matrix exponential. We have five of t. So now from this formula we know that we need five of zero. So that's give us basically exponential of zero five minus one and one. We need to find its inverse. So recall that the inverse of a 2x two matrix is basically just the determinant minus b minus c and reversing the diagonal entries. Okay. So we can just apply this to get our five of 0 minus one. So here our determinant is basically 1 + 5 which is 1 / 6 and then the entries are simply 1 one minus 5 and one. So now we're just left with a multiplication of two matrices to get our matrix exponential. Okay, so a matrix exponential would give us this 16. And we now have to multiply the entries. So I'm not going to rewrite everything. I'm just going to use the space here. So we have exponential t multiplying one + 5 exponential 70. Yeah. 70. Then we have exponential t minus 5 for this entry. Five exponential tiping our one uh 70. Thank you. Uh then for the second entry we basically have minus exponential t1 exponential 71 minus exponential t minus 5 and exponential 71. Okay, so we're done with the matrix exponential. So now we were asked to solve for the initial value problem with initial condition one uh four and one. So how do we go about that? Well, recall that I just reminded you what what did we want to use this matrix exponential for? And what we wanted it for is to be able to basically project an initial condition into a solution u t times later. And we constructed this matrix to be able to basically give us this solution by just multiplying the matrix by the initial value vector. So basically to find the solution of this initial value problem, we simply need to multiply this matrix by the initial ve vector uh that we were given. And I'm just going to write it here to not have to rewrite everything. And it was four and one. And this is u of zero. Uh so let me just do a dash here just so that we can do the computation and we would end up with a solution of t. I'm going to keep it in matrix form for now. So we end up with exponential T4 exponential t minus 5 exponential t. So minus one exponential t and we have 16. Here five exponential 70 multiply. So we have 20 + 5 so 70. Uh then for the for the second entry of the vector solution we have minus exponential here minus 4 that we add to a five and here a seven multiplied by four that we add to a one. So we have basically + exponential 7T and that basically gives us one way of writing the solution and we can split this then if we will into two solutions two two vectors yeah plus t minus one 25 but this form is as valid. Yes, thank you. Okay, so that ends the library's calculations but basically the key point here was just to remember where is the matrix exponential coming from uh basically from the the the aen values and vectors of the original matrix present in the system. And where is the definition coming from? Why do we define it as five of t 5 minus one of zero and how to use it then to compute the solutions given an initial value uh to basically answer give the solution to an initial value problem. So that ends this recitation.