I'm David Thorburn. I'm a professor of literature and comparative media. What What else? I I've I've taught uh the film experience for I guess 38 or 39 years at MIT and I've taught a lot of literature subjects as well. the sto the story of what made me into a film scholar or a media scholar is uh at least interesting to me and s still surprises me. I' I've told it a few times but it was actually a somewhat transforming experience in my life. I I I had been teaching at Yale for seven or eight years and I uh was offered a chance to do a visitation at the University of uh California in Santa Barbara and uh for the first time in my life I was asked to teach students who weren't the product of very elaborate uh public private school educations or very powerful public school educations. They were smart kids but they were less well read in some ways. So I I I was trying to illustrate it was a literature course, introduction to literature or comedy or something like that and I was trying to introduce the students to the idea of conventions. What it means what it means when uh uh a story when you begin a story once upon a time and every story begins that way or what it means when you say they lived happily ever after to take the simplest example of what a convention is. I was trying to illustrate how in fact we internalize these things and we understand the conventions of the narratives of our own time in our blood without even thinking about it. Uh and I was trying to illustrate this principle. So I was what I needed to illustrate the principle were shared texts. So I began by asking this was in the 1970s in the early 1970s and I asked the students there these are bright California public school students. How many of you have ever seen a John Wayne movie? Maybe 10% of the students in 1970. It's not 2016 now. It's two it's, you know, uh maybe 15% of the students raised their hand. Then I said, well, how many of you have read Huckleberry Finn? Maybe 30%. I tried other novels, classic novels. I tried Shakespeare plays. Finally, I said, "How many of you have seen All in the Family?" Uh for those in the audience too young to know this, All in the Family was a television program uh a classic and transforming one that appeared in 1971 on American television and involved a workingclass hero who had never such characters had never appeared on television before. It was a very important program and of course a 100% of the class had seen it. Uh and I began to take my examples from television programs. I talked about the conventions of situation comedy as a way of explaining and this and I began to think about this and I began this wore on me. I it wore in on me as the term went on and and I what I realized was that the literature of our own day, the story forms that belong to my students and to the generation of kids I was teaching were visual not literary or at least many of them were. and the ones that were shared 100% which were shared by everyone was certainly televisual. So I became interested in television as a narrative medium and that of and then I came to realize as I began to think more seriously about the role of television in American life. Remember by 1970 American television was deeply embedded in American life. It was the dominant form of entertainment and narrative in American life. And in fact this initial understanding which out of which my whole interest in media developed has shaped I realize now just in talking about this my view my my way of teaching the tele the course the film experience and it's one of the things I think that makes the film experience unique because I began thinking about television I was not a film scholar I was not a media scholar I was a literary scholar in fact ironically I was a specialist in the high modern period a period of Joyce and Virginia Wolf and uh Picasso So, right, and I I I I you know, I knew about what we might think of as uh uh I was an expert in art that could be thought in forms of art that could be thought to be elitist or at least not accessible to the to the ordinary people. And here I was confronting texts that everyone could understand and everyone shared. I began to think about them more deeply and think more deeply about my own literary education which was narrow in some sense as as everyone in my generation was so educated. we we we were cut off from the historical implications of the texts we studied. So I began to fill that in as well as I began to learn more about television. And what I realized thinking about television was I couldn't understand television without the movies. So I then set on a sort of personal course of education and I read very deeply in movie history and movie scholarship and I you know amplified my own knowledge of movies tremendously by constant viewing of movies. uh mostly because I was trying to understand television ironically and then I began to develop a recognition of what a remarkable cultural phenomenon the movies were. began to generate great respect for the great movie scholars who who it was a great era the se the late 60s and early '7s for movie scholarship because it had become mature by that time and the people writing movie criticism in the United States certainly in the 1970s were very interesting critics schol critics and scholars the equivalent of the literary scholarship that I was used to that I aspired to write myself and so forth. So it was very exciting intellectually for me to have this experience. When I got back to Yale after my year's visitation, I introduced a course called literature and popular culture in which I explored these ideas in greater depth and in in with greater intensity. I read some bestsellers. I ended I ended the course by looking at the honeymooners. Um, and I remember I was teaching the course in in a room at Yale College called Lindsley Chittenden Hall in which the great Shakespeare lecture course had been taught for generations. And my course literature and popular culture was very popular with the students. I had a couple of hundred students and uh I was lecturing from the same podium that legendary uh figures had lectured on Shakespeare about. And one of these legendary professors, the man who had actually hired me at Yale, Maynard Mack, a great a great literary scholar, um, poked his head in while I was teaching the honeymooners. And I had actually draoned the media people at at at Yale to give me a realtore tape recorder so I could tape the stuff off the air. Max saw this and and uh later called me into his office and expressed great disappointment over the fact that I was polluting this this environment. So then I I when we then had a serious conversation and I said to him, what did you what did he actually think Shakespeare's environment was and that was when it struck me how narrow my education had been? because he really had not even though he was a great man and a great he knew the history but he somehow had managed to disconnect the literary power of Shakespeare from the fact that it was done on this incredibly popular stage and it was so sensational and it was so much more like uh uh television or the movies than it was like some process of sitting in a in a library in wood panel splendor reading words in silence. That's not what Shakespeare was. And that began to lead me into recognitions of the importance of popular culture, the fact that most high culture was a form of popular culture. I became much less apologetic than most teachers of popular culture are. And so when I came to MIT in the in the mid70s, I came to MIT in in in 19 76 and I was already in the throws of this, but it was I think fortunate for me and fortunate for MIT in one sense because MIT's literature program was much more open than Yales had been and they were interested in my work on television and media. That was one reason they wanted me to come here. uh and it was much less hidebound about literary and historical study here. So it gave me a chance to sort of and I introduced a course in television then it was one of the very first courses in in in the American Academy that studied television programs for their content. Now that's common. It's thought to be of course everybody takes it for granted but at that time it was very rare thing. And what I also did was take a course that I inherited from my wonderful colleague still teaching here in his 80s, Elvin Kyle, a course called the film experience, which was a a course that was not intended for all students, but a small one. And I transformed it into a a general introduction to film, and I've taught it almost every year since.