I'm Sarah Hansen and today I'm talking with Anna Bell. She's a super smart programmer, author, and senior lecturer at MIT. Her computer science videos on our channel have captivated millions of learners around the world. Today, we talk about Python, growth mindset, and rubber ducks. I have to know what the ducks are now. Like, I I can't continue. Then I ask her, with the emergence of AI, do we even still need to learn how to code? What's the value proposition of learning a language like Python? Do we still need to do it? So, not sure if this exactly answers the question. Oh, tell me more. Find out her answer today on Chalk Radio. Hi, Anna. Hi. How are you? I'm good. You're here. I'm so excited. Yes, me, too. This is one of our pilot episodes for something new that we're trying, which is a video version of our Chalk Radio podcast. Many ways, it's an experiment. How do you feel about experiments? Are you an adventurous person? No, not at all. Oh, great. We're going to be great. Yeah, I like stability and I like boring days. Oh, well, I'm not sure we're going to have one of those with these with these ducks and so I I actually don't know what the ducks mean. Um, so I think you're going to tell me a little bit later, but as we Yeah, I think we're in for an adventure and a little bit maybe of a choose your own adventure. Mhm. So, you're at MIT, you've been here for about 10 years. Um, and you spend most of your time thinking about and teaching people who are new to programming, introducing them. And I'm wondering what that means to you, why you're interested in teaching in particular, like people like me. What do you get out of that? And tell me about that experience. Um, so I recognize that I well I don't want everyone to become a computer scientist, but I do think that everyone should learn programming as a skill. So programming is should become sort of like what math is now where you kind of learn it in um elementary school and you obviously use it here and there in your adult life. But I don't know, you know, when you've last used calculus, right? like we don't all need to become mathematicians after we've learned basic math. Similarly, I do think people should learn basic programming, but they don't have to become computer scientists. So, the reason that I enjoy teaching students intro programming and exposing them to intromputer science is because it was really hard for me to understand programming when I first started and I just always remember how tough it was. And I'm at right I teach at MIT and there's obviously a lot of really smart people here. And I think as you teach more and more it's easy to forget how hard it was to start learning. And so you know as an intro course you know you might make the problems you give students harder and harder each year just because they get maybe boring for you but it's not boring for the students. And I try to recognize that every like every semester I just remember it was really hard for me. they've never seen this before. So, it's really important to make sure that they have a really good experience. You mentioned that when you first started programming it was difficult. Y I'm wondering like what made it difficult and then what are you doing in your teaching to make it less difficult? I honestly don't know what made it difficult. The the beginning was easy just kind of understanding the basics of just you know writing uh the basics of creating an algorithm is basically three things. So the first is a sequence of steps. So step one, step two, step three. Um some sort of way to control the flow of those steps. So usually you go step by step, but at some point you say, well, if this is true, do this, otherwise do this. So like a branching kind of idea. And then there's also a way to control the flow by asking the py the program to repeat certain lines. So it's like, well, if this is true, go back and repeat this a million times, which is very easy for a computer to do. So a sequence of steps, a way to control the flow of those steps, and then a way to stop. Those are the three things that make an algorithm. That's that's how you write a program. And the grasping that was not hard. It was just sort of once you've gotten over that learning curve, it's learning sort of some of the more advanced concepts that were um that were harder some of the details for how that specific language works. So I started with Java, not Python, which was a little which was harder than it's a lot harder than Python. There's a bunch of details that you need to think about there. So I had the opportunity to watch some of your lecture videos. Yeah. And I noticed that you make space and time for students to practice like right in the class itself. Um definitely outside the class as well, but like in the actual space where you're teaching. And I'm wondering if you could talk about that a little bit, why you do that. Yeah. So, I think I mentioned this before. I sort of see programming like math is now, but this will be, you know, many years from now. Um, it's a skill that people need to get that they don't have yet. And so, if we think about the way we learn math in school, it's a lot a lot of practice, right? You just always constantly practice adding, subtracting, multiplying, right? The kids. Yeah. So I think it's very important for students to actually get the time to to do to do that practice. The way I run the class is a sort of a flip classroom or a blended learning style where students watch sort of the basics through video first and then in the actual classroom we do active learning. So, uh, I go over maybe something that's a little bit more confusing and then I give them time to break with the hope that me forcing them to have them actually start coding, they'll be able to see, oh, um, I totally understood what she was talking about in the video and I can totally code that, but then when they actually when I'm forcing them to actually do it, you know, starting with a blank slate, it's pretty daunting. And so I want them to get over that bump where it's like you have a blank piece of, you know, blank editor or whatever. And then you just have to start writing something down once the more you do it, the more you feel comfortable with it. So there's all these breaks for all these activities that I that I try to keep the class lively, of course, and and kind of indirectly have them practice these skills like just just write something just write something down. Yeah. And also that does two things I think. Um it deemphasizes perfection. You're like this is practice like Yep. I think like an artist, right? So just like get a sketch, write a few lines like just get something down. Yes. And then we can improve it. Yep. Um and then that speaks to something else you've mentioned before and that's like growth mindset and that programming is not like a gift and you have it or you don't but it's really something that can be developed. Yeah. A lot of a lot of you know you see some people who are really good at programming they didn't get good just because they had that skill they were born with it right there's a lot of growth mindset involved in that and anybody can reach that level of being good at at something programming included just by lots of practice trying different things challenging themselves so not just sticking to things that are obviously way too easy because then you'll never grow but you kind of like I don't know if you know this um the state of flow. It's like this chart where you kind of want to be in this like middle band um but kind of oscillating between doing things that are too easy and then challenging yourself and doing things that a little bit harder. Um and not you don't want to always do two things too hard because then that's discouraging and you'll stop. But you don't want to do things that are always too easy because then you'll never grow. I wonder if we could write an algorithm for staying in the flow like it tracks like oh this is too easy for you get in a lot of the education platforms right are trying to give uh students based on their responses you know even in math questions right and be like oh this student totally got all these let me give them a harder one and it's like oh that was too hard let me yeah how did you find your way to programming is this something that you've always wanted to do or did it develop along the way um so my my parents immigrated from Romania and we went uh we immigrated to Canada and my dad was a electrical engineer and then he went into software engineering and uh being an immigrant uh immigrant parents from Europe uh we were highly encouraged my sister and I were highly encouraged to get uh some sort of engineering job right so it's just what what what is done and so uh computer computer engineering or computer science, something along those lines seemed to be the best option uh given sort of where things were going in the future. This was the '9s. Um so just the beginning of the internet, the beginning of all that um right that boom. Uh, so my dad recognized that that was sort of what the what the future would be and he said, "You should probably learn to program and potentially go, you know, and probably go into that sort of career." And I wasn't super interested in anything else, so I just said, "Sure." Um, and so he taught us Java when I was about 12. Um, I have a a picture here. Oh, yeah. Let's see it. Okay. And it's in this really cool frame. Oh, I love that frame. Okay. Uh, very fitting. And so this is this um this is very '9s. Like this exudes '90s. Peak '9s right there. So we've got the room with the computer, right? Like as was in the '9s. You all had like the room with the computer. Yes. And then like the big chair and the side ponytail or whatever. That's me on the on the on the left there. That's me. Yep. Yep. And that's my sister in the on the chair. Uh sitting on the chair. Yeah. And that's when we first um or maybe before like very close to the time that we had first uh started programming. My dad just said, you know, here's you know, here's some really basic things. And then I only got to the the if like the the branching part of the control flow. I didn't really get to the repeating part of the control flow. So I made this choose your own adventure program where it was like I forget what it was like. get out and you know exit a castle or whatever it was and it was just like a bunch of if else if else if else if else if like something like that. It looked really ugly but I had a lot of fun doing it. But in a way you're helping people choose their own adventure today through programming like gaining independence, critical thinking, uh doing things that they rely on other people to do like they can do themselves. Like that's kind of incredible that you do that. It's pretty fun. That's that's what I get out of it. I like I said, I don't want people to become computer scientists. I just want to empower them to I don't know like if they want to make their own app, they can totally do that using really basic computer science skills or programming skills, not necessarily computer science skills, but yeah. Yeah. So, uh controversial question. Uh I asked you before the show a question and I have not seen the answer yet but um the question was um in an environment when there are coding tools out there that allow people to build things um what's the value proposition of learning a language like Python to do that? Like do we still need to do it? And what's the value proposition of doing it? So you're going to reveal your answer. I'll reveal my answer. So, not sure if this exactly answers the question, but I said trust, but verify. Oh, tell me more. Okay. Yeah, I've certainly definitely used Genaii tools before. And for even for really simple things, it can get it wrong, especially um mathematical things and even programming things. And so, I have sort of AI would say a basic knowledge of programming. And I Wait, I'm not ready. IoT is a little more than basic for everyone out there. More than basic. Continue. Um, and so I was able to start with what Genai gave me as a as as a program and kind of kind of tell, you know what, it in this particular test case, it doesn't really work that well. And I didn't have to go back and ask it to fix it because that requires a lot more sort of back and forth with the with prompting. And I was able, you know, to just fix it on my own. It wasn't that hard of a fix. And, you know, as soon as you go back and prompt the the genai again and again and again, you start to introduce sort of variability of English language, right? You're like when you're talking to someone online, it's really hard to tell what they mean or right, there's all these double meanings. Um, and Genai is all probabilistic. So they're basically going to, you know, pick the highest probability of what you mean and then when they give you answers back again, they give it to you with whatever the highest probability for the next word to be, that's what they spit back at you. So as soon as you introduce sort of that prompting back and forth, it can introduce errors that potentially stack on top of errors, misunderstandings, and things like that. So having a really basic knowledge of programming could allow you to maybe start with a piece of code that the Genai gives you back so you're not starting with a blank slate. It's not super daunting to write it yourself, but you start with something and then you potentially test it and then debug it and then, you know, figure it out. Okay, now I trust that it works well. Yeah. I feel like the ability to verify is the human component. Yes. And that is sort of what creates the balance with AI. Like if you let AI make all the decisions, then you've lost your self-reliance. Um, and you can't choose your own adventure because you're going to get a bunch of errors and it's going to lead you down the wrong path. So, you need the knowledge to be able to choose um a path that makes sense. Yeah. I have to know what the ducks are now. Like I I can't continue. So, okay. And a pig. I'm Is that like noisy data or just noisy data? Okay. So, okay. Uh every semester when we run our classes uh on intro to programming and computer science, there is one particular class that is on debugging. Okay. which is the process of okay, you wrote a piece of code and it's not running as you expect it to. So how do you fix it? That is the debugging process. And so a a lot of times a bunch of the errors might be things that you can easily fix but most of the time uh your program runs fine and it gives you an answer but the answer is not what you thought it should be. That's kind of where like uh programming is kind of different than like English for example because in English like if you write a sentence somebody else can interpret it however they'd like. Like one example we give to students is the chicken is ready to eat. What do you think about when you when I say the chicken is ready to eat? Well I'm a vegetarian so I don't want to actually eat the chicken but I would like because I'm a vegetarian I assume the chicken wants to eat his food. Okay, there you go. But I would assume I enjoy meat. So, so I my uh my take on that is uh I have a chicken on the table and I'm going to eat it. Right. So, there's two interpretations to that. But when we write code, there's only one way to interpret that piece of code that is written, right? So, um, so that's where things go wrong in our code because we're like, well, it should work because in my mind, like when I kind of thought about it, it's supposed to give me the right answer, but it doesn't, right? And so, obviously, the program is the one who's wrong because the computer is merely following the algorithm, the set of instructions, and there's only one way to follow those instructions. That's basically what that whole lecture, that whole class is about. And then I bring out this big box of ducks and I say and I say, um, well, uh, programming is actually kind of creative because the solution to a problem, I mean, you could brute force a bunch of things, but often times the solution to a debugging problem is just to take time away from it and then potentially explain exactly what your you think the code is doing to someone who knows absolutely nothing about programming. It could be you. Yes, I'm available. Or it could be a rubber duck. Oh, so this is called rubber ducky debugging. Oh, because uh it's an inanimate object that doesn't know anything about programming, right? And it forces you to scrutinize every single line of code that you wrote, even ones you think are correct. Um, most often it's the ones that are that you think are correct that kind of are are the issue. It's kind of like like where did I put my glasses, right? And you spend a long time looking for them and they're on top of your head. It's that exact feeling. It's like where is that error coming from? And it's going to be something super simple. So, the rubber duck is what um helps you figure that that problem out because you're explaining it in very grave detail to something that doesn't know. And if ducks are not your thing, there are frogs. Oh, and the pig pigs, of course. Of course. Or friends, you want to explain it to them. But friends can be judgy. Friends can be judgy. Yes. So, I used to explain my code to my son when he was one. Yeah. Yeah. When I had issues cuz he doesn't know anything about programming, right? And so it's the act of talking it through. But you said it has to be in great detail. Yes. You can't skip because that's when cuz you already like clearly your code is wrong because of you. And and so don't skip any details. Right. That's I feel like this very much like life outside of academia. like you 90% of the time the problem is probably you you know and it's like you have to figure out how to interact in the world or with others. So I brought all this all these ducks a wide variety. So now I have a a question for you. Which duck would you like to keep? This is a hidden personality test. Oh we'll probably have to cut this because it might take a long time. Um I would um this guy. This guy. Yeah. He's a little bit offbeat. Yeah. Um, you know, eye-catching and I feel like I could explain stuff to him. I get to keep him. Yeah, of course. Thank you. That's so great. You put one for the set as well. Really? Oh gosh. Does someone from the crew want to like pick a duck for the set? You took the one I would have picked. Oh, no. All right, then. Um, there's another mohawk guy right over there. Yeah. Yeah, we'll go two mohawks. There you go. Thank you. Yeah, of course. What a gift. So, you can use it for programming if you decide to start or as you said in even in your day-to-day life, you can if you just explain the problem to Yes. You know, something that doesn't judge or Yeah. Um this idea of taking a break like the process of programming itself seems quite intense. There's like an image in popular culture of like a person working alone in the dark like with a hoodie and like tap tap tap. um for hours on end. Like that sounds intense. Um so there's two pieces like is that accurate and two like do people work in isolation like that or is it more collaborative? Um so I tend to encourage collaboration. Okay. Uh I have certainly put a hoodie on and the hood on in the past just like a leave me alone kind of state. Uh mostly for you know homework and things like that. But I for for students learning to program I definitely encourage collaboration because it's when you talk to somebody else you kind of see their viewpoint and in programming I know I talked about like an algorithm but for you know for a particular algorithm or even just to solve a specific problem there's a ton of ways to solve it. So I learn from in the classroom when students when I ask students for how did they solve a particular problem after I give them some time to think about it they have so many different approaches to it that I would never have thought of and it's important for students to see all these different approaches because my way might not be the way that they think uh to approach the problem. So I encourage kind of working together especially as you're learning now after you find your groove maybe it's you know not necessary but yeah as an outsider to this I didn't realize there was such room for divergent thinking so that's really cool. Yeah, but the taking a break. So, especially at a place like MIT, like I don't I don't know if like taking a break is on the menu really. Um, but it should be. I'm guessing it should be. Yeah. And then I'm wondering if you can talk to us about like the thing you created in the world to help people take a break and why it's important. Sure. So, this was a project uh for I don't know. I just had an idea. I was like, let me just make a coloring book. um like you know one of those uh coloring books that you just kind of doodle in into. And I thought let me just make it um computer science themed. And so each one of these is you know like here's a circuit and it's like here's a network right of connected people and then here's a like a matrix kind of thing right with bits. So uh it was just kind of all these ideas from uh computer science and the hope is that if you are stuck and you don't have a duck right then you can take a coloring book doesn't have to be this one but just something that uh gives your brain a break but it's this idea of mind wandering and this is an idea from uh psychology where mind wandering is not bad like if you're folding laundry right you're doing a very repetitive task your brain doesn't have to super focus on it. And so that's when inspiration comes because you're kind of subconsciously thinking about other things, maybe problems that you have or, you know, things that you're worried about. And that's kind of when solutions come. Just like, you know, when you're taking a shower, that's mind wandering as well because you're doing a test that you already know how to do. You don't need to dedicate any thought to it. So your brain kind of dedicates thought to other things that um might be worrying you or on your mind. That's great that you've created that. Do you feel like programming is like what's the percentage of logic to creativity when it comes to programming? Are we like 50/50, 8020? Interesting. 6040 maybe 50/50 I would say. I think creativity comes into the process at all the different levels. So when you're coming up with a problem or something that you want to solve using programming, right, you have to be creative like right. Um so just coming up with that is mostly is creativity when you're deciding how to solve the problem or how to uh how to write the code sort of maybe what algorithm to use or how to structure it or like what pieces to use and where. um that requires some creativity potentially, you know, putting things together that you might not have put before, you know, pieces of uh uh programming concepts together that you might not have put before. And then you're obviously going to uh run into an error after you write the code the first time. And so then tons of creativity comes into play there. Uh but you know, drawing or talking to a duck. Um, I'm liking programming more and more, I have to say. I know once you're programming, it's kind of like reading a really good book. Like, you're in this zen space where you're just like, "Yeah, this is working." Like, I totally see where I'm where this is going. Like, I know what I want to write next, you know? Like, the code just kind of fits together. So, just like being in a good book is is awesome. Wow. And then the more you program, the more you want to program cuz you're just gaining these skills along the way. So, it's like you're like I play video games, so you know, you're just constantly like looking for new ways to level up, but there's no cap. It's uh really fascinating because unlike video games, most of them like you could use open-source um coding languages and financial barriers don't come into play to get that area for growth and that like that dopamine hit of like leveling up, increasing your skills. It's just Yeah, it's just kind of a different Like you said, it's a growth mindset, right? It's a different way of of It's a different fun. It's a different fun. It's a different fun. I I'm like more and more I'm like maybe I want to try this one. Well, oh, there's a book right here. Get programming. Learn to code with Python. Yeah. So, this I wrote a while ago. Um, it's a book made lots of books or lots of things claim to be for beginners, but I wanted to write something that is actually for people who have never programmed before. So, I think we don't even get into writing code to like chapter 7 or something like that. It's mostly kind of just setting up motivation, but not not boring like I wanted it to re read like a novel, right? Like you're just like, "Oh, I'm just following along." Um, so if you want to start, you could also, you know, you could try this book. You can keep this hot. Oh my gosh. I have to tell you a secret. Yes. So, I requested this through interl loan at my home library. So, and I asked um one of my family members to pick it up and I was like, just so you know, it's really for me. Like, cuz they would be like, why is she getting this book? This must be the wrong thing. I was like, it's not a mistake. Like, it's actually for me. And but I didn't really believe that, but now I feel like it is for me. Oh, great. Like I do want to read it now, learn. Yeah, anybody can can start for sure. Yeah, that's just great. Um, do you have any like hot tips for newbies who might um want to start or even people who are like deep into programming, deep into the hoodie already? Like things you're interested in reading or you think other people should view or listen to um to start or continue their journey? Mostly tip for mostly tips for newbies I would say. Okay. Um don't get discouraged. Learning curve is steep. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It sucks. But can I text you when I Yes, you can text me. Thank you. If the duck doesn't work. If the duck doesn't work. Yeah. No, it's it's I mean, you're learning a new language. Like it's called a programming language, right? And it's basically learning a new way to write things that you already know how to do in or how to write in English. Yeah. You're just structuring it structuring it in a completely different way and a different language. So it the learning curve is steep. But don't get discouraged with Genai tools. Now though it's easy to get started right that's not from scratch. So like I mentioned earlier, if you're stuck on a problem, just ask prompt it to give you a solution and then work on the trust but verify uh piece where you'll actually get valuable experience debugging, right? Because you already start with a piece of code. So like the confidence level is already kind of there. You're like, okay, I'm not starting blank. And then you can, you know, try to fix it or agree that it works. And both are really valuable skills to to practice as beginner programmers. I love the idea of starting with code and practicing debugging. That feels like low stakes and doable. Totally. Yeah. Um, what have I not asked you that I should have asked you? I want to know what games. What games? What games you play? Oh my gosh. Like video games? Y I like driving a lot. So I drive in the real I do not. You said you don't like being stuck in traffic. No, I don't like being stuck. So, I like to drive. So, I also enjoy driving games. Okay. Not just around the track, but like through random cities and things like that. Escaping the police and you know, like the You have a whole other side to you. Me for speed. GTA played Need for Speed. Yeah. Yeah. I have the setup with the wheel and Yeah. Yeah. Oh, wow. Well, thank you so much for being here. I learned about myself. I learned about programming. I have a whole new world view on what is possible with and through programming. And that's just an incredible gift. And I'm so glad we get to share that with a lot of people who might also take that gift and run with it. So, thank you. That's awesome. Glad to hear. Thank you for the chat. This was awesome. And thank you for the duck. Yes.