Now there's a third example which is quite interesting which is sometimes cartels can operate in the open and get away with it. Let's talk about the National Football League. The NFL. The NFL is the most important football organization in America. The most profitable important football organization in America. Football's the most profitable uh sport in the country. Advertising is incredibly valuable during football games. increasingly so because now we all watch it's the one place in the world you don't stream. So we stream everything we watch now. So we don't have ads. You can't stream sports. So sports advertising has gone through the roof because advertising in other contexts is less valuable. Used to be you could advertise everywhere. Now you can't. It's really just sports at the last place people watch ads. This is incredibly valuable. Now the NFL is 32 teams essentially 32 businesses competing in a literal sense with each other. So this and there's a huge incentive to collude. Let's take the New York Giants and the New York Jets and you know the New Jersey Giant New York Jets, but it's the same same market. Let's say that they both Let's say the TV station says the major TV station says, "Look, we're going to broadcast whichever team gives us the better deal." Well, the Giants and Jets will have to compete with each other. Give the TV station a better deal. But let's say they look we'll agree not to do that. We'll just tell the TV station this is our price. It's two mill you know basically instead of a billion dollars it'll be $2 billion. We each have $2 billion. Either take it or leave it and TV station end up broadcasting both or maybe one TV station takes one another TV station takes another. And more generally what the NFL does is they only sell the TV rights for the league. They don't sell TV rights for individual teams. So, individual teams do not sell their TV rights, which should lead to competition. The league just sells the TV rights, which causes a cartel. Essentially, they're saying, "If you want to broadcast football, you got to come to us, and we're only going to we're going to charge a super high price." As a result, quite frankly, watching football is a bit of a pain in the ass at this point. So, you've got network TV, which if the local team is on, you can only watch the local team. Otherwise, there may be one other game on. You've got Sunday Night Football, which is on network TV. You've got Thursday Night Football, which I think is on Amazon or ESPN. Amazon. Thursday night. Who's got Thursday Night Football? >> A Amazon. You've got Sunday morning football from London, which is ESPN Plus. Then you can do what I did and pony up $350 to buy Sunday Ticket. If you like an out of town team and want to watch your team, which let you watch any game you want on Sunday, except the Sunday morning games where you still have to buy ESPN Plus. as I learned much to my chagrin. So, it's incredibly expensive to watch football. If you want to see all the football games, it costs you a pretty penny. Why? Because the league has colluded and set up a structure where basically firms can't undercut each other. Otherwise, firms would say, "Look, a lot of people want my team. I'm going to go strike a separate deal." Indeed, in 1957, the Supreme Court 1957, even before I was born, that's how long ago it was, the Supreme Court ruled that this was anti-competitive and they couldn't do it. They did. Yet, it's still done. And the NFL will make $40 billion this year off their collusive cartel. Why? Because Congress stepped in. and said, 'Well, we're going to grant them an antitrust exemption. We're going to say football is such of a national important priority that we're going to actually exempt football from our nation's antitrust laws. So, I said last time in my previous lecture, I'd proved to you that Congress cares more about football than economics. Okay? They cared more about the football league than actually making football affordable for us to watch. So by granting them an antitrust exemption, they allowed them to collude and have this one league that makes it incredibly expensive to watch football.