In our knowledge-based world, the health of a nation's economy depends on a workforce that is well educated in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. There is increasing concern that the United States is falling behind other countries. MIT has historically made significant efforts to help high school educators improve science and technology instruction. MIT open courseware continues this tradition through highlights for high school, a website specifically designed for secondary education students and teachers. The concept of this open courseware for high schools came as the confluence of I would say three themes. One is a national need and it's been well documented in the gathering storm and various other reports that we need to invest more in uh secondary education, K- through2 education particularly in STEM fields, science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The second is MIT as a leading institution of science and technology has an obligation to contribute to education. And third would be for us to do something that's scalable and has a large impact. And here we have a platform for doing that. A portal into MIT's open courseware content. Highlights for high school provides easy access to the introductory level courses on OCW. Maps thousands of individual learning resources from the OCW site to the advanced placement curriculum and presents resources to inspire the study of science, technology, math, and engineering. Highlights for high school provides accessible lists of introductory courses from the MIT curriculum. This format provides extended descriptions and guidance, helping students develop confidence in their ability to study at the college level. I first visited MIT OCW merely to consider options for a college major, but soon realized the true depth of the material. Many intro-level classes on OCW are extremely relevant to an advanced high school curriculum. Highlights also maps more than 2600 OCW learning resources to the AP physics, biology, and calculus curriculum, a structure already familiar to high school students and educators. Through these maps, students and educators can easily access videos, demonstrations, and assignments that illustrate specific topics addressed in the AP framework. I feel elated. I want to teach my honor students as a preap bio class with the site this year using the OCW resources to get them familiar with advanced placement themes. Highlights for high school materials invite students to discover how they can use science, math, and technology to make a difference in their lives and their world. The portal also presents the best of OCW's hands-on materials, including labs, demonstrations and competitions, all designed to engage high school students and to demonstrate that learning science, math, and technology subjects can be exciting and creative. MIT affords students an in-depth perspective into MIT scholarship, and it's inspiring. It inspires them because it lets them know that they can understand and appreciate these difficult concepts on the level of MIT students. And so uh our big idea in some ways is to inspire to inspire students to learn more engineering, learn more mathematics, learn more basic science and be able to apply it. The second aspect of this is just to uh improve and enrich the current education in science and mathematics in the secondary education system. Highlights for high school unlocking knowledge inspiring young minds.