[MUSIC PLAYING] L. RAFAEL REIF: In creating OCW, MIT launched a quiet, but profound educational revolution. It unleashed the global open sharing movement and helped pave the way for the worldwide phenomenon of open digital learning. SANJAY SARMA: What are two or three words to describe OpenCourseWare's impact? I would say knowledge at scale. LEO ALCOCK: Eye opening. MUSSIE DEMISSE: Enlightening. SARAH HANSEN: Choose your own adventure. ZACH ERDMAN: A whole new world. JAMES GLAPA-GROSSKLAG: Wow. 20 years of MIT's OpenCourseWare. That's just amazing to think about. KRISHNA RAJAGOPAL: We've had more than 200 million people come to OCW and learn from the materials that MIT is sharing. MUSSIE DEMISSE: My initial introduction to OpenCourseWare was actually at Bunker Hill Community College. My linear algebra professor would give us these weekly quizzes. We told her it was hard. And she said actually, this is an MIT quiz. And I was kind of blown away that I did some part of it. And when I inquired how she got the quiz, she said, oh, there's this thing called MIT OpenCourseWare. It imparted me with this confidence of, oh, I can do this. I can survive in an MIT course. And that drove me to say maybe I can thrive at MIT. ABHAY PAREKH: OCW was the pioneer. It opened everybody's eyes to the possibility of connecting to learners who are in different countries and different situations, different ages. MAY THET KHINE NYEIN: We are making the MIT OCW available in universities and community libraries, which do not have internet connection. ABOO FATALLY: It has encouraged me to learn, to find out about things, to understand, and to apply. CURT NEWTON: There is so much that can be achieved by just giving people complete wide open access to this knowledge that they can use whenever, wherever, as much as they need, as little as they need. AMAH EDOH: It takes this very kind of privileged elite education that we make accessible to our students and opens it up to a broader public. JAMES GLAPA-GROSSKLAG: The very existence of MIT's OpenCourseWare is inspiring. It's a shining example for institutions of higher education around the world. AMAH EDOH: I think there's also great value in showing the range of disciplines that are taught at MIT and showing the fact that the humanities and social sciences are as much a strength of what MIT has to offer as the STEM disciplines. This course that I created is now part of the record and is now something that someone else can build on. EVELYN LAURITO: Everything is there-- even the syllabus, even the instructions of the teachers, thesis assignments. ABOO FATALLY: OCW is perhaps one of the best thing that has happened to education worldwide. EVELYN LAURITO: It's like being so unselfish. You're giving everything of what you have and sharing it with the other people, especially in developing countries, like the Philippines. LEO ALCOCK: OpenCourseWare quite literally changed my life. It gave me the education I needed when there wasn't another place to find it. MUSSIE DEMISSE: You're giving people the tools that will allow them to achieve their potential. SARAH HANSEN: We have real problems in the world that need to be solved. And we need problem solvers from every area of the planet to work on these. CURT NEWTON: We've created this powerful foundation of free access to knowledge. And together, we'll keep growing it. We're creating better ways for learners and teachers to find and to use that OCW content. And we'll keep sharing that vibrant reflection of the teaching and creativity from MIT. KRISHNA RAJAGOPAL: As we think about equity, we think about collaborators. So that we can bring more people starting from different starting points coming in at different ways to the point that they can learn from OCW. CURT NEWTON: Together, we're forging new paths, where everyone's contributing to the world's growing knowledge. And we're all using and sharing that knowledge every day to solve the world's great challenges. MUSSIE DEMISSE: I want OCW to attract people. So it's not just a neutral if you want it, come get it. I want OCW to be calling on people to educate themselves, to empower themselves, to build and to have the necessary tools to do what they think is important. SANJAY SARMA: And I'm hoping that over time, this snowball from 20 years ago becomes an avalanche of intellectual exchange amongst humanity. [MUSIC PLAYING]