Hello. This is Cheryl Siegel from MIT OpenCourseWare. Today I'm going to show you the Chandra Astrophysics Institute course on Highlights for High School. This section of OCW is for high school students, teachers, and parents who want to learn about math, science, engineering, and technology. You can find this course under High School Courses Developed by MIT. I chose Chandra Astrophysics, because it is a unique resource for high school teachers and their students. Astrophysics isn't usually taught at the high school level, but this course makes the subject easy and interesting for anyone that wants to learn about this branch of astronomy. This course also offers models and instructions to replicate many hands-on activities and includes dozens of hours of video. Chandra Astrophysics Institute is an MIT program for students in grades 9 through 11. Students tackle astrophysics projects, are mentored by MIT scientists, and use images from the Chandra X-Ray space telescope. The sessions weÕve published here were taught by Mark Hartman in the summer of 2008. As you can see, the course is divided into six investigations, each focusing on a specific area of astrophysics. Each investigation builds on the knowledge from the previous one. The investigations are organized around a series of activities. Activity 2 in Investigation 1 taught students about the size of objects in images and how to make observations about angular size. Here, students can see examples of trick photography... ...and even a video of Kobe Bryant demonstrating the concept by appearing to jump over a car. There are detailed instructions for teachers, including notes, tips and tricks, as well as ideas for assessment. Also you will see several embedded videos, which correspond to the investigation and activity. This is a great way to get a glimpse of what it was like to be in this class. The image gallery shows dozens of photographs taken during the course. Here a student demonstrates his attempt at creating his own trick photograph. You can explore more high school resources at ocw.mit.edu/highschool You can also subscribe to our newsletter to get email updates from OCW. Finally, you can help support OCW by making a donation at ocw.mit.edu/donate