Hi. This is Curt from the Publication Team at MIT OpenCourseWare. I'd like to show you a class called SP.722 D-Lab: Design. It's one of several classes we've published from MIT's D-Lab program, where students get to develop solutions for some very fundamental human needs like clean water, healthy food, health care, and earning a living. Using "low-tech" materials – like bicycle parts and 2-liter soda bottles – the students experience the challenges and benefits of making technology radically affordable, easy to manufacture, and sustainable. I worked with instructor Amy Smith on this class. She’s the founder of the D-Lab program. The class is a mix of classroom instruction and hands-on project work. Here we see the final prototype for one project, a pedal-powered washing machine. Overall, five project teams worked with community partners in Brazil, Guatemala Lesotho, and Zambia, and mentors around MIT. The Assignments page shows how they got it all done in just 13 weeks: from a problem statement, throug stakeholder analysis, design specifications, a spring break visit to the partner country, design reviews with panels of experts, and finally building the prototype. Here we've posted milestone materials from each team, especially videos of the review panels, to illustrate the D-Lab design process. Let's look at the washing machine project. In developing countries, millions of people have to wash clothes by hand. It's a chore that can take an entire day, and definitely takes a lot of energy. It's an example of how uncompensated labor limits opportunities for educational and economic development, especially for women. Bicycle technology, being relatively low cost, and good for local manufacture and maintenance, might help. So, working with two bicycle-based NGOs - Maya Pedal in Guatemala and Bikes Not Bombs in Boston – these three students designed and built a prototype pedal-powered And after the term ended, they returned to Guatemala for more testing and refinements. In addition to the pleasure of building truly useful stuff, students attended twice-weekly lectures on development, design, and case studies. I took notes in many classes, plus photos of in-class activites. They're all posted here. For instance, here are some notes for a hands-on lab on water testing, complete with photos. The water testing kit is built with a baby bottle and is another example of the D-Lab approach. By the way, OCW’s site for D-Lab: Design can be downloaded for use offline. The link and instructions are right here. You can explore more courses like this one at ocw.mit.edu, or get email updates from OCW by subscribing to our monthly newsletter. We hope you’ll help us keep going and growing by making a donation at ocw.mit.edu/donate.