Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, you've been learning about vector calculus, Stokes theorem, all sorts of cool stuff like that, curl. Um, so I have a nice problem here for you. So, let f be the following uh vector field. So, it's the vector field whose direction is x ihat plus yjhat plus zkhat. But in addition, I want to multiply it by row to the n. So this is your usual row from spherical coordinates. It's the square root of x^2 + y^2 + z^2. And n can be any number. So it might be positive. It might be negative. It might be zero. Doesn't have to be an integer. Some number though it's some some constant. So what I'd like you to do is to show that for this field regardless of what the value of n happens to be that it is a gradient field. Um, so it is the gradient of some of some function. So why don't you pause the video, have a go at that, come back and we can work on it together. So recall that for something to be a gradient field what that means is well I mean first of all that means that there is some function that has it as the gradient and we know a lot of other characterizations of it and one of them that we know involves the curl. So let's so let's talk about that one. Um so in order to look at the curl of this field I'm going to want to take partial derivatives of its components. And so derivatives of row. So let's just remember so recall that partial row partial x equals x over row and similarly partial row partial y is y over row and partial z partial sorry partial row partial z is z over row. Oh so you know you can just check that using the fact that you know what row is um etc. I'm going to write etc because it's the same for the other two. Um so well what is so let's um so let's call for shorthand let's call f m i + nj plus p * k so mn and p are its components if f is this then we know that curl f is equal to what Is it? So it's P the Y partial derivative of P minus the Z partial derivative of N I plus Okay, so it's the Z partial derivative of M minus the X partial derivative of P J hat plus it's going to be what's the last one? x partial derivative of n minus the y partial derivative of m k hat. All right. So if if this is our formula for f, then this is our um formula for the curl of f. And okay, so now we just have to compute these various different partial derivatives in order to see what the curl is. And then hopefully that'll tell us something about about this field. Um so let's see. So py so in our case um so m is equal to row to the little n * x big n is equal to row to the little n * y and big p is equal to row to the little n * z. So let's look at our components here. So p suby Well, Z is a constant with respect to Y. So, this is just row to the N. Well, Z times the Y partial of row to the N. So, that's by the chain rule. So, we got N row to the NUS1* Y over row time Z. So we can rewrite this as nyz row to the n minus2 and similarly so that was p sub y. So let's look at n subz. So n is row to the n * y. So you take the zith partial derivative. So y is a constant. So we need to look at the z partial derivative of p to the n. So this is again it's n sorry I think I said p to the n. But of course this isn't a p this is a row. Um so it's n row the n minus one time partial row partial z. So that's z over row * y. And again this is equal to n y z row to the n minus 2. Okay. So p sub p suby the y partial of p is ny z row n minus 2 and the z partial of n is nyz row to the n minus2 and they're the same. Okay. So what does that mean? So that means the first component of curl of f is zero. Okay. Um so if you do a little bit more arithmetic of exactly the same sort, you have two more components to check, what you're going to find is that the other ones are zero. Also, I'm not going to do out all those partial derivatives for you, but I trust that you can compute the similar looking partial derivatives that appear in these other two components. this J should have had a hat. Okay, the the other partial derivatives that appear in these components and show that they're all also equal to zero. So in our case, curl of f is just equal to the zero vector. Okay, great. So what does that mean? Well, we want to show that uh something is a gradient field. All right. So we know that we can do that. We know that that happens precisely when its curl is zero. If it's defined on a simply connected domain on a simply connected region. So we know that a function is a gradient field if it's defined on a simply connected domain and has curl zero. Well, let's see. Um so where is this thing defined? Where is f defined? Well, if n is bigger than or equal to zero, well, I guess I want strictly bigger than zero just to be on the safe side. If n is positive, this is defined everywhere and we're great. If n is negative, then we have a problem at zero, right? Because then we have division by row. Yeah. So, we don't want to divide by zero. So, if n is negative, there's a problem at the origin. So in the worst case, f is defined everywhere except the origin. But that's simply connected, right? Because we're in space. If we were in the plane, this would be a different story. But in space, just removing a point doesn't destroy simply connectedness. Um, so so this field f is defined everywhere except the origin perhaps. So it's a so we're in a simply connected region. So when you have curl f in a simply connected region, your field is in fact a gradient field. Now I leave it as an exercise to you to come up with the actual function or one of the actual functions of which this is a gradient. Um but we've just shown that because its curl is zero and because it's defined in a simply connected region of space that this that this field really is the gradient field of some function. So I'll stop there.