Algorithms is an interesting area because it's it's very creative to come up with new algorithms. Um there's often many ways to solve the same problem. Uh but unlike art say and algorithms they're uh quantifiable measures for how good you did. What is the running time of the thing you ended up with? How much space does it use? You is it efficient? Um so it's nice in that you can act it's easy to evaluate whether you kind of succeeded. Did you get the n login and algorithm? Did you get the fastest that's possible? Um but it's hard to measure uh students understanding because it's like did you get the creative trick that we had in mind or find another one that's just as good. U students may find a different creative trick that doesn't end up with as good an algorithm in the end. So uh we penalize that somewhat but for the most part we are happy when people get correct algorithms when they they understand the techniques well enough that they get an algorithm it's pretty good may not be the best uh but we consider that much better than they were using the right technique but they ended up using it wrong and so they end up with something that doesn't even work and that's that's much more uh discouraging I Yes. Um, but in any case, in a timed exam, it's really hard to expect students to be creative. So, in that setting, it's hard. We don't expect a lot of creativity. We try to keep the questions relatively simple. So, you need just one simple idea. If you're familiar with the material, it should come quickly. Doesn't always, but um, so problem sets are definitely an easier way for students to express creativity. gives them a little more time to think about the problem. Uh because some problems are going to come easy to some students and hard to others. It's going to be different each problem set. So that gives them they have a week to think about it and also to talk to others. We allow collaboration in the problem sets. So that makes it a lot easier to find solutions but still learn learn a lot from it. In the exams it's a lot harder. Um, in past years, we've tried uh take-home exams as a way to more accurately gauge how creative someone is in applying these techniques to design new algorithms. Uh, we didn't do that this year. Um, it's not clear what the right answer is. It's a definitely a challenge in teaching algorithms is how to evaluate whether someone can really apply the techniques in new and creative ways.