I mean there are a couple of different approaches to teaching this class. One is uh to make it fun. Uh I really like to make uh material uh as engaging and as accessible as possible especially if you have relatively little experience in algorithms. You've just taken 6006 uh and these some of these uh algorithms get really complicated and they're hard to understand. uh and uh you you makes you wonder how did they ever come up with that and so I like to talk about that um in some of the lectures uh I'll kind of give an idea of how they might have gotten there. It's like oh we could start with this really simple step. It's really inefficient but at least it solves a problem but then we add this extra thing and this extra thing and eventually you get to the really fast solution. So it's less of a mystery of how you got there or how the original researchers got there. And uh I also try to remind students when especially in the harder topics that this is not easy stuff and you should think about a little more you know do the problem sets and you'll uh learn it figure it out at a deeper level. But a lot of this material is hard and I think being honest about that makes it uh more reasonable. students don't feel bad for thinking that it's hard because the first time you learn it, it is hard. Um, but the whole algorithmic way of thinking of setting up a problem, what should the input and the output be? And then thinking about all different solutions for how to fill in the middle, um, I think is a really powerful perspective and it can shape pretty much your entire life, but especially if you're doing computer science, um, it's a really useful way of thinking. And I've gotten lots of letters later from students where uh you know they're doing some job some computer thing and they ran into this problem and then they discover and then they looked back at their notes and said oh this is the right data structure I should have you I should use now and they solve it and they tell me about it and it's kind of exciting to see uh years later that the diff the way of thinking and lots of the solutions and techniques you see in this class really are useful out there in the world. So, it's a it's a useful class to take you. It's it's a relatively hard class. The exams are are challenging and we try to make them not super challenging, but it's hard whenever especially whenever creativity is involved. Um it's hard to do that live in an exam. So uh students may not perform super well in the class but still they get the idea that this is a way to approach problems and they uh understand some of the techniques um and over time they can sort of fill in whatever holes they left behind and say you know this seems like a problem where dynamic programming would be really useful. It's time I really learn dynamic programming. Um, dynamic programming is one that we actually teach both in 006 and 046 because it's really it's conceptually weird. Um, it's actually really easy once you understand it, but getting to that point of understanding is really tough. So, we spend a lot of time on it. Uh, so the the idea is the more exposure you get to it, the clearer it will become. I think by the end of 6046 they have a pretty good idea, but if not years later if they come back to it, I'm sure it'll be a lot easier this this third time around. Um, so yeah, a lot of these concepts are I mean the ideas are actually really simple. They're just hard to shift your mind into that kind of mindset. Uh but once you do things become really clear and so hope is by the end of the semester they they get