Hello everyone. My name is Damien Scaglia, I am a professor at the Free University of Brussels, specializing in international criminal law and international crimes. I would first like to thank Hama and Liliane, who kindly invited me to participate in your seminar on Sunday. Today, we will give a fairly theoretical and brief presentation on the two main issues at stake, primarily concerning—and this is why I was called here, or rather, why I was invited— the atrocities committed by the French army, or crimes committed by France, such as in Algeria. We will see that these crimes fall into two categories: first, war crimes or crimes against humanity, which we will examine since the classification is important, committed before decolonization, that is, before 1962; and second, crimes committed after 1962, since we will also be looking today at the French nuclear tests conducted in the Sahara, which began before 1962 and ended after that.  1962, I'll come back to that in a few moments. The objective of this short presentation is to give an overview of the actions that were taken regarding these events, events that marked and still mark the relations between France and Algeria, that marked France's domination over Algeria, the colonization of Algeria by France. These dramatic events, which today still have medical repercussions, first and foremost human, on May 6th, but also legal ones. Two types of events: I'll say criminal acts and nuclear tests, which I'm not classifying as crimes here for now. We'll come back to that, since it's one of the questions that will be asked at the end of the course regarding the offer of information on crimes, the idea of ​​public notoriety, and I won't go into that again, but during the events in Algeria, as France calls them, or during the Algerian War, which was classified as an armed conflict by French courts, notably during this war, acts of torture...  Murders and summary executions were committed by the French army in the 1950s and into the early 1960s. I won't go into the details of the events themselves; you know them. This could be a useful exercise for future seminars and discussion sessions. In parallel, nuclear tests were conducted from 1960 onwards, notably the first nuclear test at Reggane in the Sahara. These tests continued until 1966, meaning they began before Algerian independence but continued under an agreement annexed to the 1962 Evian Accords. They continued afterward, with the agreement of the newly decolonized Algeria. This raises a question, as we will see, regarding Algeria's responsibility, even though this agreement, which was kept secret for a long time, implied that the Sahara was not entirely colonized.  or at least that Algeria did not have complete sovereignty over Algeria. These nuclear tests, these A- bomb tests in particular, there were 17 of them, all 17 years ago, and they were recognized very late, just as the crimes of the Algerian army were recognized very late in French law. I will come back to this in a few moments, since I will return to a law, the Morin Law of 2010, which not only recognizes them but also allows victims of these nuclear tests, as well as victims of nuclear tests in French Polynesia, to obtain reparations and compensation. We will see this in section 4 before proceeding to a more in- depth analysis of our subject, which will be divided into three parts. First, I will talk about the crimes themselves and what has been done, particularly before the French courts since the 1980s. Then I will address the issue of nuclear tests to tell you where we stand today and what has been done, but not done, before seeing what are The potential avenues that will ultimately open up to the upcoming seminars, which I will attend partly remotely, particularly the course we will have at the beginning of October, where I will answer a series of your questions following today's two sessions. Before embarking on this reflection, I believe it is important to define two things: 1. Crimes against humanity and 2. War crimes. Why? Because these crimes are at the heart of our concerns regarding France's behavior in Algeria, and without at least a brief definition of these crimes, we will not understand what follows. So, two things: war crimes and crimes against humanity, legally speaking, are not factually defined, but legally speaking, they arise primarily, at least for crimes against humanity, and are developed primarily for war crimes at the time of Nuremberg. In Nuremberg, it was the post- war trial, the trial that allowed for the prosecution of about twenty high-ranking Nazi officials for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and even crimes against peace, which will become... Following the crime known as the crime of aggression, the war crime, and the crimes of girls, from that moment until 2002 with the establishment of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, this court now tries individuals who have committed war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, or the crime of aggression. War crimes are defined as acts that take place during an armed conflict, and therefore this is a fundamental contextual element. During an armed conflict, they are committed against protected persons or protected property. Who are these protected persons? They are soldiers who are no longer fighting because they are wounded or prisoners of war; they are civilians who cannot be military targets; they are specially protected persons, such as medical and healthcare personnel. These are very brief definitions; we could go much further in this definition. Even so, all this will be sufficient for our work. Crimes against humanity, very important, even more important than the others, are defined in Article 6 of the Nuremberg Statute as acts committed against the civilian population, therefore directly against the civilian population at the time  Nuremberg, they were defined according to the context, namely that such crimes could only appear within the framework of an armed conflict. Today, these crimes are possible, or rather, they confirm massive human rights violations committed against the civilian population. The text tells us that this occurs within the framework of a widespread or systematic attack targeting the civilian population. So we have something important here, namely a definition that appeared in 1945 in the Statute of the Nuremberg Tribunal and which was developed, just like the definition of war crimes, which was developed until 2002 and even to this day. These two small shortcomings have led to, as we will see, several legal or judicial procedures that have been opened and closed concerning the events that interest us, without them really leading to a conclusion. For war crimes and crimes against humanity in the strict sense, they have never led to a conclusion. For the war crimes of the French army in Algeria, as for nuclear tests, they have not led to a conclusion, but it was not a judicial process. We fall outside of it, note.  We will be discussing here the legal proceedings that have primarily targeted individuals or the French state, but always within the framework of national procedures. That is to say, proceedings of the type of the International Court of Justice, the type of the International Human Rights Committee, or the European Court of Human Rights have not, to my knowledge, been initiated or have not been successful. In any case, I am setting aside diplomatic proceedings, which do not concern our court. I will also not address, at least not right now, the question of proceedings opened or potentially opened in Algeria. This will be the subject of your research, I think, since I am not sufficiently familiar with Algerian law and procedures. We can discuss this further later. So, if you will, let's begin with events unrelated to nuclear testing, the events, the crimes committed by the French army in Algeria. It is important to know that these events have never been recognized as crimes against humanity, nor indeed as war crimes, and therefore they have not been covered by any law. French amnesty before French courts: a brief historical reminder. In the 1960s, specifically in 1966 and 1968 [Music] (well, sorry, 1964), France passed an amnesty law that granted amnesty for all offenses committed during French interventions, particularly in Algeria. This law, a general and absolute amnesty, extended to all offenses, meaning that, at least under French law, it implicitly extended to crimes that could be classified as war crimes or crimes against humanity. As early as the 1980s, two proceedings, specifically in 1986 and 1988, were initiated in France for crimes committed—murders and torture—by the French army against Algerian nationals. These proceedings, and the fact that the entire process is being reviewed, led to two rulings on November 29, 1988. The rulings on YouTube are very important, particularly those of the Criminal Chamber of the Court of Cassation.  will very clearly state that 1) the crimes themselves are not crimes against humanity, 2) that they are therefore potentially common law crimes, but that these common law crimes are covered by an amnesty established by the 1964 law. This is very surprising, as Pierre, in particular, points out, and as Isabelle Fouchard will also point out. Furthermore, it is very surprising because the Court of Cassation took a completely different approach in the Barbie case, which concerned crimes committed by Klaus Barbie during the Second World War. The Court of Cassation ruled that the amnesty law did not apply to the crimes committed by Klaus Barbie, since this amnesty law was based primarily on the Nuremberg Laws. It stated that the crimes of Nazis or those associated with Nazis were not covered by the amnesty law. In other words, concerning crimes of the Second World War, the judges of the French High Court dismissed the amnesty law and did not... In a way, retroactively applying the law to be able to judge Klaus Barbie— I'll come back to this retroactive application because it's quite complicated—but for crimes in Algeria, the Court of Cassation has dismissed this since 1988. The Court of Cassation has never ruled differently. It has dealt with rulings concerning crimes committed in Indochina, another former French colony, the Boudarel ruling. It has dealt with other cases, notably the 1000 case concerning crimes committed in Algeria, in a case dated May 30, 2000, and it has always followed this line of reasoning, namely that 1. The provisions of the 1964 law which establish the imprescriptibility of crimes against humanity do not apply to crimes committed in Algeria or elsewhere, except for crimes committed by the Nazis or related to the Second World War. So, it says that imprescriptibility means that one can prosecute indefinitely.  The court recognizes the crimes committed by the Nazis or related to the Second World War, but not other crimes, and this is clearly stated in the 2000 ruling. Furthermore, it considers that the principles of equality and non-retroactivity prevent the application of the new 1994 penal code prior to its entry into force. It is important to understand that this new penal code specifically criminalizes crimes against humanity under French law; that is to say, prior to 1994, French law did not criminalize crimes against humanity. This is precisely why the court will consider the Algerian crimes to be ordinary crimes and therefore eligible for amnesty under the 1960s law. Moreover, it will argue, within these same legal frameworks, that international law and customary international law do not allow these crimes to be classified as crimes against humanity, since they cannot be classified under national law. Thus, international law does not apply. Moreover, that's what the court tells us, and besides, since there aren't two categories of crimes against humanity, the facts are time-barred by the 1962 law—sorry, not 1964, 1962. The issue here, as we see, is the very definition of the incrimination of crimes against humanity. That is to say, until 1994, French law did not recognize crimes against humanity, with the exception of crimes committed during the Second World War by the Germans and Italians, among others. The Court of Cassation therefore refuses to classify Algerian crimes as crimes against humanity and thus applies the 1960 amnesty law to them, and does not apply the credibility crisis. It does not apply the classification of crimes against humanity. This is strange. Why? Well, the strangeness can be explained politically and legally. A completely different result could have occurred; that is to say, they could have said that the definition  that there was no inverse to the one I mentioned earlier in the introduction, which applied to crimes committed in Algeria. Why did it apply? Because the Nuremberg Statute imposed a jurisdiction for the tribunal that stopped at the war, but did not impose a definition of crimes against humanity that stopped at crimes committed by the Germans. That's the first point. It could have achieved that, leading to another conclusion. Secondly, the Court of Cassation tells us that since the crimes were defined in 1994, they cannot apply before. However, in Article 2, which I mentioned earlier, it is quite clear that the court applies crimes against humanity committed before 1994 because Article 2 dates from before 1994. It applies to acts committed in 1944, and therefore it could have applied this retroactively. It could have done so, particularly by basing itself on international custom, which leads to the third argument concerning international custom.  That is to say, okay, French law may not have applied, but according to international custom, there was indeed, after 1945, the existence of crimes against humanity or war crimes corresponding to the acts committed by the French army in Algeria. So we have here very clearly a very strict interpretation of the principle of equality, an interpretation which is fair to a certain extent, but which could have led to something else, even if, in my opinion, the Court of Cassation has its reasons on this point, particularly in light of the latest case law of the European Court of Human Rights, with which France must comply. Furthermore, on the question of amnesty, which the Court takes for granted with the 1962 law, it is clear that while in 1960 this amnesty could apply to these crimes, today we know perfectly well, particularly under international law and international criminal law, that amnesty is not acceptable, at least not for international crimes. And so we have seen very clearly, for about twenty years now, in the case law of the European Court. Human rights in the jurisprudence of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, in the jurisprudence of the International Criminal Tribunals, the rejection of the amnesty, and therefore the French High Court could have accepted that this amnesty was not valid. This raises a question of the retroactivity of the amnesty note, but here I refer you to the previous argument to say that this argument could also have been dismissed quite quickly. That's it for the crimes committed in Algeria and the way they were handled by the French courts. Young people, 11 years old, if you please. Our second point, namely the nuclear tests, well, for the nuclear tests, we'll see. They started in 1960, but as early as 1959 there was a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, Resolution 42-80, which asked France not to conduct these nuclear tests. France expressly refused to comply with this resolution, claiming that the British, American, and Russian arsenals were such that it was necessary to protect itself, and to protect itself, it was necessary to conduct nuclear tests to create this nuclear bomb.  Besides, France maintained at the time the argument that the radioactive fallout would not be significant. We saw the result: cancers, illnesses, and deaths afterward. But one thing must be remembered: at the time, there was no treaty prohibiting these nuclear tests, nor was there any custom forbidding them. Certainly, some doctrines considered these nuclear tests a violation of the 1948 Convention against Genocide, as well as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which was being drafted at the time. This seems rather unrealistic to me. A question that didn't arise: did these nuclear tests constitute crimes against humanity? Florine, think about it. It didn't arise like that. Yet I think we could support it; four have tried to support it. Note, however, that while there was no criminal procedure in the strict sense of the term, there was recognition of these nuclear tests and their repercussions on the victims. Recognition took place and its repercussions. This recognition of the repercussions took place through a law, the Morin Law of 2010, and this law allows victims of French nuclear tests in Algeria or French Polynesia to seek compensation. This law allows them to seek compensation with something quite interesting: first, it reverses the burden of proof of causality. The law clearly states that if people prove they are ill and were present in the vicinity of nuclear tests carried out by France, including in the Sahara, then the victims can access compensation. So it is not a criminal conviction; it is primarily financial compensation. However, the law states this within a very strict framework, namely that there must be specific illnesses. These illnesses are listed in Decree 2014-1049, which follows the Morin Law of 2010, and they include leukemia, but not chronic lymphocytic leukemia, since doctors have determined that it is non- radiation-induced.  That is to say, they were not caused by radioactivity: myelodysplasia, breast cancer, thyroid cancer, skin cancer ( but not malignant melanomas, lung cancer, colon cancer, salivary gland cancer, etc.). I refer you to the text of decree 2014-1049, which states that for these diseases, there is a reversal of causality. If these diseases are not present, if it concerns other diseases, and a priori other diseases that were induced by radiation exposure, then there is no presumption of causality. What bothered me was that there will be compensation because she will say that the link must be proven, which is complicated since the law was there precisely to define this causality. What is even more complicated is that if French military veterans were able to be compensated because  that they had documents when he was indeed present at the site because there are army records. The local civilian population has difficulty proving this, and since they have difficulty accepting it, there is no compensation. We only know of one case of a local civilian woman who was compensated for the death of her husband several decades later, but that is the only case, the only case, and it is quite particular. We can talk about it again later if you like. So, reparations if we manage to prove that we were present in the case of specific illnesses, but nothing more. That's it for nuclear testing. Here are a few points to consider. We will discuss this again during the lecture and Q&A session at the beginning of October. First, a question of classification. Today, we must try not to classify the crimes— the first part we talked about, the events, because these are senseless crimes against humanity, without risk, even if the Court of Cassation has dismissed that—but we must ask ourselves the question of...  If nuclear tests are, or can be, classified as crimes against humanity, then we must review the statute of the International Criminal Court and the current law to determine if they can be classified as crimes against humanity. Note that even if we were to reach this conclusion, it doesn't necessarily mean, given the reasoning of the Court of Cassation, that this could be argued before French courts. However, it would already be a point of contention regarding crimes against humanity, perhaps even war crimes. Why? Because since Nuremberg, war crimes against the environment have been developed and criminalized, and we could ask ourselves if nuclear tests in the Sahara are not crimes against the environment. So there is something to be done here; there is something to explore further. Moreover, we need to rework and research this question of imprescriptibility. Why? Because this imprescriptibility is questionable. If we manage to classify the various crimes, including crimes against humanity, we should, a priori, be able to say...  that these crimes are imprescriptible, which would mean that if, at the time of their commission, they were already covered by international law—which was the case—they should not be subject to a statute of limitations. So, criminally speaking, we've seen this, but there's not much to it. However, we could ask ourselves whether, before international or national bodies—and I'll get to that—it might be worthwhile to revisit this question of imprescriptibility. Finally, and this is more important, we need to consider several procedures. First, for what they are, trials. For what purpose do the procedures in France, aside from the question of reparations, we still need to find the evidence. Regarding the nuclear tests, we have little chance of success. Therefore, the procedures in France should primarily focus: 1. on the nuclear tests, classifying them as crimes against humanity—and I believe this hasn't been thoroughly explored; 2. to consider civil reparations procedures by Algerian victims, providing proof of their presence. Still at the national level, another conceivable procedure, and there  It's a matter of research that needs to be done, of exercising these rights. In fact, if it's not possible to file a complaint before the Algerian civil court regarding the events, the cases, the crimes, the nuclear tests—namely, to file a complaint against the French state—but before Algerian courts against French nationals, it's not before Algerian courts. I don't know Algerian law, I don't know Algerian procedures, but since the French can judge foreigners on their territory through universal jurisdiction or other connecting factors, Algeria wouldn't be able to do so. Go ahead, if they take into account other problems, political problems, diplomatic problems, but legally it might be worthwhile. And then internationally, it's clear that the international criminal tribunals, the International Criminal Court, are not bodies that have jurisdiction, so I have n't mentioned them, I'm excluding them. On the other hand, we could wonder if there wouldn't be something to do before the European Court of Human Rights regarding nuclear tests, like Regarding international crimes, but for that, we need to review the Court's jurisprudence a bit more, and perhaps in a much more diplomatic way —less aggressive perhaps, but perhaps more diplomatic—try also going before the Human Rights Committee. It could be interesting to initiate proceedings with these jurisdictions and bodies, and I'll refer back to my previous case in Algeria, which is that they don't lead to anything because they certainly won't. The case is before the UN committee. I suggest you keep this in mind; we'll talk about it again in a few days or weeks, depending on what we see in the video. Thank you for your attention, and I'll see you very soon.