The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Now, we've replaced the previous fiber with another one. The only difference between this fiber and the previous one is that the core diameter is now a little bit bigger. It's about six microns instead of four microns in the previous fiber. Setup is exactly the same. Again, we have the laser here getting reflected by this mirror and this mirror into the lens into this fiber, this new fiber, and then the the output of the fiber goes onto the screen. So let's now take a look at the output of this fiber. Uhhuh. So what first thing we see that doesn't look like a single mode at all that single lobe. And if I change the the adjustment, if we can have the camera looking at my adjustments, then you see that I can get a variety of uh uh of shapes. All I'm doing is changing the adjustment. I can get a variety of shapes. And clearly it's not like what we had before, the single mode be behavior that we had before. And this is then the so-called multiode. What you're seeing are are different transverse modes that are that can propagate in in this fiber because the core diameter is bigger. But I'm going to leave it to you then to explain uh why exactly why you get higher o higher mode higher transverse modes propagated in this in this fiber. Again the wavelength is the same. The only thing the only difference is that the core diameter is is bigger. You see this one here you get nice dark line in the middle. And then then if I align it over here you can see it's blobby. It's a mixture of moles. That's why you don't see uh sharp dark line in the middle but you get a mixture of modes. While remember in the other one no matter what I did in the alignment uh it was still single mode uh coming out just one lobe coming out. All right. Now multi mode fibers have many applications also but for today for a lot of sophisticated sensor applications and communications uh one uses one generally uses single mode fibers. So here here's a here's a pretty pretty mode with a dark line down the uh down the middle. Now what I would like to do is show how how touchy uh this fiber is to to uh bending. In fact, if we take a look at the fiber here, as soon as I just press on it, if we get take a close look at if I just press on it, uh I can kick light kick light out. If I just simply press on it, I can kick some light out. So it's very touchy to to to stress and to bends. What I would like to do then is show that I can kick out some of the transverse modes by by simply bending or stressing the fiber. What I'm going to do is then bend this fiber. And if you watch in the in the inset, you can see that the intensity will go down. But if I keep increasing the bend I end up with single mode with a single mode propagation but but weak and this illustrates that you can strip off the high order modes uh by simply uh bending bending the fiber but the penalty is you get uh much less light uh getting propagated. So here we have single mode propagation and here we have multi mode or mixture of multiodeses that are propagating in the in the fiber. Again you can see that the there's a lot of light that's gets kicked out has to be kicked out of the fiber. You can see the the bend absolutely glows. In fact, this this bending effect on on the transmission of light in a fiber can be used as a as a sensor sensor of uh pressure, sensor of stress, bends and and what have you. All right. So then in in summary, we've looked at the propagation of laser light in a in a single mode fiber and we also saw what happens when the fiber core is uh is a little bit big and we saw the propagation of multiodeses and as I mentioned earlier the popular fiber today is the is the single mode fiber but again there are applications for multiode fibers.