The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Now, we're ready to look at two slit defraction patterns. What we have here is a is a slide and on the slide we have pairs of slits. The individual width of each slit is 100 microns and the spacing between slits varies anywhere from 150 microns to 2 millimeters. The only thing we've added to the previous setup is is this lens in order to expand the beam so that we can cover um both both slits. So let's first look at the defraction pattern associated with with a single slit. So now if we look at the screen in closeup you can see we have a single slit defraction pattern. The as before the circles are 5cm markers and in addition now we've added the little squares the two squares and that denotes the separation between the zeros of the center lobe of the single slit defraction pattern. Let me remind you that the spacing between the slide here and the screen is about 200 cm and we're using six 6,328 angstrom light. All right, so you have all the tools needed then to calculate spacings and what have you. So now let's start by looking at the smallest uh spacing which is 150 microns. So indeed what you see is that the single slit defraction pattern now has been modified by the addition of the other loes of the smaller loes and this is for then for 150 micron spacing. Remember each slit width is 100 microns. Now, let's go on and look at 175. Well, 175 from 150 is not much of a change. So, you don't expect to see uh much narrowing of the of the small loes. Let's go on to 200. Well, here you're beginning to see that the the loes under the single slit defraction pattern are now narrower. And now 300 micron separation. Well, here it's clear they're getting they're getting narrower. In fact, you have about five of them or so under the uh central lobe of the single slit defraction pattern. Now, let me go on to the 2,00 or 2 mm spacing. And at first, you think there's no little loes under the single thread diffraction pattern. But all we have to do here is get the camera to zoom in. And as it zooms in, you begin to see that indeed there is structure there. And if the if your calculations are correct, you'll be able to show what the spacing is for a 2 mm slit separation. Now, in the in the next uh demonstration, we're going to show the the franha defraction pattern associated with many slits.