The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Now, we're ready to look at frownha defraction associated with circular apertures. The setup again is is the same as before, but I just want to remind you of it is that we have a helium neon laser beam from the laser is reflected by this mirror and then reflected again by this mirror into this lens. And now we have the lens focusing the light onto a set of apertures and then the defracted light from the from the aperture then goes onto onto the screen. Now these apertures have uh have different uh have different diameters actually they're tiny pin holes. So we have the first one we have has a 100 micron uh diameter. So now if we look at the screen we see the defraction pattern associated with a 100 micron diameter aperture. Again, let me give you some uh some dimensions. The separation between the aperture and and the screen is about 100 cmters. The light is from the helium neon laser at 6328 anstroms. And the scale on the screen from here to here, which is the diameter of the first dark ring, is about 1.6 cm. So now you can check you can check the the defraction pattern given given the information that I've just presented to you. Uh at the moment you see uh let me let me first of all let me do some adjustment make sure that I'm I'm peaked up and what you see you see a a bright ring in the middle and then uh some faint uh rings around the central bright ring there actually many rings but because uh they're so faint you can't see them. So, what I'm going to do is pull away this screen and expose to you a a more sensitive screen. As we can see, uh, now you see that we're saturating in the middle, but we're beginning to see other rings. Now, if we open up the camera aperture some more, you can even see even more more rings. And again, all these rings and their intensities and sizes and what have you can be calculated from the information uh that I've given you. All right. So now this is the then the franha defraction pattern associated with 100 micron aperture. Now I would like to move to the next aperture which is 50 50 microns and then I'm going to do a little tweaking till I have it nicely picked up. Good. So now if we can look at it on the whole screen the this is then the defraction pattern of a uh of A-50 micron aperture and you can see that the size of the central fringe is bigger and again from the information that I've given you you should be able to to calculate what it should be. Again if we open up the aperture uh in the camera maybe we can start to see few more few more rings. And again the light level is smaller than with the previous aperture because again the aperture is uh is uh is only 50 microns this time. Now we've seen the defraction pattern the Franhoffer diffraction pattern associated with a rectangular aperture and then just now we saw the uh defraction associated with a circular aperture. Uh in the next uh demonstration we're going to show the front huffer diffraction band associated with multiple slits with a two-dimensional array of multiple slits. So when we come back we'll have the again the setup arranged so we can demonstrate that effect for you.